## Title: 217 Tigers May See Outside of Prisons After Rehabilitation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 09:30
217 Tigers May See Outside of Prisons After Rehabilitation

The Sri Lankan government is considering a proposal to release the 217 Tamils currently in detention under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA), after putting them through a program of rehabilitation,the Minister of National Dialogue, Mano Ganeshan,stated.
Ganeshan recalled that the Mahinda Rajapaksa government had released over 12,000 cadre of the LTTE, after subjecting them to a rehabilitation program. He said that the Lankan Security Forces have developed expertise in the rehabilitation of militants, and the facilities at the rehabilitation centers are now of international standard. They dont look like torture centers, as they did in the early days, Ganeshan said.
But for the time being, the policy is to release the detainees on bail on a case by case basis. On Wednesday, 31 detainees were to be released on bail but since no one came to stand surety for them, the prisoners were sent back to prison. Each released detainee had to have two LKR one million bonds. They would also be required to report to the Terrorism Investigation Department every other Sunday. They would be barred from leaving the island. Ganeshan hoped that the bonds would be furnished in the coming days.
As a leader of the TPA I will not be happy till all the 217 are pardoned and released. But we have to move step by step taking into account the strength of those forces in the country which are aligned with Mahinda Rajapaksa and which are using the prisoner release issue to tarnish the image of the Sirisena government. It is hoped that the proposal to release the detainees after rehabilitation will be accepted by all, just as the release of 12,000 LTTE cadre by the Rajapaksa government was, Ganeshan said.
The 217 prisoners lodged in various prisons across the island are continuing their indefinite fast demanding a general pardon. They point out that the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna detainees were pardoned after their insurgencies were crushed. Tamil Civil Society has called for a hartal across Northern and Eastern Provinces on November 13, and CV Wigneswaran, the CM of Northern Province, has expressed support for it.of National Dialogue, Mano Ganeshan, stated.
==============================
## Title: All agreements with Avant Garde cancelled
## Supertitle: Operations handed back to Navy
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Operations handed back to Navy
All agreements with Avant Garde cancelled
The government yesterday decided to cancel all agreements with Avant Garde Maritime Services and to hand over the relevant operations back to the Sri Lanka Navy, Cabinet Spokesman, Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.
Senarate said that according to a Presidential directive the maritime security services conducted by the Avant Garde will be taken over by the Navy.
All the weapons found in the floating armoury too will be handed over to the Navy, he added.
According to Senaratne, the President had also ordered the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Attorney Generals Department to continue with probes related to the Avant Garde.
The President instructed to conduct a comprehensive probe and punish those responsible if any illegal activities has taken place in relation to the activities of the Avant Garde, he added.
According to Senaratne during the meeting, the Navy Commander had given a detailed descriptions of activities carried out by the maritime security firm.
Senaratne said that it was transpired at the meeting that a number of activities carried out by the firm were highly suspicious.
Senaratne also praised the swift measures taken by the President to give viable solutions to the controversy surrounding the Avant Garde maritime security firm.
Parliamentarians and heads of defense and legal sectors and all other stake holders participated at the meeting.
Prior to the special meeting, the President and the Prime Minister had a discussion on the Avant Garde issue, the sources said.
The private security firms activities came under scrutiny when the container-carrying vessel Mahanuwara docked at the Galle Harbour with a haul of arms on January 18.
Avant-Garde Security Services which, according to the firm, provides security to ships against the Somali pirates.
Following the docking of a second floating armoury, carrying a consignment of unauthorized weapons in Galle Harbour on October 5, the investigations into the firms activities intensified. Meanwhile, Law and Order Minister Tilak Marapana resigned from his ministerial portfolio over the controversy surrounding the Avant Garde security firm on Monday.
Marapana, who had represented the security firm as a legal consultant before becoming a minister, came under intense criticism for his remarks defending the firm during a recent parliamentary session.
Several cabinet ministers and a number of civil society organisations too condemned Marapanas statement.
Marapana defended the security firm dismissing that there is anything illegal and said that lack of understanding about the floating armoury had created confusion.
In the backdrop of these issues a special cabinet meeting too was convened to discuss the issue. Meanwhile, courts recently granted permission to the CID to conduct investigations on the Avant Garde floating armoury under the Money Laundering Act.
A separate investigation too had been launched by the Presidential Commission of Inquiry Into Serious Financial Frauds and Malpractices.
Sri Lanka Navy, which entered the second vessel found 816 T-56 and 84-S weapons along with 200,000 ammos in the ship. The ship, currently anchored off the Galle Harbour, is in the custody of the Navy.
However Avant Garde Maritime Services have maintained that the allegations made on its floating armoury are without any grounds.
The security services company in a statement recently said that it has always conformed to national and international laws.
==============================
## Title: A Breakfast Burst
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
A Breakfast Burst
Be smart and start the day with a Barnesbury boost as the warm and friendly staff invite all to a hearty breakfast daily. Those who are used to a typical Sri Lankan meal have an incredible choice to indulge in. This neighbourly restaurant is probably just a step away from one's home or office and its one that comes with a difference!
From Stringhoppers to Pol Roti, the ever popular Kiribath, Kade Paan or even a spicy rice and curry or string hopper pilau is ones to enjoy! An a-la-carte menu await with a delicious range of proteins prepared curry style and the lip smacking sambols.
The International Breakfast is up for grabs as well be it a seasonal fresh fruit platter, Pancakes, Eggs made to order - any style, Cereals, the typical English Breakfast or an American Breakfast, the choices are many.
A pot of steaming freshly brewed Tea or Coffee and fresh Juices - the latter from the market's choice can be enjoyed while your breakfast is being prepared.
For those who prefer the outdoor, they can sit in the garden under a shady spot or indoors in the comfortable surrounds of the luxurious Caf and be spoilt for choice.
Guests can even take their laptop with them and check their emails and get started on the right note.
Wi-Fi access, air conditioning, sofas, bar stools, comfy chairs, bean bags - need one ask for more Guests may want to convene a breakfast meeting, indeed a pleasant way to start the day! A surprise for the team initiate a think tank or just have that lone moment one has been craving for and put everything that's in the mind in perspective.
Grab the moment, the fact that leaving home in a hurry to beat the traffic with the responsibility of dropping of the children at school and not having the time to eat; one can now swing by what's at close proximity to those living in the Colombo 7 or 8 zone and enjoy the breakfast they missed having at home!
Don't just leave it for the week, come on over with the family on a Saturday or Sunday and relax over the best meal in a day! Start right - and live in the moment at Barnesbury.
==============================
## Title: Cardinal Ranjith, Pope's special envoy to India's National Eucharistic Congress
## Supertitle: [CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
Cardinal Ranjith, Pope's special envoy to India's National Eucharistic Congress
In a letter published today, written in Latin and dated October 12, the Holy Father appoints Cardinal Albert Malcolm Ranjit Patabendige Don, Archbishop of Colombo, Sri Lanka, as his special envoy to the National Eucharistic Congress of India, to be held in Mumbai from November 12 to the 15. The mission accompanying the cardinal will be composed of Rev. Fr. Steven Fernandes, lecturer in moral theology at the seminary of Mumbai, and Rev. Fr. Jervis S'Souza, judicial vicar.
VIS
==============================
## Title: [Children]-12.11.2015
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[Children]-12.11.2015
To squirrels with love
Dear children,
Our hobbies and preferences are different. Each of you may have different hobbies. How many of you enjoy maintaining a feeding table in your garden for squirrels and birds I have written to you earlier too about the importance of being kind to animals.
Some of you who reside in urban areas may not have enough space for these animals to move around freely. Anyway maintaining a feeding table is surely an interesting hobby from which you can gain a great deal of satisfaction.
You can get your parents' or guardians' help to make a suitable and safe place for these animals to feed on. You can get a discarded margarine or ice cream container or even coconut shells and have them hanging from wires tied to branches of a tree in your garden. Then you can put rice or bread crumbs and anything else that is edible into the container.
Do not hang around this area until they get used to your presence. During the first few days squirrels will look a little scared when reaching the feeding table, but once they understand that the place is safe they will make it a habit to come there when they feel hungry.
As days pass by birds too will start to visit the feeding table. It is indeed a pleasure to watch how squirrels nibble their meals. They will always consider the birds as intruders, but will accept the birds on the table just the same. I am sure all of you will enjoy the sight.
Trees are being cut down to build houses and other buildings. As a result animals too have to undergo difficulties when finding their daily meals and safe habitats. We have to help them survive as each living being has a right to live on this earth.
Bye for now,
Aunty Sanju
A visit to the zoo
Last Sunday it was cloudy. I along with my friends visited the zoo. As we reached near the main gate of the zoo, we saw a huge crowd. Some were buying entrance tickets, some were gossiping and chatting other were relaxing under the shady trees.
We entered to zoo and came across a beautiful lake in which some water-birds like ducks were swimming. Seeing the white ducks on the smooth surface of water is a charming sight. As we moved, we came to the enclosure in which flying birds (fowls) were kept. They ranged from sparrows, eagles and parrots to pigeons of various colours. The birds were chirping. It was an enchanting music. We enjoyed it very much.
In the next enclosure were kept-lions and leopards tigers and tigresses, whose roars were deafening. When we approached the net, a lion rushed towards us and we were frightened. Their fierce looks were frightening.
Then we came across a garden in which smart and beautiful stags were kept. In one of the corners monkeys were jumping. Their tricks and pranks were very pleasing. Some people threw food to them and they immediately jumped down the trees to eat them. Some children were making faces at them.
Our next stop was the aquarium. A large number of the fish were kept there. There were fish of many species and colours. They made a delightful spectacle. There were many other aquatic animals.
After visiting many places we relaxed for some time in a cool and beautiful garden inside the zoo. The fragrance of the flowers was tremendously soothing. Then we had some snacks and drinks which refreshed us. It was evening and the sun was setting. We came out of the zoo like many other visitors. We were a happy lot when we boarded the bus.
Nethmini Amunugama,
Grade 8B, Devi Balika Vidyalaya,
Colombo
My first day at school
My mother accompanied me to school on my first day at school. Other parents accompanied their children as well. We all waited in front of the school office.
Soon a teacher came and led us to some classrooms. There we were put into four separate classes. This was when some children began to cry as the parents were not allowed into the classrooms. I did not cry because I had been to kindergarten before. My mother went home soon after because she knew I would be all right.
It was an enjoyable time for me as I got to know my new classmates. The teacher was very busy writing down our particulars so we had plenty of time to ourselves.
Meantime some children continued to sob while their parents looked in anxiously through the windows.
Soon recess came. Some of us headed for the tuck-shop while the rest headed for their parents. I bought a drink with the money my mother gave me. Getting to know my new friends had made me thirsty.
After recess we went back to out classroom and my new friends and I managed to coax two boys to stop crying. Soon we were laughing and playing together. Once in a while the teacher had to tell us to keep quiet as we were making too much noise.
Finally the bell rang for us to go home. Some of us were relieved to be reunited with our parents. I too was glad to see my mother waiting for me at the school gate. I had made many friends. It had been a wonderful first day at school.
Kelum Tharaka,
Grade 6,
Lyceum College,
Nugegoda
My grandmother
My grandfather passed away before I was born but my grandmother is still alive. She is seventy-two. She is tall and healthy. She hardly looks sixty. She has preserved her health in a wonderful manner. She is still energetic and works the whole day, I have never seen her idle.
She still has all her teeth and normal eye sight. She is an early riser. She gets up at 4am and never misses her bath with fresh water.
She is very pious and religious-minded. She prays during the morning and evening. She is very sparing in her diet. She takes only two meals a day. At night she takes only a glass of cow's milk. She is a strict vegetarian. She washes her clothes herself. She is very simple in her dress. She hates modern fashions. She goes to the temple every Poya to observe sil. She gives away some money to charity every day. She is very good at knitting. Show her a sweater or a blouse with even the most difficult design and she will prepare an exact model of it. She is a genius. She spins tales of the finest quality. She is a very good cook.
My grandmother loves hard work. She cooks food and serves it to all the members of the household. She is the last to take her meals. She takes the simplest food. She is very economical in everything. She manages all the household affairs most efficiently. Her word is law for us all. We dare not go against her wishes. I love my grandmother with all her virtues. She is my idol. I wish I may live up to her expectations so that she may one day feel proud of me.
Sara Vass, Grade 10,
Ananda National College, Chilaw
Our school library
Even since I was admitted to school, I was very keen to see the spacious hall, where only the students of the higher classes were allowed to go during the lunch hour. We can only go there with prior permission from the class teachers. Bu since I am in grade 11, I did not have to face that difficulty any more.
After entering the big hall I peeped through the glass-panes of the big almirahs. I found out that there are some heavy volumes. It was difficult for me to even move them. Then there were some very small volumes as well. Most of the other books were of an average size.
There was a gentleman who appeared to be very busy. I could read from his name-plate that he was the librarian. He was having heaps of books on all sides of his table and in the shelves near him. It looked as if he was drowning in a sea of books.
The newspaper section was nearby. About 20 newspapers of various languages were displayed on newsstands. There were about 60 magazines also on sports, science, current-affairs, commerce, management and computer science.
This library had a reference section for teachers too. There were about 6,000 books on various subjects there. I was happy that I saw the library that day.
Themiya Guruge, Grade 11D,
Central College, Anuradhapura
==============================
## Title: Cinnamon Grand emerge champions
## Supertitle: JKH Intercompany Rugby 7's 2015
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
JKH Intercompany Rugby 7's 2015
Cinnamon Grand emerge champions
Premier five-star city hotel Cinnamon Grand Colombo stole the show at the annual JKH Intercompany Rugby 7's 2015 held on October 10 at CR&FC, winning the coveted cup and putting up a grand show at the Cinnamon's city hotels punk rock-inspired tent.
Captained by E A M P Pradeep (Finance), the hotel's rugby team produced their most polished performance of the cup by beating defending champions John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) 19-17 to secure this year's win. A nail-biting fight, Cinnamon Grand broke through the defense for their final try during the last few minutes of the clock, assuring victory.
The team showed great promise from the start winning two matches out of three, prior to tackling the 2014 champs. Cinnamon Grand beat Walkers for 19-0 and Cinnamon Citadel for 19-5 while experiencing a set back during the first JKOA match for 19-24.
Cinnamon Grand's K G Nalin Kumara (HR) was named Player of the Tournament while W Harsha Irosh Silva (Finance) won the title of Man of the Final.
Meanwhile, Cinnamon's city hotels five-star urban resort Cinnamon Lakeside's Vimukthi Rahula won the award for the Most Valuable Player. Lakeside won two games out of three with the wins recorded against IT 12-02 and Ceylon Cold Stores 25-05. Lean luxury Cinnamon Red won against DHL 17-5. Led by Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts Sector Head-City Hotels Rohan Karr and the General Managers of the three hotels - Cinnamon Lakeside General Manager Dermot Gale, Cinnamon Red General Manager Terrence Fernando and Cinnamon Grand Resident Manager Chris Quyn - the associates had a memorable time dressed to the theme of rock and enjoying the fun ambiance complete with dcor, music and food.
==============================
## Title: [END OF A SPIRITUAL LEGEND ]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[END OF A SPIRITUAL LEGEND ]
Giant in stature, humble in personality
Some little known aspects of Ven Sobitha Thera:
Sachitra Mahendra
Ven Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera now needs no more introductions, eulogies or harangues. Different authors have serenaded  splendid as well as harsh  on this eminent monk. This brief essay, much personal in content, touches a lesser known stage about a fascinatingly influential figure of our times.
Unvahanse apavath velaa (which could be loosely translated as he has passed away) read a message on my inbox. It was 10.22 on the night of November 7. The emotional surge within me was so much that I even forgot to key a word of thanks to my informant. Back from a long tired journey, I badly needed a good sleep. All the same, the memories of a distant past reemerged and a sleepless night was before me.
The acquaintance with Ven Sobhitha Thera could be traced as far back as the 70s when my parents settled down in Mirihana. Kotte Sri Naga Vihara became the family temple, and the Thera became the family monk.
Now, I embark on something I cannot obviously recall. What my parents and siblings narrated remains etched in my memory, and I would picture how that particular event unfolded. On the day yours truly was born, my parents took me to the temple straight from the nursing home.
Ven Sobitha Thera was sweeping the temple garden, as my parents entered the temple.
Upon sighting my parents, the Thera kept the broom aside. He welcomed my parents and siblings with a congratulatory smile.
We should bless this child.
Saying so, he stepped into the abode and took the large Pirith thread bundle. That well known melodious vocal recital would have lasted half an hour or a little longer. As we left the temple, my brother looked back to notice the Thera return to sweeping.
Ven Sobitha Thera was an amiable elder to any devotee he sights at the temple. He did not care very much about his popularity (or civil power, rather) when he opens up a conversation with a devotee. Even though he is too busy for a small talk, he would certainly greet you with his warm smile.
The Theras real personality rests alive at the Naga Vihara. Although smaller in size as compared to most mainstream Buddhist temples, Naga Vihara is home to verdant greenery. The bridge, the pond underneath and schools of fish swimming leisurely are a signatory sight of the entrance to his little abode.
And you were always welcome to enter this little green kingdom. My brother would often ask the Thera for a plant or two. Ven Sobitha Thera would not think twice in such instances. He would generously offer a plant. They always exchanged plants with each other. In his own territory, Ven Thera lived with much ease. No politician could shake him with luxury. He won the hearts of devotees. They were the patrons who looked after him well even during the tough times when he had fallen from grace of certain politicians.
Another emotional memory of him pops in. I was to receive a Buddhist award for my novel Didulana Duhuvilla at the All Ceylon Buddhist Congress. He was seated at the front seat, which was enough opportunity for me to seek his blessings. I worshiped him before reaching for the award. He blessed me with his usual hearty smile. That smile, even to this date, I find it difficult to understand. It was he, more than the award, who filled my soul with joy.
A different book of mine was launched at the Naga Vihara premises on the publishers requirement. Written about Ajahn Chah, a Thai tradition monk, the book was subject to a brief but comprehensive analysis of the Thera. Surprisingly, he referred to that book on many occasions as well. Ven Sobitha Thera was a rare personality who could encourage the youth without any malice in his heart. He was always in the company of the youth when it comes to social welfare activities.
All that reached culmination, when we as a family offered him a gold medal. That was our simple token of appreciation for what he had done to us. He was not much bothered about Vinaya rules. But he did not live against the Vinaya. He was more concerned about the societal well being.
Ven Sobitha Thera did not belong to any political party. He loved every politician as an elder who would point out where you err with affection. That rare personality in him stood tall wherever he trod. That is the emblem of this social reformer called Ven Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera. His is a story of a great humanitarian achievement narrated fascinatingly and awe-inspiringly.
Sri Lanka mourns activist monk
Venerable Sobitha stood up to autocratic leaders, fought corruption
Sri Lankans, including church leaders, are mourning the death of a prominent Buddhist monk known for railing against corruption and taking on his country's powerful leaders.
Venerable Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera, who was instrumental in changing Sri Lanka's political regime in the lead-up to the January presidential elections, died Nov. 8 in Singapore, where he was receiving treatment following heart surgery. He was 73.
"The passing away of Venerable Sobitha Thera is a great loss to the country," Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith of Colombo told reporters November 10. "He is actually a selfless, generous religious leader for all the people."
Anglican Bishop Dhiloraj Ranjit Canagasabey of Colombo said Venerable Sobitha worked tirelessly to advocate for a society based on justice and truth.
"The highest tribute we could pay  is to continue with his struggle to ensure that the qualities of honesty, transparency and justice are strongly entrenched in the public life of this country," the bishop said.
Venerable Sobitha was known for his outspoken views against corruption and for challenging his country's leaders  especially at a time when Sri Lankan presidents wielded significant power.
The monk and his organization, the National Movement for a Just Society, backed the former Health Minister, Maithripala Sirisena, in his bid for the presidency ahead of January elections, opposing the powerful Mahinda Rajapaksa, who had been seeking a third term in office. Rajapaksa lost his seat in a surprise defeat.
Jehan Perera, executive director of the Colombo-based National Peace Council, said Venerable Sobitha challenged authorities at a time when the government was increasingly authoritarian, ethno-nationalist and corrupt.
Perera said he met Ven Sobitha recently, before the monk underwent heart surgery.
"He was anxious not so much about himself as about the sense of drift in the government on the issues of good governance most dear to his heart," said Perera, whose organization will posthumously award the monk its Citizens' Peace Prize.
The government has declared a national day of mourning for Ven Sobitha today when his cremation is scheduled.
Thera authored new doctrine for good governance - Bogollagama
Ven Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera was a distinguish Buddhist monk who not only confine his life long service to the Dhamma but also dedicated himself for the valid causes for all Sri Lankas, former Minister Rohitha Bogollagama said in a condolence message.
The message adds: His contribution as the Chief Incumbent of Kotte Sri Nagaviharaya during the last few decades showed his commitment to serve the people of Kotte as a learned priest and a social worker. There is no single household that he had not visited at a time of need and grief in the area. The people looked up to him as both a religious leader and a noble human being.
The Thera authored a new doctrine for good governance with recent developments in the political spectrum of Sri Lanka. It is registered among the people as the need of the hour. It is unfortunate that he did not live long to bear the fruits what he thought the best for the country. I wish the late Thera may attain the supreme bliss of Nibbana.
Theras passing away, irreparable loss to democratic process
The sudden demise of the effervescent colossus among the community of the Maha Sangha in contemporary times, Most Venerable Maduluwawe Sobitha Nayake Thera who was greatly admired and endearingly respected by all walks of life for his distinctive articulation, outspoken and fearless stance on socio-political issues that have plagued the society for long, touched all Sri Lankans deeply as the news about his loss, broke in Singapore.
Our protagonist, Ven Sobitha Thera who had a reputation for being a forthright social critic stood out not only as a clever epigrammatic Dhamma orator, but also as the unfailing social reformer who championed the cause of the under-privileged, and single-handedly rose against corrupt politicking that has brought about an immense destruction to the mother Lanka in our post-independence era.
In his 60 years of monkhood, needless to repeat, he emerged himself to be one among the handful of erudite and most articulate Buddhist monks that inextricably intertwined ethno-religious issues with those of sociopolitical importance and dimension. His monkhood was devoted to resolution of issues, pertaining to the Sasana, Nation, Language, Society, Morality, Politics, Education and more prominently, the progress of the country at large as a civilized society.
Early life
Born in Maduluwawe, Padukka, Ven. Sobitha Thera, having entered the monkhood at the age of 13 in 1955, received his higher ordination on June 15, 1962 under the tutelage of the then Sri Naga Vihara incumbent, late Ven. Mulleriyawe Rewatha Thera, Ven Dewahandiye Sri Saddhatissa Nayake Thera and Ven Angammana Gunarathana Thera, both from Kotte Road Sri Jayawardhanaramaya and entered the Vidyodaya University ( currently, the Sri Jayawardenepura University) for higher studies after completion of his Pirivena education at Kelaniya Vidyalankara Pirivena. He assumed as the incumbent at Kotte Sri Naga Viharaya in 1967 and founded many a Daham projects in the premises. Upon his graduation receiving a B.A (honours) degree, the amiable Thera as a young dynamic monk commenced his teaching career and later became the Principal at Sri Perakumba Pirivena, Ethul Kotte and the Principal at Kuda Uduwe Nalanda Pirivena after he had a stint as the vice principal at Gangodawila Subhadrarama Pirivena.
As he himself declared during his 70th birth anniversary felicitation ceremony at the BMICH in May 2012, the Ven Thera, born to a middle class family in the rural Maduluwawe, refreshed the memories of his humble beginnings and told the gathering how he underwent hardships as he took to schooling where he used to walk back and forth about 5-10 miles every day from home to the school, for which he could be proud as he used to reminisce such practices as exemplary to the budding youth and all other segments in society.
Dedication for public wellbeing
Ven Sobitha Nayake Theras sustained role as a social reformist distinctively unparalleled and went deep into the hearts and minds of the people who kept closely in touch with this personage, largely because of his soft-spoken and friendly nature. His patient hearing to grievances or criticisms, maintaining the highest degree of composure was remarkably noteworthy. His charming smile, robbed the hearts and minds of everyone who came before him. He symbolized the true compassion that a Buddha Puthra should harbour, irrespective of his hectic days workload or schedules. This embodiment of virtues was also the guiding light to hundreds of novice monks who reached him in search of solutions.
His epoch-making characteristics inevitably favoured the oppressed as a true patriot cum social worker as he gradually began to fathom out social realities, shedding a sarcastic eye on the stereotype. He had the wisdom of focusing on issues and systems that erode the social fabric in the land in varying proportions. He foresaw all those and raised his piercing voice against tyrannical suppressive measures of governments or their leaders.
While growing to be a towering strength to all, he all alone flexed his muscles, pooh-poohed Machiavellian practices of corrupt political stalwarts and began to publicly ridicule them, despite many risks, involved in such verbal attacks during those dark days. His Kotte Sangha Sabawa stood behind him and supported his initiatives. Besides his role as the incumbent at his simple abode, Kotte Sri Naga Viharaya which functions as the umbrella centre for more than 50-75 organizations, Ven Sobitha Thera spearheaded a well-known National Campaign for a Just Society, Temperance Youth Organization, National Heroes Foundation, National Sangha Council, All island Pirivena Teachers Association, Sri Lanka-Korea Buddhist Association and Eye Donation Association. His multi-faceted society-oriented assignments which received his patronage, leadership and guidance were numerous as he himself once admitted because they all liked him so much and were behind his lively advice.
Preacher par excellence
Ven Thera mainly due to his inborn talents enjoyed his own intonation pattern of articulating most difficult sections in Dhamma, Tripikata and the Buddhas doctrine in an impressive manner which lured the devotees en masse. On some days, he had to deliver more than 3-4 sermons (Bana) every evening at a stretch in different venues, leaving some 30-45 minute gaps in between because of the popularity he had mustered as someone who could simplify and explain even complicated Abhidhamma sections of Buddhism to laymen. Our monk was so magnanimous that he never wanted to decline any invitation if his hectic schedule somehow or other permitted it. Otherwise, he himself used to propose an alternative date with a kind comment to ensure that his Dayaka who invited him go off fully contended.
His erudition in Dhamma as a true Buddha Puthra enabled him to reach every layer in our society, mostly the underprivileged in far remote areas, and in many instances, the Thera after accepting what he was offered as Pirikara for a sermon, returned all of them then and there to the same rural temple with overwhelming pleasure.
May our Ven Sobitha Thera attain the supreme bliss of Nibbana !
Sisira Wijesinghe
Media Adviser to Sri Lanka Army
Thera won the hearts of public - Gayantha
The Sri Lankan Community was deeply grieved to hear the untimely demise of Ven. Maduluware Sobitha Thera who had won the hearts of the public including all Buddhists, said Parliamentary Reforms and Media Minister and Chief Government Whip Gayantha Karunatilleke in a condolence message yesterday.
The message said Ven. Sobitha Thera was a moral advisor who attracted the hearts and minds of devotees by preaching the Dhamma in a simple but firm voice. He communicated his ideas to the public at large impartially without taking sides. No one was able to obstruct his path as he continued his endeavour as a Buddha monk for the benefit and welfare of the public. It is no exaggeration to say that the Ven. Sobitha Thera was the modern image of heroic leaders of the past who took the forefront to defend the country in times of crisis in the history.
He dedicated his life selflessly to create a just society in the country. Although he is no more, his name will remain in people's memory for ever.
May the Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha there attain the supreme bless of Nibbana.
==============================
## Title: End of a tussled week
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
End of a tussled week
It was a tumultuous week for the government as it lost its spiritual guiding light, Ven. Maduluwawe Sobhitha Thera and was then confronted with the resignation of Law and Order Minister Tilak Marapana, over the controversy surrounding the Avant Garde affair.
Much has been written about the passing away of Ven. Sobhitha Thera. There is no doubt that he was the one person who was instrumental in first conceptualising the defeat of the regime led by Mahinda Rajapaksa through the strategy of employing a common candidate.
At the time the late Ven. Sobhitha Thera mooted the idea, many scoffed at it but he proved to be more astute than most politicians, realising that any division of the votes of the forces opposed to Rajapaksa will only ensure Rajapaksas return to power. Therefore he persisted with his plan, coaxing and cajoling reluctant politicians in different camps to consider various options.
When even that did not seem to work, Ven. Sobhitha Thera offered himself as a candidate but he also had the political nous to realise that he probably wouldnt succeed because, as a Buddhist monk, it would be difficult for him to attract votes from the minority communities.
Nevertheless, by offering himself as potential candidate, he spurred what was then a lethargic opposition in to action. It is now no secret that he was a major influence in convincing President Maithripala Sirisena, then Health Minister in Rajapaksas government, to make a break and declare himself as the much sought after common candidate.
Campaign to oust Rajapaksa regime
Ven. Sobhitha Thera didnt rest after finding the common candidate; he was involved every inch of the way in formulating policies for the opposition in keeping with the outcomes he yearned for: the pruning of powers vested in the executive presidency, the repeal of the 18th Amendment, changes to the electoral system and establishing independent commissions to govern key state institutions.
That he did all this without any rancour is testimony to the greatness of the late prelate. He was able to agitate for the Sinhalese against terrorism without being called a racist. Even when he was the leading light in the campaign to oust the Rajapaksa regime at a time when many politicians shied away from taking on that mantle, Ven. Sobhitha Thera commanded the respect of the regime which didnt dare to intimidate him. Mahinda Rajapaksa himself held the late Thera in great esteem.
Ven. Sobhitha Theras uniqueness in the Lankan socio-political arena arises from his integrity and his adherence to principles rather than political parties. He was never a UNP priest or a SLFP priest. He opposed Mahinda Rajapaksas preoccupation with authoritarianism with the same vehemence that he opposed the deprivation of civic rights of Sirima Bandaranaike. He opposed the Indo-Lanka Accord with the same tenacity that he pleaded for an end to Sinhalese triumphalism that emerged after the end of the Eelam war. Thus, he earned the respect of all and sundry, even his detractors.
The late Theras integrity came to the fore after the presidential and general election. He famously used the idiom of baking the roti when the pan is hot but was disillusioned when the government indulged in some exercises that were not in keeping with their pledge of good governance: the delaying of electoral reforms, the expansion of the Cabinet to accommodate more and more ministers and the inclusion of defeated candidates on the National List.
Emergence of petty politics
He criticised these moves openly and without fear or favour and is known to have admonished prominent persons in the new administration, reminding them pointedly that they were deviating from the straight and narrow and what he saw as the emergence of petty politics taking precedence over policies and principles.
As many have noted, Ven. Sobhitha Theras passing leaves a void that is impossible to fill for he was a man in a generation. More importantly, as his mortal remains are consigned to flames today, he farewells a nation that is still at a crucial cross roads that would have benefited enormously from his wisdom and saner counsel.
Preoccupied as government leaders were in making arrangements for the last rites of Ven. Sobhitha Thera, they had to deal with another event of significance: the stance taken by Minister Tilak Marapana over the Avant Garde affair. Marapana made a statement in Parliament late last week claiming that nothing untoward was uncovered in the investigations into Avant Garde and that it was instigated by the Police to score brownie points.
On the one hand, Marapana is the Minister in charge of the Police. On the other hand, he was the lawyer retained by some parties implicates in the Avant Garde affair. As a former Attorney General and a senior lawyer, Marapana should have known better for the conflict of interest was obvious. By making a statement in Parliament that virtually exonerated those against whom charges were levelled, Marapana made his position in the Cabinet untenable.
On Monday, Marapana called a press briefing and announced that he had tendered his resignation. This came after discussions with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. The Premier had already been chastened by the controversy involving the Governor of the Central Bank and many were of the opinion that if that matter had been dealt with more decisively, the United National Party would have won more seats at the general election and arguably even secured a simple majority in Parliament. Therefore, he didnt want another scandal involving one of his own loyalists to erupt. Hence the call for Marapanas resignation with which the senior minister duly obliged.
Marapanas resignation
However, in offering his resignation, Marapana stoically maintained his stance that there was no illegal activity at Avant Garde. He said he was resigning only because of the conflict of interest where he was the minister in charge of the Police which was investigating one of his clients.
For the government, unfortunately the issue doesnt end with Marapanas resignation. Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapaksha had already waded in to the controversy, having claimed to have prevented the arrest of former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa. Minister Vajira Abeywardena, though not making a statement on Avant Garde, has been accused of having dealings with the company. The opposition is now baying for their blood as well.
The government has adopted damage control as their strategy in response to these calls. President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe have assured that they would oversee investigations into Avant Garde which would be expedited. This is in the face of strong criticism from within the Cabinet itself, notably from ministers Rajitha Senaratne and Champika Ranawaka who, prior to Marapanas resignation, were threatening to quit the government themselves.
It will take a lot of effort to restore public confidence in the government and an independent investigation that will lay bare the facts in relation to Avant Garde without undue delay before the controversy is swept off the headlines would be the best outcome for the government but whether this would eventuate is a different matter altogether.
With months to go for the Local Government election both major political parties- and indeed the general public - will be watching these developments with interest. It is ironical that the Avant Garde controversy initially involved leading figures in the Rajapaksa regime but it has now come back to bite the party that ousted it.
It has already claimed its first victim in Marapana. Will more heads roll, that is the big question that both major parties will need to be cautious about.
==============================
## Title: Generosity is not a question of the wallet, but of the heart
## Supertitle: [CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
Generosity is not a question of the wallet, but of the heart
Before this Sunday's Angelus, the Pope commented on the day's Gospel reading, divided into two parts: the first on how not to be a follower of Christ and the second, conversely, on the model of an ideal Christian.
In the first part, Jesus criticises the scribes, teachers of the law, for three defects in their lifestyle: pride, greed and hypocrisy. Under their solemn appearances they are hiding falsehood and injustice. There is a risk that these attitudes exist even in our day. For example when prayer is separated from justice, because we cannot worship God and cause harm to the poor or when one claims to love God, and instead offers God ones vainglory, to ones own advantage.
The second part describes the scene in the Temple of Jerusalem, precisely in the place where people threw coins as offerings. There are many rich people who pay a lot of money, and there is a poor woman  a widow  contributing just two mites, two small coins. The rich gave with great show what for them was superfluous, while the widow, with discretion and humility, gave  Jesus says  all she had to live; for this  Jesus says  she gave the most of all.
Today, continued the Holy Father, Jesus also tells us that the measurement is not quantity but fullness. There is a difference. It is possible to have a lot of money but to be empty. There is no fullness in a heart like this. He concluded by encouraging all those present to think during this week of the difference between quantity and fullness.
It is not a question of the wallet, but of the heart. Faced with the needs of others, we are called to deprive ourselves of essential things, not only the superfluous; we are called to give the necessary time, not only the surplus that is left over; we are called to give immediately and unconditionally some of our talent, not only after using it for our own purposes or for those of our group.
VIS
==============================
## Title: The harder you work, the luckier you get!
## Supertitle: [Young Voices]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[Young Voices]
The harder you work, the luckier you get!
Deputy Minister of Mahaweli Development and Environment, Anuradha Jayaratne is a man of the people. His story is the story of a man who wanted to live for the people. That was his calling and politics was the path set before him. "Young Voices from Diyawanna" features this young parliamentarian who yearns for change and fate has answered him.
Early life
Jayaratne started his education at Trinity College up until Grade 5 in 1995. After moving to Colombo, from 1995- 2004 until his A/L he studied at Royal College. For his LLB degree he went to the UK to the University of Buckinghamshire. Subsequently he came back to Sri Lanka and did his Attorneys and took oaths in 2010. In 2010 his father D.M. Jayaratne was appointed as the Prime Minister and Jayaratne worked as a private secretary to him. And then in 2013 he contested for the provincial council.
Happy days
"Most of my friends are from Colombo. School time was a very fun time because we had a big clique called the 'Outcasts'! We had about 25 students in the gang. We left college in 2004 so now it has been like 11 years. Last year we had a special tent for the batch and we all came together at the Royal- Thomian big match," said Jayaratne.
Studying in the UK, he worked part time at MacDonald's taking only funds for tuition fees from his parents. The first year and second years he did that, but for the final year he had to take some cash as one had to do full time studies.
Jayaratne has played cricket for NCC and hockey for the Royal College team.
Dreams
"Honestly speaking at the beginning I did not want to be a politician. I thought that by being a lawyer I would be able to do some community work. My dad was working for the society so I saw him helping people. I thought if it came to legal cases I would be able to help them.
I told my mother that I wanted to be a lawyer. So she sent me to the UK to do the degree. When I started working as a private secretary to my dad, he was very busy as he was a Prime Minister. So I was the one who took care of the entire electorate and not only the electorate but also Kandy. I honestly don't know how I got into politics. But whatever you do, you have to make sacrifices and if you do it to the maximum you will achieve it. I had the intention of doing some community work. Eventually I got into the path of politics. Being a politician is not sort of my career. In my career I am a lawyer. But this is something I do for the society and community."
Challenges
"Being a politician there are a lot of challenges. Many thought I would not get into politics. Once you get into politics they see you as a different person. They see you as a challenge, specially, when it comes to an election.
The main thing was I contested for the Provincial Council. I got the highest votes and I became number from the Kandy district. Soon after the election there was a lot of blame. Some individuals just want to destroy a man's career. The best way to destroy a man is to destroy his reputation. So this was going on very badly from 2013 until I contested for the Parliament. I love doing community work and social work. Maintaining my reputation is the main challenge. But the more they blamed me, I went more to the people."
Message to the youth
"I have seen quite a lot of our people who have gone abroad. And they work very hard. When I was in the UK, there were some Sri Lankan engineers who worked part time at MacDonald's or Tesco to get an hourly rate. They worked so hard. What I personally feel is if they put that energy in our country they would have done more. From the day we are born there is a tendency to get everything for free - we are born in a government hospital, we get an education at a government school and that is free, we get a higher education in a government university and we get that free.
Then when the youth come up in society they expect the government to give the job as well. This is something that will not work. So, especially the youth will have to work hard. If they work hard I am pretty sure we will be able to overcome the challenges."
Going back in history
"I would go back not very long, four or five years back and there was a time where the minorities were hurt. If we could change that simple thing that happened it would be ideal for the country. The country would have moved forwards very fast.
In God's shoes for one day
"I would change this language issue honestly. This is a huge barrier for everyone. If people and everybody would speak in one language that would have been ideal. Recently I came back from China. We tried to interact more with them, but it was a nightmare!"
Life out of Parliament
"Mostly I read legal books. I read Richard Branson and Steve Jobs and Bill Gates. I like the way how they have come up. Now I also read political books.
Soon after my A/L I started law so you have to read those books on law.
When it comes to music I listen to Rukantha and my favorite song is 'Sanda Pinidiya' and I also listen to Western R&B music. I also listen to Akon and Westlife. I love flying. I have a Student Pilot License. I did some flying and that is something I love."
Love at first sight
"I am married and my wife's name is Dilini. I was 20 years old and she was 19. We were both in the UK at that time. She was studying in the University of Sheffield. I was at Buckinghamshire and we had to come to London for a conference. That was when I met her and it was a long relationship and now it has been four years since I got married. Our relationship was seven years and it was love at first sight!
Living life all over again and being anyone you want
"I would be like my dad."
Wish for the world
"I wish Peace, without creating different sorts of mechanisms to control countries and societies. That is what they do now. They call it peace but if you see it properly that is only a system of controlling developing countries. But that is not the exact peace. If you could have the proper peace that we expect as a human being that is my wish. Now there are many organizations that have been created in order to create peace but they have different expectations."
An event in life that moved him emotionally
"In 2013 my dad was very ill and he was taken to the states."
Exemplary historical figures
"It would be Mahinda Rajapaksa. That is one character that I admire. He is the one who changed the country. I was born in 1985. From the day we are born we have seen war. He ended it in 2009.
"Also whatever said and done the massive development we have today is due to him. From 2009 - 2014 there was development."
==============================
## Title: The Indigolla Shrine of St.Jude
## Supertitle: [CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
The Indigolla Shrine of St.Jude
The Indigolla National Shrine of St Jude Thaddeus is well known among Catholics, Christians and non-Christians alike for the favours they have received through His intercession in their hour of need.
The devotees in large numbers flock at the Shrine at Gampaha, Indigolla every Thursday pleading Him to intercede on their behalf to God and to attend the healing ceremony. The devotees who had received favours also come to the Shrine to offer thanks. The healing service was commenced in 1992 when Rev Fr. Modustas Fernando OMI served as the Parish Priest of Indigolla Church. The healing service is conducted on every Poya day.
The Catholic Church took steps to build a Church dedicated to St. Jude way back in the year 1952 at Indigolla, Gampaha, on a suggestion made by late Rev. Fr. Philip Dissanayake OMI and the little church came up with the blessing of late Colombo Archbishop Eminence Thomas Cardinal Cooray OMI, who purchased five acres of land from the Indigolla Watte.
The foundation stone was laid by the late Cardinal himself. Until the Church was built, the statute of St. Jude brought from Italy was kept in a devotees house and venerated.
There were only eight Catholic families living there at that time. It was the very first Church dedicated to St. Jude in Sri Lanka.
In the year 1960 on the directives of the Archbishop of Colombo the administration of the Church was entrusted to the Carmelite Order.
With the passage of time the small church was insufficient to accommodate the ever increasing devotees who come all four corners of the land on festive days and Rev Fr Elmo Dias serving as the administrating took steps to reconstruct and enlarge the Church building, with the help of local and foreign Catholic philanthropists.
This year the feast of St. Jude Thaddeus was celebrated on a grand scale and the concelebrated festive High Mass was offered by His Eminence Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith, the Archbishop of Colombo as chief celebrant.
The Solemn Vespers Service and Eucharistic Procession was held on Saturday presided over by Rt. Rev Dr Maxwell Silva Auxiliary Bishop of Colombo.
St. Jude is the Patron Saint of Hope and impossible causes and one of Jesus original twelve Apostles.
He preached the Gospel with great passion, often in the most difficult circumstances.
Through the power of the Holy Spirit, he made profound differences in peoples lives as he offered them the Word of God.
==============================
## Title: Lankan universities require indigenous privatization
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Lankan universities require indigenous privatization
Notwithstanding street protests, Sri Lankas university system will undergo privatization relentlessly. Arresting this process is inconceivable, because it is taking place almost totally outside the jurisdiction of the state (it is virtually impossible to even monitor it!) and is driven by an insatiable demand from a public that has placed great faith on education as an investment for a better future.
The question is no longer about embracing privatization, but how best we should embrace it  nor about accepting privatization today, but how to shape it today so that we could have tomorrow the private sector we would want to live with.
The shape that privatization is taking now is far from satisfactory. Privatization, like other things in life, also comes in many colours and shapes. A wrong type of privatization can be as bad as no privatization for a country that needs the right type of privatization. Those who promote privatization, even for the right reasons, ought to be conscious of this.
Let me outline what I believe is an appropriate, macro-level response to this situation. What I mean by privatization of the university system is the enlargement of the portion of the private sector within it: a change in its sectoral balance. I do not refer to, nor attempt to justify, other possible manifestations of privatization, such as the sale of state institutions to the private sector or the incorporation of private sector machinery into state institutions.
I am also not trying to justify the efforts that the previous regime made to promote privatization by undermining state universities  my conceptualization is exactly the opposite. Furthermore, although the point is obvious, I would like to take care to point out that a private, post-secondary educational institution may not necessarily be for-profit.
Opportunity and funding
From a countrys viewpoint, the development of a private university sector is a cause for celebration, not worry. It would give the country a flexible, responsive segment that could seek out, take risks and grow in areas commanding local and international demand. From the masses viewpoint, it could facilitate the percolation of a useful education to all strata of society, including even the lower strata, allowing their upward social mobility, without burdening state coffers with unrealistic demands.
To see this, we must realize that equality is not the absence of diversity  or put more simply, diversity is not inequality. Equality is necessary for opportunity and access, but this is not the same as eliminating the diversity in the ways of funding or paying for access.
Japanese example
Let us consider what happened in Japan in the 1960s. At that time she was just becoming industrialized, an achievement that did not need too many universities or graduates. But the world economy was shifting from factory-based industries to knowledge-based industries. Japan realized that she had to invest in the knowledge industries to remain competitive against other emerging countries, and this required large numbers of graduates. But her state universities (which served only the elite in society, like our own university did until the late-1950s) were unable to meet this demand.
She responded by encouraging the expansion of her private sector, which consisted of private universities and colleges. The state universities regulated and supervised them while also focusing more strongly on tasks such as research, while the private sector predominantly took up the task of training. This is division of labour not selling education.
Interestingly, therefore, privatization in Japan brought university education from the elite to the masses and contributed positively to her economy. We all know what results she has achieved with this strategy.
A local tale
In fact, contrary to popular belief, broadening access to education through privatization is not unknown to us too. We used this strategy ourselves  in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries when we were a British colony.
At that time, an English medium education was essential to secure a sought-after employment. This was almost the sole conserve of elitist, fee-levying schools set up by Christian missionaries, such as S. Thomas, Trinity and St Johns (Jaffna).
In response, indigenous Buddhist and Hindu private organizations set up schools like Ananda, Mahinda, Dharmaraja and Hindu College.
Furthermore, at post-secondary level too, most of the sought-after options were available in elitist, English medium institutions, like the medical, technical and law colleges of Ceylon and the universities in London and Madras. The indigenous organizations responded to this by setting up the Vidyodaya and Vidyalankara pirivenas which, although not English medium institutions, broadened the choice available to the masses and also helped in an indigenous revival.
These events broadened access to education which was hitherto available only to the elite  through the setting up of indigenous, private educational institutions. They were not-for-profit institutions funded mostly by private philanthropy.
Indigenous model
Several key characteristics stand out in the Japanese example. It was an endeavour of her indigenous entrepreneurs from local industries, organizations and families (much like our own example). It was initially regulated and supervised by state universities, and hence received crucial guidance from the start. The government and the elite supported it, for instance with incentives, which must have brought its costs down significantly. All this in turn meant that it was affordable to at least her middle class, which was why it was able to successfully meet the increasing demand for graduates. Being indigenous in origin, it would have used methodologies, and focused on areas, that were locally appropriate.
Let me call this the indigenous model of privatization.
Resistance and loopholes
In Sri Lanka, the state universities stiff resistance to privatization since the late-1970s, mainly at the behest of the JVP, inhibited the development of a local private sector on the indigenous model. Private post-secondary education developed in general (e.g., accountancy, finance, management, computing  where the JVP had no stronghold) but avoided the university sector (in which the JVP was strong).
But privatization of even the universities cannot be blocked forever when the demand is strong. Eventually, it is bound to sprout through loopholes in existing obstacles  this may be difficult to see at the start, but it is impossible to stop. And that was indeed what happened.
Initially this took the form of the elite flying off to foreign countries, along with foreign exchange, to obtain overseas degrees. But in our globalizing, borderless world and given the huge local demand, it was only natural that foreign universities would eventually set up local agents here, using loopholes such as BOI projects to circumvent governmental and state universities resistance. And when the time was ripe, the banks joined in with loan schemes.
Satellite model
But this is not in the indigenous model. It is founded on overseas universities, with courses that are designed for their contexts (while the students may study here, abroad or both). It charges international fees, which are invariably higher. (It may offer affordable courses, but this is a reflection of a wider variety of courses, not corresponding courses at cheaper rates.) All this leads to the loss of huge amounts of foreign exchange from the country. It is thus affordable to a smaller, higher socio-economic stratum of society, while courses in greater demand might only be affordable to the elite.
Furthermore, the government-state-private coordination that was possible in Japan and which guided the private sector there to work towards national economic goals (maintaining a global perspective, naturally) is not possible in this model. In addition, since state supervision or regulation is not possible, we have no way of knowing which courses are value-for-money or even which establishments are genuine.
Let me call this the satellite model of privatization.
Entrepreneurs
We should not blame local entrepreneurs for setting up private universities in the satellite model. If the environment had been conducive  as it was in Japan  they would have gladly set it up in the indigenous model. The fault lay with the state universities (especially its JVP-controlled elements) themselves, for their selfish, narrow-minded and short-sighted anti-privatization attitude.
An excellent illustration comes from the private medical college issue. In 1981, a local organization set up a not-for-profit private medical college here in the indigenous model: the North Colombo Medical College (NCMC). But the government caved in to JVP-led opposition and nationalized it less than a decade later. Today, thousands (along with millions in foreign exchange) are flying off overseas to study medicine.
The NCMC story proved that our entrepreneurs are capable of forming even a private medical college in the indigenous model. And having been robbed of that chance, they have also proven that they can do it in the satellite model too, as hundreds fly off to get medical degrees from Nepal, Bangladesh, China, Malaysiaetc. The entrepreneurs didnt choose the satellite model  the society chose it.
The satellite model is unsuited for us, for two reasons. Firstly, it is bad economics, individually and nationally. Individually, an indigenous model would have been cheaper, while the satellite model charges fees that only the elite could afford.
Once again the NCMC example illustrates this point. At the NCMC the fees were on average about Rs. 25,000 annually, while nowadays an overseas medical degree fee alone will cost at least several millions annually.
Nationally, an indigenous model will not burden our foreign exchange reserves and might even contribute to it by attracting foreign students, while the burden that the satellite model has become is quite evident.
The NCMC alone earned our country about US$ 400,000 per year through foreign students fees. On the other hand, today our elite pay to foreign universities more than what our government allocates to state universities! For example, in 2008 we paid over US$ 170 million (over Rs 18 billion) to foreign universities.
(This is apart from what was paid to local colleges that remit foreign exchange to overseas universities, a figure that I could not even find.) In comparison, the total allocation to state universities in 2007 was Rs 14 billion. I believe that the figures for subsequent years would show a similar, if not worse, picture.
Regulation and supervision
The second reason for the satellite models unsuitability is that it does not lend itself to state regulation and supervision, something that was crucial to Japans success. State academics already have close relationships with private institutions.
The institutions need the academics as visiting lecturers, while the academics need the extra income.
A new role for them in the supervisory and regulatory apparatus (with an additional income for their consultative services) will not be difficult for either party to get accustomed to.
A stronger state university system will actually enable this  an undermined state university system will only serve to oppose privatization, out of the fear of competition.
The existence of several successful public-private partnerships involving universities shows that state academics are now well-versed in the etiquette of working with the private sector.
Although during the previous regime the allegation was made that state university academics associating themselves with private institutions were bending the rules, this might have happened because their involvement was informal and handpicked.
If it is formal and widespread, academics will take part in these roles out of their official capacities, not through relationships that might be designed to serve dubious ends.
Policy change
It would be to everyones advantage if the government encouraged and guided the private sector into the indigenous model.
It would then be affordable, and its quality would be the states responsibility. The foreign exchange now leaving our country will remain, and the moneys that students pay will go to strengthen our own institutions. (Let us remember that institutions, whether state or private, are all public institutions  they are all part of our collective public sphere.) The government will have the apparatus to monitor the private sector, and this will help planning of both the education sector and the economy.
The only downside that I see is that the private sector will lose some of its flexibility  a vital attribute in a changing world  when it comes under the supervision of state universities. The legislation must keep this in mind and incorporate effective safeguards, and the state universities must be broad-minded.
On the other hand, if state universities continue to mindlessly reject and resist privatization and the government continues to turn a blind eye to what is happening, the private sector will be compelled to grow in the satellite model. This will not serve the country in the long term. Adopting an indigenous model does not mean that private institutions should be barred from having links with foreign universities (especially prestigious ones); it only seeks to give them a more economical option. It also does not mean a regression in todays era of globalization; it sets the stage for a more effective response to it.
Pragmatism
The direction that privatization is taking now  the satellite model  is wrong from the countrys viewpoint. What the government must do is gently guide it towards the indigenous model by formalizing and defining relationships into statutory roles.
There must be ample flexibility and reflective practice built into the new arrangement, so that changing trends lead to appropriate responses. Otherwise, one of the private sectors most important advantages  flexibility  would be lost.
An essential corollary of this plan is the improvement of state universities to a level that they can play this supervisory role effectively and confidently  and the NCMC story, where the University of Colombo played exactly this role, proved that this too is possible. It is a win-win situation, even for politicians  except the JVP, of course.
We must proactively and judiciously mould our university system into an integrated, efficient amalgam of state and private components  by promoting the indigenous model. Or else, we will eventually not have a university system of any consequence that can be called our own.
(This article is partly based on one of the writers previous articles (The Nation, June 28, 2009). The writer wishes to acknowledge Asian Universities: Historical Perspectives and Contemporary Challenges co-edited by Philip G. Altbach and Toru Umakoshi (Johns Hopkins University Press: 2004) for valuable information and concepts. He is a graduate of the North Colombo Medical College, and currently teaches medicine at the University of Colombo.)
==============================
## Title: Latin America shows way for unstable Arab states, says UN Chief
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Latin America shows way for unstable Arab states, says UN Chief
SAUDI ARABIA: Latin America shows the way for Arab nations wracked by instability, United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon told a summit of leaders from the two regions Tuesday.
The hopes generated by the Arab Spring have been dashed by conflict, instability and authoritarian governments from Syria to Libya and elsewhere, Ban told the opening session of the Fourth Summit of South American-Arab Countries in the Saudi capital. He was referring to the popular uprisings in the Arab world four years ago.
Latin American countries have largely made the transition that so many people across the Arab world yearn to make for themselves, Ban said.
One element in that transition, not only in Latin America, has been the inclusion of community organisations as partners of governments, he said.
Ban urged a dialogue between Arab and Latin nations on how to give room to civil society groups, human rights defenders and independent media.
He also said Latin America has achieved notable gains in gender equality, particularly in parliamentary and government representation.
But too many women around the world face violations of their basic rights, he said.
The world will never achieve 100 percent of its goals without 50 percent of its people as full and equal participants, he said in Saudi Arabia, the only country in the world where women are not allowed to drive.
Saudi women are required to cover themselves from head to toe when outside the home, and still need permission from a male guardian to work and marry.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Making of a poem
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Making of a poem
Some years ago I had the chance of reading a few past issues of the much discussed English literary periodical published in the UK titled as Partisan Review. The literary reviews were mostly directed to interpret some of the unknown areas in creative process where the emphasis was laid especially on poetry.
One of the writers happened to be the famous English literary figure who commenced his career during the post war days known as Stephen Spender.
He was well known for his poetic creations as well as for his other interpretations. He happened to be the writer who fished out the well known poems of T S Eliot, W H Auden, Walter de la Mare and W.B. Yeats. Writing a long account on Eliot's The Wasteland, he emphasised it as a poetic creation that belongs to the entire world where the countries are torn between the need for peace versus the terror of the living conditions in warfare. Writing a stimulating piece on the 'making of a poem' Spender says that the creation of poems is an activity which makes certain demands of attention on the poet and which requires that he or she should have some social qualifications by way of inspiration and mindfulness also termed as concentration.
Need for poetry
He tried to interpret these three terms with examples and tried to interpret them in terms of the need for poetry and why one should write poems sensibly. As Spender emphasized the creation of poems is essentially a personal need based on the commitment to social awareness. It is the poetic expression as he underlined that creates a sense of sharp observation which supersedes all other literary activities like writing stories, parables and play scripts.
As regards the social awareness, he laid emphasis on the personal attitude based on one's learning and knowledge. As regards concentration he said that it is the concentration that is required for writing or the expression of an experience. It is a focussing of the attention in a special way, so that the poet is aware of all the implications and possible developments of his idea.
He compares the process of developing an idea as the growth of a plant. As regards the inspiration he says that it is similar to the warmth the plant gets from the sun and water and the care it gets from the planter. Going back to the interpretation of The Wasteland by Eliot, the main point he drives in is the latent talent of the poet to combine the human state of life in a frame of peace and harmony. Eliot has derived inspiration from the spiritualism which in the hands of Eliot becomes a live thread.
As stated by the great psychologist Carl Jung, creativity like the freedom of the human will, contains areas still hidden from any scientific analysis. As such the very act of creativity lurks in mystery Jung says that poems could be regarded as the best example to discern the inability to interpret in simple terms. He quotes examples from the much discussed Faust and shows that the in depth studies lead one to understand the hells and heavens which the human have failed to fathom. Furthermore creativity still remains as riddles especially in the case of poetry.
Views
Spender says that we lack very much a whole view of poetry, and have instead many one sided views of certain aspects of poetry which have been advertised as the only aims which poets should attempt. He seems to challenge the movements such as free verse, imagism, surrealism, expressionism, personalism and so on. They according to Spender tend to make people think that poetry is simply a matter of not writing in metre of rhyme or of free association or of thinking in images or of any other form. The most debatable factor is the writing of free verse which according to the poet Robert Frost is the most difficult creation. The reason why it is difficult to create in a formless form is determined by the poet himself.
It is compared to the tennis playing without a visible net. Spender refers to the age old parables and ballads written the form of verses devoid of the conventional forms of poetic creations. For the poet to express his thoughts and feelings in a way other than the poem demands, is to swim against a current in which he is likely to lose both himself and what he is trying to create. Robert Frost once said that a poem planned in advance never came off. But the well known poet who translated poems from Greek sources Robert Graves added that 'real poems appear unexpectedly and at a time when the poet is in a a so called state of grace which could be expressed as a mood of meditation or concentration.'
Clear mind
This is nothing but the state of a clear mind clear healthy heart and no worries about fame money or other people but only the excitement of a unique revelation about to be given. There are poets living in the Orient as well as in the Occident who wish to address a wider audience via their poetic creations. But has this ever happened well is the question paused by poets themselves. It is also a linguistic barrier lying underneath. No poem according to Spender could be translated to any other language retaining the original flavour of the creator in his own language. The only visible success according to him is the translations of ballads or the story poems. It is not the spirit of the ballad that gets translated but the embedded story.
Thus the fables written by Aesop translated from Greek sources may retain the original flavour determined by the creator. Spender emphasises the uses the changing patterns of language used by the poets. He says that different poets concentrate in different ways depending on the changes ensued in their respective cultures.
A poet can feel that he is either old fashioned or new fashioned perhaps with the use of language he is familiar with. But this is just one factor in the making of poems for the eternal value lies in the sensibility that overpervades the language barriers. He records that as Paul Valery, the French Poet said 'one inspiring line is given to the poet by God or by nature, the rest he has to discover for himself' summing up he says that 'if the art of concentrating in a particular way is the discipline necessary for poetry to reveal itself, memory exercised in a particular way is the natural gift of poetic genius'.
==============================
## Title: The 'Mona Lisa' mantra
## Supertitle: [Archworld]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[Archworld]
The 'Mona Lisa' mantra
A good home creates a solid foundation for fulfillment, successful relationships and secure futures. It is a dream come true. When you fix your surrounding in a way that satisfies you and meets the expectations of your lifestyle then life becomes idyllic. If you don't want your dreams to become a nightmare then hire an architect. ArchWorld features Channa Daswatte a one -time associate of the great Geoffrey Bawa.
Channa Daswatte grew up as a single child having his secondary education at Trinity College in Kandy. Even at the time the young Channa was always interested in designing and putting things together and had a sought of reputation as being artistic. It was one of his school teachers who suggested he take up architecture as opposed to the sciences that he was studying for his A/L. Since then he thought of design and architecture. Later he attended the University of Moratuwa and then University College London as part of his architectural education.
Joint effort
"A good house I firmly believe is a joint effort between the people living in it and the architect. Homes are very personal things and a good house that people fall in love with is often a joint project. As an architect I try to find out what the family most enjoy doing both separately and individually. The spaces of the house and how they connect must allow for this to happen. When this works, and this is often the key to a successful house, it will become a place that people ease into," said Daswatte.
A specialized world is what we live in. You won't regret hiring an architect. After all your house is a life time investment. One you put everything into your house you can't sell it again and build another house. If life was that simple we could all live like kings.
"A personal house is usually tailor- made at all levels -the physical needs of shelter, the social needs of privacy and contact between the users and also the economic capabilities of the family. A good architect can often give the essentials of shelter and social needs within restricted budgets, each most importantly to meet the critical spatial needs that a family needs to prosper and live harmoniously. So it's always worth the effort of making one's own home to suit individual needs and aspirations."
Subtlety
Creating spaces that change the ambience with such subtlety is the architect's mantra. It is like enjoying Vincent Van Gogh's paintings or the painting of the Mona Lisa. You never ever get tired of looking at it. Even though it is static it has so many angles. Similarly sometimes we like to see vibrant colors.
"Creating a home that feels different at every time of the day is achieved through a careful engagement with the site and context. Understanding how the sun and the rain and other elements of the environment will interact with the house. A house can be designed to bring the morning sun in, shade you from the harsh light of midday and again perhaps bring in the warm glow of a setting sun. This will certainly change the feel of a house through the day. Opening the house or shutting it from certain aspects of the environment would do this."
Architecture is like the eternal sea always changing never static. Even though Channa has risen from this, his ideas are pretty much the same.
Ideas of style
"My core thoughts about architecture have not changed at all. At the very core is the belief that making spaces with an understanding of the life to be led within them can make a difference to the well- being of human beings. I don't think this can change. But other ideas of style, look, materials and technology and my attitude to these may perhaps have changed and will certainly evolve with time and experience."
The mighty Geoffrey Bawa is a legend in Sri Lanka. Almost prophetic in his creations he has made his mark and will be remembered for centuries or for as long as society exists.
"One thing is that Geoffrey Bawa never really taught anything. He influenced people through his conduct and work. If you were lucky to be in his ambit or understand the reason for his actions in his work, there was much to learn. Architecturally there is much that has influenced, not just for me but many others. But one thing I will always keep with me is that you never succumb to a singular idea such as a style. Each project is an opportunity to explore, investigate and interact with people and make something new."
Channa's greatest teachings from Geoffrey Bawa is 'What you hide behind the walls you build, around a space when making a piece of architecture, is as important as what you reveal. What he meant by this was perhaps that there must be awareness of every move you make in architecture.
"He was a gentleman to his fingertips, and had a great sense of self- deprecating humour. Today it would be hard to even recognize these qualities in people." Learning Architecture takes almost eight years. In that sense it is very unlike any other profession in the world. Everyone gets the same education but everyone's styles differ.
"All professions have varying degrees of subjectivity in the way a professional will approach and resolve a problem. As professionals we will make an opinion about the resolution of a given problem based on each of our experiences.
What one is taught in the academic program is the principles on which these opinions and judgements must be made. While in most fields there is a general consensus and understanding of how this happens, Architecture is much more subjective particularly in the contemporary world, where each person we deal with has an opinion and thought.
Individual architects will thus work from their own experience and understanding of the world around them and the problems they are solving combined with the opinion of various clients. This gives for a marvelous potpourri of products that makes the practice of architecture so engaging. Architecture for most of us need not be an inborn talent. It's a craft that can be learnt and if practiced with care and diligence, produce good work. But to be a master perhaps there is a modicum of inborn talent that makes a difference and these are few and far between."
Pictures by Ruwan De Silva
==============================
## Title: Netanyahu says no immediate way forward for Mideast peace
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Netanyahu says no immediate way forward for Mideast peace
ISRAEL: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on a visit to Washington, on Tuesday voiced pessimism about the prospect of peace with the Palestinians, suggesting the current stalemate was likely to remain in place.
A peace process to end nearly 70 years of conflict between Israel and the Palestinians has stalled for more than a year, when the latest US attempt at mediation failed.
Any deal, or any arrangement, unilateral or negotiated, must have Israel maintain the ability to defend itself by itself against threat, including from territories that are ceded, Netanyahu said.
That's the most important provision, he added. That is something that I don't see the Palestinians accepting now.
The Israeli leader, known to be aligned with Republicans in Congress, was speaking at the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank in the US capital.
His comments came amid growing violence that has raised fears over the potential for a new Palestinian uprising.
The unrest has seen 10 Israelis and at least 77 people on the Palestinian side -- one of them an Israeli Arab -- killed since October 1.
Netanyahu said that his settlement freeze didn't help in restarting peace talks, adding that Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas didn't come to the table.
The international community has condemned Israeli settlement building as a threat to the Middle East peace process by eroding the basis for a future Palestinian state.
When a question came from the audience about Jerusalem -- another key point in any agreements envisaged in the past -- Netanyahu motioned that he did not want to broach the matter.
There the question of Jerusalem and specifically the Temple Mount, I think it's insoluble. I just don't see right now a solution for that, Netanyahu said in reference to Palestinians who see East Jerusalem as the capital of their future state.
I think it has to remain under Israeli sovereignty, and that's the only way to prevent this from exploding.
During a meeting with US President Barack Obama at the White House Monday, Netanyahu tried to bury suggestions -- fueled by his own re-election campaign comments -- that he does not support the creation of a Palestinian state.
For decades, the prospect of a two-state solution has been the bedrock of peace efforts. Netanyahu had infuriated the White House by suggesting that prospect was dead.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: One and Only !
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
One and Only !
NAME : Thilini Sudhara Jayasinghe
NICKNAME : Su
BIRTHDAY : January 15
SCHOOL : Mahamaya Girls' College Kandy
CURRENTLY LIVING IN : Kandy
EMAIL : [emailprotected]
******-----
Who has influenced you the most
My parents and my brother
******-----
What is the most important thing to you in life
Earlier it was badminton and now it's Nalaka
******-----
When did you start motor racing
At the age of 9
******-----
What's your favourite movie
Mr and Mrs Smith
******-----
Who's your favourite singer
Clarance Wijewardana
******-----
What are your favourite leisure time activities
Swimming and travelling
******-----
Who do you sometimes compare yourself to
I don't ever compare my self to anyone else I strongly believe that's why I have succeeded in my life.
******-----
What's your favourite dish
Pasta cream sauce, lobster and cuttlefish
******-----
What are the unforgettable memories / incidents in your life
2008 Beijing Olympics was an unforgettable experience for me in my life
******-----
Favourite place you would like to visit over and over
Beach....and Paris
******-----
Who do you want to be in future
To be a good wife
********---
Who has been your biggest support
My mother
********---
How would you describe your personal style
A person who never give up, helpful, humble and always with a smile
********---
What are the top priorities in your life
Family, Badminton and my workplace
==============================
## Title: One and Only
## Supertitle: [Off the Field]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[Off the Field]
One and Only
She is the only female badminton star who has represented Sri Lanka in Olympics on two occasions, at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing and 2012 Summer Olympics in the women's singles event. Watching her play is a treat and this beauty has bagged the 'national badminton crown' in a number of occasions.
During her career spanning 20-years, the product of Mahamaya College, Kandy, has been the undisputed local queen for a number of years from her school days as a junior champion to winning every age group national championship.
Still reigning among the top five female shuttlers in the country, she has gone into coaching as well, sharing her knowledge and experience with the younger generation who is willing to follow her footsteps.
Today TnC goes off the field with the double Olympian Thilini Jayasinghe.
NAME : Thilini Sudhara Jayasinghe NICKNAME : Su BIRTHDAY : January 15 SCHOOL : Mahamaya Girls' College Kandy CURRENTLY LIVING IN : Kandy EMAIL : [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Parents must build True Christians in their Children
## Supertitle: [CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
[CHRISTIAN PERSPECTIVES]
Parents must build True Christians in their Children
In the heavily packed Diocesan Council Chamber, the Lord Bishop of Colombo, Rt. Rev. Delo Canagasabey in his opening address at the 3-day session, opted to talk about Christian upbringing of children as early as possible so they may know the Lord as their Father and Saviour. His focus at the 130th session, apart from little ones were his concern for the retiring priests.
Encourage little children towards spirituality by keeping Sunday free for God as a dedication in their faith. Leave behind tuition classes on the Sabath and energise their feel of God and be guided by his love and blessings. The parents must make it their priority to influence and build good Christians in their children so that they will grow up in the wisdom and knowledge of their Father. This is their responsibility towards nurturing what they learnt as little children so that generation to generation God will live in their hearts and realize the importance of the Kingdom of Heaven, Said his Lordship.
If the young are directed at a tender age towards their faith, they will know to identify evil from good and not stray towards temptation and worldly leanings as they grow up and bear witness to God's eternal love away from the internet and a fast-moving world because Jesus loved the young very much and said Let the little ones come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the Kingdom of heaven. (Mathew 19:14)
The Rev. Marc Billimoria, Warden St. Thomas College presenting his paper said that pursuant to Resolution number 18 passed at the 129th Session of the Diocesan Council in 2014 be amended by the repeal of all existing words in the said sub-section and by the substitution therefore of the following new words namely, the Bishop may at his sole discretion to continue a Presbyter referred to in service for a further period done annually on such terms as the Bishop may determine provided however that notwithstanding such extension of services, any Presbyter holding the office of Archdeacon or Area Dean shall cease to hold such office on December 31 of the year that person reaches 65 years of age. Such persons extended would be entitled to a full stipend and allowances during the extended period.
This retiring age Resolution came into much discussion with Rev. Billimoria explaining in detail why it should be adopted once all without it being carried over to next year's sessions. The House adopted the Resolution unanimously.
It was also resolved by the Council whereas the Council has been made aware that the National Christian Council of Sri Lanka NCCSL of which the Church of Ceylon is a member, is taking steps to grant Associate membership to few selective Churches. It was also resolved that it is the right of every child to learn his own religion in schools among the many lapses that our Christian children face with admission to schools and who are forced to learn other faiths in many schools.
Among almost dozen of important Committees elected among the clergy and laity, the most important one being the Standing Committee, elected from among the representative clergy and laity of the country to steer the whole process of the Church, sadly lacks fair representation outside the Colombo Diocese year after year and it is Colombo Diocese that get elected except for a few strays.
This is not fair.
Where is the voice of the rest of the country
How can Anglicanism be fostered this way
This sadly leads to frustration and disinterest where the rich Churches in Colombo Deanery gets richer and the rest gets poorer both spiritually and materially. This power-block must be broken if we all share to upkeep Anglicanism in the country through the Church's Caring For Our Life, Together In Our Common Home.
A constitutional change where by the Bishop is empowered to nominate some outstation members to the Standing Committee might suffice the sad situation.
Gwen Herat
==============================
## Title: Pimple-Talk !
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Pimple-Talk !
In today's Beauty Talk Hasini Gunasekera of International Academy of Beauticians answers to Tn'C queries on causes of acne and prevention tips.
Q: Why do we get pimples
A: The exact cause of acne is not known, but hormones called androgens can play a role. Androgens increase in both boys and girls during puberty. Androgens make the skin's oil glands get larger and make more sebum. Androgens also can increase because of hormonal changes related to pregnancy or starting or stopping birth control pills.
Genetics may also matter. If your parents had acne, you may have inherited that tendency.
Some medications can cause acne.
Cosmetics that have a greasy consistency may also clog pores. Water-based products are less likely to cause acne than oil-based makeup.
Other things that can make acne worse include:
* Picking or squeezing blemishes
* Changing hormone levels in adolescent girls and adult women two to seven days before the start of the menstrual period
* Stress
Pimples are mostly common in teenagers but today we see pimples in adults as well.
Adult Acne
Stress or changes in your hormone levels can be a main cause.
Teenage Acne
Almost all teens get acne. It happens when an oily substance called sebum clogs pores.
Pimples usually pop up on the face, neck, back, chest, and shoulders. Acne isn't a serious health risk, though severe acne can cause permanent scars. Acne can also damage self-esteem.
Q: Is there any permanent remedy for pimples
A: Excess sebum secretion of skin is the primary cause of acne. Therefore there's no permanent remedy for pimples. But cleanliness will be a great support in reducing the possibility of having breakouts.
Q: What are your best tips for taking care of pimply skin
A: Ice
Ice can be used to quickly reduce the redness, swelling and inflammation of pimples. It helps in improving blood circulation to the affected area, and in tightening the skin pores and removing dirt and oil accumulated on the skin. You can use ice cubes or crushed ice, whichever is convenient.
Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil is excellent for treating acne and pimples. It has antibacterial properties that help fight the bacteria that cause these skin problems.
Plus, its soothing properties help reduce the redness and inflammation of pimples. It also helps dry out blackheads and whiteheads.
* Just dip a cotton ball in tea tree essential oil and dab it on the affected area. Rinse your face after 15 to 20 minutes.
Note: Steer clear of tea tree oil if you have sensitive skin.
Lemon
Another quick way to get rid of pimples is the use of lemon juice, which is rich in vitamin C. Lemon juice helps pimples dry up faster. Be sure to use fresh lemon juice and not bottled juice, which has preservatives. Dip a clean cotton swab in fresh lemon juice and apply it to the pimples before going to bed.
Q: Acne affected people should not go for facials. Your advice
A: For those with oily skin, a facial massage with creams or moisturizers is not advised,but anyhow facial treatment for oily skin includes deep cleansing with very mild exfoliation, toning, mask and use of high frequency machine. The masks and other procedures help remove excess oils, shrink the pores and make the skin soft.
However a facial must be performed under a well trained beautician to avoid any problems that can be caused by the improper choice of product and process.
Q: Dermatologists recommend oil-free soap for those affected with acne. But beauticians usually recommend different types of face wash Which option should one stick to
A: It's important to wash your face each night to remove the surface oil and makeup that can contribute to acne, but you don't want a cleanser that strips your skin of all its moisture because if the skin is too dry, it will actually produce more oil to further complicate acne.
A product that is capable of cleansing gently without irritating your skin and it's oil-free, soap-free and hypoallergenic is best suited for acne prone skin.
Q: Any remedy to get rid of adult acne
A: Taking sufficient rest and drinking plenty of water is important. If acne is not settling, best to get advice from a dermatologist.
Q: Usually oily skin can lead to acne flare-ups. However acne can be seen on dry skin as well. Reasons
A: If you're struggling with dry skin, and acne, then in all likelihood your skin-care routine is the major cause of the problem. Using drying soaps or harsh scrubs, overdoing cleansing, applying toners with alcohol or other irritating ingredients, not using lightweight moisturizers, and not taking proper care daily all add up to a disaster for your skin.
Your skin simply cannot survive the neglect, the wrong skin care routine or overdoing things can cause skin to be both oily and dry. The products you use matter a lot!
Q: What food should be avoided What food should we take regularly
A: Below is a list of trigger foods for acne;
Chocolate
Spicy Foods
Cheese
Peanut Butter
French Fries
Food to have
Veggies with high water content (cucumber) can help acne as water is key to flushing out clog- poring toxins.
Veggies and fruits that are orange in colour is loaded with vitamin A
Q: Does soda cause acne
A: There is no direct link between soda consumption and the development of acne, substances in soda could create issues in the body that cause acne as a side effect.
Sugar
Consuming too many refined sugars may be linked to the development of acne, Your body makes insulin and testosterone to compensate, and you could develop clogged pores and skin inflammation.
Caffeine
Many sodas are caffeinated, which could have an effect on whether you develop acne.
Q: What should be the skin care routine of people with acne
A:
Get More Sleep
Tweak Your Diet
Get Some Exercise
Drink plenty of water
Consumption of Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Cleanse Twice a Day
Exfoliate
Choose your hair care products right
"Pomade acne" is a breakout caused by hair-care products including conditioner, shampoo, gel, and hair spray.
This form of acne occurs when oils from styling products seep into skin, usually around the hairline, and trap acne-causing bacteria in pores.
==============================
## Title: Police sergeant injured from sword attack
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 13:00
Police sergeant injured from sword attack
A police sergeant attached to the Elpitiya Police Station was injured this morning after he was attacked with a sword by two suspects this morning(11).

The two suspects have fled the area while the Elpitiya police had commenced investigations to arrest the two suspects.

The police sergeant was attacked when he was trying to check a suspicious motor cycle at the Elpitiya-Yakkaduwa Junction.

The motor bike has been spotted idling in a suspicious manner off Elpitiya area since today morning (11),The police stated.

==============================
## Title: Pure fiction!
## Supertitle: Brad and I drive each other mad
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Brad and I drive each other mad
Pure fiction!
Angelina Jolies new film is about a warring couple. Might it be based on someone she knows
It seemed like a good idea at first: the newly married Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt thought they would combine filming By the Sea on location in Malta with their honeymoon. But it didnt work out quite as they had planned.
There were a few days when we thought [a working honeymoon] wasnt the best idea, laughs Jolie, who wrote, directed, produced and co-starred with Pitt in the low-budget domestic drama. There were days during filming last year when we were really worried and it was hard.
If we had married and were just starting a relationship it would have been a disaster, but because we have been together so long we wanted to see how far we could push our relationship and our love and see if we can work together under very intense circumstances and with very complex issues and see if it would make us better.
But at the end we came out of it thinking, This was the best honeymoon, because the film says, Whatever you go through, weather the storm and stick together.
So it was kind of a message to each other that we are going to stick together whatever comes.
Pure fiction: Jolie insistsBy the Sea is noreflection of hermarriage to Brad Pitt
Inspired by European art films of the Sixties and Seventies like Jules et Jim and Breathless, By the Sea tells the story of Jolies Vanessa, a depressed former dancer and her heavy drinking novelist husband (Pitt) who arrive in a seaside town in Seventies France with their marriage in crisis. As they meet fellow travellers and local residents they begin to examine their problems and begin to come to terms with unresolved issues in their lives.
I want people to walk away with different things from this film, says Jolie when we meet in the Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills. Audiences will interpret it in a hundred different ways and its intended to be like that.
No way autobiographical
She insists the story is in no way autobiographical  for years, tabloid newspapers and magazines ran reports claiming the couple were on the verge of splitting up, right up until the point they tied the knot at their chteau in the south of France last August.
Brad and I have problems like any other couple...We have days when we drive each other absolutely mad, but the problems in the movie aren't our specific problems
Brad and I have our issues, but if the characters were even remotely close to our problems we couldnt have made the film. To be clear: we have fights and problems like any other couple. We have days when we drive each other absolutely mad and want space, but the problems in the movie arent our specific problems.
It is Jolies third directorial effort after In the Land of Blood and Honey and Unbroken and is the first time she and Pitt have worked together since the 2005 action-comedy Mr and Mrs Smith, the movie on which they met (while Pitt was still married to Jennifer Aniston).
When we first worked together it was very different because we didnt really know each other and we were young and, it was really a fun film, so we thought, maybe By the Sea was going to be that kind of fun, but realised very quickly that it wasnt, she said. Then we joked that this is what happens after 10 years of marriage.
Directing her husband, who has a considerable amount of French dialogue in the film, was not always easy and they had to make a pact with each other.
Tricky days
Our first few days were quite tricky because no matter what I say, he knows me so well and knows every little gesture when I get impatient, or when I am not really happy, she said.
Jolie with Brad Pitt at theCannes Film Festival in 2011
Family tragedy: Jolie had a double mastectomyin a bid to avoid the breast cancerthat claimed her mother

And I was nervous about not being able to have the right direction for him, to see him stuck and not being able to push him. So it was challenging, but we made a private pact that we were going to try to be as open and honest and emotive as possible and give to each other as much as we could and, succeed or fail, we would just lay it bare.
These were very sensitive themes and I know Brads triggers and what he can do and what he is thinking about so I had to step away and just be very careful in how he was directed. I tried to give him a safe space and tell him to trust me and I would do my best to protect him in the editing room if he would be as open and give me as much of himself and his emotions and his honesty, and he did. I think he worked very hard. The strangest things were the scenes when we were fighting and it was so weird trying to tell him to fight with me better. I was crazy Vanessa who is so broken and so weird and then when I said cut I am not Vanessa, I am this other person who is a director and has all these very strong opinions and is nothing like her. I have to go over to his side of the room and talk to him, so it was schizophrenic for all of us.
And in the bathtub scene, being naked in a bath trying to direct the camera crew with my husband outside the room through a microphone was just weird.
Being naked in the bath, trying to direct the crew, was just weird
Because they have a home in France and spend much of their time there, Pitt, she said, wanted to really learn French. So I figured I was going to write a bunch of scenes in French and I was going to force him. So he had a lot of studying to do.
Outgoing
Jolie, who looks elegant in a beige Luisa Beccaria dress, is outgoing and surprisingly candid about her private life. Two years ago she caused a worldwide stir by announcing she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87 per cent risk of developing breast cancer.
Her mother, Marcheline Bertrand, had breast cancer and died of ovarian cancer in 2007 at the age of 56 while her grandmother had ovarian cancer and died aged 45. I turned 40 this year and I am so happy, she said. Most women in my family start to get sick and start dying in their 40s and I am going to be very happy to become 50 and 60. I love getting older.
Their six children, Maddox, 14, Pax, 11, Zahara, 10, Shiloh, nine, and seven-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox, were with them in Malta while they were filming By the Sea and three of them, Maddox, Pax and Shiloh, are currently working with her on her next project, the Cambodia-set First they Killed my Father: a Daughter of Cambodia Remembers.
Maddox is working with me in production so when I have my production meeting he is sitting right next to me and we go though our notes. Pax is going through the photography and Shiloh is sketching the sets.
It has to be with family and they have to be a part of it now.
Women in my family die in their 40s. I am going to be very happy to become 50 and 60. I love getting older
The Cambodian film serves as a history lesson about Maddoxs birthplace, she says. (Jolie adopted Maddox in 2002, Zahara, from Ethiopia in 2005, and Pax, from Vietnam in 2007).
Being with children
Im now doing films that really matter to me and I can really enjoy with my children. If something inconveniences my children too much, or takes me away from them, I wont do it.
When I was younger I was testing myself and questioning everything but now its less about that and more about these are the years of my life with my family.
By the Sea is the first, and could be the last, time she has directed herself in a movie. That was the most challenging part of it because you tend to take care of everybody and dont give yourself the right attention and you dont have somebody telling you its good enough, or checking on you.
But I love directing and I would love to be allowed to do more films and I hope Im a good enough director to keep getting jobs.
Most of my films are based on a history thats important to me. I dont have the same connection with By the Sea although its important because humanity in life is important. But I think I am more comfortable making war films, to be honest.
She pauses for a moment, then says: Not that marriage cant be a little bit like that.
By the Sea is released on December 11
-Telegraph.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Record warm Indian Ocean may temper El Ninos wrath
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Record warm Indian Ocean may temper El Ninos wrath
AUSTRALIA: The powerful El Nino in the Pacific is continuing to strengthen but the worst impacts for Australia may be tempered by record warm waters in the Indian Ocean, the Bureau of Meteorology said.
Temperatures in the central tropical Pacific are now 2.4 degrees above normal, a level that is comparable to the same stage of the record 1997-98 and 1982-83 El Ninos, the bureau said in its fortnightly update on Tuesday. The record anomaly is 2.8 degrees in 1997-98.
The El Nino event is still going strong but we're expecting things to slow down over the next couple of months, Andrew Watkins, manager of the bureau's climate prediction services, said.
An ensemble of climate models compiled by the bureau (see below) points to a peak late this year, with El Nino-like warmth persisting until May. Other scientists last week suggested the event may be prolonged. Farmers and firefighters are among those watching the skies closely - both in Australia where a record hot October has brought forward the bushfire threat in southern states and also in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea where severe droughts have hit crops and fanned forest fires.
Historically, the worst El Nino impacts have come when temperatures in the Indian Ocean have been relatively cool off north-western Australia compared with the western Indian Ocean - such as the current conditions. However, what's moderating the otherwise potent brew is the fact that the Indian Ocean south of the Equator is at record levels of warmth (see chart below), with heat anomalies in October the largest for any month on record, Dr Watkins said. They are all competing with each other, he said. It's been a very unusual year in many ways, with just enough rain around to tease us.
.- SYDNEY MORNIN G HERALD
==============================
## Title: Rithvik Dhanjani: I would love to romanceKajol!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Rithvik Dhanjani: I would love to romanceKajol!
Vibrant, witty and hard-working these are words that best describe Rithvik Dhanjani. The TV hottie has just turned 27 and is raring to go. He will soon be seen on Indias Best Dramebaaz 2 along with good friend Ravi Dubey. BollywoodLife spoke exclusively to him about working in TV industry and his girl-friend Asha Negi.
Q: What surpries did you get on your birthday
Asha (Negi) gifted me this awesomely sexy pair of shoes. I just loved them. Now, I know that I have a shoe fetish. It is a super present. Another huge surprise for me was the presence of my childhood friend. He flew down from Dubai and surprised me on my birthday. Every year, I get quite a few surprises but this one ranks amongst the best. I love surprises.
Q: What is the wildest thing you want to do in life
Talking about doing a wild thing, I cant think of anything wild but I would love to go sky-diving. My good friend, Karan Wahi recently did it in Dubai and his video bowled me over. It too wants that rush of adrenaline.
Q: What do you love about Asha
What I love about Asha Well, its her innocence, love for me and her tenderness. She is all heart. Asha is a pure soul. The two things I dislike - her laziness and the fact that Asha tends to underestimate herself.
Q: Where do you see yourself five years from now
Whoa! Thats a great question. I dont know where I will be five days from now. I hope I will be much closer to achieving my dreams. Then, there is no end to chasing our dreams, its an endless pursuit.
Q: Who is the one actress you did like to romance
There are so many of them (laughs out loud). I hope Asha is not reading this. If I had to name one, it had to be the one and only Kajol.
Q: What does the TV industry mean to you
TV industry is home to me. It has made me what I am today. It has given us the kind of popularity that is equivalent to film stars. I feel only the medium is different. A TV star enters your living room every day while you have to buy a ticket to watch a film star. I am very proud of my fraternity.
Q: What do you dislike about the industry
The fact that it is mass-driven, which means the shows that are truly successful are the ones watched by masses. At times, you cant connect with what youre watching onscreen. I believe the change will come but after a period of time.
Q:What do you think about daily soaps
I am no one to comment on daily soaps. I believe that once people demand different kind of content makers will automatically cater to them.
Q: Would you do a show like Bigg Boss
NoI like my privacy. I cant live with the idea of someone watching over me right from the time I wake up. The idea of being confined like that in a house is not very appealing to me.
Q: Whom do you idolize
I am not a Shah Rukh Khan fan but I really look upto him. His aura, body of work, intelligence makes me respect him immensely. BollywoodLife
==============================
## Title: Robber and SO killed by grenade explosion
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 14:15
Robber and SO killed by grenade explosion
A suspect who had attempted to rob a bank in Kekirawa in Anuradhapura had exploded a hand grenade reportedly after an altercation with a security officer of the bank.

The robber along with the security officer were killed at the scene when the hand grenade exploded. The police are conducting investigations into the incident.

==============================
## Title: Shafraz and Sam joint winners of Mahindra-MRA Rally
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Shafraz and Sam joint winners of Mahindra-MRA Rally
Leading rally drivers Shafraz Junaid and Sam Chandrasoma became joint winners of the Mahindra-MRA Rally 2015 in a unique manner with six debit points each when the motor rally in Colombo.
Shafraz with his co-driver Akhry Ameer (Nissan Datsun cab) and Sam with his co-driver Sarindu Gamage (Nissan Patrol) drove to an identical style achieving the same debits at the same checkpoints in both the stages. The performance was unique as the two competitors beat all the rally rules for resolution of a tie leaving the organizers no option but to announce them as joint winners.
The rally saw 15 competitors driving approximately 400km from Colombo to Galle and back through a tarmac and gravel terrain which was made challenging with the onset of rains through the night. The TSD (Time, Speed and Duration) or regularity rally requires the competitors to traverse a specified and grueling route sticking to a specific timing and avoid accruing debit points.
Nalaka Gunawardena, Javidh Wahab and rally veteran Cassim Wahab topped the rally prepared class and the overall championships with third to fifth places respectively.
Kasun Perera co-driven by Ramesh Ubhayaratna won the non-rally prepared class with a total 54 debit points. Rain posed a challenge to the drivers from the starting line itself with the organizers having to end the first stage about 30 km from the scheduled finish in Galle owing to some of the roads being non-motorable. However, in the second stage from Galle to Colombo the drivers were pleased to experience some water crossings with culverts and causeways reaching their brim.
The Mahindra-MRA Rally 2015 was organized by the Motor Racing Association (MRA) supported by Ideal Motors agents for Mahindra vehicles.
==============================
## Title: Shonda Rhimes: Losing Weight Made Me Feel 'Shallow and Misogynistic'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Shonda Rhimes: Losing Weight Made Me Feel 'Shallow and Misogynistic'
In an interview with Nightline that aired on November 9, Shonda Rhimes explains how her desire to lose weight made her feel "shallow and misogynistic." The powerhouse jack-of-all-trades television producer, who created, wrote, produced and ran day-to-day operations for Grey's Anatomy, How to Get Away With Murder and Scandal, is currently promoting her new book, Year of Yes, which is about how she changed her life after realizing that she never said yes to anything - she even once hired a publicist to help her avoid public appearances and decline interviews!
In the book, one of the topics of interest is weight loss. Rhimes ended up losing 127 pounds after not being able to buckle a seatbelt on a plane. "I remember feeling horrified," she told Nightline.
Now, of course, everyone wants to know her secret. "I realized that I work really hard in every other area of my life. Why wouldn't I throw myself into being healthy and losing weight" she told Nightline. But Rhimes, who has been outspoken about feminism and women's empowerment, admitted that wanting to lose weight was not a clear goal for her. "I had a real problem with it," she told Nightline. "As a feminist, I felt like, 'Why am I even having this conversation with myself' And I would fight for any other woman's right to be whatever size she wanted to be. It was amazing to me that I had such ambivalence about it." For a long time, Rhimes said, she thought wanting to be "thin" felt almost anti-feminist, even "shallow and misogynistic."
Rhimes is known as one of the most powerful women in Hollywood and media, and some have even dubbed her the "Queen of TV."
Coming forth about her struggles and strengths with honesty - and humor - is a trait that readers can look forward to in her book. Her candor is refreshing and hilarious. "It still sucks," Rhimes told Nightline. "I'm always going to want to eat fried chicken."
- Yahoo
==============================
## Title: Sridevi files legal complaint against producers of Vijay's Puli
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Sridevi files legal complaint against producers of Vijay's Puli
After nearly three decades, Sridevi made a comeback into Tamil film industry with the big budget multi starrer Puli starring Vijay, Sudeep, Shruti Haasan and Hansika.
While the film was panned by the critics and fans expressed disappointment in Sridevi's caricaturish performance, the film managed to rake money at box office. However, all is not well between Sridevi and makers of Puli. Apparently, Sridevi is miffed that Rs.50 lakhs of her remuneration is still pending to be paid by SKT Productions. It is rumoured that Sridevi charged a whopping Rs.6 crore for the film.
Now, reports claim that Sridevi has filed a legal complaint against the producers of Puli as she is yet to receive a part of her remuneration. While official statement from Sridevi is yet to arrive, producer Shibu Thameens was quick to react to the reports. The Puli producer tweeted," Will clarify Sridevi mam complaint, postpone my surgery tomorrow and joining my partner pts in chennai."
Even earlier this year, Sridevi had sent a legal notice to Ram Gopal Varma as he had used her name as the title to his upcoming voyeuristic film. Now that Sridevi has taken the legal route to clarify the issue with Puli producers, we will have to wait and watch how this issue resolves in future. BollywoodLife
==============================
## Title: Suu Kyi calls for talks with Myanmar military
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Suu Kyi calls for talks with Myanmar military
MYANMAR: Aung San Suu Kyi called for national reconciliation talks with Myanmars President Thein Sein and the nations powerful army chief on Wednesday as her pro-democracy party stood poised for a landslide election victory.
Power beckons for her National League for Democracy (NLD) party after it took nearly 90 percent of the seats declared so far.
Although poll officials are yet to announce the NLD as winners, Myanmars balance of power, dominated for half a century by the army and its allies, appears set to be redrawn.
But Suu Kyis supporters remain anxious at how the army will respond to a mauling at the polls, with memories still keen of the 1990 election -- won by the NLD but then swatted away by the army.
Citizens have expressed their will in the election, she said in letters addressed to President Thein Sein, Commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing as well as influential parliamentary speaker Shwe Mann.
I would like to invite you to discuss national reconciliation next week at a time of your convenience.
The letters, shared by the NLD on Facebook, come as her democracy movement continued its blitz of ruling party bases following Sundays poll.
On Wednesday, election officials said the NLD took its haul to 163 of the 182 seats declared so far across the lower and upper houses.
Suu Kyi, 70, the democracy movements magnetic force, secured tens of thousands of votes to retain her seat in Kawhmu constituency.
But she is barred from the presidency by an army-written constitution, which also reserves a quarter of all parliamentary seats for the military.
The NLD needs 67 percent of the contested seats to form a majority. But it is eyeing a much bigger margin -- and greater clout inside the new parliament.
The democracy figurehead has vowed to rule from above the president, indicating she will use a proxy to sidestep the bar on her reaching top office.
Parliamentary Speaker Shwe Mann, a former high ranking general who lost his seat in Sundays poll, had been tipped as a compromise candidate for the presidency -- although his star has waned inside the USDP.
The drip-feed of election results has brought frustration to NLD supporters, many of whom have waited 25 years since the party last contested a poll to cast their vote.
We know we won 80 percent... hopefully we will get confirmation today, said Ko Ko, who runs an air-conditioning company in Yangon.
We expect Daw Suu to change the country... I voted for change, he added.
Sundays election has left the ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) in tatters.
It has taken just a handful of seats so far, with several party heavyweights bundled out off their constituencies by voters.
Before the landmark poll Thein Sein vowed his party -- and the powerful army -- would respect the election result.
Information Minister, Ye Htut, repeated that pledge on Wednesday, adding the president had replied to Suu Kyis offer of talks.
A bilateral meeting will be held after the election process, he said in a post on his official Facebook page.
Election authorities have said it could take another 10 days or so to announce a winner.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Tips for choosing an architect
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Tips for choosing an architect
* Check with local builders and trades people if they know a good architect they have worked with before.
* Source two to three architects to contact, they should visit you initially for free to discuss the project.
* Make sure they have created designs for extensions and conversions in the area of your local authority, ask what their approval rate is for submissions and speak to local building control surveyors.
* Secure in writing that they have full knowledge of planning permission and building regulations (or standards) in your local authority.
* Let the architect know what your budget is, minimum and maximum for the build, explain whether this includes decoration or additional features such as a bathroom suite or kitchen.
* Check what services the architect will supply. Will they secure planning and building regulation approval If changes to design are required to secure approval, will you have to pay extra Make sure they have professional indemnity insurance.
* Find out how many visits to your property are required to finalise the design and/or project manage the build.
* Some architects are great at design but dont have the experience of managing tradespeople, check previous projects and secure references and feedback from clients and trade.
* Agree a budget, ideally fixed, for designing the additional space.
* Always meet with the architect at your property to ensure they understand the details of your build.
* Ensure you sign a contract with the architect, agreeing payment terms in return for the services they offer.
* Explain to the architect whether you want the extra space to be in keeping with your current style, more modern or traditional.
-www.buildinginspiration.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Universal pulling from theaters: after 2 weeks
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
Universal pulling from theaters: after 2 weeks
Generally, 2015 has been an incredible year for Universal. It's responsible for three of the top five earners in the country: "Jurassic World," "Furious 7," and "Minions." But no one is bulletproof in Hollywood, and that's evident with one of the studio's most recent releases.
"Jem and the Holograms," the movie reboot of the popular late-1980s cartoon, opened in wide release October 23 and has done so poorly that Universal appears to be yanking it from theaters after only two weeks. Though a small number of theaters has the movie on their schedules, it has disappeared from most theaters, and Universal isn't reporting any box-office figures for it after last week.
This is an unheard of move for a movie that was in theaters nationwide.
But when you crunch the numbers, it's clear they had to stop the bleeding.
Things didn't start out well for the movie, as early reviews were awful, with the film currently at a 20% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Many critics noted that it wasn't true to the TV show, basically alienating core fans.
Then the harsh numbers were reported.
"Jem" came in 15th place its opening week in theaters, taking in $1.37 million on 2,413 screens. That's $570 per screen.
Things didn't get any better for the movie its following week. In 2,417 screens, "Jem" took in $387,925. That's only $160 per screen. To compare, the new "Steve Jobs" film, even when it was performing poorly in wide release, was making $1,080 per screen.
But taking the movie out of theaters instead of scaling it down was a shock to box-office vets who thought they'd seen everything.
"Theater chains are contractually obligated to hold a film for two weeks after booking it. However, in all my days as an analyst, I've never seen a studio actually stop reporting after two weeks," Jeff Bock, senior box-office analyst at Exhibitor Relations, told Business Insider Monday. "This is unprecedented, and shows just how badly this film flopped. Not only is it the lowest-grossing debut for a studio film this year, but it's the worst all-time - by a considerable margin - for any film released in 2,000-plus theaters."
With a reported budget of only $5 million and obviously little promotion, it won't be a huge dent in Universal's monster year at the box office.
But it's safe to say that the "Jem and the Holograms" franchise has flatlined.
Universal has not responded to our request for comment on this story. Yahoo
==============================
## Title: US leads the world in confronting new threats: Obama
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 01:00
US leads the world in confronting new threats: Obama
US: With the economy back on track, the US is leading the world today in confronting new threats including climate change, President Barack Obama has said, but acknowledged that his administration has not been able to pass key immigration and other reforms.
On foreign policy, our influence was waning when we came in; standing diminished. Today, America leads the world in confronting new threats -- making sure Iran doesn't get a nuclear weapon, making sure that we have smarter, stronger trade rules for the 21st century, Obama said in his address to an Organizing for America event.
America is leading the world towards dealing with climate change in a serious way. One of the reasons the State Department decided the Keystone pipeline would not serve the national interest, he said amidst applause from the audience.
Approving that project would have undercut Americas global leadership, he added.
We've got to lead by example. Because ultimately, if were going to prevent large parts of the Earth from becoming not only inhospitable, but uninhabitable, then were going to have to keep some fossil fuels in the ground rather than burn them, he said.
We're going to have to reduce the amount of dangerous pollution released in the skies. We're going to have to make sure that we develop the clean energy alternatives that are sustainable, Obama said.
As long as Im President, and as long as you're out there organizing, America is going to hold ourselves to the same high standards with which we want to hold the rest of the world, said the US President. Reflecting on the nearly seven years of his presidency, Obama said when he took office the US was losing 800,000 jobs a month. The unemployment rate was going up to 10 per cent.
- PTI
==============================
## Title: Ven. Sobitha makes his last journey today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, November 12, 2015 - 07:00
Ven. Sobitha makes his last journey today
The cremation of Ven Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera who crusaded for a society where justice and fairplay reign supreme, will take place today at the parliamentary grounds.
Ven. Sobitha Thera who fought tirelessly for justice was admired and endearingly respected by people of all walks of life for his fearless views on socio-political issues confronting the country.
The Thera was committed to ushering peace and reconciliation in the country by maintaining a close relationship with the clergy of other denominations. His entire monkhood was devoted for the resolution of issues faced by the country from time to time.
The Thera was among the first who rushed to the terrorists threatened villages in the North and East with lorry loads of relief items during the height of terrorist activities. He provided assistance to people of all communities living in those villages.
The Thera pioneered a change in the political system to ensure that democracy, good governance and the rule of law prevailed in the country. Thousands of people kept streaming in to the Naga Viharaya to get a final glimpse of this erudite monk who left an indelible imprint in the annals of the country's history.
==============================
