## Title: Accelerated scheme to electrify all houses in Polonnaruwa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Accelerated scheme to electrify all houses in Polonnaruwa
An accelerated domestic electricity supply scheme has been launched in the North Central Province. Under this programme every household in Polonnaruwa district will be provided with electricity by mid January.
This was revealed at a Provincial electricity supply progress review meeting held recently at the Polonnaruwa District Secretariat with North Central Province Chief Minister Peshala Jayaratne Bandara and Power and Energy Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya.
It was disclosed at the meeting that Rs. 8,000 million has been allocated to provide electricity to families in the North Central Province.
Minister Siyambalapitiya pointed out that since a road modernization programme was underway in the Province it was advisable to install power lines along the roads being renovated for transmitting electricity from village to village simultaneously.
The Chief Minister pointed out that there were a large number of low income group families in the province unable to meet the initial expenses to be met in getting the supply for their households. In the background the CEB agreed to grant a relief loan facility of Rs. 40,000 to a family for covering the expenditure including wiring, etc. which could be settled in installments within six years payable with the monthly electricity bill.
Minister Siyambalapitiya emphasised that the accelerated electricity supply project in Polonnaruwa shall be completed in January.
==============================
## Title: Act on Priyal de Silva Committee Report
## Supertitle: CAC urges Transport Minister
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
CAC urges Transport Minister
Act on Priyal de Silva Committee Report
The Coalition Against Corruption (CAC) urges Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva to take prompt action against mega scale corruption revealed in the Priyal de Silva Committee Report. The Committee was appointed to inquire into financial misconduct of the Railways Department.
According to the Priyal De Silva Committee Report, a mega scale corruption running into millions of dollars had taken place in connection with the construction and renovation of rail tracks during the past regime, CVC convener Saman Rathnapriya said.
He was addressing the media yesterday in Colombo regarding the revelations in the Priyal de Silva Committee Report.
A committee under the chairmanship of Priyal de Silva was appointed by the government with to look into malpractices of rail track construction carried out by the Hycom Engineering Company, India. The tender to construct mainly three rail tracks - Colombo to Matara, Vavuniya to KKS and Medawachchiya to Talaimannar was granted to Hycom Engineering Company without following proper tender procedure. Accordingly, Hycom has constructed 256 kilometres of rail tracks at a cost of US $ 580.6 million.
The committee report revealed that the Hycom has charged US $ 2.2 million for constructing one kilometer of rail track. It is significant that Railways Department could construct the same rail track at a cost of US $ 0.4 million per kilometre, Rathnapriya said.
Even though such a huge amount has been spent for the construction, the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau of Sri Lanka (CECB) has identified serious issues with the rail track constructions especially with the railway bridges. Therefore, the CECB has refused to certify those railway bridges due to several issues relating to quality, he added.
Rathnapriya said that more than 10,000 sleepers imported from India by Hycom were damaged within the first year of the construction. Moreover, another contract amounting to US $ 86 million was granted to the same company to establish the signalling system for 26 railway stations. After obtaining the tender, the Hycom has granted the construction to sub-contractors. Under this scheme another Indian company was sub contracted by Hycom to install signalling system for six stations at a cost of US$ 1.5 million.
The alarming revelation by the Priyal de Silva Commission is, the entire signalling system is not brand new. It has been used, he said. At this juncture, the Transport Ministry is seeking the cabinet approval to grant another approval to Hycom to import six Power Sets, 10 engines and renovate more rail tracks, he said.
==============================
## Title: Applications called for Lanka Plate Carrom Cship
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Applications called for Lanka Plate Carrom Cship
Applications have been called for Lanka Plate Carrom Championship 2015 by the Carrom Federation of Sri Lanka (CFSSL).
While this tournament is especially for carrom playing novices only, carrom players of CFSL will not participate.
Whilst contests are conducted under four events, Mens Singles, Mens Doubles, Womens Singles and Womens Doubles. Novice carrom players of any part of the island interested in carrom sport may participate in this tournament.
Accepting applications will be closed at 12.00 noon on December 5 and the draw will be held on the following day at the Kohuwala, Headquarters of Carrom Federation of Sri Lanka. Competition will be held at the Kohuwala CFSL Headquarters since December 12 during weekends.
By now, relevant applications have already been sent by post to all Sports Clubs which have obtained the membership of Carrom Federation of Sri Lanka and other applicants may obtain applications Applications can be obtained from the CFSL headquarters at No.25, Sunethradevi Road, Kohuwala or Facebook Carrom Federation of Sri Lanka.
Further information may be obtained from the Tournament Secretary Daya Vidanagama via number 077 730 9234.
==============================
## Title: Ashen excels for Panadura Royal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Ashen excels for Panadura Royal
Royal College, Panadura drew with Nalanda Vidyalaya, Colombo in their inter school under 13 division one second round first tournament cricket match played at Panadura.
Panadura Royalists batting first made 238 runs and at the close Nalandians were 119 for 3.
Royal Panadura  238 in 51.2 overs - Prasan Kalhara 21, Sandeepa Kalhara 35, Ranesh Danidu 46, Dananjaya prasad 20, Ashen Nethmina 49, C. Athukorala 2/32, Thejan Hettiarachchi 2/45, Pasan Uthpala 3/39.
Nalanda Vidyalaya  119/3 in 29 overs - Pasan Uthpala 40 n/o, Ravin de Silva 28 n/o, Dananjaya Prasad 2/23.
Cambrian win by 100 runs
Prince of Wales College beat Ananda Maithri Maha Vidyalaya, Balangoda by 100 runs in their inter school under 13 division two tournament second round cricket match played at Balangoda.
Batting first Cambrians declared at 8 with Anupa Heshan scoring 74 runs and Loneth Wijewardene claimed 4 for 47. In reply hoemsters got out for 100 runs with Rikitha Fernando capturing 4 for 33.
Prince of Wales  200/8 dec r7 oves - Anupa Heshan 74, Shehan Rodirigo 32 n/o, Rikitha Fernando, Loneth Wijemnne 4/47, Shehara Porigolla 3/33.
Ananda Maithri MV  100 in 39.5 oves - Loneth Wijewardene 27, Asiri Dissanayake 25, Rikitha Fernando 4/33, Shehan Rodrigo 2/15, Akalanka Peiris 2/18.
Sadas captures 3/6
Prince of Wales beat Presidnet's Colelge Kottle by five runs in their inter school under 13 division one second round cricket match worked off at Moratuwa.
Presidents College taking the strike early were all out for 114 runs with Tasika Dharmapriya scoring 59 runs and Sadas Bandara claimed 3 for 6.
In reply at stumps Cambrians were 119 for 9 at stumps with Udil Damsith bagging 4 for 32.
Presidents College  114 in 50 overs - Tasika Dharmapriya 59, Sadas Bandara 3/6, Pasindu Pathum 2/16, Vinjuja Ranpul 2/26, Dinura Fernando 2/30.
Prince of Wales  119/9 in 43 overs - Avishka Fernando 33, Udil Damsith 4/32, Tasika Dharmapriya 2/30.
Vazians drew with Mahinda
Mahinda College, Galle drew with St. Joseph Vaz College, Wennappuwa in their inter school under 13 division one second round cricket match played at Balapitiya.
Mahindians batting first declared at 153 for 9 with Senura Dimal claiming 4 for 13 and Hasitha Gamage capturing 3/55. The game came to a half and at that stage. Vazians were 26 for 4.
Mahinda  153/9 dec- Navoid Paranavitharane 32, Kosala Vidyaranga 21, Harin Deemantha 24, Shakya Sampath 22 Sandev Induwara 21, Hasitha Gamage 3/55, Senura Dimas 4/13.
St. Joseph Vaz  26/4 - Dinidu Chamikara 2/6.
==============================
## Title: Beacon light of the Sangha Order
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Beacon light of the Sangha Order
Arahant Sariputta is a famous name in Buddhist literature among a few others: Moggallana, his colleague and Ananda, the Buddha's chief assistant. Sariputta's story starts in a village of brahmins, being born to Sari in Upatissa village. The brahmin priests named him after his hometown Upatissa.
Although Sariputta later became a monk followed by his siblings, his mother could never know the Buddha's teachings.
Bhikkhu Nanamoli describes a full length picture of Arahant Sariputta according to the Pali Canons. Where the arahant converts his mother is named as 'Last Debt Paid'.
Excerpts:
During his journey the Venerable Sariputta spent one night wherever he stopped, and thus for one week he favored many people with a last sight of him. Reaching Nalaka village in the evening, he stopped near a banyan tree at the village gate.
It happened that at the time a nephew of the elder, Uparevata by name, had gone outside the village and there he saw the Venerable Sariputta. He approached the elder, saluted him, and remained standing.
The Elder asked him: "Is your grand-aunt at home"
"Yes, venerable sir," he replied.
"Then go and announce our coming," said the Elder. "And if she asks why I have come, tell her that I shall stay in the village for one day, and ask her to prepare my birth chamber and provide lodgings for five hundred bhikkhus."
Uparevata went to his grand-aunt and said: "Grandaunt, my uncle has come."
"Where is he now" she asked.
"At the village gate."
"Is he alone, or has someone else come with him"
"He has come with five hundred bhikkhus."
And when she asked him, "Why has he come" he gave her the message the elder had entrusted to him. Then she thought: "Why does he ask me to provide lodgings for so many After becoming a monk in his youth, does he want to be a layman again in his old age" But she arranged the birth chamber for the Elder and lodgings for the bhikkhus, had torches lit and then sent for the Elder.
The Venerable Sariputta then, accompanied by the bhikkhus, went up to the terrace of the house and entered his birth chamber. After seating himself, he asked the bhikkhus to go to their quarters.
They had hardly left, when a grave illness, dysentery, fell upon the Elder, and he felt severe pains.
When one pail was brought in, another was carried out.
The brahman lady thought: "The news of my son is not good," and she stood leaning by the door of her own room.
And then it happened, the text tells us, that the Four Great Divine Kings asked themselves: "Where may he now be dwelling, the Marshal of the Law" And they perceived that he was at Nalaka, in his birth chamber, lying on the bed of his Final Passing Away. "Let us go for a last sight of him," they said.
When they reached the birth chamber, they saluted the Elder and remained standing.
"Who are you" asked the Elder.
"We are the Great Divine Kings, venerable sir."
"Why have you come"
"We want to attend on you during your illness."
"Let it be!" said the Venerable Sariputta. "There is an attendant here. You may go."
When they had left, there came in the same manner Sakka the king of the gods, and after him, Maha Brahma, and all of them the elder dismissed in the same way.
The brahman lady, seeing the coming and going of these deities, asked herself:
"Who could they have been, who came and paid homage to my son, and then left" And she went to the door of the elder's room and asked the Venerable Cunda for news about the Elder's condition.
Cunda conveyed the inquiry to the Elder, telling him: "The Great Upasika (lay devotee) has come." The Venerable Sariputta asked her: "Why have you come at this unusual hour" "To see you, dear," she replied. "Tell me, who were those who came first"
"The Four Great Divine Kings, upasika."
"Are you, then, greater than they" she asked. "They are like temple attendants," said the Elder. "Ever since our Master took rebirth they have stood guard over him with swords in hand." "After they had left, who was it that came then, dear"
"It was Sakka the king of the gods."
"Are you then, greater than the king of gods, dear" "He is like a novice who carries a bhikkhu's belongings," answered Sariputta. "When our Master returned from the heaven of the Thirty-three (Tavatimsa), Sakka took his bowl and robe and descended to earth together with him." "And when Sakka had gone, who was it that came after him, filling the room with his radiance"
"Upasika, that was your own Lord and Master, the Great Brahma."
"Then are you greater, my son, even than my Lord, the Great Brahma"
"Yes, Upasika. On the day when our Master was born, it is said that four Great Brahmas received the Great Being in a golden net." Upon hearing this, the brahman lady thought: "If my son's power is such as this, what must be the majestic power of my son's Master and Lord" And while she was thinking this, suddenly the fivefold rapture arose in her, suffusing her entire body. The Elder thought: "Rapture and joy have arisen in my mother. Now is the time to preach the Dhamma to her." And he said: "What was it you were thinking about, upasika"
"I was thinking," she replied, "if my son has such virtue, what must be the virtue of his Master" The Venerable Sariputta answered: "At the moment of my Master's birth, at his Great Renunciation (of worldly life), on his attaining Enlightenment and at his first turning of the Dhamma Wheel - on all these occasions the ten thousand world-system quaked and shook. None is there who equals him in virtue, in concentration, in wisdom, in deliverance, and in the knowledge and vision of deliverance."
And he then explained to her in detail the words of homage: "Such indeed is that Blessed One..." (Iti pi so Bhagava...).
And thus he gave her an exposition of the Dhamma, basing it on the virtues of the Buddha.
When the Dhamma talk given by her beloved son had come to an end, the brahman lady was firmly established in the Fruition of stream-entry, and she said: "Oh, my dear Upatissa, why did you act like that Why, during all these years, did you not bestow on me this ambrosia (the knowledge of the Deathless)"
The Elder thought: "Now I have given my mother, the brahman lady Rupa-Sari, the nursing-fee for bringing me up.
This should suffice." and he dismissed her with the words: "You may go now, upasika."
When she was gone, he asked: "What is the time now, Cunda"
"Venerable sir, it is early dawn."
And the Elder said: "Let the community of bhikkhus assemble."
When the bhikkhus had assembled, he said to Cunda: "Lift me up to a sitting position, Cunda." And Cunda did so.
Then the Elder spoke to the bhikkhus, saying: "For forty-four years I have lived and traveled with you, my brethren. If any deed or word of mine was unpleasant to you, forgive me, brethren."
And they replied: "Venerable sir, not the least displeasure has ever come from you to us, who followed you inseparably like your shadow. But may you, venerable sir, grant forgiveness to us!"
After that the Elder gathered his large robe around him, covered his face and lay down on his right side. Then, just as the Master was to do at his Maha Parinibbana, he entered into the nine successive attainments of meditation, in forward and reverse order, and beginning again with the first absorption he led his meditation up to the fourth absorption. And at the moment after he had entered it, just as the crest of the rising sun appeared over the horizon, he utterly passed away into the Nibbana-element which is without any remnant of clinging.And it was the full-moon day of the month Kattika, which by the solar calendar is between October and November.
The brahman lady in her room thought: "How is my son he does not say anything." She rose, and going into the Elder's room she massaged his legs. Then, seeing that he had passed away, she fell at his feet, loudly lamenting; "O my dear son! Before this, we did not know of your virtue. Because of that, we did not gain the good fortune to have seated in this house, and to feed, many a hundred bhikkhus! We did not gain the good fortune to have built many monasteries!" And she lamented thus up to sunrise.
As soon as the sun was up, she sent for goldsmiths and had the treasure room opened and had the pots full of gold weighed on a large scale. Then she gave the gold to the goldsmiths with the order to prepare funeral ornaments. Columns and arches were erected, and in the center of the village the upasika had a pavilion of heart-wood built. In the middle of the pavilion a large, gabled structure was raised, surrounded by a parapet wall of golden arches and columns. Then they began the sacred ceremony, in which men and deities mingled.
After the great assembly of people had celebrated the sacred rites for a full week, they made a pyre with many kinds of fragrant woods. They placed the body of the Venerable Sariputta on the pyre and kindled the wood with bundles of Usira roots. Throughout the night of the cremation the concourse listened to sermons on the Dhamma. After that the flames of the pyre were extinguished by the Elder Anuruddha with scented water. The Elder Cunda gathered together the relics and placed them in a filter cloth.
Yasa's initiation
Yasa was a man with great wealth inherited from his father. He had all riches around him, such as music and female company. That night he went to sleep listening to music and feeling the female company. He woke up early in the morning and saw the appalling scene of tired women sleeping here and there. Yasa was greatly frustrated.
The Buddha had a lengthy talk with the young man on generosity, morality, futility of sensual pleasures and the benefit of renunciation. Yasa could slowly collect his wits and his mind became stable. He had the rare privilege of being a monk straight away, when the Buddha called him as 'Come here, monk'. He became a Sotapanna.
He was the sixth to be a monk as well as an Arhath. He is believed to have lived in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in northern India.
The Buddha and his six arahants visited the home of Yasa the following day. Yasa's mother and his former wife thus became the first two female lay disciples. Upon hearing of Yasa's ordination, four of his closest friends, Vimala, Subahu, Punnaji and Gavampati followed him into the sangha and they too became arahants. Within two months, a further fifty of Yasa's friends had joined the Sangha and attained arahantship, bringing the total number of arahants to sixty.
This Yasa should not be mistaken with the namesake monk who played a pivotal role in the second Buddhist Council, which took place 100 years following the Buddha's death.
How could Yasa get a chance to become the first Arahant monk after five ascetics Saddharmaratnavaliya has an interesting account:
"Yasa had done a good deal of merits in a time of a certain Buddha. He and his friends were all born on earth in a time when no Buddha was in existence. Still they did merits such as cremating the poor and needy and those who had no kinsmen.
Yasa's retinue
Yasa's family found him to be missing. His father got into the street to locate him, but met only the Buddha. He was impressed by the sermon of the Buddha, and became a disciple; he attained Sotapanna too. The scriptures say Yasa's father became the Buddha's first lay disciple. He was more than happy to hear of his son's spiritual achievement and invited the monk community to his home.
Yasa's family members, mother and wife, became first female disciples and his closest friends, Vimala, Subahu, Punnaji and Gavampati became monks. This was followed by another batch of fifty friends, who all became Arhaths ultimately. Now the monk community consisted of sixty-one altogether. The Buddha knew it was the right time to propagate the teaching now. Go forth, O monks, for the welfare of the many, for the happiness of the many, of compassion for the world, for the good, benefit and happiness of gods and men. Two must not take the same path. Teach the Dhamma which is excellent in the beginning, excellent in the middle and excellent in the end, both in spirit and letter. Proclaim the holy life, perfect and pure.
Maithri Buddha
This poya is equally important because of the Buddha's prophesy about his successor Maithri. www.vipassana.info quotes Pali Proper Names Dictionary entry of Maithri Buddha. The extract goes as follows.
The future Buddha is the fifth of this kappa.
According to the Cakkavatti Sihanada Sutta, he will be born, when human beings will live to an age of eighty thousand years, in the city of Ketumat (present Benares), whose king will be the Cakkavatt Sankha. Sankha will live in the fairy palace where once dwelt King Mahpanad, but later he will give the palace away and will himself become a follower of Metteyya Buddha.
The Anagatavamsa gives further particulars. Metteyya will be born in a very eminent brahmin family and his personal name will be Ajita. Metteyya is evidently the name of his gotta [caste].
For eight thousand years he will live the household life in four palaces. Sirivaddha, Vaddhamna, Siddhattha and Candaka - his chief wife being Candamukha and his son Brahmavaddhana. Having seen the four signs while on his way to the park, he will be dissatisfied with household life and will spend one week in practicing austerities. Then he will leave home, travelling in his palace and accompanied by a fourfold army, at the head of which will be eighty-four thousand brahmins and eighty four thousand Khattiya maidens. Among his followers will be Isidatta and Prana, two brothers, Jtimitta, Vijaya, Suddhika and Suddhana, Sangha and Sangha, Saddhara, Sudatta, Yasavat and Viskh, each with eighty four thousand companions. Together they will leave the household and arrive on the same day at the Bodhi tree. After the Enlightenment the Buddha will preach in Nagavana and King Sankha will, later, ordain himself under him. Metteyya's father will be Subrahma, chaplain to King Sankha, and his mother Brahmavat. His chief disciples will be Asoka and Brahmadeva among monks, and Paduma and Sumana among nuns. Saha will be his personal attendant and his chief patrons Sumana, Sangha, Yasavata and Sangha. His Bodhi will be the Naga tree. After the Buddha's death, his teachings will continue for one hundred and eighty thousand years.
According to the Mahavamsa, Kakavannatissa and Viharamahadeva, father and mother of Dutthagamani, will be Metteyya's parents, Dutthagamani himself will be his chief disciple and Saddhatissa his second disciple, while Prince Sali will be his son.
At the present time the future Buddha is living in the Tusita deva-world. There is a tradition that Natha is the name of the future Buddha in the deva world.
The worship of the Bodhisatta Metteyya seems to have been popular in ancient Ceylon, and Dhatusena adorned an image of him with all the equipment of a king and ordained a guard for it within the radius of seven yojanas.
Dappula I made a statue in honour of the future Buddha fifteen cubits high.
==============================
## Title: Curry and Cricket
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Curry and Cricket
It was curry and cricket in the Presidential suite at the Saravanamuttu Oval!
Sir Garfield Sobers, the games greatest all-rounder, Clive Lloyd, Michael Tissera and Sidath Wettimuny, Dr HIK Fernando (wicketkeeper) and I seated at the lunch table enjoying a sumptuous lunch while while watching the Sri Lanka West Indies Test match, vying for the Sobers-Tissera trophy.
I have lunched with great politicos around the globe. But, here I felt immensely privileged to be in the company of such legends in the cricketing world for the first time.
It was so absorbing to listen to Sir Garfield who nostalgically recalling his past in grounds around the world. It was akin to watching his long innings on the cricket pitch. When I was introduced to him by Brendon Kuruppu, as a pioneer in cricket commentaries (Tamil) he said, Oh thats great! Have you commentated when Sathasivam was batting I replied I was in school but enjoyed seeing the classic batting of Satha with Sargo Jayawickrama. The Satha-Sargo batting partnership was the best Ceylon has ever seen. Sir Garfield responded, Absolutely so! Then I recalled the agility of Ben Navaratne (Zahira/SSC) behind the sticks - he was the best wicket-keeper in the world in that era. Sir Garfield nodded in agreement, I remember once batting when Ben was keeping wickets...
When Darren Bravo (61 runs) was facing the Sri Lankan spin, Sir Garfield recalled, I had coached him in his school. When he was selected for the Test team, Darren brought a photograph taken with me in his school and asked me whether I could remember the occasion.
Yeah, of course, go ahead and prosper in the middle young maan.
Brendon Kuruppu just then came to the table. I told Sir Garfield, Here is a man who holds a world record for being in the field for the full five days of a Test match - first scoring the slowest double century of 201 not out against New Zealand at the CCC grounds, Colombo on 19 April, 1987.
Oh maan (in typical West Indian accent) you are a great champ, Sir Garfield complimented.
When Duleep and Sunil were downed by Thomson
An interesting character, possibly our version of Percy, Keith FC Van Anderson the Pipeman- the West Indies super fan, who on his own initiative travels around the world cheering his team, who was seated at the adjoining table with KM Nelson, Sunil Wettimuny, Anuruddha Polonowita and other cricketing stalwarts turned around and asked me if I had watched the Prudential Cup matches. I replied, Of course, yes. I was at London Oval when Aussie took on Ceylon on June 11, 1975, when Duleep Mendis and Sunil Wettimuny were bruised and broken by the Aussie tearaway Jeff Thomson  first while Duleep Mendis was batting ferociously on 32, Thommo sent a tornado which hit squarely on his forehead. He fell heavily on the crease and had to be carried away. Thommo sent down another hurricane which tore the toes of Sunil and he too had to be carried away. The Ceylon spectators who were present in large numbers so agitated loudly chanted Rosa, polla genen balla maranda.. I happened to be seated in front of the Aussie dressing room recording this fearsome moment in my camera. Sunil turned towards me and wanted to have a copy and I said I shall.
I recalled the day that I watched a match at St Helens in Swansea, with Azahim Mohamed (Founder of Apollo XI Cricket Club, Borella) and Omar Kamil (later Mayor of Colombo) the ground in which Sir Garfield etched his name in the history books by clobbering six sixes in one over.
Bravo Brendon
It was the same grounds in which you, sir, playing as captain of Nottinghamshire against Glamorgan at St. Helen's in Swansea, hit that famous six sixes in one over. Brendon, hit such a huge six straight, which flew over the tallest telecommunication tower outside the ground. A well-dressed English gentleman wearing a smart cap seated beside us exclaimed Oh good gracious, Ive been watching cricket in these grounds for the last 45 years and never seen such a huge six! Instantly displaying the sharpness of his mind at his ripe age of 79, Sir Garfield chuckled with a wink, I wonder for how many days he had visited the grounds.
When Prakash Schaffter of the Tamil Union came to the table to see how best the legends were enjoying the local cuisine, Garfield said, Most tastiest curry on the table here and absorbing cricket below.
When Devendra Bishoo was run out, the West Indies innings came to a close conceding the Garfield-Tissera trophy to the brave Sri Lankan team. Sidath Wettimuny the President of Sri Lanka Cricket then escorted the legendary Sir Garfield Sober and Michael Tissera downstairs-with our one man cheer squad Percy as usual in his jubilant mood holding the Sri Lankan flag above their heads and walked to the presentation area. Sobers-Tissera Trophy was jointly presented by them to the proud Sri Lankan captain Angelo Matthews.
Post script - the final scene of the whole episode - when the man who has bowled against several West Indian teams in his heyday - the dual purpose Daya Sahabandu - dragging on his feeble frame, escorted by a comrade, slowly walked upto the presentation area and with great exuberance, shook hands with Sir Garfield Sobers. It was a touching moment of emotion!
Former MP/Minister and pioneer Tamil cricket commentator
==============================
## Title: Dissident SLFP MPs pick holes in the budget
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Dissident SLFP MPs pick holes in the budget
Dissident SLFP Parliamentarians who met President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday voiced concern over the budget proposals noting that they were based on the policies of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and not that of the President.
Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) Parliamentarians representing what they call the joint opposition
in Parliament met President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday morning to air their views concerning Budget 2016 that was presented in Parliament by Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake last week.
These MPs on Monday (23) requested a separate meeting with the President to discuss issues in the Budget that was presented.
Speaking to Daily News a Senior Parliamentarian representing the joint opposition said that during the election period President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe had presented two policies and that the current Budget was according to the policy of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
The parliamentarian added that the MPs of their group could not agree to such a budget that is detrimental to the people. He added that 14 points were raised regarding the Budget presented by Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake including, the plan to merge the Employee Provident Fund and Employees Trust Fund, the deception that shows as allocation of close to 6% for education, the tax on vehicles and the disregard shown to the farmers .
The parliamentarian further added that while the President had acknowledged several shortcomings in the budget had agreed to set up a meeting between Prime Minister Wickremesinghe ,Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake and the Opposition MPs from the SLFP before the vote of the budget, to discuss the issues that were raised at the meeting.
The MPs during the discussion with the President also raised several privilege issues faced by the SLFP opposition MPs in Parliament. The MPs are not allocated sufficient time to present their views and only the Tamil National Alliance and Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna MPs are allowed to speak, he added. The TNA always speaks about the LTTE, while the JVP is whitewashing the UNP, he stated. The MP further added that opposition MPs from the SLFP were not part of COPE or any other committee of importance and this was also raised with the President.
==============================
## Title: Evolution of the Justice System in Sri Lanka since Olcotts arrival
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Evolution of the Justice System in Sri Lanka since Olcotts arrival
Reproduced below is the second part of Colonel Henry Steel Olcott Memorial Speech delivered by Attorney General Y J W Wijayatilake, PC at Ananda College on November 21. The first part was published on November 23.
Leaving room for judicial and quasi-judicial decisions to be made on extraneous factors such as faith, rumour or popular belief rather than evidence or proof is akin to tearing off the blindfold from the face of Lady Justice. Reasoned and conscious conduct which is upheld by Buddhist philosophy is the very principle which underlies the sound administration of justice. Calls to act upon rumour and belief should, therefore, be treated as those based on ignorance of the law. Bowing down to the pressure of such calls and making decisions without sufficient evidence would be a travesty of justice. This brings me to the subject of ignorance and how the Dharma views ignorance. Olcott deals with the subject in Catechism Nos. 116-118:
Q. When our Bodhisattva because Buddha, what did he see was the cause of human misery Tell me in one word.A. Ignorance.
Q. Can you tell me the remedyA. To dispel ignorance and become wise (Prajna).
Q. Why does ignorance cause sufferingA. Because it makes us prize what is not worth prizing, grieve when we should not grieve, consider real what is not real but only illusionary, and pass our lives in the pursuit of worthless objects, neglecting what is in reality most valuable.
Q. And what is that which is most valuableA. To know the whole secret of mans existence and destiny, so that we may estimate no more than their actual value this life and its relations; and so that we may live in a way to ensure the greatest happiness and the least suffering for our fellow-men and ourselves.
In Catechism NO.215, Olcott goes on further to explain the Dharmas criticism of ignorance:
Q. What says the Dhammapada about ignoranceA. That it is a taint worse than all taints that a man can put upon himself.
Now that we have an idea of Buddhisms perspective on ignorance, it is interesting to note that the law too is equally critical of ignorance and, certainly, ignorance of the law is no defence. Ignorantia facti excusat; ignorantia juris non excusat. This is a Latin maxim which means that ignorance of fact excuses; ignorance of the law excuses not. This principle from English common law is found in section 69 and 72 of our Penal Code and has been adopted by our courts too. Thus, it is only a mistake (including ignorance) in fact and not one in law which is recognized as a defence. Therefore, in procedural law, a persons rights or duties would be determined after considering whether he has acted in ignorance of the law. And as such, ignorance of the law can have dangerous ramifications. In light of criticisms levelled against the process of justice in the current context, without seeking or, even worse, overlooking both factual and legal clarifications which have been generously and sincerely offered, it appears that human beings can even be wilfully and blissfully ignorant. So I use this opportunity to say to all of you gathered here today, that, where law is concerned, ignorance only serves to undermine the entire justice system.
Part II: Protection of Buddhism as reflected in the law
When tracing the evolution of laws in this country from the 19th century onwards, it is significant to note that Buddhism has been granted a special status by law even during the British colonial period. However, it must be said at the outset that, our laws and judicial pronouncements on these laws have sought to equally ensure the freedom and tolerance of other religions. The result has been that, at least within the legal framework, Buddhism has continuously been protected by the State, whilst at the same time a happy co-existence has been maintained between Buddhism and other religions.
We are all aware of the famous encounter between Arhat Mahindas and King Devanampiyatissa and this countrys embrace of Buddhism and State patronage for the faith since that ancient royal era. Whilst the period of colonization under the Portugese and the Dutch saw the introduction of the Christian faith to Ceylon and would obviously have diluted Buddhisms presence within the local population, what is illuminating is that in the Convention of 1815, British rulers showed an express intention to return to Buddhism its pre-colonial status. The fifth clause of the Convention stated that The Religion of Boodhoo professed by the Chiefs and Inhabitants in these Provinces is declared inviolable, and its rites, Ministers and places of Worship are to be maintained and protected. Thereafter, in the Adoption of Roman-Dutch Law Ordinance of 1835, the British legislators recognized in section 6 the liberty of conscience and the free exercise of religious worship.
Despite the libertarian features of these laws, the influence of Christian missionaries in the 19th century led to a de facto policy of Christianization. Therefore, Olcott arrived in Sri Lanka at a time when the Buddhists of this country had been demoralised and were in need of a strong revival of the faith. And so it must be reiterated that Olcott was not a missionary who was seeking to convert non-Buddhists to Buddhists. To the contrary, his was a didactic mission to revive the faith amongst its followers, but in a cleansed form of Buddhism since he viewed its practice and understanding among the local community as being primitive, and to fight for Buddhist civil rights in the face of insidious British oppression. Going back to my point that the law of this country has continuously reflected the protection of Buddhism, I now draw your attention to the countrys first home-grown Constitution. The SVASTI or preamble to the 1972 Constitution referred to the date of the enactment of the Constitution as being the tenth day of the waxing moon in the month of Vesak in the year two thousand five hundred and fifteen of the Buddhist era. And Article 6 stated that The Republic of Sri Lanka shall give to Buddhism the foremost place and it shall be the duty of the State to protect and foster Buddhism while assuring to all religions the rights guaranteed by section 18(1). Section 18(1), by the way, contained fundamental rights including the freedom of religion. In the 1978 Constitution which is what we are bound by today, the date of enactment in the preamble is once again in terms of reference to the Buddhist era, whilst Article 9 like its predecessor confers Buddhism the foremost place in Sri Lanka, the only difference being that this time the States duty is to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana and not Buddhism.
Therefore, the protection of Buddhism has been unambiguously reflected in ours laws throughout a long period of time. Yet, this has by no means posed a threat to other religions and, in fact, what is reflected in the law is the principle of tolerance that is an integral part of the Buddhist philosophy. Here, I return to Olcott, in particular his Catechism No. 295 which refers to the greatness of Emperor Ashoka, who converted to Buddhism and is regarded as responsible for the permanent establishment of Buddhas religion:
Q. What made him great
A. He was the most powerful monarch in Indian history, as warrior and as statesman. But his noblest characteristics were his love of truth and justice, tolerance of religious differences, equity of government, kindness to the sick, to the poor, and to animals. His name is revered from Siberia to Ceylon.
It is of significance that the recognition of religious freedom which was included in laws enacted by the British as I mentioned earlier did not fade away after Ceylon gained independence or when Constitutions came to give expressions of special status to Buddhism. For instance, there has been both legal and judicial commitment to ensure religious freedom and tolerance. The legal commitment is demonstrated in several provisions of the present Constitution. Article 12(2) guarantees that no citizen shall be discriminated on specified grounds including religion, whilst Article 14(1)(e) guarantees every citizen the freedom, either by himself or in association with others, and either in public or in private, to manifest his religion or belief in worship, observance, practice and teaching.
Then in the Principles of State Policy, Article 27(5) refers to the States objective to strengthen national unity by promoting co-operation and mutual confidence among all sections of the People of Sri Lanka, including religious groups and Article 27(11) refers to enabling people of all religious faiths to make a reality of their religious principles. Furthermore, under Article 28(e), there is a corresponding fundamental duty on the part of every person in Sri Lanka to respect the rights and freedoms of others. The Penal Code already sets out offences relating to insulting religions in sections 291A and 291B, while hate speech too may soon be criminalized.
Judicial commitment to religious freedom and tolerance is seen in Supreme Court Determinations on Bills which have been sought to be enacted as Law in this country. The first of these is in the 2001 Determination on the Christian Sahanaye Doratuwa Prayer Centre (Incoporation) Bill. The objectives of the Centre included not only the promotion of the Christian faith, but also to assist persons to obtain job opportunities and enable them to engage in self-employment. Having considered that the Centre combined religious and commercial activities, Court stressed that the freedom guaranteed by Article 10 to every person to adopt a religion or belief of his choice postulates that the choice stems from the free exercise of ones thought and conscience without there being any fetter of allurement which in any way distorts that choice.
Accordingly, Court determined that the Bill would permit conversion by allurement or other subtle means and thus held it to be unconstitutional. Subsequently, in 2003, when the Supreme Court gave its Determinations on two other religious bodies sought to be incorporated, New Wine Harvest Ministries and Provincial of the Teaching Sisters of the Holy Cross of the Third Order of Saint Francis in Menzingen of Sri Lanka, the same judicial position was upheld. In those two instances too, the objectives of the two proposed religious bodies included those of a socio-economic nature and thereby posed the possibility of conversion by allurement of socio-economic benefits.
Of course, at this point, you may think that all of these Determinations ironically held against religious bodies of a faith other than Buddhism and you may, therefore, question whether they were actually examples of the judiciarys commitment to religious freedom and tolerance. But before you think any further, I refer you to another Determination. In 2004, a Private Member of Parliament sought to bring a Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution substituting Article 9.
The amendment contemplated that Buddhism is elevated as the official religion of the Republic, the State should not only foster and protect but also patronize Buddha Sasana, persons professing Buddhism were bound to bring up their children in the same faith and that conversion of Buddhist to other forms of worship is prohibited. However, the Supreme Court rightly determined that these provisions would destroy the secular notion of the State, violate the right to equality and non-discrimination under Article 12, freedom of religion under Article 10 and freedom of a person to manifest his religion under Article 14(1)(e) of the Constitution.
The conclusion is that all these developments in the judico-legal arena of this country in the last two centuries demonstrate that laws reflect a desire to protect Buddhism, but always within a secular, multi-cultural framework. Therefore, together, the legal provisions and judicial pronouncements I have cited appear to be in harmony with the principle of tolerance encapsulated in Buddhisms moral philosophy. It is also in harmony with the vision of Olcott himself. In The White Buddhist, Stephen Prothero describes Olcott as a religious liberal for whom religious tolerance was something akin to dogma and that Olcott affirmed a creolized faith that was optimistic, activistic, adaptationist, cosmopolitan, reform-minded and committed to resolving particularities into unity.
Conclusion
Given the boundless nature of the two disciplines I chose to combine in the topic of todays oration, Law and Buddhism, there is much left to be said on the subject. But time does not permit any further discussion. So I leave you with a summary of my ruminations. Sri Lanka has a rich legal heritage and an even richer religious heritage, especially where Buddhism is concerned. The evolution of the justice system from the 19th century period of Olcotts errand to Asia up to the present time has amply shown that the content of these two heritages are not unlike each other. Important aspects of the moral philosophy of Buddhism are reflected in the law, none more so than the concept of justice.
This should give added justification to strictly observe the substantive and procedural elements of the law so that injustice is avoided at all cost. On the other hand, the law has provided Buddhism special protection, but without compromising on freedom and tolerance which are themselves fundamental tenets of the Buddhist philosophy. Therefore, I invite you to consider the idea that if we are to assist the State to foster Buddhism and protect this great faith, the best way to achieve that is by living our lives according to the moral philosophy of Buddhism. And if we live such a life, we would automatically become law-abiding citizens and the rule of law and justice would prevail in abundance.
==============================
## Title: Game of musical chairs continues
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Game of musical chairs continues
Is there such a dearth of qualified people in the country that we dont have fresh faces coming forward to administer the richest sports body in the country Sri Lanka Cricket
When Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera announced that Sri Lanka Cricket elections will be held on January 4 and subsequently followed that statement up by fixing the dates for accepting nominations for the important posts one assumed that some new faces would appear to contest, but lo and behold what do we have here Its the same old faces that we have seen an umpteen number of times whose track records everyone knows, who have shown interest in coming forward to contest. The only thing that has changed is that one-time bitter rivals have now switched allegiance for reasons best known to them and are supporting one of the two candidates leading the race  Thilanga Sumathipala and Nishanta Ranatunga. Sumathipala is a former three-time president and Ranatunga has been secretary for quite a number of years and still was until April 1 when former Sports Minister Navin Dissanayake decided to dissolve the elected body on the grounds of corruption and replace it with an interim committee which is currently administering Sri Lanka Cricket.
Apart from the front runners for the presidency other names that have appeared in the media are that of Mohan de Silva, Arjuna Ranatunga, K Mathivanan, the Dharmadasa brothers Jayantha and Upali, Nuski Mohamed, Shammi Silva, Hirantha Perera, Asanga Seneviratne and Michael de Zoysa  all of whom who have served as past office-bearers of Sri Lanka Cricket.
To any outsider it would appear like a game of musical chairs where you keep on switching allegiance from one side to the other so that the same old faces get elected time and again. One of the names that wont surface on this occasion is that of former Sri Lanka cricketer Jayananda Warnaweera who has been the strong arm of the South. Warnaweeras refusal to co-operate with the Anit-Corruption Unit of the ICC on alleged charges of match-fixing has led to him being banned from cricket for two years which makes him ineligible to hold any position related to cricket nor serve it.
The question that begs to be answered is arent there any others who can serve Sri Lanka Cricket
There are enough people outside who are willing to come and serve the game but not in this present scenario where they will not stand a ghost of a chance of contesting and winning especially under the present constitution.
There are some high caliber people like Hemaka Amarasuriya, the former chairman of Singer, Michael Elias, former St Peters captain and managing director of John Keells, Brian Obeysekera and Kanthi Johnpillai to name a few who played cricket at high level at school and then gone onto hold good corporate posts. They would not mind coming to serve the game but not with a contest. For instance how can you expect Hemaka Amarasuriya to contest an individual like Sumith Perera of Badureliya SC
If former Sri Lanka cricketer Roshan Mahanama who is retiring as ICC match referee wants to come in, with his stature how can you expect him to contest with the present set of persons and win
For them to come and serve cricket the constitution needs to be revamped. You actually dont need a committee of about 25 individuals to make decisions.
Sri Lanka Cricket is a Rs. Six billion company and there are member clubs who dont deserve to be there. You take the voting rights of some of the clubs who dont make any contribution at all other than come and collect a cheque from Sri Lanka Cricket for the vote. A majority of the clubs dont even have a club house or a ground and one wonders whether they have their accounts updated. Some of these clubs enjoy the status of having two votes the same as established clubs like SSC, NCC, Tamil Union, CCC etc.
What the Sports Minister needs to do is to initiate a full inquiry and find out who the actual clubs are and which districts are functioning. If the constitution is amended half these so-called clubs will drop out and more respectable and honourable people who know what corporate governance is will come into serve Sri Lanka Cricket.
==============================
## Title: Get to know Abhidhamma
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Get to know Abhidhamma
The Abhidhamma forms the third part of the Pali Canon, the Tipi.taka. The other two parts are the Vinaya Pi.taka, the code of discipline for monks and nuns, and the Sutta Pi.taka, which contains the Buddha's discourses. The word "Abhidhamma" means the higher teaching because it treats subjects exclusively in an ultimate sense (paramatthasacca), differing from the Sutta Pi.taka where there is often the use of expressions valid only from the standpoint of conventional truth (vohaarasacca). In the Abhidhamma the philosophical standpoint of the Buddha is given in a pure form without admixture of personalities, anecdotes, or discussions. It deals with realities in detail and consists of numerous classifications. These may at first discourage the prospective student. However, if one perseveres one will be able to derive much benefit in life-situations from the practical application of the knowledge gained through study of the Abhidhamma.
Origins
Theravaada tradition holds that the Buddha conceived the Abhidhamma in the fourth week after his enlightenment, while still sitting in the vicinity of the Bodhi tree. Tradition also has it that he first preached the Abhidhamma to the assembly of deities in the Taavati.msa heaven; his mother, reborn as a deity, was present in the assembly.
This can be taken to mean that the Buddha, by intense concentration, transcended the earth-bound mentality and rose mentally to the world of the deities, a feat made possible by his attainment of higher powers (abhiaa) through utmost perfection in mental concentration. Having preached the Abhidhamma to the deities, he returned to earth, that is, to normal human consciousness, and preached it to the venerable Saariputta, the arahant disciple most advanced in wisdom.
From ancient times doubts have been expressed as to whether the Abhidhamma was really taught by the Buddha. What is important for us is to experience the realities described in the Abhidhamma. Then one will realize for oneself that such profound truths can emanate only from a source of supreme enlightenment, from a Buddha. Much of what is contained in the Abhidhamma is also found in the Sutta Pi.taka and such sermons had never been heard by anyone until they were uttered by the Buddha. Therefore those who deny that the source of the Abhidhamma was the Buddha will then have to say that the discourses also were not uttered by the Buddha.
At any rate, according to the Theravaada tradition, the essence of the Abhidhamma, the fundamentals, the framework, is ascribed to the Buddha. The tabulations and classifications may have been the work of later scholars. What is important is the essence; it is this we should try to experience for ourselves.
The question is also raised whether the Abhidhamma is essential for Dhamma practice. The answer to this will depend on the individual who undertakes the practice. People vary in their levels of understanding and spiritual development.
Ideally all the different spiritual faculties should be harmonized, but some people are quite content with devotional practice based on faith, while others are keen on developing penetrative insight.
The Abhidhamma is most useful to those who want to understand, who want to know the Dhamma in depth and detail. It aids the development of insight into the three characteristics of existence-impermanence, unsatisfactoriness, and no-self.
==============================
## Title: Ginigathena bridge needs repair
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Ginigathena bridge needs repair
The bridge across the canal at Millagahamula, on the Hatton-Avissawella road in Ginigathena, Nuwara Eliya is in a state of disrepair. The iron rods on the 30 metres long bridge, which was constructed by the Highways Department several decades ago, has not been repaired for a long period, inconveniencing commuting motorists.
The Road Development Authority (RDA) had previously taken steps to constructing a new bridge by means of funds provided by the French government, but plans could not go through for reasons of landslides from the mountains above, due to heavy rains at the time. No steps were taken to resume the repair since, and residents said authorities must take note of the issue and repair the bridge immediately.
==============================
## Title: Greek New Testament papyrus found on sale on eBay
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Greek New Testament papyrus found on sale on eBay
US: In January, Geoffrey Smith, a scholar of early Christianity at the University of Texas, noticed something startling: an eBay listing for an ancient Greek papyrus fragment of the Gospel of John  with an opening bid of only $US99 ($137).
I thought, this can't be allowed to sell on eBay, Dr Smith said. It will just disappear into a private collection.
He contacted the seller and urged him to halt the online auction  apparently the first on eBay for a Greek New Testament papyrus, he and other scholars said  and let him study the fragment. The seller agreed, and now Dr Smith will present his research at the annual conference of the Society of Biblical Literature in Atlanta.
The credit-card-size papyrus, which Dr Smith dates from about AD 250 to AD 350, contains about six lines of the Gospel of John on one side and an unidentified Christian text on the other.
If Smith's analysis is correct, it is the only known Greek New Testament papyrus from an unused scroll rather than a codex, the emerging book technology that early Christians, in sharp contrast to their Jewish and pagan contemporaries, preferred for their texts. That adds an interesting wrinkle, scholars say, to the story of the rise of the codex, the book as we know it today. But the dramatic story of the papyrus emergence also speaks to a distinctly 21st-century technological anxiety.
The fact that this one came to light on the internet speaks to the reality for all of us who deal with manuscripts and antiquities, Dr Smith said. We're all trying to come to terms with these things we study  our prized scholarly possessions  are now coming up for sale online.
Greek New Testament papyri are among the oldest and rarest traces of Christian scripture. Only about 130 have been recognised by the Institute for New Testament Textual Research in Munster Muenster, Germany, which registers New Testament manuscripts of all types and oversees the effort to reconstruct the Greek initial text from surviving variants.
They are also a new entry into the growing  and, many scholars say, ethically questionable  online marketplace in ancient papyri.
History doesn't belong to one person, said Dr Brice C. Jones, a papyrus expert who tracks online sales, and who wrote about the eBay listing on his blog the same day Dr Smith noticed it, inadvertently sending bids shooting up.
Collectively, globally, it's ours, said Dr Jones, who also communicated with the seller, who wishes to remain anonymous. It needs to be available for research, to be put on display.
Many scholars refuse to study manuscripts that might have left their country of origin illegally, and some refuse to study material in private collections, on the grounds that it helps drive the market.
That market is certainly robust. A third-century fragment of Romans on vellum, Dr Jones noted, sold at Sotheby's in 2014 for more than $600,000.
- NEW YORK TIMES
==============================
## Title: Joint opposition contemplates NCM against Ravi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Joint opposition contemplates NCM against Ravi
Parliamentarian Dullas Alahapperuma yesterday said that the joint opposition is contemplating bringing a No Confidence Motion (NCM) against Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake for manipulating the figure to show that 6 per cent of has been allocated for the education sector.
He said that the members of the joint opposition were to take the final decision with regard to the No Confidence Motion against Karunanayake last evening
President Maithripala Sirisena gave us an undertaking that he would give us an opportunity to have a discussion with Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe over the 2016 budget, Alahapperuma said. He alleged that the Finance Minister has misled the President, Parliament and the people by manipulating the figures to show that 6 per cent has been allocated for the education sector. Alahapperuma was speaking at a press conference at the N.M. Perera Centre yesterday. He said the people have lost confidence in the budget due to the manipulations of the present government.
Parliamentarian Dullus Alahapperuma added that President Maithripala Sirisena has said that the government has allocated 6 per cent for education for the first time. We made him understand about the falsehood behind the Finance Ministers claim that 6 per cent has been allocated for education through Budget 2016,he said.
MP Alahapperuma said the President clearly understood the truth and promised us to arrange a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister.
==============================
## Title: Lanka Lions roar to glory at Eden Park Sevens Series in Dubai
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Lanka Lions roar to glory at Eden Park Sevens Series in Dubai
Lanka Lions warmed up for the Emirates Airline Dubai Rugby Sevens Tournament by emerging Cup champions in round one of the Eden Park Sevens Series social segment at the Dubai Sports City.
The two-day tournament organised by the UAE Rugby Federation concludes with the second leg in Al Ain on Friday.
Former Havelocks coach Richard Murcott was over the moon after savouring success in his maiden assignment with Lanka Lions.
It was my first assignment and first outing for the season for Lanka Lions. We went through all the games quite convincingly until the final. Our line was crossed only on three occasions for the entire tournament, said Murcott who has drilled the Lankan side into a potent unit during the past two months.
Defence was quite a plus point for us. We've been working hard on that. I told you at the beginning we are going to play a different style this year. We tried it out on a few occasions because we don't want to put all the secrets out at once before the Dubai Sevens. That was one of the key advantages and the new blood in the side they really performed well, said Murcott.
The players who made their debut for Lanka Lions was former Royal flanker Gayashan Wijayasinghe, former Trinity and CR and FC player Dilshan Kelaniyangoda and former Isipatana and Upcountry Lions fly half Akalanka Dabare.
Those three boys were regular in the side.They came up very well actually and then ofcourse rest of seniors who have been in the team like captain Madisha Silva, Bebo (Hilmy Mohammed), Dulanka (Gunasekera) and Ameen (Jamail).It was quite a good work out, said Murcott.
Cup champions in the social segment of the Eden Park tournament in 2013 and runners-up last year, Lanka Lions swept all before them creating a wave of excitement among the community with a fortnight to go for the Dubai Sevens.
The boys are doing pretty well and we are ready to go for the big one, said skipper Madisha Silva, a former Peterites Sevens captain, who will be leading out Lanka Lions for the third year in the Gulf Men's Open segment at the Dubai Rugby Sevens which takes place on December 3-5.
Lanka Lions topped their pool with impressive victories over MediclinicBarrel House 21-7, Beaver Nomads 28-14and Dubai Hurricanes II35-7.
They romped past UAE Shaheen, an all-Emirati side 38-0 in the semifinal, before outplaying a South African side Conquistadors 28-0 in the Cup final with former Isipatana and St Josephs three quarter Gunasekera scoring a brace.
Murcott was pleasantly surprised by the performance of the Lanka Lions and is ready to take the side to the next level.
To be honest I was quite confident with the boys going into the tournament. Winning the cup ofcourse was another step. For me, if we had come into the semis I would have been happy, said Murcott describing the side as a mix of youth and experience
They played their hearts out and the important factor was even though we gave away a lot on size and physicality, we still outplayed them. Our defence was one of the key areas and the set piece play was fantastic because we were counter rucking.There were many times we had choke tackles done. We held up the opposition play.These areas being weaknesses for us, at least we can see the training has shown results. Our speed factor was also key because we spent time on their fitnessand because once we broke the front line it was virtually unopposed, explained Murcott.
Buoyed by this success, Murcott is asking for more from the Lanka Lions lads.
For me as a coach,I want another 50 per cent done for the Dubai Sevens.I used this tournament to pick the 12 that is going to go and more or less Im certain of that 12.We had a squad of about 20 boys so we virtually tried out all the players.This gave us a rough idea of the 12 that will be picked, he said.
However, Lanka Lions suffered a minor setback with three players suffering injuries forcing the management to skip the second leg of the Eden Park tournament.
We will not take part in the second leg because we had three injuries which are not serious. Akalanka got concussed,Rilwan, one of our senior players got couple of stitches on his head andGayashan had an ankle injury during the latter stages. They will be available but we dont want to risk it playing in Al Ain, said Murcott.
==============================
## Title: Major fall in Diabetes-related amputations in 25 years
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Major fall in Diabetes-related amputations in 25 years
UK: A significant reduction in diabetes-related amputations has been seen since the mid-1990s, thanks to improvements in diabetes care over this period, researchers have found.
Amputations of the lower limbs are one of the most serious and disabling complications of diabetes, and become necessary when the nerve and blood vessel damage caused by the condition affects the blood supply to the lower limbs.
Serious problems with the feet (including ulceration) are a frequent reason for hospitalisation among patients who have diabetes.
Researchers at the Odense University Hospital in Denmark analysed amputation rates in the Funen region of Denmark (with 0.5 million residents and regarded as representative of both the population of Denmark as a whole and other high-income countries of Europe and the world) during the period 1996-2011.
Amputations were identified from the administrative system, diabetes status by linkage with the Danish National Diabetes Register, and mortality and population data were extracted from Statistics Denmark and the Civil Registration System.
The analysis showed major reductions in diabetes-related amputations of various types.
The researchers found an annual reduction in below-ankle amputation (BAA) rates among diabetes patients of 10 per cent and the annual reduction in below-knee amputation (BKA) rates for patients with diabetes was 15 per cent; for above-knee amputations (AKA), the annual rate of reduction for those with diabetes was around 3 per cent but not statistically significant.
Amputation rates unrelated to diabetes (for example, those caused by vascular diseases and ischaemia) remained unchanged over this period.
During the period 1996-2011, a total of 2,832 amputations were performed of which 1,285 were among patients with diabetes and 1,547 among individuals without diabetes. Diabetes patients had an 11-times increased rate of BAA relative to persons without diabetes. For BKA, there was an approximately seven times increased rate, and for AKA there was a four-times increased rate.
The researchers believe that better care related to diabetes and its complications, such as improved drugs and inspection and self-care of foot ulcers (that can get worse until they require amputation), are the central cause of the reduced amputation rates.
Our study suggests that the reduction in amputation rates among diabetes patients most likely is due to improvement in the care of individuals with diabetes, the researchers said.
The introduction of vascular surgery and improved surgical techniques cannot explain our findings, since these procedures are applied equally in individuals with and without diabetes, they said.
- PTI
==============================
## Title: Matale Thomains have it easy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Matale Thomains have it easy
St. Thomas College, Matale trounced Viyaloka Vidyalaya 4-0 in their schools' under 13 hockey tournament match organised by the Matale Schools Hockey Association and Sri Lanka Schools Hockey Association and played at Bernard Aluvihare Stadium, Matale. At half time Matale Thomians led 2-0.
In another match Elwala Vidyalaya, Matale who took to hockey recently beat Sri Dhamma Vidyalaya 5-0.
the results of other matches played - Vijaya College draw with Vidyartha college 0-0, Dharmadutha College beat Maris Stilla College 1-0, St. Sylvesters College beat Sri Dhamma Vidyalaya 1-0, Jospeh Viaz College draw St. Aloysus College 0-0 Zahira College, Matale beat Sri Sumangala College Panadura 2/0.
==============================
## Title: MH370 hunt moves to where British pilot believes it crashed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
MH370 hunt moves to where British pilot believes it crashed
AUSTRALIA: The deep sea hunt for a missing Malaysian airliner has shifted to a remote part of the Indian Ocean where a British pilot has calculated that the Boeing 777 made a controlled ditching last year with 239 people aboard, officials said on Monday.
The patch of deep ocean southwest of Australia that Captain Simon Hardy has determined is the most likely resting place of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 will be searched through December, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is coordinating the search on Malaysia's behalf, said in a statement.
But Australian authorities are not being guided by the experienced Boeing 777 pilot's analysis. Martin Dolan, the bureau's chief commissioner, said the search was moving farther south within a 120,000-square-kilometer (46,000-square-mile) priority area because the southern hemisphere spring had made the extreme conditions in the southern ocean calmer.
We're aware that we're in the area that Capt. Hardy specifies, but we're in that area because it was next in our search sequence, and we've been moving progressively south because the weather is improving, Dolan said.
Hardy's theory of where Flight 370 went after it inexplicably flew far off course during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing on March 8, 2014, has been widely published in recent months. He used mathematical analysis and a flight simulator to plot the course he believed the airliner took when it vanished in one of aviation's most baffling mysteries.
I am fairly confident that the wreckage will be found within the next four to eight weeks, Hardy told The Australian newspaper.
Experts directing the search have discussed Hardy's theory with him. Hardy could not be immediately contacted for comment on Monday.
There are many theories from members of the public and various independent experts and all are considered, the bureau said in its statement, which described Hardy's analysis as credible.
But searchers do not accept a key aspect of Hardy's conclusion: that whoever was flying the plane made a controlled landing at sea, which allowed it to sink largely intact.
The only confirmed wreckage of Flight 370 to be recovered was a wing flap found on a remote Indian Ocean island in July.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Modi, Najib jointly inaugurate Torana Gate in Malaysia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Modi, Najib jointly inaugurate Torana Gate in Malaysia
MALAYSIA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with his Malaysian counterpart Najib Razak today jointly inaugurated the over USD 1.1 million Torana Gate built by India and said it was not merely a piece of art on stone but connecting of two nations.
Modi, who held talks with Najib earlier in the day, inaugurated the gate at the Little India enclave in Brickfields here.
The gateway, which is a gift from India to mark the launch of Kuala Lumpur's Litte India project, was built at an estimated to cost about 5 million Malaysian Ringgit (USD 1.1 million).
Hundreds of Indian-origin people lined up in the streets to get a glimpse of Prime Minister Modi.
Modi said Torana Gate is not merely a piece of art on stone. This is connecting two nations & illustrates the two great cultures.
The inauguration of Torana Gate shows India-Malaysia ties are not only economical but also cultural. I am sure ties between India and Malaysia will be stronger and deeper in the times to come, Modi said.
Several tourists come to Kuala Lumpur and they want to come to Little India. Now they will want to go to see the Torana, he said, adding that it will become a major attraction.
Modi said the gate will be a milestone in India's relations with Malaysia. Modi and Najib cut the inauguration ribbon to the count of three and later signed a plaque there.
Najib said the gateway was a gift from India and a labour of love. It is a symbol of ties and friendship between the two peoples and marked yet another high point in the long history of India and Malaysia, he said.
It is symbolic and substantive. It is a clear signal of closer cooperation and people to people interaction, he said.
There was also a folk dance performance at the short event.
The intricately carved Torana Gate, inspired by the Toranas of the great Buddhist sculpture of Sanchi, has carvings and relief work representing ancient Indian art as well as the Islamic art form.
Kshitij Jain, the chief designer and architect of the Torana, had earlier said, Toranas, built by the great Mauryan dynasty ruler, Ashoka, in first century BC, essentially depict symbols related to Buddhism.
There is the Bodhi Tree, the lotus flowers, the jatakas tales and many other such illustrations, but we did not just replicate them as it would not match the inclusivity and acceptance that India stands for.
Such detailing on an art form of this scale, involving the two disparate cultures, has perhaps not been done before, he had said.
- PTI
==============================
## Title: More focus on renewable energy generation  President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
More focus on renewable energy generation  President
The contribution of the state sector as well as private sector is essential in achieving progress in the field of renewable energy, President Maithripala Sirisena said.
The President pointed out that Sri Lanka has a great potential in generating renewable energy, given its abundance of natural resources. It is essential to encourage and inspire the investors for this purpose, the President said.
The President was addressing the gathering of the Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Award Ceremony  2015 held on Monday at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH).
President Sirisena said for continuous growth, speedy and prudent action in the field of energy is important.
We should save the huge amount of money spent on importing energy, he said.
He pointed out the need of appointing responsible officers to manage the use of electricity in private sector as well as public sector institutions.
The President presented awards to State and Private institutions for their contribution to energy conservation in the country. He also presented honourary awards to individuals who have made significant contributions to sustainable energy within their professional practice.
Power and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya, Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera, Power and Renewable Energy Ministry Secretary, Dr. B. M. S. Batagoda, Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority President, J. B. K. Wickramasinghe were among the participants.
==============================
## Title: Padaviya reservoir to facilitate paddy cultivation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Padaviya reservoir to facilitate paddy cultivation
The Padaviya reservoir will facilitate the cultivation of paddy in 15, 800 acres of land during the Maha season this year, Padaviya Assistant Irrigation Engineer D. D Tharindu Madhusanka said.
He said Padaviya and Wahalkada were the only reservoirs in the Anuradhapura district that didnt spill over during the recent heavy rains. Padaviya, with a capacity of 85, 000 acre feet currently held 81, 000 acre feet of water, while, Wahalkada with a capacity of 43, 000 acre feet had at present 37, 300 acre feet of water, he said.
Cultivation season has already begun inland around the Padeniya reservoir.
==============================
## Title: [PARLIAMENT - (25-11-2015)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
[PARLIAMENT - (25-11-2015)]
Moves to develop Matara - PM
Development projects for Southern Province including the construction of a public hall for Matara are in the agenda to be implemented, said Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
The Prime Minister made these observations responding to a question raised by Opposition member Dullas Alapperuma for oral answers in Parliament yesterday.
He said that a special meeting was held with the participation of the nine members in the Southern Province and its Chief Minister and other representatives to decide on the development programme of the province on Sunday.
The Prime Minister said another meeting will be held soon in this regard. He said Parliamentarian Dullas Alahapperuma too can participate and make suggestions at the meeting.
He said it was discussed to develop Mahinda College in Galle too. Even Hambantota and Tangalle have to be developed. A large amount of money was spent on Hambantota without a proper plan, However, we have to yield the results, so we have decided to develop the area systematically, Wickremesinghe said.
Matara is the only main city in the country deprived of a public hall, Alahapperum added. About 300 acres were acquired by the previous government in the Kottevila area for a public hall, but the project has been stranded by now, he said.
He said compensation for certain land plots acquired for the project had not been paid.
Public-Private partnership, key to sustainable development - Malik Samarawickrama
The Public and Private partnership is key to achieve sustainable development goals, said Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama in Parliament yesterday.
He said budget 2016 has proposed to achieve sustainable development standards of countrys rural economy. Social integration is important for social development, he said.
Advanced economic principles are crucial for development. Budget 2016 has paid attention to develop the private sector.
The budget has provided relief for the needy in the country. It has focused on the expanding of the export sector, he said.
Samarawickrama said the management of government expenses is a major area. The business community will benefit from infrastructure development. The government has taken measures to create a business and export friendly environment by establishing an international financial centre in Colombo.
Minister Samarawickrema also invited all to join hands with the government to achieve future development goals.
Grade V scholarship examination:
Govt has to decide whether to continue exam process
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam, yesterday stated that the government has to decide if the Grade V Scholarship examination which is a burden to children as well as to their parents should be continued further.
He stated that this decision should be reached at a committee headed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
He made these observations yesterday in response to a special statement made by the Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake, under Standing Order 23(2), querying as to why nearly 19,000 children have been disappointed by depriving them of scholarship benefits in 2015 despite obtaining sufficient marks at the examination.
Education Minister Kariyawasam stated the this budget had made an immense amount of money for the development of education. We are not in a position to find money for fulfilling the pledges made by the previous regime by targeting the election, he said. But the very same government had not allocated money to grant scholarships to an extra number of students, although it had been promised as an election pledge.
In a statement Anura Dissanayake said that the government had failed to implement the proposal made in the Budget 2014 to increase the grade five scholarship from Rs 500 to Rs 1,500 and to increase the number of scholarships to 25,000 from 15,000. He said that as it was a budget proposal, successive governments had to stick to their promise.
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said only 15,000 students were given scholarship benefits though 51,000 students have applied for the same in 2014. He said 15,000 students were given benefits in 2015 as well. Only 15,000 scholarships have been granted each year since 2007, the minister said. He said that there has been no slashing of the benefits of scholarship recipients.
He further said that Mahinda Rajapaksa in his capacity as the finance minister, had made such promises during earlier budgets too, but had failed to keep the promise.
He added that Rajapaksa had earlier allocated Rs 3,000 million to rectify the salary anomalies of teachers, but had not allocated a penny.
US$ 8,000 per capita income projected by 2020
The countrys next target is to increase the per capita income to US$ 8,000 by 2020, Science, Technology and Research Minister Susil Premajayantha said in Parliament yesterday.
Participating in a debate of the second reading of the Appropriation Bill 2016, he said the per capita income is in the region of US$ 4000.
Most countries no longer offer Sri Lanka financial aid due to this, but they are willing to invest in Sri Lanka, he said.
By strengthening the economy, we have shown our skills at management. Our next step should be to enter global market places with an emphasis on technology. Attention should be paid on research and development to develop the country. It amounts to three percent of GDP today, but in Japan, it is as high as 12 percent of GDP, Premajayantha said.
Political stability strengthens economic and social development
Economic and social development has taken place in the country due to political stability, said Skills Development and Vocational Training Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe in Parliament yesterday.
Political stability is the most important catalyst to economic development. President Maithripla Sirisena has won over the world today. Both the USA and India are helping the country. Even the US
Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power has appreciated President Sirisenas commitment to abolish the Executive Presidency.
The budget has increased the vehicle emission tax and the tax on electric vehicles.
Participating in the second reading stage debate on budget proposals, the minister called for the reduction of the vehicle emission tax and the tax on electric vehicles. Minister Samarasinghe said Rs 5,000 on vehicle emission testing is too high.
An increase of 500 percent from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 for vehicle emission testing is very high. I hope that the government would realise that a 500 percent in fees for emission testing is not acceptable, the minister said.
Samarasinghe said Sri Lanka is the only country that increases taxes on electric vehicles when other countries are reducing taxes on electric vehicles.
Its difficult to understand why the government has increased taxes on electric vehicles when other countries are reducing taxes to encourage consumers to buy electric vehicles. People should be encouraged to buy electric vehicles by reducing taxes because it has been scientifically proven that these vehicles dont harm the environment and are environmental friendly, he said.
He said that during a visit to Paris for an International Monitory Fund conference earlier this year, Norwegian Development Minister had shown him the steps taken by Norway to promote electric vehicles among the people.
If promises not fulfilled, TNA to decide on support government
Tamil National Alliance (TNA) MP Selvam Adeikkalanadan told Parliament yesterday, that the TNA has to take a decision whether to support the government or not, if the government does not fulfill TNA's requirements.
The TNA is supporting the government. The Tamil people who voted for us expect the government to fulfill their requirements. But the promises made by the government prior to the election, have not been fulfilled so far, the MP said.
He said that the government should take measures to enhance the living standards of the people living in the North and the East. Resettlement should take place in these areas. But provisions for resettlement have not been mentioned in the Budget proposals of 2016.
Our schools are still not in proper condition. Provisions have been allocated for education. So the Education Minister should pay his attention on the improvement of the educational facilities of the Northern and Eastern provinces, he said.
He also added that people in those provinces mainly depend on fisheries and agriculture.
The government should also pay attention to solve the problems facing by these farmers and fishermen.
The Indian fishing problem too had not yet been solved by the government as well as the southern fishermen who were also disrupting these fishermen.
He further said that action should also be taken by the government to provide relief assistance to those who have been affected by recent floods and repair the roads which had been damaged. He also proposed that the government establish a domestic airports in Vavuniya, Jaffna, Batticaloa and Mullaitivu, as that would help attract more investors to the North and the East.
Creating one million jobs is impossible - Bimal Ratnayake
The creation of one million employment opportunities as promised by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe is impossible owing to economic policies envisaged in the budget proposals, said JVP Parliamentarian Bimal Ratnayake.
He made these observations joining the second reading debate of the budget proposals for the third allotted day in Parliament yesterday.
He said money has not been allocated to develop industries. There is no mechanism introduced to develop the cement industry in Kankasanthurei, chemical industry in Paranthan or any other industry, Ratnayake said.
He said the Prime Minister only thinks to develop Kolpetty. He thinks this would benefit the people in rural areas like Diulpitiya Ambilipitiya and Navalapitiya.
The Prime Ministers objective is to develop the economy, to create a strong middle class and give land rights to the people, he said.
I think the objective can be achieved to a certain extent by giving land rights to people like those in estates.
==============================
## Title: The power game!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
The power game!
A three day visit by Special US envoy Samantha Power concluded on Monday, after a final meeting with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. Powers meeting with Prime Minister touched on a number of issues, focusing on commission of inquiry in to war crimes proposed by the recent UN resolution and the judicial mechanism to be implemented.
Four other key ministers, Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera, Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, Minister of Prisons Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement, D. M Swaminathan and Minister of City Planning and Water Supply Rauff Hakeem, also participated in the meeting.
The meeting was fairly good, a minister who participated claimed. The US envoy was also told of the 19th amendment and governments efforts to release and rehabilitate political prisoners. We said that we are doing whatever possible to release prisoners and rehabilitate them, the minister said.
Prior to this final meeting Power, a Journalist turned diplomat and the US Representative to United Nations did a tour of the North and held separate meetings with Northern Province chief Minister C. V. Wigneswaran and a group of TNA members led by Opposition Leader R. Sambanthan. Both Wigneswaran and Sambanthan exploited this opportunity to urge the United States to influence the government to address a number of issues faced by the people of the North.
Among them, the issue of political prisoners and heightened military presence featured prominently. Perhaps it was Wigneswarans comments on lackluster attitude towards development and claim that some fractions in South is blocking the flow of investments to North that prompted Power to state that there is an inherited legacy of neglect in the North. Wigneswaran also requested Power to tell the government to reallocate funds assigned for defense in the 2016 budget to development activities in the North.
R. Sampanthan
Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake
presenting the Budget last Friday
C. V. Wigneswaran
In an interview with Daily News Power said that the concerns raised by Wigneswaran regarding continued militarization, delays in releasing lands for civilian resettlement and economic activities will continue be concerns for the US as well.
Sampanthan too echoed Wigneswarans claims and urged US and UN to influence Sri Lankan government to fully implement the US sponsored UNHRC resolution adopted in Geneva this year. The resolution was co-sponsored by Sri Lanka and many other countries as well. Sampanthan also wanted the US help in arriving at a long term solution for the rift between the North and the south.
The high ranking diplomat stressed that the US would remain vigilant and cautious and monitor the situation at the ground level. However she said Our tone is positive as much has changed here and emphasized that the country has an opportunity for peace and prosperity.
Power is the second high ranking US official to visit the country after January 8 elections. She follows US Secretary of State John Kerry, who visited in May this year, followed by a combined visit by Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Nisha Biswal, Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Tom Malinowski in August and Ambassador-at-Large for Global Womens Issues Catherine Russel in October.
The steady line of high profile US visitors to Sri Lanka is stirring the South, skeptical of the obvious western influence on the new government. Questions are now being raised if these are goodwill visits as portrayed by the government or if the US is in-fact on monitoring missions disguised as friendly calls. Added to these concerns the delisting of some of the suspected LTTE fund organizations and individuals and the release of a number of individuals held in remand custody under the Prevention of Terrorism Act is giving rise to uneasy feelings among Southerners which is also paving the way for hardliners to exploit the situation. Pivithuru Hela Urumaya General Secretary MP Udaya Gammanpila claimed that the visit was yet another attempt by the US to introduce federalism in the country. The opposition is obviously irked by the parading US diplomats who arrive in the country time and again.
Most of the opposition politicians who profess of an indigenous mechanism to probe the alleged war crimes oppose any foreign element included in it. It is difficult to fathom the ground situation as far as these matters are concerned and there could be people centric agitations in the country whipped up by the opposition if they feel that there appears to be international interference in domestic matters. Hence it is important that the government move cautiously in sensitive areas such as this. The international community should help and allow time and space for the government in power to resolve residual matters meticulously taking into consideration other political factors on ground.
Evidence not rumours stands to reason in court
While discussions and deliberations are under way to establish a special judicial mechanism to facilitate the commission of inquiry proposed in the Geneva resolution, for the first time in the judicial history in Sri Lanka a sitting Supreme Court judge, Justice Sarath De Abrew was indicted by the Attorney General on grave sexual abuse charges. Justice De Abrew is currently released on bail. He was released after he surrendered to Mt-Lavinia police in July, following a complaint lodged by his domestic aid on assault and sexual abuse. The Attorney Generals department finalized the indictment after a thorough examination of the facts and sifting through the evidence available. The indictment to a certain degree negated criticism against the Attorney Generals department for inaction and procrastination. It was the position resolutely taken by the Attorney General that he could not depend on hearsay or fabricated stories as evidence.
In this backdrop Attorney General Yuvanjana Wijayatilake last week utilized a very unlikely resource to give send out a strong reply to his critics. AG has been under severe criticism both by politicians and civil society groups alike for his apparent lethargic attitude on taking action against corruption charges filed against former ministers. Some even called for his resignation after his opinion in the Avant Garde case figured in parliament, accusing that his impartiality has been bought over. Delivering the Henry Steel Octott lecture last Saturday the Attorney General sent out a strong message to his critics. His departments decisions are based on evidence not on popular belief.
Drawing parallels between law of Evidence and Dhamma, AG said Just as much as the law of Evidence requires law and judicial officers to take into account the judicial process, cogent evidence which appeals to reason and conscienceless not faith, rumor or popular belief  a strong message in light of the current discourse especially in connection to the Avant Garde case.
Replying to criticism leveled against AGs opinion explaining lack of evidence to proceed on corruption charges against politicians of the previous regime, he highlighted the need for the prosecution to establish a case beyond reasonable doubt the essential ingredients of an offence. AG Wijetilake highlights that to initiate or maintain a prosecution in the absence of such evidence would be against a fundamental rule of law and indeed principle of justice.
Budget: Crouching Bull hidden dragon
However more than anything the focus of the people these days are on the revolutionary budget presented by Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake the debate of course commenced with a heated argument mixing up of documents related to the budget proposals. On Monday MPs found a fresh copy of the budget speech and annexed tables on their tables. MPs who came geared for the debate after combing through the documents provided on Fridays reading worried that there was additional information which were not made available to them at the time of the Budget speech. Opposition MP Dinesh Gunawardena raised the issue at commencement, followed by several other MPs who recorded their protests. House was adjourned for ten minutes, and after Speaker Karu Jayasuriya met with the party leaders to discuss the issue the matter was sorted out. It turns out several pages containing tables and graphs were missing from the Sinhala print, instead of giving only those pages the whole speech was reprinted and distributed creating confusion among the MPs.
On the outlook the budget appears to be welfare oriented. The budget has been hailed as a development focused one targeting big time investors and boosting exports. Colombo Stock exchange too reacted positively to the 20016 budget. Minister Karunanayake proposed Tax reductions on 11 essential items, gas prices have come down, and allocations for education and health services have gone up. However all is not well. Education allocation was calculated taking into account values of capital assets such as buildings, a method of calculation employed by the new world, Minister of Megapolis Champika Ranawaka told Parliament. Gammanpila however was not convinced, he publicly requested his former political buddy now opponent to name one country where such methods have been employed.
Many in the opposition called out on the ministers attempt to tax the poor man. Apart from the obvious fee hikes for emission test for vehicles and the additional tax piled on vehicle imports, the budget has increased a number of taxes affecting general public. Utility bills of majority households will shoot up as Nation Building Tax doubles with the budget, while Ports and Airports development Levy (PAL) has increased from 5 percent to 7.5 percent, with the exemption of building machineries used for construction, dairy and agricultural industries. This will significantly increase the prices of all commodities imported to the country.
JVP MP Sunil Handunnetti was severely critical of the proposal, claiming for a tax relief of Rs.3000 million the government is earning a tax revenue of Rs. 9000 million on Nation Building tax alone. From PAL the government is poised for approximate gain of close to Rs. 20000, he claims.
While relief has been given to both Tea and rubber sectors, coconut plantations have been ignored. A welcome two year tax relief has been granted to Tea and Rubber industries, which are facing worst market conditions in the history of the entire plantation sector. Instead of exploring avenues to boost coconut production which Minister Kanrunanayake claims to have dropped over the years, He proposed to import Coconuts to develop value added products targeting export market. This he claims would address the coconut shortage in the market providing for value addition industry. He has also proposed an allocation of Rs. 250 million for a re- plantation programme.
Fertilizer Vouchers
The government also seems to love voucher systems. A few weeks ago Minister of Education Akila Viraj Kariyawasm introduced a voucher system for free school uniform materials. Teacher unions are up in arms against the move, but the ministry is going ahead with the plans disregarding warnings of how the system can open a whole new avenue of malpractices, where some even fear the uniform vouchers will be sold for money. A concept not all that new for the country, it was such corruption that leads to revamping of fuel subsidy voucher system given to fishermen by the previous government.The budget introduced yet another voucher; fertilizer voucher for the farmers.
A cash voucher will be issued to farmers to buy fertilizer for the whole year. Serious concerns whether the fertilizer stocks will be available in the market to meet the demand and if the value of the voucher given would be sufficient to buy the entire quantity of fertilizer needed for the farmers have been raised. To a question posed to the Finance Minister if the minister gives assurance that farmers can buy their entire fertilizer requirement with the proposed voucher a perturbed minister replied that he has never been a farmer so he has no experience. He can only make decisions based on what government officers recommendations on the issue, shrewdly distancing himself from the issue while leaving the government officers to take the blame if the plan goes belly up.
Dissident group gives an ultimatum
Following the budget presentations number of SLFP heavy weights in opposition were making hasty plans to oppose the budget, only to be doused by the President Maithripala Sirisena. A quick meeting between the President and SLFP parliamentary group on Monday night assured that all members would vote in favour of the budget. Issuing a statement SLFP General Secretary said that SLFP will be voting for the budget 2016, a decision taken by the party central committee, which all members will have to comply with. However not all SLFP members were happy. SLFP opposition group MP Kumara Welgama requested for a separate meeting on Tuesday morning, between the President and the 49 SLFP members in the opposition (Mahinda Rajapaksa loyalists) as they were strongly against the budget proposals presented by the Karunanayake. Welgama also claims that they were informed their vehicle entitlements would be axed and the proposed funds for village development will be with held if the MPs do not vote in favour of the budget.
President Sirisena was able to negotiate a settlement with the SLFP rebel group on Tuesday Morning before he left for the Commonwealth heads of States Meeting in Malta. He promised to ensure an open debate between Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake and the SLFP opposition MPs to help iron out points of disagreements in the budget.
If they are able to amend the budget and fix the issues we point out following the debate, then we can vote in favour of the budget claimed Dallas Alahaperuma. If not the group plans to bring in a no confidence motion against the Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake. If the group follows through the plans, this would be the second time such action is initiated against Karunanayake. In July this year a signed motioned was submitted by the opposition only to be negated by the dissolution of Parliament. Whether the second No Confidence Motion, proposed by Mahinda Rajapaksa loyalists gains momentum remains to be seen.
==============================
## Title: School candidates instructed to obtain O-L admission cards early
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
School candidates instructed to obtain O-L admission cards early
All school candidates sitting the GCE (O-L) Examination 2015, which will commence on December 8 should get their admission cards from their respective school principals early, Commissioner General of Examinations W. M. N. J. Pushpakumara said.
According to the Commissioner General school heads have been instructed specifically to issue the admission cards immediately to the candidates once the admission cards are received.
"If students have to face any obstacle due to the delay in issuing the admission cards by the respective principal, the blame and responsibility of the fault will fall on the principal and disciplinary action will be taken against him. By now, the Examinations Department has sent the admission cards to the school heads," he said.
The Examination will be held from December 8 to 17 at 4,670 centres. A total of 664,537 candidates - school and private - have qualified to sit for the examination this year.
About 41,000 school teachers and school principals and other educational officers would be deployed as examination personnel, Pushpakumara said.

==============================
## Title: In search of lost wisdom
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
In search of lost wisdom
Engr. Mahinda Panapitiya Irrigation Engineer, B.Sc (University of Sri Lanka), M.S, Department of Agriculture & Biological Engineering, Utah State University, USA
Water Resource Development projects are intended to harness Land and Water resources to create well-being and wealth for people and nations. In approaches adapted during the last century in designing of those projects in Sri Lanka specially targeting irrigated agriculture, water has been treated as the limiting resource. As a result, the primary emphasis was placed on exploiting the water resource to maximize the returns from irrigated agriculture and the benefits were measured purely on conventional economic indicators.
However, maximizing these returns may come at the expense of long-term sustainability of the project itself. For example, Sri Lankan farmers, especially the paddy grower, including the pioneering colonists who have been settled in the past century under various irrigation systems, now lead a livelihood at subsistence level.
Recently implemented fertilizer subsidy can be reckoned as a good indicator of the economic plight of these farmers. Without those subsidies agriculture is not feasible. Fertilizer subsidy for these farmers is in fact identical to the dole for unemployed people in developed countries who are striving to lay an economic footing. The health of beneficiary farmers is another aspect. The root cause of the renal failure found in high concentration in the Mahaweli and other paddy cultivating region has been proved to be related to fertilizer and other input chemicals such as weedicides and pesticides.
Technology-wise but ecologically  foolish approach
Perhaps the approach adapted during the last century would have been Technology-wise but ecologically  foolish way of dealing with the land resource and its assets to address poverty. The huge infrastructure costs incurred for storing and diverting/ conveying water from water-rich areas to dry areas, and the relative abundance of undeveloped lands in dry areas, may explain this distorted over emphasis over the water as the primary resource. Investment in water for irrigated agriculture is usually so large especially in trans-basin water diversions projects such as Mahaweli programme. In order to justify the investment, it is normally taken for granted that the newly acquired water resource must be used mainly for irrigated agriculture by spreading it over a maximum possible land area with the objective of distributing those irrigable lands among people as a solution to population growth and unemployment.
According to this approach, if more water could be made available for development, it should be dedicated only to irrigate more lands and other components of the natural environment, such as forests, wetlands, flood plains, soils and riparian zones in the area are not considered to be assets and water is not allocated for the protection and maintenance of those ecological assets. As a consequence, the whole landscape within modern irrigation projects have become a monotony of irrigated agriculture, lacking ecological diversity, and depending not only on imported water from water rich areas, but also, on imported pesticides and fertilizers from overseas.
These dependencies are not favourable conditions, especially in view of current global economic and environmental crises. There could be alternative design approach that seeks better ecologically and economically sustainable synergizing methods of land with water derived from recognition of waters natural functions and appreciation for its ecological values.
Normally when we talk about our ancient hydraulic systems, we think only about the glory of Big Dams built by our ancestors to store water, but the underlying rationale and philosophy of how the stored water was used below the Dam (Downstream Use) for sustainable agriculture practices are rarely appreciated.
The consequences of the lost wisdom are well reflected on the present day to day meal plate of the farmer families living in irrigation projects developed during the last century. It consists nothing else but a heap of rice and a curry of fish caught from the nearby tank. Heap of rice stands for the monotony of paddy fields and the fish curry stands for the water that goes to the paddy fields.
The food plate of the farmers under modern irrigation systems is lack of curd due to lack space for the cattle to graze and to keep. The plate is lack of protein rich cereals such as Kurakkan, Sesamum, Meneri, Tanahaal etc. It is lack of all type of local pod varieties and hundreds of types of yams and vegetables and fruits as there are no lands for them to grow. No bee honey is available because bees do not colonize in the neighbourhood of chemically polluted lands. When one carefully study the irrigated agriculture systems adapted in the ancient approach of land development for irrigated agriculture, it is obvious that the nutritious level of the day to day meal plate of our ancient farmers would have been at the same status as the typical meal plate of rich countries of the modern world.
Rice comprises only very small portion of the meal plate of people from rich countries such as Japan. In contrast the day to day meal plate of our present day farmers living in so called modern irrigation projects comprises mainly of a heap of rice. Ancient systems used for landscape development produced not only rice under irrigated conditions but various other nourishing food varieties generating from numerous assets of the Landscapes such as Natural Forests, Livestock, and Wildlife.
The natural forest, the perennial crops, the seasonal crops, the animals both tamed and wild and small and large including the earth worms and microorganisms live on the ground and sub surfaces are the real source of nutrients and nutrient generators which can supplement the crops grown in the deep valley that is paddy in this context. What happens when the whole lands on the downstream are bulldozed off and converted to a one single mass of paddy fields The whole landscape gets impoverished of generating and holding the nutrients-the essentials for revitalizing the productive powers of soil. As a consequence, the paddy grown on the entire land begins to fail and the farmers in modern irrigation systems are then advised to depend on the chemical fertilizers which are the sole inviters to pesticides and the weedicides causing various health problems such as kidney diseases.
Indigenous ways of handling nature is a lost paradigm. For example the chena cultivation which has been branded as notorious has now been identified as a very sustainable way of synergizing land and water for food production. There is need to study the actual practices prevailed at ancient time before branding it as notorious. The past will inform the future - The agro-ecologically intelligent and sustainable methods employed by Sri Lankas ancient hydraulic technocrats to produce foods without imported Agrochemicals might also offer important insights for alternative ways for handling water resource more intelligently in producing foods for human beings. Soil rich in organic matter improves soil structure and improves water retaining capacity. Carbon rich soil could hold 40 kg of water for each 1 kg of carbon. If organic matter is incorporated into the soil, the dependency on irrigation could also be minimized in addition to the dependency on imported fertilizer.
Need for an alternative approach
Ancient approach would have focused to convert the Dry Zone into ecologically sustainable Wet Zone by replenishing the Ground Water in addition to well known surface irrigation practicing today. There is also need to exploit resources within the target area as the first step rather than importing them from outside.
As a first step prior to hardware design of inter-provincial water transfers systems, it should be subjected to evaluations of risks of conflicts within existing social and legal frameworks of the country. Ultimate objective of an irrigation project should be to produce healthy food varieties in an economically and socially sustainable mode while the beneficiaries are enjoying a livelihood in a pleasing natural environment without depending on heavy and uncertain government subsidies.
The first step toward in finding alternative and sustainable design approaches is to investigate and understand in a holistic manner, the true current performance of irrigation systems developed during the last century, especially in terms of their productivity in sustainable mode and dependability on imported inputs to maintain the sustainability.
This kind of assessment is essential so that the inadequacies inherent in modern design methodologies get exposed and adjustments can be made to meet the shortcomings. Otherwise, the mistakes of the past century will be perpetuated in development of remaining suitable lands and the opportunities will be lost to achieve truly integrated, sustainable projects. Perhaps commonly practiced ways of exploiting landscape as adapted in recently developed Mahaweli project with the main objective of settling people for irrigated agriculture may become questionable because as explained above, it could be only a matter of time for those settlers eventually to become depend on a Subsidy of imported fertilizer. These kinds of dependencies are not favourable conditions, especially in view of current global economic and environmental crises.
The intent of this article is to create awareness to spark a dialogue among professionals about the value of deep and honest performance assessments of irrigation projects built during the last century. Hopefully this would lead to more insightful, ecologically sensitive design approaches and, ultimately a sustainable land use model which could be applied in exploiting the remaining land resource especially in the North and East of Sri Lanka. For example, Lands in Maduru Oya Basin and lands planned to be developed under NCP canal could be used as a Pilot Area to design in ecologically and socially sustainable project. Challenge for the Engineers/ Agriculture Experts/ Social Scientists / Ecologists in this exercise would be to deliver a design which could guarantees subsidies free and sustainable irrigated agriculture system. In other words, it should be a Techno-wise, as well as an Eco-wise water resource development.
A draft Terms of Reference which could be used to select the right team of multidisciplinary experts for future Irrigation Designs at least at Pilot Scale are as follows.
* There should be no need to apply imported agro chemicals to grow crops
* Economic benefits generated to the country should be competitive enough to a level which is least be the same as conventional design
* Minimum disturbance to wild life and forest cover and the design should clearly identifies measures incorporated in the design addressing climatic improvement at global level
* There is no restriction to adhere to paddy only mode
* Possibility of generating alternative and creative income generation opportunities such as eco and agro tourism, carbon trading, high value organic food products, bee keeping and livestock etc. should be indirect benefits of the design
* Project should create benefits for already existing settlements around the project area and should not disturb their lifestyle by phenomena such as human elephant conflict
* Final output of the design should be to create a food plate for farmers equivalent to nutritional level of developed countries such as Japan (Ex: Small amount of rice with lot of protein rich food)
==============================
## Title: Seetha Devi crush Nugawela Central
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Seetha Devi crush Nugawela Central
Seetha Devi Gils College, Kandy crushed Nugawela Central College by the big margin of 7-0 in their girls under 13 hockey tournament match. It has organised by the Sri Lanka School Hockey Association and played at Edward Park, Matale. At half time Devians led 2-0.
Seetha Devi Girls College in their earlier match won by the same margin of 7-0 against Hemali Girls College once again stamped their class to open out in the second half to add five more goals.
Centre forward Dilhani Rajapaksa set the pace by scoring the first two goals and left extreme Pabodha Diviyangala followed up two goals. Towards the and latter part centre forward Amosha Bandara Smashed her way to add three more to the tally.
Results of the day -
Sangamitha College beat Swarnamali Girls College 2/1, Pushpadana Girls College beat Vihara Maha Devi BV, Badulla 1/0, St. Anthoy's Girls College Kandy beat Vihara Maha Devi BV Badulla 2/0, Visakha Vidyalaya Colombo beat Berruwerls College Kandy 4/0, Mahamaya Girls College drew which Sangamitta College 0-0, Hemamali College beat Nugawela Central College 1/0.
==============================
## Title: Sixty golfers, five countries for 128th Amateur Golf championship
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Sixty golfers, five countries for 128th Amateur Golf championship
Over 60 golfers, including players from five countries will vie for honours at the 128th Sri Lanka Amateur Golf Championship when it gets underway on November 29 at the spectacular Royal Colombo Golf Club (RCGC). The championship is the world's second oldest amateur second only to the British Amateur Championship will line up almost all the local amateur stars along with golfers from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Thailand and Afghanistan. The main championship will be open to any amateur golfer with a certified handicap of 14 and under in accordance with the R & A rules of golf. There will be women's events and the International team event apart from the main championship.
The other popular International Team event and the Palakamedi Trophy will see the best two golfers in two rounds battling out for supremacy. The team encounter between Sri Lanka and Pakistan for the Zia-Ul-Haq trophy championship will also be worked out. India and Pakistan have confirmed their participation in the women's team event. This year significantly three players from the forces will pose a tough challenge for the seasoned golfers with Army, Navy and Air Force showing great enthusiasm for the sport. The regular contenders from RCGC, Victoria Golf & Country Resort (VGCR) and Negombo Golf Club (NGC) will have the chance of pitting their skills against the freshers.
Altogether 48 local entries and 16 international entries have confirmed for the main championship and the organizers are expecting the number to increase. According to the organizers, trials for Sri Lanka men's and women's Team events are being conducted currently and hopefully Sri Lanka will field very competent teams.
The previous championship was held at Nuwara Eliya and Thailand's Nattawat became the men's champion beating teammate Channa Chok at the 36th hole in the Match Play final. The women's title was won by Gurubani of India.
Litro Gas Lanka Marketing and Sales Director Chaminda Ediriwickrema said, This is our first major venture in the sports sector and we are very proud to sponsor such a prestigious event which has an international significance. We hope to strengthen our ties with SLGU to nurture the golfing sport in Sri Lanka. Litro Gas Lanka will be the principal sponsors of the championship which concludes on December 5.
==============================
## Title: Sobhitha Theras vision to go on
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Sobhitha Theras vision to go on
The National Movement for Social Justice at a Committee meeting held at the Kotte Sri Naga Viharaya on November 23 unanimously decided to carry forward the programme and vision of its founder, late Ven. Maduluwawe Sobhitha Thera.
It also appointed Ven. Dr. Ittepana Dhammalankara Mahanayake Thera of the Kotte Kalyani Samagri Dharma Maha Sangha Sabha as its Chief Patron.
The committee also decided to appoint Ven. Udukala Kande Ariyaratana Thera and Rev. Fr. Reid Shelton Fernando as its other Patrons and Prof. Sarath Wijesuriya as its Convener.
A press release by the Secretary of the movement said the Committee also decided to carry forward late Ven. Sobhitha Thera's Sasana and social service under the patronage of Ven. Dr. Dhammalankara Mahanayake thera and summon a meeting of the 47 parties and organisations which worked closely with it at the Presidential Election and 110 organisations which worked with it at the General Elections and decide on the future programme of work.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan refugees return from Tamil Nadu
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Sri Lankan refugees return from Tamil Nadu
Under the UNHRC facilitated voluntary repatriation programme, 42 Sri Lankan refugees returned to Sri Lanka on 24th November, the Ministry for Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and Hindu Religious Affairs revealed.
The returnees had been provided with free air tickets, a reintegration grant of US$ 75 per person, a transport grant of US$ 19 per person and monetary non-food grant of US$ 75 per family by the UNHRC.
Minister of Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and Hindu Religious Affairs D.M. Swaminathan had also met with the UNHRC to request they allow an increase of 40kg baggage per person, making 60kg in total.
They had also met with the Ministry of Public Enterprise Development, Sri Lankan Airlines and Mihin Lanka to facilitate this request.
Since 2011, 5600 refugee returnees have come from Tamil Nadu, of over 100,000 currently in India.
Figures show that 64,000 of these 100, 000 live in109 welfare camps. Children make up about14,000, the Ministry further reports.
==============================
## Title: Tribute to a spiritual master
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Tribute to a spiritual master
Senior member, Karaka Sabha of Malwatte Chapter of Shiamopali Maha Nikaya, Ven. Mahopadyaya Aluthgama Dharmananda Nayake Thera turned 100 on November 22.
A Sanghika Dana was held on October 10 for 100 members of the Maha Sangha including Maha Nayake Theras of three Nikayas: Ven. Galagama Aththadassi Nayake Thera of Asgiriya Chapter, Ven. Devludana Gnanissara Nayaka Thera, President Amarapura Sangha Sabha and Ven. Napaue Pemasiri Nayake Thera of Sri Lanka Ramanna Nikaya at the Sri Sangharaja commemoration Hall of Malwatte Maha Viharaya.
This pinikama was held under the guidance of the Ven. Thibbotuwawe Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Maha Nayake Thera and with the participation of Anunayake Theras Ven. Dimbulkumbura Wimaladharma and Ven. Niyangoda Vijtihasiri Nayake Theras to invoke blessings of the triple gem on Ven. Dhammananda Nayake Thera.
Born on November 22, 1915, in Aluthgama near Thumpone in Kandy district to parents Maha Arambe Rajakakaruna Wasala Dukganna Ralahamilage Dingiri Banda, a village headman and Herath Mudiyanselage Ranmanika, the Thera received his primary education at Muruddeniya Viyalaya and Indamagoda Vidyalaya.
He was ordained as a novice under the tutelage of Ven. Pahamune Dhammakeerthi Sri Sumangala, Thera them Maha Nayake Thera of Malwatte chapter and Ven. Aluthgama Sri Piyadssi Nayake Thera.
He received his education at Sri Sangharaja Privena, Kandy and gained higher ordination at the historic Uposathagaraya of Malwatte Maha Viharaya in 1935.
In 1936, he founded Sri Mahinda Dhaam Pasala at Ampitiya and was the head teacher until 1950. He started the Katina Cheevara Pooja at Malwatte Maha Viharaya in 1944 and held it annually for 71 years. Sasana history was created in 1944 when two Katina Cheevarayas were offered to the Maha Sangha who lined in two temples belonging to Malwatte Maha Viharaya namely Malwatte Maha Viharaya and Poya Malu Viharaya. Since the opening of the official residence of Malwatte Maha Nayake Tehra in 1966, three katina cheevarayas were offered to the Maha Sangha placing at the same place. This is unique in Buddhist world, state and facing patronage has been received for most of Katina Pinkamas.
In 1950 he started teaching at Dharmaraja College, Kandy and served until 1958 without receiving any enumeration. In 1958 he got a government teaching appointment and served as a teacher at Gurudeniya Vidyalaya and from 1966 to 1972 again at Dharmaraja College. He inaugurated Sri Sangharaja Gunanusmarana Sanganayaka, Kandy in 1947 and held the Sri Sangharaja Perahera uninterruptedly for 69 years. He founded the Sri Sangharaja and Sri Sangharaja Dham Pasala in 1951.
In 1990 he as appointed Mahapadyaya of the Malwatte Chapter by the late Sirimalawatte Ananda Maha Nayake Thera.
He has travelled to U.K, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand, Pinangama and India for Buddhist missionary work.
The statue of Welivita Sri Saranankara Sangharaja Thera at Algama Raja Maha Viharaya and the statue of King Keerthi Sri Rajasinghe at Dambulla Raja Maha Viharaya were made protective Archaeological Monuments by the Archaeological department on the request by the Nayake Thera.
The government of Myanmar conferred on him the prestigious title Agga Maha Panditha in 2010.
The 72nd annual Katina Pinkama of Malwatte Maha Viharaya and a Sanghika Dana to 50 member of Maha Sangha and a blood donation organized by Sri Sangharaja Gunanusmarana Sangamaya and its Kantha Sangamaya was held at Sri Sangharaja Commemoration Hall.
May the blessings of the Triple Gem be bestowed on the Nayake. Thera to live many more years in fostering the Sambuddha Sasana.
==============================
## Title: Village and the temple
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
Village and the temple
Ever since Buddha had shown us the path to Nibbana, ever since the Sangha began to spread the teaching to the people around the world, there had been a very close relationship between the Sangha and the lay people. As the Sangha settled down in temples in human settlements the village and the temple became one single unit. The temple became the centre around which all life activities of the village came to be.
The deterioration of this close knit association began, or was initiated by the European invaders as they saw the threat to their rule and security, with the Buddhist monks guiding the people of this country. This is not an attempt to trace the history or to find fault, but to discuss how the village and the temple could come together once again, in the best interest of all of us.
Priorities have changed both for the Sangha and the laity. We are no longer an agricultural society when we could talk of the tank and the stupa. Today we are too busy, and for most of us 24 hours is not sufficient to stay on schedule. One reason could be that we are confused about our needs and our wants. Most of us are never satisfied with what we have or could achieve. We want more and more, even if we really need them or not. That is why we do not have the time to attend to our spiritual needs.
It applies even to our monks. Most of them too have more wants than what they need. If they follow the Buddha's way of life, their needs would have been very simple. Their pursuit of knowledge would have been under the guidance of their senior monks and from the Buddhist Pitaka and the Tika. They would have had more than enough time to contemplate on what they learn, and meditate in peace. They would have studied at a Pirivena, but not with the aim of passing examinations. Today they have to enter universities, not only to learn Buddhism and Pali, but also other subjects like science and even tourism. They have to earn wages as teachers in schools and universities, or engaged in politics. Today many of our monks are too busy to spare a few minutes to talk to the people in their village, except for organizing temple festivals or erecting more buildings and other structures in the temples.
However, since the monks do not have other responsibilities and obligations like the lay devotees, they could manage their schedule to spare a little time to associate and communicate with the people in the village.
We have to remind ourselves that the temple is just not a place for us to visit on a poya day to offer flowers, light lamps and pray. The temple is our refuge. It is the place we could go to, for our peace of mind. The temple has to be a calm and serene space, without distractions, any time of the day. It is a space where we could sit under the Bo tree or inside the shrine room and contemplate on what the Buddha taught. It is a sacred space where we could meditate, or simply close our eyes and our mind to the outside world for a few minutes.
In order to achieve this the temple space has to be clean. When we enter the temple, let us sweep the ground, clear up the old offerings, and tend to the temple garden, as we would do in our own homes.
It is not just a place for us to pretend to observe "sil" or the Eight Precepts, as we practice today. Let us arrive at the temple as dawn breaks, let us listen to a sermon, read, listen to, and discuss Dhamma topics, meditate through the night and leave for home only the following morning. Let us forget our daily routine, our business, our jobs and our responsibilities.
Today there could be practical difficulties in observing Sil overnight, because of household responsibilities, like sending off the children to school and preparing meals before leaving for work. It is because, even though Poya is a public holiday, the following day is not. One solution is to observe Sil on a Saturday, like our Sri Lankan Buddhists practice in other countries. Then it does not disrupt the family life, nor would it inconvenience anyone else.
If we wish to offer flowers to the Buddha, let us pluck just one or two flowers from our own garden. Let us light just one lamp and burn one incense stick.
Let our children go to the temple whenever they are free, not to study according to a strict syllabus, to pass examinations on Buddhist studies. Let the children get used to the temple atmosphere, to behave calmly and peacefully, and learn how to follow Buddha Dhamma in a simple way. Let them learn our cultural values.
Let our young people visit the temple in the evenings, to share their thoughts, to talk to the monks, to read books, and find ways to help each other and their neighbours. Let our elders too gather to help each other, and find ways to work together with the monks to help and guide the younger generations.
Let the monks be our mentors.
Let us seek their advice on public issues, and let the monks too give us confidence that we could receive helpful guidance from them, as we used to have in the past.
Let us get our temple to be a part of the village, a part of the community, and bring peace and unity among all people.
Let there not be any restrictions based on race, religion, class or caste.
If Buddha never discriminated people based on man created labels, if He could preach to the Brahmins and Jains, if he welcomed all human beings, let us follow the Buddha's way and let us make our temple be a sacred space for all.
==============================
## Title: World leaders seek new path to slow warming of planet
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 - 01:00
World leaders seek new path to slow warming of planet
FRANCE: Next week, in the waning days of what is set to be the hottest year on record, world leaders meet on the outskirts of Paris for a summit that seeks nothing less than to steer the global economy away from its ever-growing reliance on fossil fuels.
The challenge is enormous and has proven elusive in the past.
The U.N.-sponsored talks are aimed at getting 195 countries to agree on a path for cutting the greenhouse gas emissions which scientists say have raised global temperatures and begun upending the earth's climate.
Opening the summit at Le Bourget on Nov. 30, heads of government from big carbon burning countries such as U.S. President Barack Obama and China's Xi Jinping will seek common cause with leaders from the smallest emitters in Africa and island states.
When it concludes two weeks later on Dec. 11 - give or take a couple of days for last-minute wrangling - their negotiators are likely to claim success in committing both rich and developing nations to weaning the world off the coal and oil resources that gave rise to the Industrial Revolution.
Done right, it will shape the economy of the 21st century, said Andrew Steer, head of the World Resources Institute think-tank. Done wrong, critics warn, the consequences could be catastrophic.
For climate scientists who overwhelmingly say that continuing to burn carbon even at today's pace will raise global temperatures by several degrees, a weak agreement will trigger inhospitable changes to the earth's climate systems.
A hotter planet would see dire - if hard to perfectly predict - effects: rising seas, more intense storms and droughts on land and extinction for vast numbers of life forms in warmer, more acidic oceans.
- NDTV
==============================
