## Title: SHOOTING to fame @ 11!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
SHOOTING to fame @ 11!
He is just 11 and has already earned a name as a shutter bug. Capturing animals is his forte and this talented youngster plans to hold a wildlife exhibition in the near future.
Animals are my friends and wildlife is my passion, smiles Dinal Wijesinghe.
I attend St. Josephs College. My interest in photography grew after I got my camera and after seeing many pictures of animals. I mainly take photographs of the wildlife. I have been to Yala and Wilpattu. I like taking wildlife pictures because I find animals very interesting. I have been taking pictures for around two years. I have altogether taken around 100 pictures. I like the leopard in particular, Dinal told the Daily News.
He says that he is always armed with the camera when travelling with his parents and school trips.
 I also take pictures of interesting places, Dinal says.  I have been to Yapahuwa, Panduwasnuwara and Kalutara.
I would also to hold a photography exhibition one day.
He also reminisces of his visit to Pinnawela.
It was fun to see all the elephants and I loved watching the baby elephants playing.
Dinals mother Kusumika Wijesinghe says Dinal has been keen about photography since he was small.
Dinal has about 100 books on wildlife. Every time he goes to a bookshop he goes to the section selling books on animals. He has many other interests but overall he is mainly focused on animals of any kind, be it a serpent, leopard or bird. He also loves watching Discovery, River Monsters and Animal Planet. He does all this wholeheartedly, she says.
From the time he was young it has been in him. He had this in him from the time he could speak. He insists on going to wildlife parks. We take him to wildlife parks during holidays. He focuses on a place where he can have easy access, Kusumika says.
She said at Wilpattu he took some photographs of very rare migratory birds.
He finds out things on his own and talks to the staff at hotels. This leads to him getting to know where he can capture pictures of animals, she says.
Dinals other hobby is collecting stamps. He also has a silver medal for chess.
The photograph Dinal captured of a leopard at Wilpattu has special memories for him.
We saw a leopard on the road while during a trip to Wilpattu. This is rare at Wilpattu. This enabled me to capture a unique photograph, Dinal says proudly.
Dinals parents always encourage him.
They always select places which would be helpful to him such as visits to Hikkaduwa.
Dinal fondly remembers travelling in glass boats and seeing fish in Hikkaduwa.
Whale watching at Mirissa, Galle and dolphins at Kalpitiya were other fantastic experiences. There is a 100 metre gap between the viewer and the whale, because the animal is so big. To see the whale you need to go 25 kilometres into the sea. The whales follow migratory paths so you have to follow those paths. Of course you cant see the entire whale just its tail maybe, he says.
Dinal says his interests in wildlife started with prehistoric creatures.
I collected many books on that subject. I then switched onto the present day wildlife, he says.
He is also concerned about the possibility of certain species becoming extinct.
His speech at the elocution exam was on Endangered Animals - the species and how they are declining. I spoke about the endangered animals in the world - endangered animals and marine mammals in Sri Lanka. The endangered marine mammals are the Blue Whale, Sperm Whale, Pygmy Sperm Whale, Dolphins such as the Bottle Nosed Dolphins and the Striped Dolphins. On the ground it is the Leopard, the Sloth Bear and the Elephant. If you look at the world Rhinos and Gorillas are in danger. The Pandas are almost extinct, but now there are steps taken to conserve the pandas. I will do all I can to save the endangered animals, says Dinal with determination.
Dinals says his main aim is to protect wildlife while photography is only a hobby.
Once in Grade 3, there was this little crow who had fallen off from a tree. I tried to protect this crow because the other children were trying to hit it, he says.
I am against cruelty towards animals. I will do my best to protect animals in every possible manner, says a determined Dinal.

==============================
## Title: 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the Elections Department
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
60th Anniversary Celebrations of the Elections Department
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was the Chief Guest at the 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the Elections Department held at the BMICH yesterday. Former Presidents Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Mahinda Rajapaksa and former Prime Minister D. M. Jayaratne are also in picture. Picture by Saman Sri Wedage
==============================
## Title: Adopt essential confidence building measures - EU
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Adopt essential confidence building measures - EU
The European Union yesterday urged the Sri Lankan government to implement the "immediate adoption of essential confidence building measures" for the victims of Sri Lanka's armed conflict.
In a statement to the 30th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, the EU expressed its "deepest solidarity with the victims and their relatives" and had "sincere admiration for the manner in which victims have contributed to the work of the OISL and have placed their confidence in the Human Rights Council".
"We also wish to welcome the historic commitments made to the people of Sri Lanka and to the international community by the government of Sri Lanka during this session. The resolution tabled by the core group and Sri Lanka marks a crucial step towards a credible transitional justice process in Sri Lanka with the active support and participation of the independent community," the EU delegation added.
"The full implementation of these commitments is now needed, starting with prompt action on a fully participatory national consultation, especially with the victims, for the design of a comprehensive justice process and the immediate adoption of essential confidence-building measures," it added.
The EU assured that it would support Sri Lanka as the country wanted to work in partnership with the international community to implement its commitments.
"The EU said it would also explore with the Sri Lankan government how best to assist in the implementation of the resolution.
==============================
## Title: Beauty for a worthy cause!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Beauty for a worthy cause!
The Winners of 'Miss and Mr Sri Lanka-Australia - 2014' beauty pageant, Shana Schokman and Malith Perera, and other participants organized a fundraiser at Clayton Hall, Melbourne, Australia, recently to support HelpAge Sri Lanka's (HASL) free Cataract Surgery Programme. The programme is currently held at the HASL Eye Hospital, Wellawatta, to restore the vision of the needy elders.
Around 200 Sri Lankans domiciled in Australia participated in the event which was organized by Managing Director, Miss Sri Lanka- Australia Ltd, Dilkie Perera.
The Pageant was held last year and Sri Lankan born Shana Schokman was adjudged the Miss Sri Lanka -Australia -2014, while Sri Lanka's Malith Perera bagged the Mr. Sri Lanka-Australia title.
A large number of Sri Lankans and Australians had been present to witness the Beauty Pageant. The fundraising campaign was followed by a `Fashion Dress Parade' with the participation of many designers. The participants also attended the dinner dance at the same venue.
HelpAge Sri Lanka Executive Director Samantha Liyanawaduge, a special invitee at the fundraising campaign, thanked Miss Sri Lanka-Australia Ltd for donating the proceeds of the campaign for the worthy cause of restoring vision of the destitute elders in Sri Lanka.
HelpAge Eye care Hospital in Wellawatta, Colombo performs around 20 free cataract surgeries each day for needy senior citizens and also provide free spectacles and medicines through their mobile medical units across the island.
Among the distinguished invitees at the ceremony were the Shadow Minister for the Scrutiny of Government and member of Southern -Eastern Metropolitan Region Parliament of Victoria Inga Peulich MLC, Sri Lankan Consul General in Melbourne Upul Pushpakumara and Consul for Sri Lanka in Victoria Bandu Dissanayake.
Miss Sri Lanka - Australia Shana Schokman said HelpAge is doing a yeoman service for the elderly and she would visit Sri Lanka towards the end of the year to organize more fundraisers for HelpAge Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Best things belong to children- President
## Supertitle: International Children's Day and Elders' Day messages
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
International Children's Day and Elders' Day messages
Best things belong to children- President
A nation or a community of people will receive high recognition in the world through the love and care given by its people or society to children. The foremost value of human civilization is the tenderness and love for children. Hence, the saying, 'Best things in the world belong to children, President Maithripala Sirisena said in an International Children's Day message.
The message: "The child must receive protection first from the parents, then from teachers and thirdly from elders and the society. Unconditional responsibility for the protection of children lies with the entire nation. However, recently reported incidents show that responsibility has been shirked by the society. This must be rectified immediately and provisions must be made to implement laws and introduce new laws or amend existing laws.
"Parents, elders and the society must commit themselves to save children form this catastrophe. The government has taken steps in that direction and the society too must join this cause to safeguard children from disaster.
"Parents must realise that their constant attention is an assurance of child's safety. Lapse in attention means that the child is unsafe. It is an open invitation for possible harm.
"By celebrating International Children's Day merely for a day is not sufficient. If every day is committed to the safety of children, they will be secure in the life they aspire."
Elders, most valuable human resource- President
Elders are the most valuable human resource in a society. They acquire knowledge through life experiences. Since ancient times, people of the East have placed the elders in a high stature in the society as well as within the family unit providing them the due respect, President Maithripala Sirisena said in an Elders' Day message
The message: "Sri Lankans within their extended family system have given a special place for elders and considered them as the pride of a family.
"However, urbanization has posed a serious challenge to the survival of the role of the elder. In many households today, elderly persons are kept in elders' homes, while the children spend their lives as machines in their homes.
"There must be a national dialogue on the imperative need for taking steps to prevent recurrence of unfortunate situations faced by elderly persons in today's world.
"The challenge we have is to arrive at a solution in keeping with the invaluable qualities the Sri Lankan society inherited from the glorious past.
"Steps are taken by the National Secretariat for Elders to assure security for elders and to utilize their experiences, knowledge and wisdom for the society, which is being urbanized due to modernization.
"I wish every success for the Elders' Day celebrations held under the theme "Sustainability and Age Inclusiveness in the Urban Environment."
Pay more attention towards children and elders - Prime Minister
It is paramount on our part to pay increasing attention towards the security of children and the welfare of elders at a time when harassment against children is daily increasing in society and the destitution of elders has become a social problem as we celebrate Universal Childrens and Elders Day, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said in a message to mark Children's and Elders' Day.
The message: "We should protect and safeguard children by understanding their mindset, treating them with loving care, safeguarding them against suffering and pressure directed from society and family and strengthening them to face challenges of life.
"Safeguarding children against disasters and abuse has become a grave responsibility cast on parents and elders. All parties, including the government, media, religious dignitaries and the community are all shareholders of this responsibility and accountability.
"Recent incidents prove that sexual abuse against children has become a grave social catastrophe. An extensive programme should be launched to eliminate sexual unrest in society, widen sex education, provide a proper understanding of gender and develop cultural and moral values among people.
"Improvement of welfare services to safeguard elderly people and building a socio-economic background that would strengthen family ties are the challenges facing us.
"I request all citizens to join hands with the programme launched by the government towards achieving this goal."
Nation's future depends on children - Minister
The socio-economic development of a nation depends on the personality and intellectual development of the future generation, Women's and Child Affairs Minister Chandrani Bandara said in an International Children's Day message.
The message: "During recent times, we have seen high incidence of crimes committed against children. Child abuse takes place for a wide variety of reasons. It could be due to lack of proper education and socio-economic and cultural reasons. This kind of violence cuts across ethnic, class, economic and social divide. It affects boys and girls of different ages.
"I urge all members of Sri Lankan society to network with us in our efforts to take preventive measures and also assist in the rehabilitation of victims so that all children grow up to become productive citizens."
==============================
## Title: Burned as baby, woman finally meets nurse who cared for her
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Burned as baby, woman finally meets nurse who cared for her
For 38 years, a few black-and-white photographs of a nurse cradling a baby provided comfort to a woman who suffered terrible burns and endured years of playground taunts and painful surgeries thereafter. For all that time, until Tuesday, she dreamed of meeting her again.
The photos show Amanda Scarpinati at just 3 months old, her head thickly wrapped in gauze, resting calmly in the nurse's arms. Shot for the Albany Medical Center's 1977 annual report, the images have a beatific, "Madonna and Child" quality.
As a baby, she had rolled off a couch onto a boiling steam vaporizer. Melted mentholated ointment scalded her skin. The burns would require many reconstructive surgeries over the years.
The photos helped.
"Growing up as a child, disfigured by the burns, I was bullied and picked on, tormented," she said. "I'd look at those pictures and talk to her, even though I didn't know who she was. I took comfort looking at this woman who seemed so sincere, caring for me."
Scarpinati now lives Athens, 25 miles south of Albany, and works as a human resources manager. All her life, she wanted to thank the nurse who showed her such loving care, but she didn't even know her name.
She tried to find out 20 years ago, without success. The pictures were taken by photographer Carl Howard, but his subjects weren't identified.
At a friend's urging, she tried again this month, posting the photos on Facebook and pleading for help.
"Within 12 hours, it had gone viral with 5,000 shares across the country," said Scarpinati.
She had her answer within a day: The fresh-faced young nurse with the long wavy hair was Susan Berger, then 21. Angela Leary, a fellow nurse at the medical center back then, recognized her and sent Scarpinati a message, saying Berger "was as sweet and caring as she looks in this picture."
Preserved by the photos, their encounters in the pediatric recovery room turned out to have a lasting impact on both their lives.
"I remember her," Berger said before they met face to face on Tuesday. "She was very peaceful. Usually when babies come out of surgery, they're sleeping or crying. She was just so calm and trusting. It was amazing."
Berger had been fresh out of college, and baby Amanda was one of her first patients. Now she's nearing the end of her career, overseeing the health center at Cazenovia College in New York's Finger Lakes region.
Both women were thrilled to see each other again Tuesday, sobbing and embracing as cameras clicked all around them in a medical center conference room.
"Oh my God, you're real! Thank you!" Scarpinati said.
"Thank YOU!" Berger responded.
If any scars remain, Scarpinati doesn't show them, from her long dark hair to the butterfly tattoo just above her ankle. Berger also seems youthful and upbeat, with shoulder-length blonde hair, slightly shorter than how she wore it in 1977.
"I'm over the moon to meet Sue ... I never thought this day would come," Scarpinati said.
Berger said she feels even more blessed.
"I don't know how many nurses would be lucky enough to have something like this happen, to have someone remember you all that time," Berger said. "I feel privileged to be the one to represent all the nurses who cared for her over the years."
Someone asked if their reunion might be the start of a lifelong friendship.
Scarpinati had a quick answer to that: "It already has been a lifelong friendship. She just didn't know." Yahoo
==============================
## Title: Ceylon Teachers' Union moves HRC for guidelines when arresting students
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Ceylon Teachers' Union moves HRC for guidelines when arresting students
The Ceylon Teachers' Union requested the Human Rights Commission (HRC) yesterday to lay down guidelines to be followed when taking a school student into police custody. After filing a human rights violation case at the HRC following the incident of taking a student into custody allegedly by police in connection with the murder of the five year old girl at Kotadeniyawa, the HRC was requested to engage its attention in formulating an appropriate mechanism, Ceylon Teachers' Union Chief Secretary Joseph Stalin told Daily News.
Stalin added that there is no proper mechanism or a systematic process to be followed by security personnel when taking a student into custody or when a student is being questioned. This situation leads to a human rights violations of such students when in custody and moreover to a huge mental trauma.
Besides, the Ceylon Teachers' Union has requested the HRC to ascertain whether the human rights of the student had been violated, since it has been revealed that the student was kept in police custody for three days without making any record.
"We are not saying that students should not be taken into custody but there should be a proper guideline in this regard" he said.
He added that the conduct of the police is highly questionable since the police made various comments on the character of the student saying that he is a drug addict and a viewer of obscene videos. Therefore, the Ceylon Teachers' Union has requested the HRC to look into the conduct of the police. Accordingly, the OIC Kotadeniyawa, SSP of the area, IGP and the Chairperson of the Child Protection Authority had to bear the responsibility.
==============================
## Title: Come out on top!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Come out on top!
Life is full of possibilities. When one door closes, another door opens. If you see a door that is half closed, remember that it is also half open. That is an opportunity not to be missed.
If you have done really well at the G.C.E. A/L, you will most probably enter a State university. I wrote "most probably", because you could miss out on university by a whisker, even if you have good marks due to the quirks in the selection process. On the other hand, if you have not done all that well, the university route will be closed to you. But that is not the end, because there are so many other opportunities that open up from vocational education to job placements, if you look keenly.
However, there is one factor that will help you regardless of whether you enter university or not - a good knowledge of the English language. It is essential in today's fast moving, commercialized world. If you scan any vacancy advertisement, it invariably calls for an excellent command of the English language. While not everyone will be able to achieve such lofty heights, at least a good working knowledge of English, known in common parlance as "Kaduwa", is an essential requirement.
It will therefore help you later in life if you make an effort to improve your knowledge of the English language. From reading books and newspapers to speaking in English with people known to you (who will not laugh at you for any mistakes), it is relatively easy to do so. There are many resources on the Internet which helps you to learn English at your own pace. Having a good command of English will definitely help you in a job interview and for following a higher education course. And if you already do have a very good command of English, why not move on to another language, such as French, Japanese or German  Knowing any other foreign language is an advantage in today's society from a personal and professional point of view.
Did you know that some companies (and educational institutions) also value general knowledge  For example, if you know the name of the man who had to stay in orbit (Michael Collins) while his two colleagues (Neil Armstrong and Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin) explored the surface of the Moon during the Apollo 11 mission in July 1969, it shows that you have read about the wider world. Do you know the capital city of Madagascar (Antananarivo)  Do you know when the Magna Carta was signed  (1215) These are just a few examples. In fact, many companies now request prospective job seekers to face a test which contains several general knowledge questions in addition to the usual aptitude questions.
This way, companies are making a statement - that they want to recruit individuals who have not only 'book knowledge' but also real life knowledge. Again, the Internet is the best resource for getting a dose of general knowledge, but do not dismiss conventional printed books, newspapers and magazines.
If you have done your A/Ls, you have to proactively seek job and career fairs and higher educational opportunities. There are a number of well known career fairs which can point you in the right direction. The experts at these fairs are usually able to guide you in the proper direction, depending on your educational background and requirements/expectations. Moreover, foreign and local educational institutions regularly hold exhibitions and seminars here, so it does not hurt to attend them. Do not always worry about money - foreign education is certainly expensive, but if you are lucky, you may be able to receive a full or partial scholarship.
In the meantime, it also helps if you can follow another course, perhaps totally opposite to what you were planning to enroll for at university or another educational institution. For example, why not follow an accountancy course if you are intending to study law  It is a difficult proposition, of course, but this will one day give you an unbeatable combination. Today, companies look for multifaceted individuals - those with a 360 degree view - to helm certain positions and having multiple qualifications will give you a good head start.
All of us have heard the old saying that urges us to "take life as it comes". Sometimes that may be the best thing to do, because certain things happen for a reason. Ultimately, it may lead to good prospects for you. There are many people here and abroad who either totally missed out on university or dropped out halfway, only to become leading figures in a variety of fields. Life throws many challenges at us, but if you know how to face them with confidence, you can come out on top, victorious. You can gain the upper hand if you have poise and confidence.
==============================
## Title: Development and reconciliation our new vision
## Supertitle: President tells 70th UNGA sessions
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
President tells 70th UNGA sessions
Development and reconciliation our new vision
Our new vision for the country involves achieving the twin objectives of sustainable development and reconciliation, President Maithripala Sirisena said addressing the 70th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York yesterday.
"A fundamental requirement in this context is dealing with the past honestly and building a modern Sri Lankan Nation. In dealing with the past, we will follow a process of truth seeking, justice, reparation and non-recurrence," he added.
In this regard the President said, it was imperative that Sri Lanka adopts a new social, economic and political approach to rise up to the challenges of the 21st century and added in this connection, reconciliation receives priority attention.
President Sirisena said the new consensual government under his leadership has already taken several steps to introduce and operationalize constitutional and institutional reforms required to accelerate the achievement of these goals.
He also pointed out that the government intends to implement a new program and plan of action to advance human rights in Sri Lanka. Within the first six months, the President said his Government had introduced essential amendments to the Constitution in order to strengthen democracy in Sri Lanka."These amendments have reinforced the foundations of good governance through institutional reforms that strengthened pluralism and democracy..
"With my personal intervention and facilitation, some of the executive powers vested in the Presidency were transferred to the Parliament and other independent institutions". Following the General Elections in , the President said he was able to unite the two major political parties in the country to create an alliance for consensual governance in the country, changing the confrontational political culture that prevailed in the country for six decades.
Speaking of terrorism, the President said Sri Lanka succeeded in eliminating terrorism, which continues to throttle other developing countries from Asia to Africa and Latin America and Sri Lanka's conflict and post-conflict experience can be shared with the rest of the developing world.In context to global development, President Sirisena said it is important to have a dialogue within the South as much as between the North and South.The President stressed that Sri Lanka as a country in the South can contribute immensely to nurture such South-South dialogue.
==============================
## Title: Devil is in the detail
## Supertitle: Geneva consensus
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Geneva consensus
Devil is in the detail
The much awaited outcome of the on-going sessions of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva is becoming clearer by the day: a 'consensus' resolution co-sponsored by the United States and Sri Lanka will emerge, despite vociferous opposition both locally and internationally. This resolution will sanction a 'domestic' inquiry with the 'participation' of foreign personnel into alleged violations of human rights during the final stages of the Eelam war not merely by the Sri Lankan security forces but also by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.
There was much angst in Colombo when the UNHRC sessions began. That was because the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Hussein made some scathing comments regarding the Sri Lankan judicial system in his opening remarks at the sessions and called for a 'hybrid' inquiry incorporating both local and international personnel stating that a purely domestic inquiry will lack credibility and will not be able to convince a sceptical audience.
There were sighs of relief when the United States intervened, supporting Sri Lanka's call for a domestic inquiry but that euphoria was short-lived as some European Union countries, spurred on by the Eelam lobby, persisted in calling for an internationalised probe.
What then evolved was a resolution that called for a domestic inquiry but included the participation of 'commonwealth and other foreign judges, defence lawyers, and authorized prosecutors and investigators'.
'Domestic' inquiry
This was to cause even more confusion. Locally, even as the President and Prime Minister were holding a briefing to reassure the public that a domestic probe would be conducted, groups and political parties opposed to the Maithripala Sirisena - Ranil Wickremesinghe government were claiming that the term 'domestic inquiry' was an eyewash for a full scale international probe because there would be international participation. This was in fact, the 'hybrid' probe that High Commissioner Hussein had called for, carefully camouflaged with a play on words, they claimed.
The wording confused not only the average citizen in Sri Lanka, it appears to have stumped the country's envoy to the United Nations in Geneva, career Foreign Service officer Ravinatha Aryasinha as well. Aryasinha went on the offensive regarding the wording, raising eyebrows in the United States diplomatic contingent. It is learnt that Aryasinha was later cautioned by Colombo to tone down the rhetoric and adopt a more accommodating approach.
Some clarity emerged this week when, after meeting with President Sirisena in New York, US Secretary of State John Kerry issued a statement. In it, Kerry said that the inquiry would be "one that is led and owned by the Sri Lankan people and is conducted in cooperation with the UN and with international support".
Reading between the lines, what will eventuate is an inquiry where Sri Lanka will be the decision makers in the process of the inquiry itself: it will choose who the judges and prosecutors are and set the agenda for the probe. In that sense, it will indeed be a 'domestic' inquiry.
However, Colombo will be obliged to include international participants in the probe. Who they are, what their roles would be, whether they will be active participants or mere observers and the framework within which they will operate will be for Sri Lanka to decide. This is what Kerry means when he states that the inquiry will be 'led and owned by the Sri Lankan people'.
The devil though is in the detail. It is still unclear what the exact mechanism of the probe would be although Prime Minister Wickremesinghe has been elaborating on a multi-tiered reconciliation mechanism involving religious leaders and a South African style Truth Commission. The specific modus operandi of these processes will finally determine whether Sri Lanka can truly control the inquiry process or whether the 'foreign participants' will be the key decision makers.
The Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government however is clearly happy with this outcome. It sees this as a major diplomatic victory and indeed, the Eelam lobby, which had been campaigning for a no holds barred international probe spearheaded by the UNHRC is disappointed. Already Premier Wickremesinghe is on record stating that former President Mahinda Rajapaksa led the country to this crisis by providing assurances to United Nations Secretary General Ban-Ki-moon in the aftermath of the war victory and then not honouring them. He sees the current scenario as a way out of that predicament.
International community
However, sections of the Tamil political movement in Sri Lanka are unhappy. A joint statement signed by all other three constituent parties of Tamil National Alliance (TNA) except the Illankai Tamil Arasu Katchchi (ITAK), comprising of the Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF), Democratic People's Liberation Front (DPLF), Tamil Eelam Liberation Organisation (TELO) and the Tamil National People's Front (TNPF) have already written to the UNHRC pleading for the probe to revert to an "international criminal justice process".
At the other end of the political spectrum, the National Freedom Front led by Wimal Weerawansa has called for a referendum before the probe goes ahead. Weerawansa said that if the UNHRC approves the resolution, Sri Lankans should have the liberty to decide if they want any foreign involvement in solving internal issues.
Weerawansa's vociferous partner in opposing the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government, Pivithuru Hela Urumaya leader Udaya Gammanpila has said that their party is contemplating legal action in the Supreme Court against such a probe. This would be on the basis that having international judges participate in a probe of this nature would violate the country's sovereignty.
Even if the government feels that it has won over the international community with its offer to co-operate with the UNHRC, it must be aware that the battle is hardly over. The pro-Eelam lobby in the West will monitor and interpret every move the government makes with regard to the inquiry- and cry foul at the slightest hint of impropriety.
UNHRC probe
To avert this, Colombo should act on the recommendations of the final resolution that will be adopted in Geneva promptly, efficiently and sincerely so that it will convince its supporters at the UNHRC - the US and India being among them - of its bon fides.
In doing so however, it is likely to run in to opposition from the more nationalistic elements in Sri Lanka. These groups identify themselves mostly with former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. A significant proportion of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party also support them, at least tacitly if not overtly.
Rajapaksa, confined to the benches of the opposition after being the all-powerful President of the country for ten years, is spoiling for a fight. It is too soon after the general election to take the government on issues such as the economy. The UNHRC probe will be a godsend to Rajapaksa and his loyalists to try and re-establish themselves as a force to reckon with in the domestic political equation.
The UNHRC session in Geneva will conclude this week. However, the drama related to Sri Lanka's prosecution of the Eelam war to a finish will be played out in the corridors of power in Colombo for months to come-and there will be no shortage of eager spectators from around the globe who will no doubt provide critical reviews and see whether the saga follows the script to the letter.
==============================
## Title: Elections Dept. has vital role in preserving democracy - Sampanthan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Elections Dept. has vital role in preserving democracy - Sampanthan
Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan said yesterday they wanted Sri Lanka to continue to be a vibrant democracy.
Speaking at the 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the Department of Elections at the BMICH the Opposition Leader said that democracy is surviving in this country and if there is no democracy, the country will be destroyed. "We cannot let the country be destroyed," he said.
" Therefore we should strengthen democracy in the country. and the the Department of Elections should be aware of its responsibility to ensure democracy." he said.
He also observed that the Elections Department, Elections Commissioner and his staff are trustees on behalf of people of this country in conducting free and fair elections.
"Fortunately in this country, though there had been occasional issues, the Elections Department has conducted its responsibility and duties properly," he said.
Addressing the occasion, Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya emphasized the necessity of having a proper mechanism to carry forward the Independence Elections Commission which will be established under the 19th Amendment with more powers .
He also emphasized the necessity of auditing election expenses of candidates.
The 60th anniversary celebrations of the Department of Elections was held yesterday at the BMICH under the patronage of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
Four stamps and a First Day Cover was issued yesterday to commemorate the 60th Anniversary of the Department of Elections.
The stamps ranged in the denomination of Rs.10, Rs.15, Rs.25 and Rs.35 were issued by the Sri Lanka Philatelic Bureau of the Department of Posts.
According to the sources of the Department of Elections, the Department was established on October 01, 1955 after amalgamating the Departments of Parliamentary Elections and Department of Local Government that had been in existence till the middle of the 1950s.
The Department of Elections does not come under any Ministry. Hence no transfer of any officer into or outside the department without the consent of the Commissioner of Elections can take place. The Commissioner is answerable only to the Judiciary in regard to the conduct of elections, sources said.
Former Presidents Mahinda Rajapaksa, Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Former Prime Minister D.M. Jayaratne, Ministers, Governors, Department Heads and many other distinguished guests participated at the occasion.
==============================
## Title: Get out Feminism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Get out Feminism
The Oscar-winning actor Marion Cotillard has said there is no place for feminism in Hollywood because the very term itself creates "separation" between the sexes.
Interviewed in Porter magazine, the French star of La Vie En Rose and Rust and Bone said she did not consider herself a feminist.
The Cannes film festival has been at the centre of claims that it fails to promote diversity since 2012, when all 22 films in the major competitions were directed by men. But, addressing the issue, Cotillard said she struggled to see a problem.
"Film-making is not about gender," she said. "You cannot ask a president in a festival like Cannes to have, like, five movies directed by women and five by men.
"For me it doesn't create equality, it creates separation. I mean, I don't qualify myself as a feminist.
"We need to fight for women's rights but I don't want to separate women from men. We're separated already because we're not made the same and it's the difference that creates this energy in creation and love. Sometimes in the word feminism there's too much separation."
Cotillard's comments echo those made by British actor Emily Watson at a press conference at the San Sebastin film festival. "In terms of equal pay, there's obviously a question to be answered about how it's divided up, but I don't think it's my personal quest," said the Oscar nominee. "I just feel so grateful that I do a job that I love and someone pays me."
Hollywood's struggles with gender equality have been a hot issue recently to the point that a backlash now appears to be brewing. Women made up only 30.2% of all speaking or named characters in the 100 top-grossing films distributed in the US between 2007 and 2014, according to research conducted by the University of Southern California for the Geena Davis Institute, with a remarkably low 1.9% of those films directed by women.
Patricia Arquette raised the issue of the pay gap during her best supporting actress acceptance speech at February's Oscars, and Meryl Streep, Emma Thompson and Carey Mulligan are among actors who have added their voices to calls for Hollywood to address it.
- Guardian.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Govt. to work with UNHRC to safeguard human rights - Ravinatha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Govt. to work with UNHRC to safeguard human rights - Ravinatha
The Sri Lankan Government will work with the United Nations Human Rights Council(UNHRC) and the international community to take necessary steps to safeguard and uphold the human rights of all citizens, Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka Ambassador Ravinatha P. Aryasinha said.
He was addressing the UN Human Rights Council 30th Session yesterday when the Report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on Sri Lanka was taken up for debate.
"The President and Prime Minister placed reconciliation as well as development as the top-most priorities of the Government. Efforts were launched immediately to restore and renew Sri Lanka's relations with the international community as a whole to ensure that the benefits of these partnerships and relationships accrue to the people of my country.
Soon after the Parliamentary Election on the 17th of August, the President and the Prime Minister worked to forge a National Unity Government that is essential for the political and policy stability required for reconciliation to succeed.
The spirit of the Government that I represent is to build a nation that is prosperous, a nation where the human rights of all individual citizens are protected, a nation which is a responsible member of the international community, a nation that is confident, respecting the universal values of freedom, equality and justice, and a nation that is at peace with itself and with the world.
This new vision is what we now represent in our actions in this Council. You heard clearly the message that the Minister of Foreign Affairs conveyed when he addressed the Council on the 14th of September regarding the steps that Sri Lanka has already taken and intends to take in achieving reconciliation and upholding human rights including the setting up of mechanisms for truth seeking, justice, reparations and non-recurrence through consultations with all stakeholders.
In this path that we have chosen to tread, we will work with the High Commissioner, his Office, systems and procedures of the Human Rights Council and the international community including our bilateral partners to take necessary steps to safeguard and uphold the human rights of all our citizens. This includes obtaining their advice and assistance." he said in his statement.
==============================
## Title: Hollywood , Bollywood ,  Kollywood
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Hollywood , Bollywood ,  Kollywood
Sanjay Dutt Goes Back to Jail
Actor Sanjay Dutt was photographed outside his Mumbai residence on Saturday afternoon, bidding farewell to his family before returning to Pune where he has been serving a 5-year jail sentence for his involvement in the Mumbai blasts. The 56-year-old actor was allowed to leave prison for a month because his daughter Iqra, was having nose surgery. (See Pics) Sanjay Dutt embraced his wife Maanyata and hugged children Shahraan and Iqra before leaving for Pune.
His frequent breaks from jail have been criticised in the past as evidence of VIP treatment. The last time the actor was given leave from jail was in December 2014. An extension he applied for then was rejected. Between May 2013 and 2014, Dutt spent over 118 days out of prison. Yesterday, his lawyers clarified that he had never filed for pardon with the Maharashtra Governor. The clarification came after a 2013 petition by former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju seeking pardon for the actor was rejected by the Maharashtra Governor Vidyasagar Rao.
Dutt was found guilty in 2013 of acquiring illegal weapons from those involved in the 1993 attacks in Mumbai. He was sentenced to six years in jail in 2007; he served 18 months but then was out on bail, fighting the conviction until a court in March 2013 ordered him back to jail in Pune.
Sanjay Dutt, star of the blockbuster Munna Bhai films, was last seen in Aamir Khans 2014 hit PK. NDTV
Ian Somerhalder to Play Jack Hyde
Fifty Shades Darker:
Movies or TV, movies or TV  how does an actor choose Ian Somerhalder is reportedly closer than ever to becoming Jack Hyde in Fifty Shades Darker, because rumor has it he may be quitting The Vampire Diaries and that wife Nikki Reed is really pushing him to take the big-screen plunge.
With just a few months left to go until director James Foley rounds up the troops to start shooting Fifty Shades Darker, a few crucial roles have yet to be cast, including Jack Hyde, who is Christian Greys rival for Anastasia Steeles affections in the sequel. Two actors names have been repeatedly mentioned as possible contenders: Somerhalder and lesser known (equally as hot) model and actor Theo James. (Yes, Henry Cavill would be the most perfect Hyde of all, but he has already pretty much said its not happening.)
In order to take on the role, Somerhalder would likely have to quit playing Damon Salvatore on The Vampire Diaries  something Reed would reportedly love to see him do, both because she knows Fifty Shades Darker would help raise his profile and possibly lead to other film projects, and because it would also mean her new husband could stop working alongside his ex-girlfriend Nina Dobrev.
I havent met many women who want their husbands to work with other gorgeous women with whom they had romantic connections for many years, so its not that I dont find that part of this story believable. But Reed seems pretty confident in her relationship and Somerhalder is smitten with her  my guess is that she, like many of his fans, has his best interests at heart and truly feels a leap to movies will catapult him into an even more varied and interesting acting career.
If he is chosen as Jack Hyde, Somerhalder will appear in both Fifty Shades Darker and Fifty Shades Freed.
Like Somerhalder, both Jamie Dornan and Dakota Johnson acted in projects prior to their roles as Grey and Steele, but the opportunities that have opened up for them since (Johnson is starring alongside Johnny Depp in Black Mass and Dornan plays a lead role in Anthropoid) have been incredible.
This could be huge for Somerhalder, who has had success with TV shows like Smallville and Lost but really has few big movie credits to date.
As Nikki is his wife and best friend, Im sure his career is the first thing on her mind as she supports his decision (though never seeing Dobrev again is obviously a teeny, tiny perk).
The Stir
Whats in a name
Ever wondered how a celebrity could have a name that are sometimes quite unusual or unique Well thats because they were never happy with their real names in the first place or they were just too long they just had to come up with something better. Meet some of your
favourite celebrities and their real names. The Stir
LORDE: Ella Marie Lani Yelich OConner
Incase you were wondering if someone actually names their daughter Lorde, the answer is no. Lorde was given the name Ella Marie Lani Yelich OConner. But because the Pure Heroin singer didnt see the name as destined for royalty, she found something much more regal.
Julia Roberts: Julie Roberts
Julia Roberts didnt stray too far from her chosen name, Julie. But she did change it to Julia because early in her career, the star discovered there was already an actress name Julie Roberts. Looks like this Julie Roberts emerged as the true star.
Jenna Elfman: Jennifer Mary Butala
Its true that Jennifer Mary Butaladoesnt have as much of a ring as Jenna Elfman. The California native who starred in Dharma and Greg abandoned a ballet career for the big screen and her birth name for something more star-powered.
Reese Witherspoon: Laura Jean Reese Witherspoon
Miss Laura Jean is just about as Southern as it gets. The star took on her mothers maiden name, Reese, and turned it into her professional name. If you love the The Hot Pursuit stars name, its still low on the popularity list, ranking #164 out of 1000 on the Nameberry List, so go ahead steal it if your preggers.
Mindy Kaling: Vera Mindy Chokalingam
It turns out the actress and producer never went by her birth name, Vera Mindy Chokalingam. Her Nigerian parents wanted a cute name, so they dubbed her Mindy. When Mindy began her stand-up career the MCs couldnt pronounce her last name, so whats a gal to do but shorten it
Jason Derulo: Jason Joel Desrouleaux
The Talk Dirty singer didnt want to overcomplicate things when it came to pronouncing his name, so Jason Joel Desrouleaux chose the stage name Jason Derulo. Derulo is actually just an alternate spelling of his last name, which shares the same pronunciation.
Jonathan Rhys Meyers: Jonathan Michal Francis OKeefe
Sexy Dublin born Mission Impossible III actor just didnt think Jonathan Michal Francis OKeefe was sexy enough. So he said beannacht to his Irish mothers maiden name and took off for LaLa Land.
Carmen Electra: Tara Leigh Patrick
Because she can! And, it sounds MUCH more star-worthy than Tara Leigh Patrick. Actually, though, it was Prince who convinced her to change her name. The two dated for a while before the Playboy Playmate became a star.
Demi Moore: Demetria Gene Guynes
Moore actually took on the last name of her first husband, Freddy Moore. The actress was born Demetria Gene Guynes. Now try saying that five times!
Charlie Sheen: Carlos Irwin Estevez
Opting for a more Americanized name, Carlos Irwin Estevez took on the name Charlie Sheen, and the rest is history. Sheens brother, Emilio Estevez, however, kept his original Latin name.
Vin Diesel: Mark Sinclair Vincent
The Fast and the Furious star actually adopted two of his nicknames to create his stage name Vin Diesel. Mark Sinclair Vincents friends used to call him Vin, from his last name Vincent, and because he never ran out of energy some of his pals called him Diesel. Hence, Vin Diesel.
Jennifer Aniston: Jennifer Anastassakis
Our favorite Friends star and new wife to Justin Theroux changed her Greek name Jennifer Anastassakis to a more effortless Aniston. She may have taken the lead from her father, Days of Our Lives actor Yannis Anastasskis, aka John Aniston.
Whoopi Goldberg: Caryn Elaine Johnson
Believe it or not funny gal Whoopi Goldberg chose her first name because her friends said she sounded like a whoopee cushion, and contrary to most people moving away from their ethnic names in Hollywood, Goldbergs mom didnt think Caryn Elaine Johnson sounded Jewish enough to make it in La La Land. And so, Whoopi Goldberg was born.
Mariah Carey: Maria Nunez
Grammy-winning diva Mariah Carey was born Maria Nunez, but Carey adopted her Venezuelan grandfathers name, Carey, which he changed from Nunez after emigrating to the US. Mariahs first name is from the song, They Call The Wind Maria, from the 1950s Broadway musical, Paint Your Wagon. At the time it was pronounced Mariah.
Bruno Mars: Peter Gene Hernandez
Born Peter Gene Hernandez, the Honolulu-born singer didnt want to be stereotyped into just creating Latin music, so he came up with a stage name to skyrocket his career. The crooner took on his childhood nickname, Bruno, given to him because he was both strong-willed and a brute. Mars came about as the singer thought he was out of this world.
Alicia Keys: Alicia Augello Cook
The singer born Alicia Augello Cook took to the dictionary to choose her stage name. When Keys settled on Wild, her mom dissuaded her, saying it sounded too much like a strippers name. After that she decided to use Keys because the name is like the piano keys and can open many doors.
Its Bollywoods Jack Bauer
India launches its own Hindi version of terrorism drama 24:
Bollywood screen legend Anil Kapoor has launched an Indian version of 24 where he plays the Indian version of Jack Bauer.
The drama features all the same techniques and drama of the original series, but all of the characters and storylines have been changed to work with a local audience.
Instead of Jack Bauer, Kapoor plays the heroic head of the Indian Anti Terrorist Unit, Jai Singh Rathod.
In the final season of the US version of 24 Kapoor plays President Omar Hassan of the fictional Islamic Republic of Kamistan.
He is in the US to sign a peace treaty which is opposed by terrorists. The terrorists want to attack the United States and kill Hassan.
Unusually, Jack Bauer is unable to save the person who he is tasked with protecting but manages to avert nuclear Armageddon.
Speaking to CNN, Kapoor said that 24 was only previously known in India by those who could speak English. He said his version was filmed in Hindi so every small town and village across the country could tune in. Unlike earlier Indian productions, there are now sequences of singing and dancing. That is not a requirement anymore, he added. Kapoors 24 is one of the most expensive TV shows ever filmed for the Indian market. Director Abhinay Deo said: We are giving them their star that they love and we are giving them subject matter which is close to them, which is India, patriotism, terrorism, crime, thriller and family emotions. Where can this go wrong
Kapoor actually played a Middle Eastern leader in the eighth season of the US version in 2010. The popular actor said he had to bring discipline and professionalism from US television to India to get the programmed filmed in time.
The producers created an exact replica of the CTU (counter terrorism unit) from the original US version to bring added authenticity. In the Indian version, Kapoors character has just 24 hours to save the country from an impending terrorist attack and save the life of leading politician. In India, much of the daily television output is dedicated to soap operas which go out daily. It is understood that a second season of 24 in India is already in production.
Raj Nayak, chief executive of Colors TV channel which is broadcasting the show said more adaptations of US shows will make their way to Indian screens.
He said: When 24 becomes a hit, be assured that every CEO of every broadcasting company will be on a flight to L.A. to pick up formats. My audience is the masses - the Hindi heartland. They havent seen this, for them itll be a novelty and something new. Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: I am a teacher and a mom...!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
I am a teacher and a mom...!
I have quite an interesting and entertaining job. It involves your children. Yes, I spend my days enjoying myself with your children.
They make me laugh; they make me cry - in short- they make me feel young again. As a teacher I have to handle them with responsibility, love and care. It is such a challenge to work with them. But usually the biggest challenge is with you parents. It is hard to meet with the demanding expectations of school. Believe me, I know. I am a mom too. Yet, there are some things that need to be attended to for the sake of our child no matter what our position in life is. In my life as a teacher, when certain issues happen to any of my kids in class, it makes me stop and think, "Is this the usual way this child is brought-up Does this parent even know of the plight her child is facing Is this the price that the child pays when her 'educated-parents' have high profile jobs"
But still, we all have great expectations of what our child must and should be in the future. There is a famous quote by an author named Stacia Tauscher - "We worry about what our children will become tomorrow, yet we forget that he is someone today."
In this article I would love to share with you some situations that generally happen in a Montessori / Pre-school, what we have experienced as teachers and what we expect from you as parents. I understand that you may find some hard to believe, but I promise I am not making anything up!
School bags and bottles:
You have been given a list of items at the beginning of each academic year of what should be brought daily to school. Buy a bag that all these things fit into. Some children bring little fancy bags (shape bags) which has their favourite cartoon character in front (there is no problem with the cartoon character - only the shape and size). Ok. So all the items in the list are stuffed into this 'bag'. There is no neatness. There is no order. Your child will not learn to organize her stuff.
Bottles should be non-toxic and of good standard. The ones that could be cleaned easily. (When I say cleaned, it doesn't mean only outer appearance- you should be able to clean it right to the bottom.) Do not send plastic re-usable bottles (sprite, coke, fanta etc.) with water. It is unhygienic and also a health hazard.
Check their backpacks everyday:
Yes, it contains their daily work. Paper, glue, glitter, clay, and sometimes unidentified objects made by them. Take them out and appreciate their efforts (even if you have no idea what it is.) Keep them in a separate box/drawer/shelf/cupboard at least for some time. (And then get rid of it - your wish)
Some bags are not emptied daily. Its amazing what you could find in backpacks of pre-schoolers which had not been 'checked' during the week-end.
Crumbs (from Fridays snack)
Banana skin
Cockroach (dead)
Gecko (one actually jumped right onto a teacher when she opened the bag)
Small beads
Building blocks/ pieces from jigsaw puzzles/ chalk (sometimes taken from the class)
PLUS Friday's handwork of paper, glue, glitter etc.
Lunch boxes:
OMG! The discoveries in a lunch box! Without explanation I shall report it; you decide what possibly went wrong!
Expired cheese wedge (when the foil was opened it was filled with fungus!)
Cockroach (live - this time)
Box filled to the brim with rice. (the poor child does not even know from where to start..)
Unwashed box with food in.
Empty lunch box!!
Please, please see to your child's food. I think most of these situations occur when either the parent is too busy running around in the morning, or, a maid/servant attends to the child's needs. (Obviously she would only be bothered to put the food in, regardless of how unhygienic it is)
Whatever the reason may be, please take responsibility of your child's food intake. "Better to be safe than sorry" as the saying goes..
Most schools offer a Healthy food timetable so that you could prepare "healthy food" and send them on the specific days marked. Please adhere to this since it is good for your child. If he/she is a fussy eater give him/her something he/she prefers to eat at home before you bring him/her to school. (NO JUNK FOOD PLEASE) and pack the food item mentioned in the list in her box. Believe me, when they see the whole class having the same food item, they kind of get a liking to their own food in the box. Get them used to different varieties of healthy food. The appearance does not always have to look the same boring stuff. You could bake, cook, grill, grate or do whatever, (so long as its edible) to your child's fancies.
"Children are not a distraction from more important work. They are the most important work."
John Trainer MD
You should always....
Respect your child. Give them lots and lots of love. Show them that you care and be there for them in their fleeting life of pre-school. It will never come again.
==============================
## Title: Indonesia sends thousands to fight fires
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Indonesia sends thousands to fight fires
INDONESIA: Indonesia has sent nearly 21,000 personnel to fight forest fires raging in its northern islands, the disaster management agency said on Tuesday, but smoke cloaks much of the region with pollution readings in the "very unhealthy" region in neighbouring Singapore.
Slash-and-burn agriculture has blanketed Singapore, Malaysia and northern Indonesia in a choking "haze" for weeks, pushing up pollution levels and disrupting flights, as it does every year.
Indonesian efforts to halt the seasonal clearances have failed.
More than 135,000 Indonesians were reported to be suffering from respiratory diseases, the disaster agency said in a statement.
"Looking at the current situation, it essential for us to extend the period of state of emergency due to haze for another 14 days," said Arsyadjuliandi Rachman, acting governor of Riau province, one of the worst-hit areas.
"Our focus will remain on monitoring the health of our people."
Schools in parts of Malaysia were ordered closed for a second day on Tuesday and Singaporean commuters were wearing masks as they have for much of the last two weeks.
Indonesia has faced criticism for turning down offers of help from Singapore, even as it struggles to contain fires that have been exacerbated by a prolonged dry season.
Indonesian officials, including Vice President Jusuf Kalla, have repeatedly said they have enough resources to handle the crisis, with Kalla adding that neighbouring countries should be grateful for clean air provided by Indonesia's rainforests outside the haze season.
Kalla this week toned down his earlier comments and said Indonesia was open to foreign assistance, according to media.
President Joko Widodo last week visited Central Kalimantan and called for urgent action including building canals to irrigate parched peatlands where fires can be harder to put out, media reported.
Indonesian government has launched investigations of more than 200 companies and taken legal action against just four.
- NDTV
==============================
## Title: Japanese Encephalitis jabs free of charge
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Japanese Encephalitis jabs free of charge
The vaccination against Japanese Encephalitis can be obtained free of charge at offices of PHIs and MoH, Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Ministry sources said.
Anyone over one year can obtain the vaccination.
Sri Lanka has been free of Japanese Encephalitis since 1986.
==============================
## Title: Kate's hour
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Kate's hour
Look out for a very special new piece of jewelry when Kate Middleton attends a state dinner in October! It seems the duchess recently followed in the footsteps of both Diana Princess of Wales and Prince William's stepmother, The Duchess of Cornwall, when she received The Royal Family Order of Queen Elizabeth ll; the highest honor that can be bestowed upon a female member of the royal family. The order is a small diamond-framed badge painted with a portrait of the queen, which is hung from a yellow ribbon and worn at state functions.
The giving of such orders was started 200 years ago by King George lV and is basically like getting a gold star from the monarch. So the queen clearly believes that Kate has done a sterling job of representing the royal family in her first four years of marriage. It is a private honor though, so the news will not be made public. We should be able to see for ourselves in a couple of weeks however, as Kate is due to attend the state dinner for China's President Xi Jinping, hopefully wearing the order pinned to her left shoulder. It would certainly be one item worn by the duchess that wouldn't be selling out in stores any time soon
- popsugar.com
Princess Diana wearing the Royal
			Family Order of the Queen in 1983

==============================
## Title: Living his dream...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Living his dream...
He says he is hopelessly romantic and describes himself as passionate, emotional, sensitive and adventurous! Boldness and trying to do what was right were his hallmarks. At a very young age he was very concerned and helpful to others. He would often get into fights and this was because of his conviction to stand up for what was right and defend those who were wronged.
"I was born on October 28, 1979. My home town is Wattala. I have one sister and my mother and father. I come from a legacy left behind by my grandfather Boniface Fernando. He was a very famous businessman in Wattala. In fact he was a business tycoon. He was also a film producer and he had a massive house in Wattala. He was very famous during his era in the 1960's," Minister of Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure Harin Fernando reminisces his past. Religion was an important part of life, having a catholic upbringing.His mother was Buddhist and his father was Catholic. And in Fernando's words he had the 'best of both worlds.' Holiness was something he revered. And this was further strengthened by a Catholic upbringing at school, and also living near a church no doubt played a part.
He studied at St. Joseph's College right throughout and excelled in the field of sport. He shone in the field of Rugby and played Under 13 to the First 15 and has the distinction of having been a Rugby Colorsman. School was enjoyable and he had a sense of adventure and was rather mischievous. School days were full of gaiety, he was into sports and was always outdoors. Soon after his A/Ls he went to Australia. At that point the young Fernando never had the slightest inclination to do politics.
It seems as though it was his destiny to enter politics. From a very young age the profession appealed to him and it was as if politics chose him!
"I initially wanted to join politics at a very young age. When coming to school from Wattala to Colombo, I would always be entertained at the posters hung by the roads and always preferred the UNP even at that point. I loved the color green at that point."
At a very young age he was initiated into politics. His earliest memory was at the age of four during the 1983 Kalagediya and Lampuwa election. It was a referendum. President J.R Jayawardene came on stage, and it was the young Fernando who garlanded him. That was his first experience in politics on a stage. He still recalls the sky rockets going up!
Subsequently after that he lost interest in politics, but it was during his O/Ls, that once more destiny beckoned to him and he began to like the UNP and its policies. He was a very big fan of President Premadasa and Gamini Dissanayake.
The Thotalanga bomb was another memory that he can recall. He was studying for his O/Ls one night when he heard the noise, living close by. His father was supposed to go for that meeting and he anxiously asked his mother where his father was. Worried, he called his father, and to his great relief he found that his father was in the office.
From there onwards he began to take an interest in politics but had no opportunity to get into politics. But after coming back from Australia he met a girl. She happened to be from Badulla and her father was into politics and Fernando started to help her father and then entered politics getting into the youth front in Badulla.
Fernando fiercely believes in the youth of Sri Lanka. He believes that great things are in store for them. Fernando maintains that now more than ever the involvement of the youth in politics is crucial.
"The shortest message I could give to the youth of Sri Lanka is - The youth have to be part of the change in Sri Lanka. To a great extent the youth were a part of this change. Last year we saw a huge amount of youth standing up for what is right. I am pretty sure they will do the same even with the current government. So they have to be constantly vigil. They have to be very active in the current process. They should not give up."
"They should live with their dreams and fight for what is right and to move forwards and never stop dreaming. Always aim at a star so you will end up above than where you were.
That is what I did, I always aimed at something bigger. You need to start believing in yourself and never give up. Nobody in my family ever thought I would be a politician and here I am today. I only believed in myself, nobody believed in me. And it worked for me. Everybody can put you down but you just have to believe in yourself. When you know you can do something you just have to go ahead and do it. For our country the youth have to get together and believe in the country. Believe in a future, and I am pretty sure the youth in Sri Lanka will be able to change this country to a better place," says the young politician.
Winning the hearts of people was the biggest challenge that Fernando has faced in his life. It has not been easy. Fernando is a man who truly cares about the people. He is a man who delivers what he promises. He is a man who is honest from the heart. He is genuine in his approach and he is genuine in his dealings with people.
That in itself was a big challenge because lots of people expect financial benefit/support more than honesty. They expect financial benefit just to support you. So that is a big challenge when you want to do something and they only expect financial benefit out of you.
"So it is a bit of a challenge how to get in there and how to win the support of people. So one of the reasons why I love Badulla was that they believed in me and I believe in them, so it works for me."
Fernando spends his leisure time listening to music. He loves traveling and the outdoors. He loves to play any outdoor sport. Playing and watching Cricket and Rugby are favorite pastimes. His motto or philosophy in life is 'When the going gets tough the tough get going'.
At heart he is a romantic, loving romantic comedies, such as 'horrible bosses' and 'hangover part 3'. When it comes to books, one particular book he enjoys immensely is 'Rendering Unto Caesar.' It is a book by Bradman Weerakoon. It is about being a secretary to nine odd Prime Ministers. It is how governments have fallen because of little mistakes that they have made. Fernando is of the opinion that every politician should read the book.
Of all places, Majestic City was where he met his life partner in 1999 and it was a blind date! And they have been together for 12 years! Her name is Ravindani and they have two children called Nikhel and Naiara.
Fernando feels that there is still a lot he wants to do. Gratitude is one of his most endearing traits which makes his journey particularly admirable. He has brought about change in a very short time. He is a man who keeps his promises and wants to give back to the people of the Badulla district for 'keeping him on top'.
Fernando avowed that Sri Lanka is in very good hands. Stating that everybody is coming together and that reconciliation is on track he said that everything looks good and perfect and that this is all a dream come true. He also added that Sri Lanka is progressing steadily and in ten years' time we will be one of the top nations in the Asian region.
Pictures by Nirosh Batepola
==============================
## Title: Maithri - Ranil coalition prevented MR and gang from gallows - Arjuna
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Maithri - Ranil coalition prevented MR and gang from gallows - Arjuna
It is the Maithri - Ranil coalition which prevented former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Gotabhaya Rajapaksa and others from being arraigned before an international court and sentenced to the gallows by regaining international confidence for Sri Lanka and its government, said Ports and Shipping Minister Arjuna Ranatunga.
He said the advent of two leaders who transformed an international investigation into a local probe is a good fortune for the country and its people.
Minister Ranatunga expressed these sentiments addressing a felicitation ceremony organised by the Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya's Sri Lanka Ports Authority Branch recently.
He said the international community had become our friends under the national unity government.
"Earlier, the international community dictated what ought to be done regarding the alleged war crimes and human rights violations. But today, they were agreeable to listen to our suggestions and proposals," the minister said.
Ranatunga said directing two political parties with divergent policies and views towards consensual politics was no easy task. But the Maithri - Ranil coalition had succeeded in achieving that difficult aim today," the minister said.
==============================
## Title: Missing girl found in forest reserve
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Missing girl found in forest reserve
A three-year-old girl, who had gone missing on Tuesday night, was found inside the Thabbowa Forest Reserve yesterday early morning, the Police said.
A Police Media Division Spokesman said the child had been lost at Thabbowa Forest Reserve and was later found during search operations by the Police and residents. He said the child was found at around 3.00 a.m. yesterday and she had been admitted to Thabbowa hospital. The parents of the child were residents of Karuwalagaswewa.
The Police said no evidence were found so far to claim the child was abducted.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Namal accuses police of haphazard arrests
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Namal accuses police of haphazard arrests
UPFA Parliamentarian Namal Rajapaksa yesterday accused Police of mishandling the recent case of the gruesome rape and murder of a five-year-old.
"The initial haphazard arrests that were made appear to have been made without adequate investigation. On the one hand, the teenager who was initially arrested has been further remanded. Meanwhile, another suspect has allegedly confessed to the crime. If the latter is proven to be true, then the life and future of a second innocent child has been completely destroyed," Rajapaksa said in a statement yesterday.
"There is little doubt that criminal activity in this country has drastically increased in recent months. The underworld has risen once again. And just this year, we have seen an unusual number of rapes, murders and shooting incidents," he said.
"While all societies have to deal with some criminal activity, the incidents of recent months have gone to show that our law enforcement does not appear to be as vigilant or properly equipped as it used to be. Two incidents that took place in September alone are cases in point," Rajapaksa added.
==============================
## Title: New technological equipment for planetarium
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
New technological equipment for planetarium
The Sri Lanka Planetarium will be strengthened with new technological equipment drawing support and assistance from technologically developed countries, Science, Technology and Research minister Susil Premajayantha said.
"This will bring the planetarium up to international standards enabling visitors to gain a better knowledge and understanding about the universe," he said.
The minister said during an inspection tour of the planetarium recently.
Premajayantha said the observatory was set up concurrently with the industrial exhibition held in 1965.
It is a matter of pride to see the planetarium being in a position to enable people including schoolchildren to observe the universe including the constellation with the help of digital and other technology, he said.
==============================
## Title: New Zealand to build Ocean sanctuary size of France
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
New Zealand to build Ocean sanctuary size of France
NEW ZEALAND: New Zealand will build an ocean sanctuary the size of France - one of the largest on Earth, in order to preserve marine life in a vast stretch of the South Pacific making up 15 percent of the country's exclusive economic zone.
The zone, announced by Prime Minister John Key, will be twice the size of the country's landmass and be 50 times the size of its largest national park in Fiordland - 620,000 square km (about 385,000 sq. mi), according to Fairfax Media. It will be located in the Kermadec region, about 1,000km north-east of New Zealand.
The area is home to the second deepest ocean trench on Earth, as well as encompassing a chain of 30 underwater volcanoes, which is the largest anywhere on Earth. It is also home to 39 bird species, over 150 species of whales and dolphins, three types of endangered sea turtles and dozens of other animals unique to the area, according to New Zealand's environment ministry.
"The Kermadec Ocean sanctuary will be one of the world's largest and most significant fully-protected areas, preserving important habitats for seabirds, whales and dolphins, endangered marine turtles and thousands of species of fish and other marine life," Key said at the United Nations in New York.
The area "is one of the most geographically diverse areas in the world," the PM said in the statement.
"New Zealanders value our coasts and oceans which are an important part of our culture, economy and environment and we are committed to managing them sustainably."
All fishing and marine exploitation will be banned in the area.
The landmark deal also means New Zealand will say no to some lucrative economic gains, including large deposits of silver deep underneath the region. After consultation, it was decided they are too deep and too costly to get to.
But the area is home to regular discoveries of new species, so environmental groups applaud the move, also backed by prominent businessmen and some celebrities, like Titanic and Avatar director James Cameron, who sometimes resides in New Zealand.
Once completed, the ocean sanctuary will add to the 3.5 million square miles already protected across the globe. "We're delighted the Government has picked up the Kermadec ocean sanctuary concept," Green Party environment spokeswoman Eugeanie Sage said, adding criticism that the government still has some way to go before improving its track record on environmental protection.
The importance of the move was also underlined by Environment Minister Nick Smith, who reiterated that the oceans are coming to the forefront of the battle for the environment, as "they make up 72 percent of the globe and are home to half of the world's species." And yet, "only two percent is protected," Smith added.
"We congratulate the government for taking decisive action to protect this incredibly special area from mining and fishing," WWF New Zealand chief executive Chris Howard said, according to AFP. - RUSSIA TODAY
==============================
## Title: Obama, Castro renew calls for end to trade embargo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Obama, Castro renew calls for end to trade embargo
UN: President Barack Obama met his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro on Tuesday at the United Nations, all smiles after both renewed their calls for an end to the US trade embargo against Havana.
The leaders of the former Cold War rivals shook hands at the start of what was their second meeting, after an historic encounter in April at the Summit of the Americas in Panama.
Close neighbours but long-time foes, the United States and Cuba restored diplomatic ties in July after a five-decade stand-off, and now must turn their attention to economic relations.
The two countries have re-opened their embassies in each other's capitals and are engaged in a dialogue to resolve their remaining political differences, but US trade sanctions remain.
Obama's White House wants to lift the embargo, which prevents almost all trade across the Florida Straits, but conservatives in the US Congress are not ready to forgive the communist island.
On Monday, during a speech to the UN General Assembly, Obama said he was confident Congress would "inevitably lift an embargo that should not be in place anymore." "For 50 years, the United States pursued a Cuba policy that failed to improve the lives of the Cuban people," he admitted, to applause, in his address to fellow world leaders.
"We changed that. We continue to have differences with the Cuban government. We will continue to stand up for human rights.
"But we address these issues through diplomatic relations, and increased commerce, and people-to-people ties." Castro, the 84-year-old veteran revolutionary who succeeded his brother Fidel in 2006, made his first address to the Assembly a few hours after Obama took the podium.
"Now, a long and complex process begins towards the normalization of relations, but this will only be achieved with the end of the economic, commercial and financial blockade," he said.
At a UN development summit on Saturday, Castro called the embargo the "main obstacle" to his country's economic development. Next month, the General Assembly will discuss a new draft resolution condemning the US embargo against Cuba. The assembly has voted each year since 1982 to approve a resolution calling on the United States to lift the embargo. Obama, in his address, predicted a better future for the island.
"Change won't come overnight to Cuba, but I'm confident that openness, not coercion, will support the reforms and better the life the Cuban people deserve," he said.
Many US Republicans oppose lifting the embargo, arguing that Cuba is still a one party state with no respect for human rights and must do more to enshrine freedoms before coming in from the cold.
But there are also skeptics about the rapprochement in Havana, notably Raul's iconic predecessor and brother Fidel Castro, who has warned his compatriots not to trust American generosity. In particular, he alleges the United States owes Cuba compensation for the damage that sanctions did to the island economy, running into "many millions of dollars."
The US side may also have a claim for compensation for US-owned property, such as real estate, that was confiscated when Castro took power.- AFP
==============================
## Title: Obama says defeating IS 'requires a new leader' in Syria
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Obama says defeating IS 'requires a new leader' in Syria
US: US President Barack Obama said Tuesday that defeating the Islamic State group in Syria will only be possible if Bashar al-Assad leaves power, a day after a clash with Russia over the Syrian president's fate.
"In Syria (...) defeating ISIL requires, I believe, a new leader," Obama told a counter-terrorism summit of some 100 leaders, held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.
Russia snubbed the summit called by the United States, sending a low-level diplomat to the meeting to take stock of the one-year campaign to defeat IS jihadists, who control large swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria.
Obama sparred with Russian President Vladimir Putin over the Syria crisis during their dueling UN speeches on Monday, but the leaders agreed to work together to try to end the four-year war that has killed more than 240,000 people.
Assad's fate is the key bone of contention between Washington and the Syrian leader's Russian and Iranian allies.
After sending troops and fighter planes to Syria, Putin on Monday called for a "broad coalition" to defeat the jihadists and warned it would be an "enormous mistake" to sideline Assad's military from the fight.
Obama said the United States was ready to work with Russia and Iran to "find a political mechanism in which it is possible to begin a transition process."
The United States has long insisted that Assad must leave power, but Obama did not specify in his remarks whether the Syrian leader could take part in a transition in an interim role.
The counter-terrorism summit takes place a year after Obama stole the limelight at the last UN gathering when he vowed to crush IS and called on countries to join the United States in the campaign.
Taking stock of the campaign, Obama said IS had lost a third of the territory it controlled in Iraq and had been "cut off" from almost all of Turkey's border region.
But he added that military action alone would not succeed and that the coalition must address the conditions that allow Islamic radicalism to thrive.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: PM for 25% female representation in Local Bodies
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
PM for 25% female representation in Local Bodies
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe yesterday said that 25 percent of the seats in Local Government bodies should be reserved for women.
"Still we are discussing the procedure and hoping to bring the amendment prior to the next Local Government polls and implement it at that election which is scheduled to be held in March next year." the Premier said.
He was addressing the 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the Department of Elections held yesterday at the BMICH.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe noted that female representation in Sri Lankan politics was very low.
"Even though 51 per cent of the country's population comprise women . I don't think even a dozen female representatives are in Parliament," he said.
The PM also said that earlier there was a proposal to allocate a certain number of nominations to females as a solution for this matter. But, it cannot be considered as a de facto solution to the problem.
He also noted that the government plans to bring all the proposals in this regard to the Parliament in November this year.
He observed that political parties have various ideas with regard to the changes that were needed to be brought to the country's electoral system."
We are hoping to arrive at a solution for the prevailing issues in the country's electoral system by the end of this year. "Several problems in the electoral system were discussed and addressed to a certain extent through the 19th amendment to the constitution and that however some issues still exist," he said.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the necessity for introducing electronic voting machines to the country as most of the countries currently use this technology. ",we have to carry out trials and come to an agreement prior to the introduction of these machines. We should also make the public aware of this".
==============================
## Title: President Maithripala Sirisena addressing the 70th UNGA Session in New York
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
President Maithripala Sirisena addressing the 70th UNGA Session in New York
President Maithripala Sirisena addressing the 70th UNGA Session in New York yesterday. Picture courtesy Presidents Media Division
==============================
## Title: Son's love saves woman from jaws of death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Son's love saves woman from jaws of death
For E.M. Shanthi of Anuradhapura, last Friday was another hectic day. After attending to her daily chores, the mother of three went to Kala Oya behind her home in the evening not knowing the danger lurking in the crystal clear waters.
Taking a dip, Shanthi, 52, suddenly felt something dragging her leg.
"I really did not know what happened and I felt danger. I screamed: 'Save me! Something is dragging me'," she told the Daily News from her hospital bed at the Colombo National Hospital yesterday.
Shanthi's son Romesh Maduwantha, 19, who heard his mother's cries, saw a crocodile dragging her.
"I saw a crocodile dragging my mother into the water. I jumped and swam towards my mother. My mother told me to tickle the crocodile's belly, which I did. The crocodile however, did not release her leg," he said.
"I tightened my grip on the crocodile with my legs and tried to open the crocodile's mouth with my hands. It struggled making it difficult to hold onto it. The crocodile's mouth was closed and I had to force open the crocodile's mouth for it to release my mother," Maduwantha said.
The heroic teenager who battled underwater with the crocodile for around five minutes, only realised how exhausted he was after carrying his mother on his shoulders and brought her ashore.
"Villagers helped me take her to the Anuradhapura Base Hospital," Maduwantha said.
Shanthi was later transferred to the Colombo National Hospital where she is still receiving treatment.
Shanthi whose leg was amputated said she will remember her son's words: "Amma, do not worry. I will save you," until she lives.
Recalling the nightmare, she said he held her hand and fought with the crocodile.
"That is all I remember. He later carried me on his shoulders and brought me to the garden. He also told me that he would somehow save me," Shanthi said brushing her tears aside.
Madhuwantha is Shanthi's youngest son. He works at a private company and lives with her.
She also has two daughters. Both are married and live separately.
Madhuwantha said he and his sisters have told their mother not to bathe alone as she could slip and fall."Crocodiles do not come to this place. This place has been separated for bathing. But this happened and we have to be careful in the future," Shanthi's daughter said.
"Our father died nine years ago. Since then my mother did everything for us. She cannot work now and our brother is looking after her as we are not living with them. We are lucky to have a heroic son and a brother," she added.
Well-wishers willing to assist Shanthi can contact her at Yaya 04, Dikwewa, Senapura.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan born engineer sacked after whopping phone bill
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Lankan born engineer sacked after whopping phone bill
An Australian engineer has been sacked from an NZ power company after running up $NZ23,500 in roaming charges on his work phone on a trip back to Sri Lanka and then turning up for work a day late.
The Employment Relations Authority has ruled the Mighty River Power company was justified in sacking the man but says it must pay him $NZ6000 because of the stress he suffered during the disciplinary process, which had defects.
The Sri Lankan-born man has name suppression until next month.
According to the ERA ruling, he was sacked by Hamilton-based MRP in January after being recruited from Australia six months earlier.
It said racking up a $NZ23,500 phone bill, poor driving after just two to three hours sleep and being absent without authorised leave were serious enough offences to warrant dismissal. In December, the man returned to Sri Lanka for three weeks with his family to attend a wedding and took his work phone with him.
He only sent a couple of work emails and used data on some apps. His international mobile calls cost nothing, seven international roaming calls cost $NZ5.60 and seven international texts cost 34 cents. Spark said the remainder of the charges, of around $NZ23,350, were listed as being for international roaming.
The phone used 1GB of data.
ERA member Robin Arthur initially didn't believe such a small amount could have cost so much, but was reassured it was the result of high international roaming charges. Things were made worse because the man's wife had booked his flight to return to New Zealand the day after he was due back at work. When he got back to Hamilton he drove a work car to the Ohakuri dam, about 120km south, on little sleep. - AAP
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka's sovereignty never disturbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Lanka's sovereignty never disturbed
"The US initiated resolution clearly recognises sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka".
So states the paragraph 16 of the resolution welcoming the government's commitment to a political settlement through necessary constitutional measures. The resolution also encourages the Government's efforts to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, which is integral to reconciliation and the full enjoyment of human rights by all members of its population. The Government of Sri Lanka is thereby encouraged to enable all Provincial Councils to be able to operate effectively, in accordance with the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka. Therefore the resolution will reap healthy benefits according to Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister and Cabinet Spokesman Dr Rajitha Senaratne.
Excerpts:
Q: What are your views on the domestic mechanism to probe war crimes
A: Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa met UN Secretary General Ban Ki- moon on 23rd of May, 2009. The two leaders discussed about war crimes. Rajapaksa promised UN Secretary General to investigate and take action accordingly.
On May 27, the then Permanent Representative to the UN in Geneva Dr. Dayan Jayatilleke submitted a 11-point proposal to the UNHRC (United Nations Human Rights Council) and that was adopted by the UN. At that time, certain people opposed it but we managed to adopt the same by a majority and agreed to initiate a war crime investigation.
In his proposals, he spelt out good Governance and other prerequisites to create a better Human rights environment. That was how it all began. But the only problem was that the Government did not act on what they promised to the UN. It created a conflict between the Government and the UN. In the final resolution brought by the US it states thus: "Recognizing that the investigation into alleged serious violations and abuses of human rights and related crimes in Sri Lanka requested in Human Rights Council resolution 25/1 was necessitated by the absence of a credible national process of accountability".
Here the resolution very clearly says in the absence of a credible national process, it necessitated them to take this course of action. Thereafter in the next resolution they wanted an international investigation. Sri Lanka lost when it was tabled at the UNHRC. That proposal was adopted by majority.
The third proposal they won was by a bigger majority. India also supported that resolution. Now it has come to a point that the UN Human Rights Council brought a proposal of a hybrid mechanism but Sri Lankan Government could, with effort and diplomatic skills, bring it down to be a domestic inquiry. All the countries, including the US, will support that. All the countries which supported us in the past such as China and Russia and the countries which opposed us like India will come together and support us. It will pass as a consensus resolution for a domestic inquiry and this is very important.
Q: What about the involvement of foreign judges
A: It is explained in the resolution. It is clearly explained in paragraph six. It welcomes government's recognition that accountability is essential to uphold the rule of law and build confidence in the people of all communities of Sri Lanka and the justice system. It also notes with appreciation that "the Government of Sri Lanka's proposal to establish a Judicial Mechanism with a Special Counsel to investigate allegations of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law, as applicable; and affirms that a credible justice process should include independent judicial and prosecutorial institutions led by individuals known for integrity and impartiality; and further affirms in this regard the importance of participation in a Sri Lankan judicial mechanism, including the Special Counsel's office, of Commonwealth and other foreign judges, defence lawyers, and authorized prosecutors and investigators."
In paragraph number 20, the proposal states thus "encourages the Office of the High Commissioner and relevant special procedures mandate holders to provide, in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Government of Sri Lanka, advice and technical assistance on implementing the above mentioned steps". It clearly says the participation of foreign judges will be in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Government of Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka has to decide on the degree of participation. The participation may be as observers, technical assistants, and technical advisers or in some other way. It should not be the judges. They have agreed in the same proposal that this would be with the concurrence of the Sri Lankan Government.
Q: Can you describe the new legal measures that will be introduced to facilitate the domestic inquiry
A: That we have to work out with the consultation of the UN. We have to have some kind of framework which is acceptable to the International community. It should be on par with International standards. That type of legal framework should be set up. Discussions will have to start on the relevant mechanism.
Also in paragraph number 16 it welcomes the government's commitment to a political settlement by introducing necessary constitutional measures and it also encourages the Government's efforts to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, which is integral to reconciliation and the full enjoyment of human rights by all members of its population. It also encourages the Government to enable Provincial Councils to be able to operate effectively, in accordance with the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. This is very reasonable because it does not speak about 13 plus as envisaged by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa.
Now it is only the implementation of 13th Amendment.
Further the resolution states that it encourages the Office of the High Commissioner and relevant special procedure mandate holders to provide, in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Government of Sri Lanka, advise and technical assistance in implementing the steps stipulated above.
Q: What are your views on the criticism being levelled against the domestic inquiry
A: The paragraph 4 of the resolution says "reaffirming its commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka".
According to this, they will abide by the sovereignty. They will abide by the independence and they will especially abide by the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Whatever the proposals they bring, whatever the actions they suggest, it will be within the ambit of sovereignty of Sri Lanka.
They, specifically and without any alteration, accept the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Therefore nobody needs to worry over that.
The other important fact that is included as paragraph number 10 of the proposal is "reaffirming that all Sri Lankans are entitled to the full enjoyment of their human rights regardless of religion, belief or ethnicity, in a peaceful and unified land". This means it is under a unified land. Not in a separated land. It is very clear. Everything will be done accepting the fact that Sri Lanka is a unitary state.
In paragraph number 21 of the resolution says "Requesting the Government of Sri Lanka to implement effectively the constructive recommendations made in the report of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission". It says only the constructive recommendations and not all the recommendations made in the LLRC Report.
Q: What is your response to the former President's recent statement
A: He has not read the Resolution properly. He takes advice from Dr. Jayatilleke, Prof. Peries and the likes. They can give various interpretations and can speak for and against any subject. That depends on the benefits they may reap. In the past, they spoke for and against the former President depending on whether they are being looked after by him or not.
Q: The future of Malabe private medical faculty (SAITAM) has been a hot topic. What is the current situation
A: The Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) appointed a special committee to formulate a report on Malabe private medical college. Now the report has been handed over to the SLMC by that special committee and according to this report, there are certain things that need to be improved by the Malabe Medical faculty. The report has both pluses and minuses. The SLMC handed over the report to me and I sent it to the SAITAM for their comments and submit their proposals. If both parties can come together on the various proposals such as facilities and other standards, the matter can be resolved.
Q: During some recent press conferences, some doctors criticized the slow implementation of the National Drug Policy. Do you accept the criticism
A: The person who commented does not know anything about the implementation of a policy, governance etc. Such matters cannot be implemented overnight. First of all, the act should be passed in Parliament and then the authority should be created. We have attended to these. Then we have an onus of introducing regulations to create the authority, furnish the place etc. Specific powers had to be given and the Cabinet decisions had to be taken. We did all those.
After the General Election, the second stage of the process has already commenced in order to gazette the regulations. Only after gazetting the regulations, we can take action against drugs. This is not an easy task. We need to recruit 100 pharmacists to carry out this operation. This will be similar to the Consumer Affairs Authority. Thousands of pharmacies scattered all over the country need to be inspected in order to find out whether they follow relevant rules and regulations. This is a huge task. Qualified persons have already been appointed to the authority. They are now moving forward.
In the meanwhile, we allowed the use of the trade name within brackets. We need to set up the quality assurance laboratory. The Chinese Government granted the lab following my coordination. Those things also had been done in addition to the other tasks but the persons who speak do not know anything.
==============================
## Title: State patronage for all key religious festivals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
State patronage for all key religious festivals
In a bid to promote reconciliation among the communities, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has directed the authorities to provide equal state patronage to key religious festivals of all denominations.
According to Prime Minister's office sources, the state henceforth will provide equal patronage to key religious festivals which include Vesak, Poson, Ramazan, Thai Pongal, deepavali festivals.
In addition, the national ceremony to mark each of these religious events will be held under the state patronage on the directive of Prime Minister Wickremesinghe.
This programme is to be implemented on the directives of leaders of all religious denominations.
==============================
## Title: Students take ill after inhaling chemical fertilizer
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Students take ill after inhaling chemical fertilizer
The Police said 28 students of Lindula Rahanwatta School were hospitalised yesterday after inhaling chemical fertilizer sprayed on a capsicum cultivation near the school.
The Police said the hospitalized children were between 12 and 15 years and most of them were discharged after treatment and added that three children were still being treated at the hospital. The students were hospitalised due to breathing difficulties.
The Police said strong winds that persisted in the area could have led to this incident.
==============================
## Title: Susil gives statement
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Susil gives statement
A statement has been recorded from former United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) General Secretary and Technology, Technical Education and Employment Minister Susil Premajayantha, who was summoned before the Presidential Commission of Inquiry to Investigate and Inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources, and Privileges (PRECIFAC) yesterday.
Secretary of the Commission Lacille de Silva said Minister Premajayantha appeared before the Commission around 10.30 a.m. yesterday.
Minister Premajayantha had been summoned to appear before the Commission to record a statement following another statement made by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa on alleged financial misconducts reported at the ITN. The statement of MP Rajapaksa was recorded by officers of the Commission after visiting his residence on September 23 on his failure to pay the dues he owes to ITN for broadcasting advertisements for the Presidential Election Campaign in January.
In his statement MP Rajapaksa charged that Premajayantha should have paid the dues as the General Secretary of the UPFA. According to him, Premajayantha was responsible for the payment of dues to the ITN for broadcasting advertisements. According to Rajapaksa he ontested the election as the Presidential Election candidate of the UPFA.
==============================
## Title: Tiffany's 131-Pound Weight Loss
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Tiffany's 131-Pound Weight Loss
Tiffany Neves is 26, 5'8, and currently weighs 157.4 pounds. Nearly exactly a year ago, she weighed 288 pounds. This is the story of her weight-loss journey.
The Turning Point
I was overweight starting in elementary school. My parents were divorced and despite having everything we needed, my brother and I were on our own a lot to make meals because my mom worked overnight as a nurse. Often, we went with whatever was easiest - macaroni and cheese, Hot Pockets, pizza rolls, and, of course, fast food. My dad always said, "If you don't eat it, ya wear it," in an attempt to get us to finish all the food on our plates.
That quickly turned into a bad habit that I carried with me throughout the years. Gradually, I got bigger and bigger. Taco Bell and McDonald's became my best friends in high school and that stayed true all the way to 288 pounds. That was the point I decided to change my life.
When I decided to lose the weight, it was right after my grandpa - who was my everything - passed away at the end of August last year. He had tried multiple times to help me - he even came up with little competitions where he'd pay me for every pound I would lose - but I never followed through. All he wanted was for me to be healthy and happy. The week after he died, I spent a week binge drinking before something in my brain snapped. Time isn't on our side, I realized. He passed away without seeing me healthy and happy. I needed to change that, now for myself. So when my friend started a weight-loss competition, I hit the ground running.
The Changes
I knew I had to change my habits in order to change my weight. First, I never ate breakfast - just one or two huge meals that could be enough to feed a family of four. So right away, I began eating five smaller meals. I also decided to cut out fast food entirely, because I knew that played a big part in my weight problem. I'd buy one meal a day from Taco Bell. I set a goal: no Taco Bell or hamburgers for a year. And I stuck to it! Before I committed to losing, I'd drink multiple sodas a day. Except for the occasional Coke Zero, I cut those out, too. I went online and looked up YouTube channels of people who underwent major weight-loss transformations and watched these strangers' videos for hours on end. They were incredibly motivating.
I joined a gym and started going four to five days a week. I had never played sports in school or had any desire to do anything active before - but I was changing that. For the first couple of months, I stuck to strictly cardio exercise, and as I got more comfortable I incorporated weights for a more balanced workout.
When I was losing, the things that kept me going were my own happiness and my family and friends. They all deserved to be around a happy, positive, uplifting Tiff. I remember being depressed before I started changing my life. The only thing I wanted to do then was drink and sit around in my own self-loathing and self-pity - nothing else. I was so upset by what others could accomplish, yet wouldn't do anything to push myself to do the same. I would talk negatively about anything I could. And I didn't realize how unhappy and negative I was until I began losing weight and changing my mindset.
I started my journey right before the busy holiday season and my birthday last year. I went to Las Vegas, New Orleans, and Destin, Florida, all while still maintaining my healthy choices and working out. People would say things at the holiday parties that had the potential to tempt me, stress me out, but I remained strong in my goals and pushed forward. Then, in January, I got news that my dad was on life support in the ICU. My world crashed again. The doctors confirmed it; they told us that he wouldn't make it much longer.
I felt lost. With my world spiraling, I didn't feel like going to the gym, and certainly didn't feel like having to eat healthy. I wanted to binge eat. But I looked in the mirror one of those nights while at the hospital and told myself that this was not going to break me. And it was yet another turning point in my transformation. I started prepping healthy meals to take to the hospital. I went to the gym after sitting with my dad for a few hours. Miraculously, he made it and went back home and back to work. But then, on July 27, due to complications with his liver, he passed away.
It was an extremely dark time in my life and for a while I wondered why so many devastating things kept happening. But then, after grieving long enough, I started to see the loss of my grandpa and dad as, in some way, tests of strength. Tests that made me push on and keep fighting for a healthy, happy life. My dad and grandpa have helped me more than they will ever know.
The After
Since I have lost most of my weight, I feel free! I have never seen the world as I see it now - there are beautiful things and people everywhere. There are so many opportunities and things to be done. My asthma has almost completely gone away. I used to get bumps under my arms, and they haven't come back since the weight loss. I can now do my favorite thing - swimming - without having to cover myself from head to toe! I can now go into any store and pick out an outfit - and not feel limited to the one plus-size store in my town. I can work a 16-hour shift without my ankles swelling or developing a painful rash where my thighs used to chafe. I can now ride comfortably on a roller coaster or fly on an airplane without being scared I'd take up too much room in my seat. I can now do more outside without sweating profusely after only a short time. I can now spend the night at friends' houses and borrow their clothing if I need it. I can sit comfortably with crossed legs on the floor. And now, when I smile, I really mean it.
Above all, my mental and emotional well-being has changed the most. Tiffany, just a year ago, saw no hope, no future. She didn't make plans and she had very low self esteem.
Tiffany, today, has hope, dreams, and self-worth. I have true happiness. Despite all the loss I have endured this past year, I have gained so much. I love waking up in the morning and not feeling down! I want to help those around me achieve their goals. I want everyone around me to be happy!
Now that I have lost most of my weight, I have become a little more lenient. If I really want to eat something more indulgent, I allow myself to have it and then continue on with my day and my routine. I usually have one what I call "you go girl" meal a week. But throughout this journey, my taste buds have changed and I have learned to love and crave more of the foods that are naturally a little better for me. I used to be all about the sides - like fries, mashed potatoes, mac n' cheese - and would leave the burger or meats on the plate, but now I find myself craving chicken and steak. I end up leaving the meal a lot more full when I eat more of the meat and a little less of the side!
The Maintenance
Water. Water. Water. It has been a game-changer for me! I used to drink nothing but soda and the only time I would drink water was when I'd work a 16-hour shift on weekends. Now everyone knows me as the 'gallon girl' because I carry a gallon jug of water with me everywhere!
Food prepping has also become a huge part of my healthy lifestyle! Things are just so much easier when I take the time to prep meals. I don't have to worry about what I'm going to eat, or getting off track - no matter where I am or how busy I get - because a healthy meal is already made and ready to go! No excuses needed.
The Struggles
There have been some days when working out seemed worse than getting run over by an 18-wheeler. Whenever that happens, I pull out my old, bigger clothes and put them on. Ot I take a selfie and set it next to an old one of me. I also have my "before" picture printed out and taped to my bathroom mirror. It reminds me of what I'm doing, where I'm going,
and how far I have come.
Being around my friends and family when everyone is eating differently can be challenging (and sometimes tempting), but I try to remember that just because I'm trying
to control my health doesn't mean everyone else has to. I find that the less I focus on the hardship of it, the easier it is! I just eat my meals and move on.
Advice
Your mindset is everything. At the start, I would say to myself, "Oh nooo, it's time go to work out!" and I'd dread the drive to the gym and the whole workout. Or, I'd sarcastically make jokes about my healthy food to friends and family, like, "Yay salad ... not!" Once I changed my attitude about it all, healthy living started to feel better and easier. Of course, going to the gym isn't always your first choice, but it is getting you closer to your goals. Don't be down on something that is helping you! Look at it positively and then nothing can stop you! My last and best piece of advice is: Remember that time is not on our side. It will pass, whether we do what we want to do with it or not! So take advantage of your time and your life! Put it to good use!
Yahoo Health
==============================
## Title: Tourism - a question of hospitality
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Tourism - a question of hospitality
We sat in the newly opened Restaurant, styling itself on the trendy Indian fast food concept, quick, clean and easy on the purse. And, my companion wanted a typical vegetarian meal-"the kind of meal they used to serve at Greenlands", a hot destination in the austere 1970s.
Born a Sri Lankan, Peter has chosen Australia, where he has now resided for over thirty five years, as his country of domicile. He was sixteen when he arrived there. The adopted country has been good to him. He holds a government job in the transport sector, and a public service career anywhere in the world is not dedicated to building fortunes. Yet, he is comfortable and secure; earning enough to indulge his passion for travel; Europe, South America, Africa, Exotic Asian destinations, the South Seas, Peter has seen the world. Like to most immigrants to the West, the adopted country has given him an attractive air of assurance, a 'let us fix it' spirit, discernible in those living in dynamic societies, open and accepting. "Why is this road flooded or that drain blocked Why is that driver sounding his horn incessantly or this government department not replying my written inquiry" These are not hopeless questions or situations to which he is only a passive observer. Something can be done and ought to be done.
Clean and secure environment
Although there is no one of his immediate family living in Sri Lanka now, Peter still feels the "pull" of his land of birth. Having no close relatives to visit or sites to see, he returns regularly only to spend his holidays travelling around the country with no particular plan or purpose. In the course of his travels Peter has gained unique insights into the realities of our tourism industry which maybe of benefit to those concerned with it.
Clearly, tourism in Sri Lanka is not a success story. Nature has been generous when bestowing her blessings on this small island. The things that the average visitor to the tropics seeks, the exotic culture, the beaches, the lush greenery, historical sites, are in abundance, and within short distances. In comparison, our roads, railway/taxi service, banking and medical facilities may not be up to the standards of advanced countries, although adequate for basic purposes.
Admittedly the quality of our infrastructure and services is both erratic and patchy at best and wont to break down under pressure. But that weakness or irregularity may be the reason a person travels, to experience something different to the accustomed efficiency and the predictability of his culture. This backwardness, the inefficiency of the systems, as long as it remains manageable, could add to the quaintness of the place, an interesting experience perhaps. But nevertheless there is a huge gap between potential and reality. Like the oil under the desert sands, tourism potential cannot be a success story without human ingenuity and application.
"As I see it, tourism is fundamentally a matter of service and hospitality. Without understanding the idea of service or living the concept of hospitality there cannot be a successful tourist industry. In many of the large shops I go into there is a kind of shop detective following you about.
I never buy from a shop which treats you like a potential thief. Shop lifting is a concern all over the world, although the percentage of those who commit the offence is very small in reality.
In other countries they have more sophisticated surveillance. The crudity of a man following a customer around is unbelievable. How will you react if a friend you visit treats you in that manner, having his servant to follow you about"
Peter, I gathered avoided the more expensive five star type accommodation, preferring the smaller hotels. In Australia such hotels come with good amenities, the guest is assured of a comfortable stay in a clean and secure environment. But Peter's experiences in the smaller hotels here have been less than satisfactory.
"They were not exactly cheap; some of them were only a couple of thousand rupees less than the so called five star hotels. In many of these small tourist hotels you find out that the Air Conditioner does not function, taps leak, the bathroom is mouldy, the paint peeling and the overall standard of hygiene pretty low. Many a time, I noticed human hair on the bed sheets, maybe from a previous guest."
Peter was not the type of person to turn a blind eye to such neglect by a service provider.
"Did you not complain" I inquired.
Huge cultural problem
"I did, however soon realized there was a huge cultural problem we confront. You know that maintenance and upkeep is not a strong quality here. It is always somebody else's job. The managers are told to listen to the complaints of the guests with a smile. They do that, but nothing happens. It has to be reported to somebody else who has to report it to yet another. The owner of the hotel maybe living in Colombo yet he has to be first told about the hair on the bed sheet!"
He paused "These hotels reflect something deeply symbolic of the way things operate in the country. In the front of the hotel they may have a neat looking security hut with a uniformed gateman guarding the entrance. The kitchen, which will be in a dingy corner, will be unsanitary. This inconsistency is something no body wants to grapple with or even think about." To page 20
==============================
## Title: Two LTTEers sentenced to 290 and 300 years RI for 1999 bomb blast
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Two LTTEers sentenced to 290 and 300 years RI for 1999 bomb blast
The Colombo High Court yesterday sentenced two LTTE cadres to 290 and 300 years Rigorous Imprisonment over the 1999 bomb blast.
Colombo High Court Judge Padmini N. Ranawaka Gunathilaka sentenced V. Varadaraja and C.I. Ragupathy who were convicted of detonating a bomb at Town Hall and killing 26 people to 290 to 300 years Rigorous Imprisonment to be served in 30 years.
A woman who faced indictments was acquitted due to lack of evidence.
The Attorney General had indicted the accused on 110 charges which included conspiring to assassinate former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga.
The judge handing out a 297 page judgement upheld that the complainant has proved that the accused has been involved in the bomb attack beyond any reasonable doubt.
The judge in her judgement said that twenty six persons, including a DIG were killed in this suicide attack and former President Chandrika Bandarnaike Kumaratunga lost an eye following this suicide attack.
The judge in her verdict said that this suicide attack was a result of a conspiracy by the first and third accused with the LTTE members and their objective was to assassinate the country's leader.
She said that the suicide bomb attack not only targetted former President Chandrika Bandarnaike Bandaranaike but the entire countrymen.
Prosecution called 117 witnesses and 127 documents to court to prove the charges against the accused.
The court upheld that the two accused were involved in a conspiracy to carry out this suicide attack after a lengthty trial.
Senior State Counsel Chaminda Athukorala, Asela Serasinghe and Senior Solicitor General Kapila Waidyarathna, PC led the prosecution.
==============================
## Title: UNHRC stands by Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
UNHRC stands by Sri Lanka
Member nations of the UNHRC that took part in its 30th session yesterday stood by the domestic inquiry mechanism proposed by the Sri Lankan government - with the support and cooperation of international stakeholders.
Despite heavy lobbying from certain sections of the Tamil diaspora, the majority of key members of the UNHRC settled for an inquiry mechanism owned by Sri Lanka, as mentioned in the resolution presented to the 30th session of the UNHRC.
The UK yesterday reiterated its commitment to supporting Sri Lanka towards achieving meaningful justice, reparation and lasting peace and stability.
Addressing the UNHRC general debate, UK stressed that "seeking truth, ensuring justice, providing reparations and ensuring non-recurrence are essential."
Welcoming Sri Lanka's Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera's commitments to reconciliation, the UK pledged to support Sri Lanka to "overcome a legacy of the past" and "fulfill its potential."
Estonia and Switzerland invited Sri Lanka to ratify the Rome Statute as a guarantee against non-recurrence.
Meanwhile, a group of Tamil politicians attending the discussion, called on the Council to push for justice for the victims of war.
Tamil National Alliance members, Suresh Premachandran, Anandi Saseetharan and M. K. Sivajilingham expressed disappointment with the efforts of the new Government in addressing accountability.
The draft resolution was tabled at the UNHRC on September 24. The resolution was co-sponsored by the USA, Sri Lanka, UK, Australia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
The resolution calls for wide-ranging reforms and a domestic accountability mechanism with international involvement.
The first resolution on Sri Lanka was adopted at the UNHRC in 2009 during a special session soon after the end of war. It was a resolution of assistance to Sri Lanka in the promotion and protection of human rights.
The report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Investigation on Sri Lanka was made public on September 16.
==============================
## Title: Wesleys Walk of Grit
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Wesleys Walk of Grit
The excitement is reaching fever pitch as the days to the Walk of Grit 2015, draw near. The walk will parade on October 3 starting from the College premises in Borella at 3.00 pm proceeding via Baseline road to Kannatte round about and through Bauddhaloka Mawatha to the CR & FC grounds at Longdon Place Colombo 7. Joining the procession from D.S. Senanayake College will be the year 1- 5 primary school students.
This years Walk of Grit is expected to raise funds to restore the historic main building which is over a hundred years and iconic to all Wesleyites. The architect behind this masterpiece was the great Principal Rev. Henry Higfield who cycled around Sri Lanka on a push bicycle to collect funds. It will be fitting that every living Wesleyite makes his contribution towards his alma mater in honour this great personality who ensured that an iconic building was constructed to house and educate every single Wesleyite then, now and in the future. Co-incidentally the 150th birth anniversary of Rev. Highfield will be celebrated in December this year.
Plans are also underway to replace the existing furniture with durable wooden furniture in the main campus while improving and developing the playgrounds of both branch schools located at Havelock town and Katunayake.
The walk will culminate with a musical extravaganza themed Concert of Grit which will showcase Wesleys past and present musicians live in concert.
A colourful parade consisting of classic cars, Harley Davidson, Ducati, Triumph and a variety of other classic motor bikes along with other decorated floats and vehicles will be on parade. The organisers request all batches, past and present boys of Wesley, parents and teachers to rally round and make this event a spectacular and resounding success.
The new Principal Ben Manickam invites old boys, batch leaders, sportsman, past leaders of academic committees, parents and all connected to Wesley to rally round the school and passionately generate sponsorships towards the cause.
He also makes a fervent appeal that the specially designed T shirt and cap for the walk should be worn by all participants to showcase the unison and solidarity of Wesley. A limited stock is no available. Old boys can purchase their T shirts and caps at the Old Wesleyites Sports Club from Tuesday 29 September 2015 from the manager.
For further information contact Fowzil Nawaz on 0777900808 or Mr. Nalin Tabith on 0770111909. Umbrellas sold by the Teachers Guild and College Ties can be purchased at the grounds.
For further information contact the OBU President Jeremy Brohier on (mobile) 0777 393 264 or (email) [emailprotected] or the Principal of Wesley College on 112695763 (email) [emailprotected]
Contributions could be deposited to The Wesley College Old Boys Union - Commercial Bank Account No: 8517686701 / Swift Code
CCEYLKLX
==============================
## Title: Wigneswaran sees flaws in resolution
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Wigneswaran sees flaws in resolution
Chief Minister for the Northern Province C.V. Wigneswaran yesterday expressed concern that the resolution on Sri Lanka had failed to propose an investigative mechanism into accountability, which can gain the gain the support and confidence of the victims.
Issuing a statement the CM says;
"I welcome the fact that the United Nations Human Rights' Council is expected to adopt a resolution on 'Promoting Reconciliation, Accountability and Human Rights in Sri Lanka".
"I hope that it will mark the beginning of a new process which can lead to truth, justice for the victims and political solutions to long-standing divisions and inequalities in our Country: a process which is in the interests of all the communities of Sri Lanka.
"But, not only as the Chief Minister of the Northern Province which experienced the brunt of the Human Rights' violations and War Crimes in recent times but also as a retired Judge of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka, I remain deeply concerned about some of the serious weaknesses in the resolution which unless addressed could lead to the failure of this whole process.
"It is clear that - as the High Commissioner for Human Rights himself made clear in his recommendations on the OISL report - a domestic court procedure will have no chance of overcoming 'widespread and justifiable suspicions fuelled by decades of violations, malpractice and broken promises." But instead of calling for the establishment of a credible hybrid court in line with the HC's recommendation, the resolution merely suggests that a "Sri Lankan judicial mechanism" should have the participation of Commonwealth and other foreign judges, lawyers, prosecutors and investigators.
Foremost among the concerns in this regard is the process to be adopted to bring in the International Laws which are not part of our local legal system into currency in this Country. Secondly any attempt to place the responsibility of Prosecuting in the hands of any local Prosecutor can never bring justice to the victims. I refer to the IIGEP Report which spoke very disparagingly of our Attorney General's Department. Even if a foreign Prosecutor in the caliber of the ICC Prosecutor were to be nominated it would be the members of the local Attorney General's Department who would be his officials in this regard. Thirdly the need to ensure that local Judges would not be able to veto or undermine the decisions of the foreign Judges has to be emphasized.
"Thus the importance of creating a mechanism which can gain the support and confidence of the victims cannot be overemphasized. The resolution's failure to clearly propose such a mechanism is a matter of grave concern.
"The resolution is important in that it sets a number of markers and makes a number of key recommendations - but it largely relies on the goodwill of the government to implement those recommendations. Regrettably the government's successful attempt to remove from the resolution several key references to ongoing abuses of human rights, the militarization of the north and east and other key issues does not inspire confidence in that goodwill.
"This resolution is a step forward, but it is clear that only with the most rigorous monitoring and proactive involvement of the international community will it lead to the kind of progress which all the communities of Sri Lanka deserve.
"Last week the United Nations launched its seventeen "sustainable development goals" for 2030 - a follow-up to the millennium goals of 2000. Goal sixteen is as follows - "Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels". The international community has the opportunity to see that those principles are applied in Sri Lanka - but it will require full and ongoing engagement, support and monitoring to ensure the promise made to the victims b the High Commissioner's Report on Sri Lanka, is honoured. Thank you".
==============================
## Title: The wonder world of books
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
The wonder world of books
Our eyes are upon a printed page. We have perhaps had the same experiences so often that we do not stop to think about it. A newspaper or a magazine is delivered at our door for a sum of money paid.
We can buy a book or a magazine or one of the masterpieces of the world for a certain amount of money either affordable or unaffordable depending on the earning capacity. But we can go to the library and get the same free of charge on becoming a member.
But do we really know how we have reached this standpoint in our lives
The growth of the printed work that comes in the form of a book has come a long way. Why do we call a printed work a book According to a number of sources there had been an old English word that goes as 'buk' which changed later into 'buoh'. Quite a number of historical events are encircled in the development of the book. To denote something ought to be preserved it came to be termed as 'book'. From this comes the term 'bookie'.
Later on the erudite masses denoted the book as a set of written, printed or blank sheets bound together into a volume. The book thus created later came to be known as a long written or printed literary work. The stage players of England and America denoted the script they used for their performances and in rehearsals as a book which eventually paved the way for the use of the term 'handbook'. The book that is held in hand to get information was known as a handbook.
With the growth of the massive libraries around the world the use of the book and the concepts behind it gave way to numerous other allied references. Book clubs have been organised both in the UK and USA in 1905. But long before this, lovers of books have been termed as 'bookish', 'book worms' and 'bookmen'.
The Book of Prayers has come to use from 1549. The sacred books have been preserved in special places under the guidance of scholarly clergy, both in the Orient and Occident. The sacred books were listed by scholars in both sectors. One of the leading collectors of sacred books of the Orient happened to be the great scholar Max Muller, who knew several oriental languages.
He is credited to be the pioneer translator of the sacred Buddhist book Dhammapada into German as the UNESCO McBride report known as 'Many Voices One World' points out that civilizations have sprung up in keeping with the information that was stored in textual forms in such civilizations as the Chinese, the Indian, the Egyptian or the Greco or Roman, the invaluable repository of thought and knowledge was the book which provided a means of collating a considerable store of information in a small space and in durable form.
The first important advance in the growth of the book and the growth of writing various types of books came with the discovery of papyrus which eventually led to the invention of the paper. This happened to be a material that superseded the older forms of writing on parchment. Paper came to be used in China in the first century AD, in the Arab world in the eighth century, and in Europe in the 14th century.
From this point onwards, the term 'press' had been used for printing purposes. Although the book had come a long way as a result of the printing process, the actual story of the book lay in the world of religious communication. The paper books consisted of bound pages used by clergy and those who followed them in religious audiences and other religious gatherings. The scrolls that were in use gradually went out of circulation with the advent of printing prayer books and other religious documents. It is believed that the great speakers or the oral communicators like storytellers and thinkers may have given way to record their respective messages later.
One widely known event is the recording of what Socrates said as written down by Plato, his pupil. Then the pupil of Plato, known as Aristotle, is known to have prepared most of his lessons on paper which later appeared as books. His well known work 'ethics' consists of ten books each written by him as lessons prepared for his pupils of Lyceum. Most of what we now read of Aristotle has come as documents left incomplete or found as fragments of longer versions.
Certain influential books gradually became the shared intellectual equipment of many who had a certain degree of erudition as gained from schools of learning. This was a stimulus for literacy which in certain countries happened to be very high and in some others quite low. The books have played a vital role in this direction. The books have to be distributed widely in keeping with the needs became a single voice that reached the masses via schools of learning.
Libraries have to be built or updated in order to meet the demand of the readership. The use of a book became gradually transferring into a day to day commodity. This happened as a result of the book production technology on the part of book publishers.
The general masses had to purchase books as their private possessions. This enabled the building of private home libraries. With the rise of school libraries and university libraries, the book production gradually expanded its horizons. More and more books had to be selected and published.
Book production companies flourished with the opening of bookshops. One such example comes from the pioneer British book publisher Allen Lane who had a plan to invite a wide gamut of writers to bring out various forms of manuscripts that would eventually be printed simultaneously. He too had a plan to simplify some of the more serious works to be used in the schools. This type of books which emerged into the book scene was known as AL Bright Story Readers.
With the expansion of the Commonwealth of Nations, colonial education schemes, the English reading habit too became a significant factor in the growth of a new readership of English books globally. This in turn enveloped works as translated from other languages. This was also observed as a joined effort where an original work was translated by two individuals instead of a single translator. One example is the pioneer collection of Russian short stories as translated from the original works into English by Kotelienski and D H Lawrence. Most of the books originally written by the French writer Andre Gide and Albert Camus came to be translated into English in the same manner.
The brand name Penguin books came to be more known when the book production was at a growing stage. Since the post Second World War situation, 'little book' or the 'pocket book' concept came to be used. More and more people wanted books to be read with ease. The reading patterns are changing. This gave way to a massive book publishing industry with varying types of published works, which in turn needed regulatory measures, a subject that has come to be widely discussed today. The children and juvenile all round the world need books of varying types is the clamour of the parents and teachers. This has to be addressed with care and creative intelligence.
When all these are laid down, as random thoughts I feel the world of books as an unfathomable wonder world. ([emailprotected])
==============================
## Title: Zeid reiterates establishment of hybrid court
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 19:30
Zeid reiterates establishment of hybrid court
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein yesterday reiterated the establishment of an ad hoc hybrid special court to investigative the allegations of human rights violations.
He made this observation opening the debate on the report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Investigation into Sri Lanka at the 30th session of the UNHRC.
He said such a mechanism was essential to give all Sri Lankans, especially victims, confidence in the independence and impartiality of this process.
The High Commissioner further said in his statement:
"The context in which this report is presented is very different to the one during which it was mandated. The election of a new President and Government on a platform centred on good governance, human rights and the rule of law presents a historic opportunity to address the grave human rights violations that have wracked Sri Lanka, including through accountability and institutional reform, and to lay the basis for long-term reconciliation and peace.
"We are also seeing renewed engagement by the new Government with OHCHR and the UN human rights mechanisms. The previous Government categorically rejected the Human Rights Council-mandated investigation and refused access and cooperation.
"The Government has yet to clarify the number and identity of detainees still held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) and emergency regulations...I welcome the Government's commitment to review and repeal the PTA, which has long provided a legal context facilitating arbitrary detention, unfair trials and torture.
"The investigation found that there are reasonable grounds to believe that gross violations of international human rights law and serious violations of international humanitarian law were committed by all parties during the period under review. Indeed, if established before a court of law, many of the allegations may amount to war crimes, and/or crimes against humanity.
"We examined closely the impact of hostilities on civilians and civilian objects during the last months of the war. On the basis of the information available, there are reasonable grounds to believe that both the Government and LTTE failed to comply with key principles of international humanitarian law on the conduct of hostilities designed to protect civilians.
"I welcome the Government's commitments, made before this Council, to investigate these violations and ensure accountability, despite the opposition of some political parties and sections of the military and society. The unfortunate reality is, however, that Sri Lanka's criminal justice system is not currently equipped to conduct an independent and credible investigation into allegations of this breadth and magnitude, or to hold accountable those responsible for such violations, as requested by the Council in resolution 25/1.
"First, Sri Lanka lacks a reliable system for victim and witness protection, particularly in a context where the risk of reprisals is very high. A long-pending law was recently passed, but it is not yet operational. I note the Government's commitment to further review and strengthen the law to address various shortcomings that could compromise the independence and effectiveness of the new system.
"This is why I have recommended the establishment of an ad hoc hybrid special court, integrating international judges, prosecutors, lawyers and investigators, mandated to try notably war crimes and crimes against humanity, with its own independent investigative and prosecuting organ, defence office and witness and victims protections programme. In a highly polarized environment, such a mechanism is essential to give all Sri Lankans, especially victims, confidence in the independence and impartiality of this process.
"This is a time of tremendous hope. Sri Lanka can finally break the cycle of impunity that for so long wracked its past. This will require more than prosecuting a few emblematic cases, but rather a comprehensive approach, developed through a broad-based and victim-centred process of consultation, that draws on the full range of transitional justice measures of judicial accountability, truth-seeking, reparations, vetting and deep institutional reform."
==============================
