## Title: Amazed by the Words
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Amazed by the Words
Yes, it sounds anything but paradoxical. The million-rupee question you naturally raise upon sighting the title of his first book, The Amazing Racist, is how could a racist be amazing But Chhimi Tenduf-La is not yet another foreigner looking down on Sri Lanka showering heaps of negative and derogatory remarks on the countrys culture. Tenduf-La, on quite the contrary, has been living in this country despite his Tibetan name and western origin.
Half English, half Tibetan, Chhimi Tenduf-La grew up in Hong Kong, London, Delhi and finally Colombo, where he now lives with his wife, Samantha, and daughter, Tara. The Amazing Racist, his first novel, was released in January 2015 by Hachette India. His second novel, Panther, was released by HarperCollins India early this year.
Litchat deals with the lighter side of this amazing author.
Q: Why do you write
A: I find I express myself best on paper and it is great fun making up stories that I can control myself. Unlike in life, I can change the ending if I want to. I also write because I cant sing, dance or draw so it is my only creative outlet.
I would love for it to be a career, because it would mean my writing schedule could fit around my kids, but I am a long way away from that. For now, I write because each time I spend a few hours doing so, I learn, I improve, I move closer to being good enough.
Chhimi Tenduf-La
Q: What is your muse
A: My wife. I have to say that, but really its true. I started writing seriously when I got engaged to her, because she made me feel like a better writer than I am. Plus, I got to see life through a different persons eyes. In a broader sense, the people I have met in Sri Lanka are my muse because they are so full of character  there is so much to write about and they are the people I know best.
Q: What kind of books do you like to read most
A: At the moment I love foreign language thrillers, translated of course. They are cool, surprising, original and to the point. I am talking about Japanese, French, Swedish, and Icelandic mysteries. I would love to try others. I wish someone would write a series based around a Sri Lankan detective.
Q: What are your favourite books
A: Off the top of my head, Chinaman, Running in the Family, Catch 22, Of Mice and Men, The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas, The Things We Carried.
Q: What have you got to tell the worst critic of yours
A: Im sorry if reading my books was a waste of your time. Im trying my best, but I cant please everyone. Thanks for taking a chance on me, and thanks for reading my book. If I caused any offense, it was not intended. Every story has conflict, and so readers can take either side. I hope my next book ticks more boxes for you.
Q: Looking back, do you wish if you could edit your first book
A: Absolutely. However, The Amazing Racist was very successful because it was a light-hearted read. If I had changed it, as I probably would want to now, making it more literary, I might have lost a large number of readers. I also wish I had made the female heroine Sri Lankan, rather than English. I dont think I will ever write a book without wanting to edit it after it is published. Hence, I hate reading any of my books after they are in print; even when I do readings at events, I cringe thinking, how did I write that rubbish
Q: What is your opinion about literary awards
A: If I win any, they are brilliant. If I dont, they are pointless. Honestly, either way they are subjective. If I do win one in my lifetime, I am not going to think I am a great writer; I will realise it is just that a few judges like what I wrote. Such awards do help sales numbers; the more I sell then the better job I will think I have done.
Q: Out of the award-winning books and popular books, which category appeals to you most
A: If I am entirely honest, and this answer would lose me respect among the literary community (but luckily they dont know who I am), I prefer mainstream popular books. The kind of books you simply cant put down. I dont mean full on trash like 50 Shades, but books with suspense such as Gone Girl and Defending Jacob. I love some award-winning books, but others I just dont get the point. Maybe I am not intelligent enough, but some just seem pretentious to me. I do re-read the award-winning books that I like, because they teach me how I should be writing. Yet, if I could, I think Id rather write a killer thriller that everyone reads, rather than an award-winning book that is not accessible to most. I think that is a far greater skill.
Q: Have you got any special reading habit like reading while eating
A: If I am in the middle of a good book, I read anywhere; I read in traffic, eating, while playing hide and seek with my daughter, at cricket matches, in the bath. Anywhere. That is the beauty of books; when you just have to read the next page. On a day-to-day basis, I read on my kindle every night, for a couple of hours, at about two in the morning because I always wake up then. I think everyone should have a book on them at all times; whether it is in physical form, or on your phone, it is a great way to pass time waiting for a bus, at the doctors and so on. The more someone reads, the better they write, be it creatively or for work, and this is a skill everyone needs.
==============================
## Title: Analytical report on Thajudeen mobile phone
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 04:45
Analytical report on Thajudeen mobile phone
Filing an analytical report pertaining to the mobile phone which was used by former Havelocks captain and Sri Lankan ruggerite, Wasim Thajudeen, the Colombo Universitys School of Computing informed Court that the concerned mobile phone was not in working order.
Submitting its report before Colombo Additional Magistrate Nishantha Peiris, the Colombo Universitys School of Computing informed that the phone which was produced to them did not carry secondary memory card or a SIM card. The report further stated that it also observed several damages to the main system board but not relating to memory or main system chip or thecircuit board.
The report further stated that the Computing Unit restored the phone to extend and facilitate the extraction of any memory only and after extracting the main memory information about SMS, images, audio, video and contacts were recovered.
Explaining about Thajudeens NOKIA-E72 mobile phone, the report further stated when looking to the wear and tear to the key board it was cleared that the user has utilized the keyboard extensively. This type of phone uses two different types of memory-the main phone memory and an externally pluggable memory card.
The report further stated that the bottom of the phone indicated scratch marks on both sides.
OnJuly 27, the CID submitted to Court that the death of Sri Lankan ruggerite, Wasim Thajudeen was not an accident, but murder.
The CID had informed Court that the investigations conducted so far had revealed that Mr. Thajudeens teeth had been broken, the bones in the pelvic region also broken and his neck pierced with a sharp instrument prior to his death. The CID added that muscles in his legs had been cut with a piece of broken class.
The former Havelocks SC captain Wasim Thajudeen was killed, apparently, in a road accident in Colombo in May 2012.
Earlier the police had maintained that Thajudeen was driving to the airport and had lost control of his car and crashed into the wall of Shalika Grounds on Park Road, Narahenpita, and that his vehicle had exploded within seconds of the crash.

==============================
## Title: Egyptian history outsmarted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Egyptian history outsmarted
When I eventually reach Graham Hancock's house, I am late and out of breath. The amateur archaeologist lives in a grand slab of a place halfway up one of Bath's lung-busting hills and I have been struggling with a bag full of his bestselling books.
The 65-year-old opens his imposing front door, waves away my apologies, and ushers me straight down to his study, which is spilling over with books and expensive-looking curiosities. He offers me a cup of coffee and enquires about my journey. He is avuncular and chatty  not at all the wild-haired eccentric my research had led me to expect.
Twenty years ago, Hancock set the cat among the academic pigeons when he published a book called Fingerprints of the Gods, a re-evaluation of mankind's past that claimed an advanced civilisation was wiped out by a giant comet towards the end of the last Ice Age.
Based on Hancock's own investigations and interviews with archaeologists and astronomers, the book claimed survivors of this cataclysm, the giant flood remembered in myths all around the world, went on to settle in locations from Mexico to Egypt and impart their ancient knowledge to the other remaining humans.
Among the most attention-grabbing claims in the book were: a suggestion that the Pyramids of Giza were designed to store books of knowledge written by an ancient civilisation; that the Great Sphinx preceded the Ancient Egyptians by many thousands of years; and that Plato, who wrote about Atlantis in his books Timaeus and Critias, knew exactly where the fabled lost city was hidden. The book was an instant hit and has, to date, sold more than nine million copies around the world. Hancock, a former East Africa correspondent for The Economist, went on to present two documentary series on Channel 4, became a popular lecturer in alternative history, and built up a strong fan base online.
Now, he has written a sequel to Fingerprints, Magicians of the Gods, which reveals explosive new evidence to support his claims. It also warns of another comet strike that is destined to hit Earth in 2030.
The book, which is already a bestseller, has proved irresistible to fans and Hancock's talks, which he has been holding to accompany the launch, have been hugely popular, attracting far larger audiences than equivalent talks by Booker-prize winning authors.
What Hancock has not achieved, however, is credibility.
Leading archaeologists have been denouncing his theories for decades. He has been compared to The Da Vinci Code author Dan Brown and dismissed as a pseudo archaeologist or Pyramidiot. The organisation for whom he is delivering a talk on October 15 - the mind, body and spirit company Alternatives - also hosts events about ghosts, clairvoyance and the paranormal.
Is the Great Sphinx of Giza many thousands of years older than theAncient Egyptians
Hancock has no formal qualifications in archaeology, history or astronomy. His long-standing interest in hallucinogenic drugs  they are something that society really needs  has not enhanced his reputation either.
But the author says he has never claimed to be an academic. He presents himself as a journalist who is simply reporting theories by scientists who think they can fill in some of the gaps in the history of mankind  holes acknowledged by all mainstream academics. Let's get to grips with that first of all, he says. The foundations upon which history is based look increasingly suspect.
Let's no longer shroud ourselves in the illusion that [mainstream] historians and archaeologists are invincible. There are, according to Hancock, two smoking guns. Firstly, naondiamonds - types of diamonds that result from a cosmic impact - were discovered recently in North America. In 2014, the Journal of Geology confirmed that this matter was formed 12,800 years ago.
For someone who proposed [in Fingerprints of the Gods] a giant cataclysm between 12,000 and 13,000 years ago, it is a bit of a gift from the universe to have a bunch of very major scientists now saying that there was indeed a giant comet impact 12,800 years ago, he says.
Secondly, excavations at an archaeological site in Turkey called Gbekli Tepe have uncovered ruins that are at least 11,600 years old.
That is more than 6,000 years older than other megalithic sites such as Stonehenge. A civilisation capable of the advanced architecture and art discovered at Gbekli Tepe is not supposed to have existed 11,600 years ago.
So what is the explanation
- The Guardian
==============================
## Title: Egyptian history outsmarted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Egyptian history outsmarted
When I eventually reach Graham Hancock's house, I am late and out of breath. The amateur archaeologist lives in a grand slab of a place halfway up one of Bath's lung-busting hills and I have been struggling with a bag full of his bestselling books.
The 65-year-old opens his imposing front door, waves away my apologies, and ushers me straight down to his study, which is spilling over with books and expensive-looking curiosities. He offers me a cup of coffee and enquires about my journey. He is avuncular and chatty - not at all the wild-haired eccentric my research had led me to expect.
Twenty years ago, Hancock set the cat among the academic pigeons when he published a book called Fingerprints of the Gods, a re-evaluation of mankind's past that claimed an advanced civilisation was wiped out by a giant comet towards the end of the last Ice Age.
Based on Hancock's own investigations and interviews with archaeologists and astronomers, the book claimed survivors of this cataclysm, the giant flood remembered in myths all around the world, went on to settle in locations from Mexico to Egypt and impart their ancient knowledge to the other remaining humans.
Among the most attention-grabbing claims in the book were: a suggestion that the Pyramids of Giza were designed to store books of knowledge written by an ancient civilisation; that the Great Sphinx preceded the Ancient Egyptians by many thousands of years; and that Plato, who wrote about Atlantis in his books Timaeus and Critias, knew exactly where the fabled lost city was hidden. The book was an instant hit and has, to date, sold more than nine million copies around the world. Hancock, a former East Africa correspondent for The Economist, went on to present two documentary series on Channel 4, became a popular lecturer in "alternative history", and built up a strong fan base online.
Now, he has written a sequel to Fingerprints, Magicians of the Gods, which reveals "explosive new evidence" to support his claims. It also warns of another comet strike that is destined to hit Earth in 2030.
The book, which is already a bestseller, has proved irresistible to fans and Hancock's talks, which he has been holding to accompany the launch, have been hugely popular, attracting far larger audiences than equivalent talks by Booker-prize winning authors.
What Hancock has not achieved, however, is credibility.
Leading archaeologists have been denouncing his theories for decades. He has been compared to The Da Vinci Code author Dan Brown and dismissed as a pseudo archaeologist or "Pyramidiot". The organisation for whom he is delivering a talk on October 15 - the "mind, body and spirit company" Alternatives - also hosts events about ghosts, clairvoyance and the paranormal.
Hancock has no formal qualifications in archaeology, history or astronomy. His long-standing interest in hallucinogenic drugs - "they are something that society really needs" - has not enhanced his reputation either.
But the author says he has never claimed to be an academic. He presents himself as a journalist who is simply reporting theories by scientists who think they can fill in some of the gaps in the history of mankind - holes acknowledged by all mainstream academics. "Let's get to grips with that first of all," he says. "The foundations upon which history is based look increasingly suspect.
Let's no longer shroud ourselves in the illusion that [mainstream] historians and archaeologists are invincible." There are, according to Hancock, two smoking guns. Firstly, naondiamonds - types of diamonds that result from a cosmic impact - were discovered recently in North America. In 2014, the Journal of Geology confirmed that this matter was formed 12,800 years ago.
"For someone who proposed [in Fingerprints of the Gods] a giant cataclysm between 12,000 and 13,000 years ago, it is a bit of a gift from the universe to have a bunch of very major scientists now saying that there was indeed a giant comet impact 12,800 years ago," he says.
Secondly, excavations at an archaeological site in Turkey called Gbekli Tepe have uncovered ruins that are at least 11,600 years old.
That is more than 6,000 years older than other megalithic sites such as Stonehenge. A civilisation capable of the advanced architecture and art discovered at Gbekli Tepe is not supposed to have existed 11,600 years ago.
So what is the explanation
- The Guardian
==============================
## Title: Enhance your true beauty
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Enhance your true beauty
Durdans Hospital, Sri Lanka's first Joint Commission International (JCI) approved hospital launched its ultra-modern cosmetic care centre "Enhance" at a special ceremony held recently. The facility was declared open by leading clinicians in the field. The ceremony was also graced by many dignitaries, members of the hospital's management team, special invitees and representatives of the media.
"At the skin care clinic dermatologists will identify the specific root causes for age old dermatological problems such as acne and pimples, stretch marks and open pores, and thereafter provide a permanent solution. High speed laser hair reduction procedures will also ensure no side effects, no pain and immediate recovery. Botox injections, skin boosters and PRP skin rejuvenation therapy will also be available to fight the effects of ageing," Consultant Maxillofacial surgeon Dr. T. Sabesan stated. For those who wish to take a step further, facial rejuvenation and facial contouring surgeries such as a face lift, facial implants, chin shaping (Genioplasty), lip shaping (Cheiloplasty), nose shaping (Rhinoplasty) and ear shaping (Otoplasty) can also be arranged.
Under the more complex cosmetic surgical category, "Enhance" will perform such procedures such as breast enhancement implants and breast reduction, liposuction, tummy tucks and many other plastic surgery procedures that help patients to reshape their body and regain confidence.
For many people how they look determines how they feel both physically and emotionally. The Enhance Clinic as the word suggests is all about enhancing how people look and feel. Our extensive portfolio of procedures coupled with world class standards that Durdans is accredited for will now ensure that patients do not need to spend a fortune on leaving the country to have these procedures performed. At "Enhance" we want our patients to feel as comfortable as they are in their home. The centre itself was therefore designed with an aesthetic ambiance that appeals to all the senses.
Director Medical Services, Dr Wimal Jayantha stated, "Durdans Hospital is pleased to introduce a Cosmetic Care Clinic, which is supported by skilled clinicians and guided by the highest international standards for health and safety of patients. A clean environment for procedures is maintained under the guidance of standards set through Joint Commission International (JCI), which Durdans has received the Gold Seal of Approval for Patient Safety and quality of care".
"Enhance" will be open for consultations from Monday to Saturday, and will also accommodate private consultations and specific requests for female doctors. Information on competitive pricing and customised packages is available via the Durdans Hotline 011 214 0000 and short code 1344 or at the hospital information desk.
==============================
## Title: The Governor who scribbled down
## Supertitle: GOVERNOR TALES:
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
GOVERNOR TALES:
The Governor who scribbled down
According to author Arjuna Hulugalle, Hugh Clifford was governor of Ceylon 19251927.
Hugh Cliffords tenure of office as secretary to the governor, was even more successful than the latter. In the thirteen years interspersing the two posts, he served in many parts in the British Empire that kept on expanding at a stupendous rate.
According to his bio data, Hugh born in London in March 1866 belonged to a Roman Catholic family. His pedigree was very high, with his grandfather extolling it as the 7th baron of the line. . Once qualified in the military line at Sandhurst ., he found his niche in Pahang of Malaysian terrain, as GA finally peaking to the post of British resident, Pahang. Incidentally after Chalmers he was the second British governor here, to have his son sacrificed to the raging gun fires of the First World War.
The Federated Malay States came to fruition at the time Clifford ruled there despite a spate of rebellions against the foreigner. Clifford quelled these rebellions easily. These facts transpire a shared history between the two countries, though the rebels got active in Malay lands later than in Lanka. Clifford then went on to Trinidad and Tobago.
During sir Cliffords tenure as colonial secretary of Ceylon, before coming here as governor, he is said to have dazzled , but the dazzle was staged among those inclined towards imperialism , for he stood by the thinking that those Ceylonese who clamoured for self govt. and route to independence were not at all representative of the average citizen but were a product of British rule , anglophiles as they were. The unofficial members of the legislative council became the butt of his attacks, especially their leader, Ponnambalam Ramanathan.
Hugh Clifford was a writer too and relished the company of writers like Leonard Woolf, in whose memoirs , Clifford appears often in the company of strange characters as Euro empresses. Such writers take us back to strange days in colonial Ceylon, when an acting governor lodged often at the kings pavilion in Kandy. . Clifford before he became governor had acted in Acting Capacity for governor making a bee line to Kandy whenever he desired it. Anyway with his appointment to Gold Coast as governor these trips ceased somewhat.
In 1925 he was appointed as permanent governor of Ceylon, but what he had opposed at the time he was colonial secretary had materialized . The governors control of the legislature had ceased to exist. However the Donoughmore commission was by now knocking at the door and sir Clifford had to attune himself to the new developments ,largely aimed at making the colony more educated politically and otherwise. . With his former partiality to Kandy he advocated the university as in or near Kandy , engendering many an opponent who wanted everything worthwhile to be Colombo centred.
Come here as a widower, the governor married again, this time to a novelist and playwright. Clifford himself was a writer of renown but he does not seem to have written a book on Ceylon. Favourite topic has been Malaya as the following names of these books reveal.
Studies in Brown Humanity
Bush whacking
Malayan monochromes
It is a wonder he never wrote any literature on Kandy, at least on the short Empress who had come to have a peep at Buddhas tooth relic escorted by the six footed handsome governor himself who critics often describe as a ladys man !
Married twice, second time to a famed novelist and playwright back home, named Rosabelle , he died in 1941 aged 75 years.
==============================
## Title: Govt. to fight child rapes and abuses - Chandrani Bandara
## Supertitle: [PARLIAMENT - (07-10-2015)]
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
[PARLIAMENT - (07-10-2015)]
Govt. to fight child rapes and abuses - Chandrani Bandara
The government will take measures during the next five years to minimise child rapes and abuses, said Women and Child Affairs Minister Chandrani Bandara.
She said that the implementation of capital punishment is not a means to reduce child rapes, abuses and other crimes, but the implementation of long term programmes to eliminate the causes of the crimes would be the only solution.
She made these observations in Parliament yesterday responding to the adjournment motion moved by UNP Parliamentarian Hirunika Premachandra stressing the need to implement capital punishment on the culprits of child rapes.
Minister Bandara said the government has identified the need of a special High Court to hear the cases of child rapes. She said a day of a week of Courts Calendar could be spared to hear these types of crimes so that the hearings wouldn't drag for years.
She said the government has identified the need to amend and revise the law related to these crimes to mete justice to the victims and punish the perpetrators. She said the need has arisen to strengthen the existing laws.
She said President Maithripala Sirisena's stance was to implement capital punishment if Parliament passed the move with a majority.
Minister Bandara said the adjournment motion moved by MP Premachandra was timely. She said among many facts that could be considered as the causes of committing such crimes are poverty, lack of education, psychological imbalances, stress and being a victim of child abuse. She said the government will implement long term plans to eliminate the causes of child rapes.
Lanka to continue moratorium on death penalty
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika rAnge and Disna Mudalige
Sri Lanka will continue the moratorium on death penalty, Justice Minister Dr. Wijayadasa Rajapakshe told Parliament yesterday.
The minister made this observation while participating in the debate on the adjournment motion moved by UNP MP Hirunika Premachandra on re-implementing the death penalty.
The minister said Sri Lanka had voted in favour of the UN resolutions calling for moratorium on death penalty in 2007, 2008 and 2010. In 2012, Sri Lanka had abstained from voting for the resolution.
However, the minister said Sri Lanka has decided to vote in favour of the UN resolution for moratorium on death penalty in 2015 when the vote is taken at the UN General Assembly. "The world opinion with regard to the matter is in favour of not implementing it. Punishments are aimed at correction and rehabilitation in democratic countries," he said. The minister said the Pope when addressing the inaugural session of the UN General Assembly on September 24 requested all countries to abolish death penalty. He said Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera at his address at the UNHRC on September 14 stated, on behalf of the Sri Lankan government, that capital punishment would not be implemented.
Parliamentary proceedings suspended for 15 minutes
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
Parliamentary proceedings were suspended for 15 minutes due to a tense situation emerged when some Opposition members exhibited a mass scale banner inside the House yesterday.
Deputy Speaker Thilanga Sumathipala suspended the House at 1.35 pm and resumed proceedings at 1.50 pm.
The tense situation emerged when UPFA Parliamentarian Wimal Weerawansa asked about a debate on the investigative mechanism in the US resolution and some Opposition Parliamentarians exhibited a banner in which "Say No to Hybrid Court, Protect our War Heroes," was noted.
Wimal Weerawansa raising a point of order stated that he brought the matter of hybrid court against War Heroes to the notice of Parliament and asked the Speaker for a debate on the matter. He said the matter is not included in the agenda for this week.
Leader of the House and Minister Laxman Kiriella said the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are abroad during this week. He said the matter was taken up at the Party Leader's Meeting and promised to accommodate a debate on a future date.
The minister said although Wimal Weerawansa spoke of a hybrid court, such a court has not been mentioned in the resolution.
Weerawansa said although the term wasn't in the resolution, the concept was there in other words. At this stage, government and Opposition members started to shout and hooted.
Rauff Hakeem said when such an incident takes place, Weerawansa usually stages a protest opposite the UN office. But today, he took a photograph with his mobile phone. He said Weerawansa's need is to get publicity.
Weerawansa asked the government not to betray War Heroes to a foreign court.
Deputy Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe said one should not take photos in the House and exhibit banners to obtain cheap publicity.
Deputy Speaker Thilanga Sumathipala asked the opposition members to remove the posters from the House. He also asked the members to behave well.
The banner which seemed 20 feet long and five feet wide was held by Opposition Members Niroshan Premaratne, Sisira Jayakody, Jayantha Samaraweera, Lohan Ratwatte, Weera Kumara Dissanayake, Piyal Nishantha, Udaya Gammanpila and Jagath Muthukumarana.
UNP MPs Palitha Tewarapperuma and Nalin Bandara Jayamaha were seen coming towards the well. Sergeant-at-Arms Anil Parakrama Samarasekara and Deputy Sergeant-at-Arms Narendra Fernando and Assistant Sergeant-at-Arms Kushan Jayaratne who came to the well prevented the government members going towards the Opposition members who were holding the banner in the well.
However, the members did not take their seats and the tense situation continued.
Deputy Speaker Thilanga Sumathipala suspended the sitting for 10 minutes at 1.35 pm. No sooner the sittings suspended, Nalin Bandara Jayamaha who seated the Opposition members did try to scratch the banner. Palitha Thewarapperuma was also approaching. However, UPFA MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage turned those two government side members in a friendly manner while the Opposition members were still carrying the banner. However, the Sergeant-at-Arms Samarasekara took the banner from the members in an amicable manner. The situation claimed down and the quorum bells rang at 1.45 pm. The sittings were resumed at 1.50 pm presided by the Deputy Speaker.
Hirunika wants to reactivate capital punishment
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
UNP MP Hirunika Premachandra told Parliament yesterday that measures should be taken to reactivate capital punishment. The reactivation of capital punishment would help arrest the increasing wave of crimes. She said so while moving an adjournment motion.
Today, capital punishment is inactive in the country. Some hardcore criminals do not serve at least 20 yeas of their life sentences. People are not afraid to commit crimes because of this situation, she said.
People would respect law if they have fear of punishment. Sometimes, innocents get punished owing to lapses in the legal system. That is an issue for which we should find a solution. We should not mix religion and law, because that would hinder the implementation of the law against criminals, she said.
Social Services Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake seconding the motion said that the motion questioned as to who would take the responsibility of the rights of minors between five to 10 years. We should not let criminals go back to the society. Capital punishment is in practice in many nations. The people of those countries do not engage in crimes easily. They scared of the law.
Those who have the power of money have no problem, but the children of the poor are helpless. We should make use of capital punishment for about an year so that there will be reduction in crimes.
Water Supply and Town Planning Deputy Minister Dr. Sudharshani Fernandopulle said that reproductive health subjects should be introduced to the school syllabus to increase awareness among children. There are many non-bailable offences, but rape and abuse of children and women are bailable offences. We should make them non-bailable offences, she said.
Housing and Construction Minister Sajith Premadasa said the Judiciary and Police are politicized. Before implementing capital punishment, we should depoliticise these organisations. We should implement capital punishment for the well-being and protection of the children.
DNA MP Dr. Nalinda Jayatissa said people come out and stage protests when a crime occurs because they are not sure whether law will be implemented. People don't trust the Judiciary and Police due to various reasons. We remember how the Presidential pardon was given to several murderers during the previous regime. That should not happen again.
Power and Renewable Energy Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera said capital punishment will not prevent crimes. What should be done is to find out the root causes of crimes and resolve those issues.
Govt. withdraws Telecommunication Levy Bill
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
The government yesterday withdrew the Telecommunication Levy (amendment) Bill from the order paper of Parliament. Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella informed the Chair that the Bill would be withdrawn. The Bill was included on the order paper pending the second reading. UPFA MP Dinesh Gunawardena earlier on the day asked the government's position with regard to the Bill, stating it was informed at court that the Bill would be repealed. "When the Supreme Court decided to take up a petition challenging the Bill, the government stated it would be repealed," he said.
Report on Avant Garde to be submitted to Parliament
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella said in Parliament yesterday that a comprehensive report responding to all questions pertaining to the controversial Avant Garde issue will be submitted to Parliament during the next sitting week.
He made the assurance in response to a question raised by DNA Parliamentary Group Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake, who wanted to know as to why the government delayed responding to Parliament with regard to the Avant Garde issue.
"We will not hide any facts or details regarding to the Avant Garde deal. The government will respond to the questions of the MP in the next sitting week of Parliament," the Leader of the House said. The question was raised on September 22. The government had not been able to respond even after 18 days, the MP said.
No crime wave in country - Rathana Thera
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
There is not an alarming crime rate in the country as some group of people and the media attempt to point out, said United National Front for Good Governance (UNFGG) Parliamentarian Ven Athuraliye Rathana Thera in Parliament yesterday.
The Thera said however, it is a commendable fact that people discuss this matter as they are moved by recent crimes.
The Thera said though our situation is not as worse as that of South Africa and India, we could soon reach such a situation if country would not take corrective measures.
The Thera said the murder of Seya was committed in the western province. If the situation in the Gampaha district is so much bad, the situation in other provinces and districts could be terrible, he said.
The Thera said food people eat today has consequences on creating abnormal sexual behaviour in people. He said chicken we have in market today is one such food.
The Thera said some food items have serious impacts on life expectancy as well. He said the life expectancy in the Anuradhapura district has lowered to 60 years.
He said criminals are not rehabilitated most of the time before they are released.
Supplementary estimate to refurbish President's official residence
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
A supplementary estimate of Rs. 180 million was presented to Parliament yesterday by the government to renovate and refurbish the official residence of President Maithripala Sirisena.
Chief Government Whip, Media Minister Gayantha Karunathilake presented it to the House seeking the approval for an allocation of Rs. 180,688,000. It sought the approval of Parliament to allocate Rs. 96,391,000 to rehabilitate and improve the residence of the President at C61 and C62, Paget Road, Colombo and an additional Rs. 84,297,000 for the construction of buildings and structures at the same location.
Apart from the Rs. 180 million, another allocation of Rs. 70,600,000 to purchase a BMW Limousine car and 12 BMWR 1200 motorcycles for the Presidential Security Division has been submitted.
Under the financial heading of the office of the President, Parliamentary approval has been sought to allocate Rs. 2,716,000 to meet the shortfall in personal emoluments of COSTI (Co-ordination and Monitoring Framework for Scientific Affairs) for May 2015, Rs. 23,314,000 to meet the capital and recurrent expenditure of the office of National Unity, and Rs. 11,000,000 to meet the expenditure of winding up activities of Secretariat for Special Functions (Senior Ministers).
Don't edit telecast of live Parliamentary sessions - Vasu
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
UPFA MP Vasudeva Nanayakkara yesterday in Parliament requested the Chair to instruct the television channels telecasting live Parliamentary sessions not to edit the content before transmission. He said that the Speaker has not imposed any restriction on live broadcasting of Parliamentary proceedings, adding that no editing or censorship is required with regard to the content.
He made these observations before the UPFA MPs in the Opposition commenced a protest against the hybrid court while holding a banner in the Chamber. Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella said the matter could be discussed at the Party Leaders' Meeting.
Special court needed to hear crimes against children, women
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
JVP Parliamentarian Bimal Ratnayake said a special court should be established to hear crimes against children and women. He made this observation in Parliament joining the adjournment motion moved by Hirunika Premachandra on the implementation of death penalty.
Bimal Ratnayake said death penalty is not a solution to child rape incidents.
He said the victims of such crimes are not from rich families. Poverty should be addressed, he said.
He said some problems cannot be corrected by means of law only.
Vasu demands special Parliamentary committee on capital punishment
Sandaen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
UPFA MP Vasudeva Nanayakkara yesterday in Parliament requested the government to appoint a special Parliamentary committee to submit a report to Parliament after a detailed study on implementing capital punishment.
The MP was participating in the debate on the adjournment motion moved by UNP MP Hirunika Pramachandra on the reimplementation of the death penalty.
Nanaykkara said the committee could obtain the views of experts in the field and analyse the survey reports connected to the matter.
He said when such a report is placed before Parliament, it could be debated extensively and take a final decision on reimplementing the death penalty.
MP Nanyakkara said rather than giving death sentence, it is better to make rapists impotent, stating it would be a heavy punishment for them than the death penalty.
He called on the government to withdraw the motion on the reimplementation of the death penalty.
Urban Development and Water Supply Minister Rauf Hakeem said a committee was appointed in 2014 to review the case of prisoners on the death row, adding that an interim report of the committee has been submitted to the President.
Law and Order and Prison Reforms Minister Tilak Marapana said there must be a case to case assessment when implementing death sentence.
'Liquor shops induce child rape'
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Sisna Mudalige
TNA Parliamentarian Vadivel Suresh said the member of child rape and abuses have increased in the estate sector due to liquor shops in the up-country.
He said the illicit liquor menace widely spreads in the up-country. Suresh said liquor shops sand illicit liquor have caused the crime rate to increase in the up-country. He said the convicts of child rape should be subjected to capital punishment.
==============================
## Title: Group of UPFA MPs protest in House
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 18:00
Group of UPFA MPs protest in House
Parliament was adjourned for 10 minutes after a group of UPFA Parliamentarians protested inside the Chamber with a banner against what they call Hybrid Courts. The banner read No Hybrid Courts
==============================
## Title: Kondaya's brother submitted for a DNA test
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 05:45
Kondaya's brother submitted for a DNA test
Samantha Jayalath the elder brother of "Kondaya"and a suspect in the murder and sexual assault of five-year-old Seya Sadewmi was brought to the Genetech Molecular Diagnostics Research Institute for a DNA test, a short while ago.
Dunesh Priyashantha aka "Kondaya"is the brother of Samantha Jayalath who is in remand custody in connection with the murder and sexual assault of Seya Sadewmi. The CID yesterday,(05) informed Court that the elder brother of 'Kondaya' had confessed to the murder.
==============================
## Title: Lankan tryst with Japan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Lankan tryst with Japan
Having achieved what seems to be a pyrrhic victory at the 30th session of the UNHRC in Geneva, the two-month-old national unity government is now heading for another significant challenge - the local government election, fixed for March, next year.
The biggest issue both the UNP and the SLFP may grapple with at the Local Government polls is the imminent 'identity crisis'. While working together within the framework of a national unity government at the national level, the two mainstream parties will have to wage an "electoral war" with each other, at the grassroots level.
Although the top rung leadership of the SLFP unanimously decided to enter into a national unity government with the UNP, it is still doubtful whether the ordinary grassroots level members of the party think along the same lines. However, the decision making process of the party is fully controlled by President Maithripala Sirisena's supporters and former President Mahinda Rajapaksa is gradually turning into a non-entity within the party, with only a handful of MPs supporting him. But, there is a sizable proportion of grassroots level members of the party who still consider Rajapaksa as their leader; thus creating a division among the rank and file of the party.
It is also important to understand that there is a strong difference of opinion between the UNP and the SLFP over the system under which the Local Government election would be held. It is no secret that the UPFA, led by President Maithripala Sirisema, wants the Local Government election to be held under the new electoral system while the UNP is strongly pushing for the present electoral system. There was an argument over the matter at the Cabinet meeting a few weeks ago with the UNP alleging that demarcation with regard to the new electoral system had been done in a manner that would benefit the UPFA. But, the UPFA ministers countered that argument stating the officials who conducted the demarcation had no links with the UPFA. As a result, the matter was left in abeyance.
The SLFP, the main constituent of the UPFA, pushes for the new electoral system not because it has any love for electoral reforms. The results of the recently held Parliamentary election demonstrated that the party had significant a support base in rural areas, despite the election defeat of former President Rajapaksa in January.
The UPFA, which lost the Parliamentary election with a thin margin of 366,252 votes, wants to cash in on this village level support base at the Local Government election, which will, in all probability, be a tough race for the party. In this context, the party desperately needs the new electoral system to save its face at the Local Government polls.
The UNP, on the other hand, is backing the present electoral system, as they know, deep down, that it will be advantageous to the UNP at the Local Government election. With the outcome of the Parliamentary election where the UNP obtained 106 seats, the UNP holds an edge over the UPFA where the local government election is concerned. The UNP thinks the new electoral system will "dilute" the would-be outcome of the Local Government polls.
There are strong indications that the SLFP will contest the forthcoming Local Government election alone. Most of the top rung leaders of the party, including former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and General Secretary Duminda Dissanayake, are of the view that the party should contest separately at the Local Government election and stand on its own feet. The majority of top rung members of the SLFP believe that the minor constituent partners of the UPFA are a 'baggage' that the party has to carry during the times of election.
UPFA minor parties in crisis over SLFP's position
If the SLFP decides to contest alone, that will plunge minor stakeholders of the coalition, namely Dinesh Gunawardena's Mahajana Eskath Peramuna, Wimal Weerawansa's National Freedom Front and Udaya Gammanpila's Pivithuru Hela Urumaya into a precarious situation. The minor parties of the UPFA, needless to say, hardly have any strength to stand on their own feet as far as elections are concerned.
Such a scenario will compel minor parties of the UPFA to join hands with a breakaway faction of the SLFP. Their 'easy catch' would be the group supporting former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. After the Parliamentary election in August, some of the key figures who strongly backed former President Rajapaksa joined hands with the national unity government, accepting ministerial portfolios from President Sirisena. However, a small group of MPs, who were die-hard fans of the Rajapaksas, still remain with the former President, striving to form an opposition force in Parliament. This group is strongly supported by the minor parties of the UPFA and they can easily be identified as one group with common political objectives.
While the SLFP, as a party, hails the outcome of the Geneva session dubbing it as a victory for Sri Lanka, this group views the UNHRC resolution with a modicum of suspicion. They are strongly opposed to any inquiry into alleged war crimes during the final phase of war, be it domestic or international. The difference of opinion over the Geneva resolution will be the main factor behind their defection from the SLFP.
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa's statement on the UNHRC resolution was a key indication in this regard. In his statement, Rajapaksa, an MP representing the UPFA in Parliament, had no qualms about criticizing the poster campaign carried out by the UPFA to coincide with the President's return from New York.
MR gives important indication in his statement
Former President Rajapaksa, in his statement, left ample space to speculate a 'defection' of that nature ahead of the Local Government election.
"Though the passage of the US sponsored resolution against Sri Lanka in the UNHRC without a vote last Thursday is being hailed as a diplomatic victory for Sri Lanka, I am unable to share that view.
Operative Paragraph 6 of the resolution affirms the importance of the participation of foreign judges, prosecutors, lawyers and investigators in the Sri Lankan judicial mechanism to be set up to investigate alleged human rights abuses during the war. Operative Paragraph 8 encourages the Sri Lankan government to remove individuals in the armed forces suspected of human rights violations through an administrative vetting process even if there is insufficient evidence to charge them in a court of law. Operative Paragraph 4 welcomes the government's willingness to allow the various judicial and other mechanisms it intends to establish to deal with the past, to obtain financial assistance from overseas, which means that these supposedly Sri Lankan mechanisms will be paid for and maintained by foreign powers.
Posters of the UPFA have appeared on the streets hailing the government for delivering the country from the 'imperialist death trap' in Geneva. Such statements sit oddly beside the operative paragraphs of the resolution mentioned above.
The mismatch between the provisions of the resolution that was passed and the government's present mixed signals and rhetoric may be due to a belated realisation that nothing has been gained by Sri Lanka joining the USA as a co-sponsor of this resolution except to commit the government to a course of action which runs contrary to the interests of this country and is therefore politically unfeasible," Rajapaksa said.
PM revives strategic partnership with Japan
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe's visit to Japan with a high profile government delegation was aimed at strengthening the strategic partnership with Japan, one of Sri Lanka's most longstanding friends in the Asian region.
The Prime Minister had the privilege of addressing the Japanese Parliament on Tuesday, becoming the third foreign leader in the country's history to address its legislature. Prior to the Sri Lankan Prime Minister, US President Barack Obama and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has addressed the Japanese Parliament.
Apart from the senior ministers representing the UNP, former UPFA General Secretary Susil Premajayantha, who now holds a ministerial portfolio under the national unity government, was also included in the delegation. However, many political analysts are of the view that Japan will be keen on strengthening its economic ties with Sri Lanka under a UNP-led administration.
Japan's strategic partnership with Sri Lanka dates back to September 08 1951, when 51 nations convened for a conference in San Francisco to allocate compensation to victims affected by war crimes committed by Japan. J.R. Jayawardena, the Finance Minister of Sri Lanka at the time represented the Sri Lankan government at the conference. The speech Jayawardena made at the conference made a lasting impact on the global political sphere as the Sri Lankan Minister urged the international community to treat Japan with compassion. His speech was entirely based on Buddhist values, something Sri Lanka and Japan share in common, over the centuries.
"Why is it that the peoples of Asia are anxious that Japan should be free It is because of our age-long connections with her, and because of the high regard the subject peoples of Asia have for Japan when she alone, among the Asian nations, was strong and free and we looked up to her as a guardian and friend.
We in Ceylon were fortunate that we were not invaded, but the damage caused by air raids, by the stationing of enormous armies under the South-East Asian Command, and by the slaughter-tapping of one of our main commodities, rubber, when we were the only producers of natural rubber for the Allies, entitle us to ask that the damage caused should be repaired.
We do not intend to do so, for we believe in the words of the Great Teacher whose message has ennobled the lives of countless millions in Asia, that (hatred ceases not by hatred, but by love'. It is the message of the Buddha, the Great Teacher, the Founder of Buddhism, which spread a wave of humanism through South Asia, Burma, Laos, Cambodia, Siam, Indonesia and Ceylon, and also northwards through the Himalayas into Tibet, China, and finally, Japan, which bound us together for hundreds of years with a common culture and heritage.
This common culture still exists, as I found on my visit to Japan last week on my way to attend this Conference; and from the leaders of Japan, Ministers of State as well as private citizens, from their priests in the temples, I gathered the impression that the common people of Japan are still influenced by the shadow of that Great Teacher of peace, and wish to follow it. We must give them that opportunity. This treaty proposes to return to Japan sovereignty, equality and dignity, and we cannot do so if we give them with qualifications. The purpose of the treaty then is to make Japan free, to impose no restrictions on Japan's recovery, to see to it that she organizes her own military defence against external aggression, and internal subversion, and that until she does so, she invites the aid of a friendly power to protect her, and that no reparations be exacted from her that harm her economy," Jayawardena said in his speech at the St. Francisco conference.
It was in fact the beginning of a solid bilateral partnership with Sri Lanka and Japan which grew from strength to strength over the past few decades. The Sri Lankan embassy in Japan was established in May 1953 and Sri Lanka, at one point, was made the largest per capita recipient of Japanese bilateral aid, which constituted for 40% of Sri Lanka's bilateral aid packages. During the tenure of former President J.R. Jayewardene, the Japanese government was instrumental in the formation of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation in Sri Lanka and that was a landmark in Japanese-Sri Lanka relations. Japan also donated state-of-Art equipment to the SLRC, including high-end transmitters. The Jayawardenapura Teaching Hospital, which is one of the best state-owned hospitals in the country even now, was constructed as a gift from Japan during the mid-80s. Such gifts were a direct result of former President Jayewardene's intervention to rescue Japan from the collective wrath of the international community.
Tokyo conference in 2003
When a UNP-led government came back to power in December, 2001 under Ranil Wickremesinghe's leadership Japan was among the key supporters of Sri Lanka in the international domain, in terms of economic assistance. High-profile representatives attended the Tokyo Conference, held in 2003 under the initiative of Japan, from 51 countries and 20 multi-lateral donor agencies including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The conference was co-chaired by the United States of America, Japan, Norway and the European Union. The conference granted $US4.5 billion to Sri conditional on the success of peace negotiations Lanka spread out over four years. The funds however were based on the success of peace negotiations between the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE, which came to an abrupt halt a few months after the summit.
This partnership was more or less "revived" when the UNP-led national unity government came to power after the Presidential election on January 08. Wickremesinghe's personal as well as political legacy allowed him to re-strengthen Sri Lanka's links with Japan.
The Sri Lankan Prime Minister met Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Kyoto on the sidelines of the International Conference on Science and Technology. During the meeting, the Japanese Prime Minister assured his fullest support and that of his government to Sri Lanka, during talks with visiting Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
While identifying Sri Lanka as one of Japan's closest friends over a long period, Prime Minister Abe assured that his government will stand by and assist SriLanka when facing any future challenges.
PM strikes 'personal chord' with Abe
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, when he addressed the Japanese Parliament on Tuesday morning, alluded to the rich partnership Sri Lanka shared with Japan on the social and economic front. While emphasizing on the "change that took place in Sri Lanka after the Presidential election on January 08, the Prime Minister invited the Japanese enterprises to join hands with Sri Lanka.
Wickremesinghe, when he delivered his speech in Parliament, did not forget to strike a personal chord with the Japanese Head of State. The Sri Lankan Prime Minister recalled with gratitude the assistance extended by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's father Shinaniro Abe towards Sri Lanka's development as the country's Minister of International Trade and Industries. He also thanked for the support received from Japan during the period of terrorism and communal tensions in Sri Lanka.
Recalling President Abraham Lincoln's statement that "Ballot papers are a more peaceful and legal successor than bullets", Wickremesinghe said the prime objectives of the Sri Lanka government was to formulate a new constitution, stabilise human rights and strengthen institutional organisations. "Talks have been started with the TNA and other parties towards finding a political solution. Steps would be taken to National Welfare Centre in the North for the benefit of families where women were the chief occupants, he said.
At the conclusion of his speech Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe received a standing ovation from the Japanese Parliamentarians and the distinguished guests present.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe met Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at theKyoto International Conference Hall on Sunday.
Apart from the social and economic partnership Sri Lanka shares with Japan, the country is expected to play an important role in the country's accountability mechanism, which will be put in place within the next 18 months.
Japanese involvement in Lanka's accountability mechanism
The Japanese Government told the UN Human Rights Council towards the end of its 30th session that the country would dispatch a senior prosecutor from the country to Sri Lanka in October. It was a key indication that Japan would play a significant role in the domestic inquiry mechanism that will be formed with the support of international stakeholders.
Motoo Noguchi, the Japanese prosecutor who will visit Sri Lanka, is a former international judge of the Khmer Rouge Tribunal's Supreme Court Chamber, the very model of an ad hoc hybrid special court that was set up in 2006, comprising Cambodian and UN nominated international judges to try former leaders of the Khmer Rouge regime war crimes.
The Japanese offer was a response to the resolution which Sri Lanka co-sponsored at the 30th session, calling for the involvement of "foreign and Commonwealth judges and lawyers" in its judicial mechanism to address allegations of war crimes and international humanitarian law violations.
The Japanese delegation told the council during its intervention at the final session that Japan had long been a supporter of Sri Lanka's own processes for reconciliation in the island. Japan said it believed that in order to make progress towards national reconciliation and improve the human rights situation in Sri Lanka, it was "imperative" to promote Sri Lanka's own efforts to address the situation.
==============================
## Title: For the love of Shakespeare
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
For the love of Shakespeare
Colombo International School (CIS) plans to stage a bold theatrical adaptation of 'Shakespeare in Love' directed by Head of Performing Arts Colombo International School (CIS) Vinod Senadeera. The cast are well drilled and well trained and feature some seasoned campaigners.
'Shakespeare in Love' was a 1998 British-American romantic comedy-drama film which won seven Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress. In the play Senadeera directs, the role of William Shakespeare is played by Aashiq Fassuhudeen and the Role of Viola is played by Amrita Khandpur.
"The play is based on the famous movie 'Shakespeare in Love'. We have taken the script off the movie and converted it into the theatre. If you ask me why I selected it; it is our annual school senior production and I like to have a large cast. It is one of the requirements of the school that there are more people on stage.
Maybe another reason why I selected this particular play was because we have not done comedy for a long time. To do comedy I need to have experienced actors. I need to have performers who can handle comedy because it is the most difficult genre to act in plays," said Head of Performing Arts CIS, Vinod Senadeera.
The cast and their director have a special connection having worked with each other previously and they are quite capable of handling a comedy. "But this is not a normal comedy. It is extremely difficult to perform, because there are lots of sub plots and plays within plays. You need a very alert cast and I think my cast are reaching those expectations."
Shakespeare in love is a comedy set in Shakespeare's time. The whole story is about how Shakespeare began writing his Romeo and Juliet. Having fallen in love with the movie Senadeera wanted to do a stage play.
"Shakespeare in Love is a period play in the Elizabethan Age. That is one hassle. In Shakespeare's time girls' parts were played by boys. This is because girls were not allowed to act on stage. This is difficult because most of the boys have to perform as girls and being in a mixed school it is tough. If you are in a same sex school it is easier to do things like this. Because in a school like this, that sort of culture is not easy. It is not heard of. So it is a case of the boys performing girls and it is about their removing costumes on stage. It is a lot of hard work."
From the point of view of the kids it is extremely challenging, because it requires a lot of intelligence to bring out a 16th Century attitude. So it is a tall order.
"Rehearsals have been frustrating because these kids are extremely busy with various other things. They do sports and attend various other classes and societies and it has not been an easy ride. But because I am directing school kids I always need to give children the scope to perform and do things elsewhere as well. I don't expect them to be 100 percent committed. They are all involved in other things as well and I need to accept that fact and encourage that.
But the issue is as a director, it is frustrating when you don't have a cast to work with. But it has not been that bad. We are managing and pooling in. The kids are cooperating a lot." The whole process, the whole story line of Shakespeare in Love is tremendously insightful. Because a lot of people are not aware of how Shakespeare wrote his plays.
The play will be staged at the CIS Auditorium on October 8 and 9 from 7 to 8.30 pm.
==============================
## Title: Malia Obama's college pick: Ivies, Liberal arts or public university
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Malia Obama's college pick: Ivies, Liberal arts or public university
US: President Barack Obama had some fatherly counsel for his 17-year-old daughter Malia recently, even as he admitted she might not listen to him.
"One piece of advice that I've given her is not to stress too much about having to get into one particular college," Obama told a group that included high school students in Des Moines, Iowa, last month. And, he added, "Just because it's not some name-brand, famous, fancy school doesn't mean that you're not going to get a great education there.''
His second piece of advice, the president said as the room broke into laughter, "is keep your grades up until you get in, and after that, make sure you pass."
It is college application season in America, including at the White House, where Malia Obama, a senior at the elite Sidwell Friends School in Washington, is in the middle of the pressure-filled process of writing personal essays, asking for teacher recommendations and narrowing her choices.
Reports from college newspapers and conversations with campus tour guides indicate that Malia, perhaps the nation's most eligible 2016 college applicant, is winnowing a list of Ivy League schools, liberal arts colleges and at least one top-ranked public university. Her current grades and SAT scores are not publicly known - the first lady's office declined to comment for this article - but Obama, for one, told the students in Des Moines that his daughter was a "hard worker" and that he does not expect her to "start feeling a little slack" in her senior year.
(What is known is that in 2009, when Malia was all of 11, Obama announced to the world that she had gotten a 73 on a science test. "So she came home and she was depressed," the president said during a speech in Madison, Wisconsin. But Malia, he said, studied hard and soon earned 95 on another test.)
So far, Malia has toured five of the eight Ivies - Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia and Brown - as well as Stanford and the University of California, Berkeley. She has also visited New York University, Tufts, Barnard and Wesleyan.
Not surprisingly, Obama and his large entourage have not tagged along. On some trips, even Michelle Obama has stayed behind, letting family friends show her daughter around. Students have still angled for selfies and Snapchats when they recognize Malia, but a low-key search process is most likely what the White House is aiming for, said Lisa Caputo, the press secretary to Hillary Rodham Clinton when the first daughter, Chelsea (Stanford '01), was looking for colleges in the 1990s.
"You want to have as informed a visit as possible, just like anyone else who is a college applicant," Caputo said. "You want to let them get a feel - what's the vibe on campus - without being followed by a whole swarm of people."
The colleges have happily cooperated. At Columbia, the president's alma mater, Malia was shown around by Zila Reyes Acosta-Grimes, a third-year law school student serving on the university senate whose father is a prominent New York jurist. At Yale, the college's head student tour guide, Jeremy Hutton - once a competitor in the Mr. Yale beauty pageant - showed off the Gothic campus. At Harvard, Malia toured the Yard with Taylor Nides, a fellow senior from Sidwell and the daughter of Thomas R. Nides, a former deputy secretary of state under Hillary Clinton, and Virginia Moseley, the deputy Washington bureau chief at CNN.
Malia and Taylor followed their tour with a lunch off campus with Olivia Moseley, a Harvard senior who is the niece of Moseley and Nides.
Many schools Malia has visited have a claim on her potential interests. Stanford, where Chelsea Clinton was an undergraduate while her parents finished their time in the White House, offers a chance to spend four years away from the East Coast under the radar. NYU boasts the best film program. Princeton, Michelle Obama's alma mater, continues to have close ties to her family (the first lady's niece, Leslie Robinson, currently plays on Princeton's women's basketball team).
And then there is Harvard, where her parents both went to law school. There Malia would be the latest in a long line of other first children - multiple Roosevelts, many Adamses, a Kennedy, a Lincoln and a Bush (the business school).
Sidwell assigns each of its students a college admissions counselor and, beginning in the spring of junior year, helps guide them through this series of hoops familiar to any college applicant. Strong extracurricular activities are important, and Malia Obama has exotic ones.
This past summer, she had a brief internship in New York City on the HBO series "Girls," and in the summer of 2014 was a production assistant on CBS' "Extant," a series produced by Steven Spielberg and starring Halle Berry.
Add to that a cosmopolitan home life - Pope Francis and President Xi Jinping of China were recent guests - and you have a very competitive candidate.
"Without question, the places and people she has been exposed to would be fodder for a more curious mind and wider personal knowledge than her peers - and that can't help but be apparent in her college entrance applications and interviews," said Carl Sferrazza Anthony, a historian of presidential families at the National First Ladies' Library. At this point, few know Malia's college preferences, or even if she is applying to all of the schools she has visited. But the paucity of information has done little to tamp down speculation. When Malia was spotted in August 2014 wearing a Stanford T-shirt on a bike ride in Martha's Vineyard, bloggers declared the contest all but done. Others have pointed out that the summer internship in New York City may have tipped the first daughter's hand.
But as far as the president is concerned, what matters is what his older daughter makes of her education.
As he told the students in Des Moines last month, offering what he said was a third piece of advice to Malia: "Don't go to college just to duplicate the same experience you had in high school. Don't make your decision based on, well, where are all my friends going so that I can do the exact same things with the exact same friends that I did in high school. The whole point is for you to push yourself out of your comfort level, meet people you haven't met before, take classes that you hadn't thought of before.
"Stretch yourself," the president added. "Because this is the time to do it, when you're young.''
- THE WASHINGTON POST
==============================
## Title: Mark the mask!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Mark the mask!
The devil mask was the first thing that would greet any visitor to the ancestral place. The wooden devil mask is now becoming a rare sight. Soon it would be a thing of history.
Where have these masks gone
Most traditional crafts in Sri Lanka face the danger of oblivion.
Mask carvers have practised their skills for generations. However, the modern world has hardly any need for a skilled traditional master craftsman, said Kanchana Wijesuriya, a granddaughter of well known master craftsman Ariyapala Gurunanse.
Masks have been used from time immemorial by people as a means of deception as well as protection. In our traditional work of jesters (Kolam), Bali , Thovil and for finding relief, mask wearing dancing were given a prominent place.
Masks depict the various moods that get embossed on our faces as reflections of the various emotions such as love, anger, fury, joy, fear and sorrow.
The history of masks goes back even before 1895. Masks had been used for popular stories and characters performed. The art of masks is believed to have derived from South East India. It had strong relations with the worshiping of devils.
Sinhala books such as Lo Weda Sangarawa and Guttila Kavya provide evidence of dancing which used masks in the ancient Ceylon.
At present, the art of masks is confined to a few families in southern part of the island. Ambalangoda is a classic example also known as the City of Masks.
Ambalangoda Mask Museum includes a workshop and a small library loaded with anthropological material on masked performances. It has been a popular cultural stopover since 1987.
Ariyapala Wijesuriya Gurunnanse is lucky as his fifth generation is among the few who still practise this traditional art. His grandchildren take a great effort to preserve this craft for the next generation even not to mention the numerous challenges in the industry.
Ariyapala & Sons provides two opportunities: job and training opportunities. It is home to a large number of craftsmen. Kanchana Wijesooriya has no faith in a future for the industry. The young has no interest in the art. Most youngsters simply want to earn money and do not want to study this art deeply.
"More than 99.9 percent of our masks are purchased by foreigners. Unfortunately local people do not have an idea about the value of this art. They only go after modern crafts such as melting ice carvings."
Kanchana emphasized that the government intervention is quite necessary to continue this tradition of art from generation to generation.
There are different types of masks such as Kolam, Sanni and Raksha. The Kolam masks are mainly used in dramas and performances. Popular Kolam masks are Jasaya and Lenchina. Sanni Masks are used to treat illness and there are about many types of Sanni masks used in Sri Lanka. Raksha masks are found as cobra mask, peacock mask, gurula mask, etc.
It is important to have a soft wood for mask carving. Kaduru tree, easily found in marshy lands, is commonly used to make these masks.
K H Upul Wasantha, a young craftsman, who is currently employed at Ariyapala and Sons, volunteered to describe the process.
First, the trunks of felt tree are kept under hot sun to dry and to drain out the sticky juice. Thereafter it is measured and cut into pieces of required sizes of the various masks. Then the carver gives the basic shape of the mask to the piece of trunk with the help of chisels and a mallet. These measurements of carving have been given in ancient manuscripts.
After this, the mask is kept on a Dum Messa (a vernacular type of hearth) for six or seven days to get the smoke to season the wood. This is a very important step as well as a traditional method to keep masks free from the insects' attack that we still follow. Mask is taken out from the smoking stall and gradually shaped the face to depict specific expression by using various types of chisels and mallet.
Before a mask is painted, it is smoothened with Motadelia leaves and Delsavaran which is obtained from breadfruit tree. As a first step of painting, light-yellow (primary colour) is applied on the surface of every mask. Here onwards colours are applied according to ancient manuscripts. Colours are mixed with 'Dorana oil' to assure the durability of colours. Each mask has its own particular colours to depict their characteristic features.
This endeavor of our ancestors cannot be thought of as works of art alone as masks are used for many other purposes such as cure diseases and social weaknesses.
Presently the mask designing and making targeted tourists. The travellers to Sri Lanka are quite keen on buying these wooden masks as a memento of their trip.
==============================
## Title: In memory of the cinemasmith
## Supertitle: Gamini Fonseka commemoration
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Gamini Fonseka commemoration
In memory of the cinemasmith
There is a rare breed of people in this world who have superhuman qualities. Whatever Endeavour they engage in they excel better than their peers and stand out from others. Gush of adrenaline in their bodies give them an extraordinary strength to be workaholics. They have in abundance talents galore. Gamini Fonseka is one such person.
We talk of Gamini's acting prowess and directorial marvels in cinema. Yet the question arises can we confine this person to celluloid world and describe him The answer is a firm No.
Atmosphere in the cremation ceremony Of Gamini Fonseka at the Independent Square some years back if one could recall will bring on real memories of a true legend born in these soils. People from all social strata were flocking to pay last respects to a true son of mother Lanka. In the backdrop speeches made by the Deputy speaker Gamini Fonseka in the parliament were being played.
I for one took time to break from the rest to sit back and listen to one of those speeches. Instantly a shameful feeling engulfed me for reading Gamini only as an actor and a film director from my childhood. This man was talking of the separatist war that was in full blaze at the time and was stressing in his speech the need for humane solutions to bring an end to a bloody war.
These philosophical words of him we heard through the mouth of a loud speaker that day has become meaningful as at today. Gamini has been a foreseer or some kind or a visionary who had a wealth of knowledge and foreseeable abilities.
Bandu Samarasinghe.
			Pictures by Sarath Peiris.
In his directorial debut Parasathumal Gamini as dejected Bonnie Mahattaya utters these words to Maggie. "Heta Ira Paayaida Kawda Danne Maggie..." (Who knows Maggie...whether we would see sunshine tomorrow...") In Mayurige Kathawa he writes the lyrics Sudo Mama Adarei... one of the most romantic lyrics in Sinhala cinema's lyric writing history. In Nidhanaya he sketches for real a beautiful damsel with birthmarks on her long neck.
Being a multi linguist he performed in Tamil and English productions too. Nadarajah in Sarungalae and the wealthy playboy in Rampage still linger in our minds making pleasant sensations. Authorities must take steps to screen films like Rampage, Sarungalae, Nobody is Perfect, The Crystal Book and Nidhanaya for the benefit of budding actors and filmmakers in our country. Dr Gamini Fonseka was commemorated on September 30 amongst a gamut of filmmakers, artistes and fans at the NFC. Gamini's beloved son Damith Fonseka spearheaded the program.
Prasanna Vithanage said at the event Gamini as an actor explored areas others dared to touch but filmmakers in our country failed to offer him with real challenges. He blasted Jayavilal Wilegoda the critic for trying to brand Gamini as an imitator of Marlon Brando.
"What is acting Sanford Meisner the American acting teacher told this. The only way to deal with yourself as an actor is to follow the emotional truth of what you have to do under the imaginary circumstances or in other words to live truthfully under imaginary circumstances. Gamini did this with perfection. Truth is like blood in Art. A certain character must have credibility to make the audiences believe in it. Gamini with fine facial expressions induces more aspects to a certain character even the film director does not imagine. Jinadasa in Gamperaliya and Willie Abeynayake in Nidhanaya are perfect examples", said Vithanage.
Vithanage also said Gamini Fonseka was an individual who was ahead of time.
Now this is a golden saying. Sheer proof of this notion is found even in decades old films of Gamini. When we see them on TV now...we cannot help but to think Gamini has performed in these films only recently. This man called Gamini rubs shoulders with the fraternity of world renowned actors to project a universal style of acting.
Dr Sarath Amunugama said Gamini was a sober, punctual and technically masterful individual. "Gamini was a lover of humanity and not a socialist or a slogan lover" he said.
The legacy of Gamini Fonseka must be taken forward for the benefit of next generation, said the versatile actor Dr Ravindra Randeniya. He added Gamini has pioneered so many disciplines in the cinema sphere in this country.
At the felicitation ceremony of Gamini Fonseka held at BMICH few weeks prior to his demise, we got the rare opportunity to shake hands with this great personality who was bigger than life. Gamini was thronged by his fans at the lobby. He was beaming and looking like a prince. Approaching him to utter the words, "Sir...may I shake hands with you" was one of the most memorable moments in my life. "Yes...you may!" said he with his manly voice, greeting me with the trademark smile which mesmerized millions of people through decades.
And then we shook hands. I felt the warmth in his heart and at that very moment. Chutte, Dhara, Bucket Harry, Willie Abeynayake and Bonnie Mahattaya came into my mind in a jiffy.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: MP Janaka Bandara Tennakoon taken into CID custody
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 11:00
MP Janaka Bandara Tennakoon taken into CID custody
UPFA Matale District MP Janaka Bandara Tennakoon was taken into the custody of the Criminal Investigation Department(CID) for questioning, over an incident of murder that occurred in 1999.
==============================
## Title: The Nigerian hour
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
The Nigerian hour
The Occasion of the 55th Anniversary of the National Day of the Federal Republic of Nigeria :
The High Commission of the Federal Republic of Nigeria celebrated the 55th National Day at Hotel Kingsbury on October 1. The event attracted a large gathering including Ministers, High Commissioners, Ambassadors, Senior officers other important personalities with the High Commission staff.
==============================
## Title: THAT NIGHT BELONGED TO KAVISHKA PARANAVITHANA
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
THAT NIGHT BELONGED TO KAVISHKA PARANAVITHANA
It is one hundred and twenty five years since the inauguration of ABRSM and as always the Sri Lanka Chapter held its Annual High Scorers Concert and Awards presentation since 1989 and have gone from strength to strength harnessing Sri L ankas cream of youth talent in classical music. ABRSM is the leading authority of the world in music assessment producing over 600,000 candidates in 93 countries each years. It is linked to four leading UK Conservatoires;
Royal Academy of music, London
Royal College of Music, London
Royal Northern Collage of Music, Manchester
Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, Glasgow
With such a rich history behind it, Sri Lanka with its pioneering Representative, Mano Chanmugan has strengthen the cause of our budding musicians and future looks bright for our musical scene. In his welcome address in the presence of the British High Commissioner who was the chief Guest, said If there is one thing that binds people and nations together, it is music. Nations get together with each other in harmony and joy and relieves the world of its tension.
Today, the results as we see among our youth is of very high standard, leading them to professionalism and even careers in music teaching. Some end up with orchestras etc.
The evening kept fine with a packed crowd inspite of the International Book Exhibition being astone throw away from the auditorium of the British School where the event took place.
Kavishka Paranavithana vying and achieving the LRSM prestigious High Achievers Award by the ABRSM (Sri Lanka Chapter) naturally had to be a student of our own string wizard, Ananda Dabera. He had no violinistic problem and on the contrary. Swept through like the wind in the willow in the hands of serenading Kavishka to whom it felt a toy bowing his way into each and every heart, flawlessly. Kreisler, one of the foremost violinists in history, wrote Preludium and Allegro to place these scores in hands of such as Ananda Dabera so that he will pass it down to produce such promising stars like Kavishka. Standing tall and elegant, he too did proud by his teacher. Kreisler who an early Romantic was highly influenced by Baroque music and find those traces in PRELUDIUM and Allegro as played tonight.
==============================
## Title: Nuke Mars for life, says Space X founder
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Nuke Mars for life, says Space X founder
US: Mars, the fourth planet from the Sun, is the closest candidate that is expected to somehow harbor life and become humans next destination for a rainy day. Last Monday, NASA announced that it had found flowing liquid water on the surface of the Red Planet, boosting, more than ever, the potential for existence of a more life-loving environment on the planet.
Now imagine this: To make it more hospitable, we could detonate colossal nukes on either poles of the planet, every few seconds, to give it necessary warmth for gasifying its frozen CO2 and create a global greenhouse to bring about conditions necessary for human life there. Though it might sound like a bizarre dream, the idea has actually been forwarded by a business magnate.
The founder of Space X, an American aerospace manufacturer and space transport services company, believes that by creating huge fusion explosions above Mars poles, almost every few seconds, the cold planet will get warmer and more habitable by these short-lived artificial suns.
What I was talking about was having a series of very large, by our standards, but very small by calamity standards, essentially having two tiny pulsing suns over the poles. Theyre really above the planet. Not on the planet, said Elon Musk, as quoted by RT on Saturday.
Every several seconds send large fusion bombs over the poles. A lot of people dont appreciate that our sun is a giant fusion explosion, the Canadian-American tycoon added.
Musks plan is simple, at least theoretically.
There are huge quantities of carbon dioxide entrapped on Mars poles as thick layers of dry ice. By heating up the temperature, the gaseous CO2, a powerful global warming agent, is released towards the sky, which would in turn warm the atmosphere sufficiently to create a feedback loop and a runaway greenhouse effect on the planet.
In a warm environment aided by flowing water, plant life can survive and gaseous oxygen would be released, preparing the scene for animal life to emerge later on.
There is worldwide attention towards finding life on Mars and creating life-supporting environment there, although profitable business is also a major factor.
I worry that were not going to have anybody on Mars until we find oil on Mars, said Neil deGrasse Tyson, American astrophysicist, cosmologist and science communicator last Monday.
According to Musks programme, we shouldnt bother ourselves with the familiar dome-shaped settlements on the Red Planet, detached from the harsh environment existing outside. He is simply speaking of causing climate change as vast as an entire planet, in the hope of altering Mars environment akin to that of the Earth.
But the 44-year-old seems to be entirely unaware of the potential failure of the nuke carriers in Earths mid-air, or the legal concerns regarding the ownership of Mars. Furthermore, creating false suns over Mars poles and causing global climate change there are merely theoretical.
Despite these seemingly impossible odds, Musks far-fetched idea has haunted Europa, the icy moon of Jupiter, which is another candidate of supporting life in our Solar System.
Europa mission would be cool he wrote on his twitter account earlier in September, thinking of nuking there too.
- PRESS TV
==============================
## Title: Pope: marriage is between men and women
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Pope: marriage is between men and women
ITALY: Pope Francis defended marriage as "an indissoluble bond between a man and a woman" on Sunday as he opened a landmark Catholic synod on the family hours after the Vatican sacked a senior priest who came out as gay.
In a solemn mass held in St Peter's Basilica, the Pope set a largely merciful tone by urging religious leaders to do more to "seek out and care for" marginalised believers, but reaffirmed Catholic opposition to gay marriage. The opening of the synod has been overshadowed by Saturday's announcement by Polish-born priest and Vatican theologian Krzyszt of Charamsa that he was in a gay relationship and was prepared to become an advocate "for all sexual minorities and their families who have suffered in silence".
"I'm out of the closet and I'm very happy about that," said the 43-year-old priest, wearing his clerical collar and standing next to his partner.
The Vatican reacted furiously, calling the priest's announcement a "serious and irresponsible" decision timed to put undue media pressure and tension on the synod assembly.
Vatican officials said Monsignor Charamsa would be swiftly removed from his Vatican post as a theologian at the Pontifical universities and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the body responsible for promoting and defending the doctrine of the Catholic Church.
The clash between Vatican officials and a high-ranking clergy member on the eve of the synod has exposed growing fissures in the Church on social and relationship issues that have divided reformists and conservatives.
Despite the cloud of controversy, Pope Francis did not hesitate to address some of the thorniest issues facing nearly 300 religious leaders gathered for the assembly in Rome.
The Argentine pontiff urged more compassion and mercy toward Catholics who feel marginalised by doctrine that is often in conflict with how millions of believers live.
At a time when the number of people who feel alone is increasing, the Church must do more protect the wounded "and not close the door to them", he said. "The Church must search out these persons, welcome and accompany them," Pope Francis added.
But he also dedicated one third of his homily to the topic of love between man and woman and its role in procreation. "This is God's dream for his beloved creation: to see it fulfilled in the loving union between a man and a woman, rejoicing in their shared journey, fruitful in their mutual gift of self," he said. He spoke of the "true meaning of the couple and of human sexuality in God's plan".
A myriad of difficult family matters are expected to be debated over the next three weeks, including how to minister to divorced and remarried Catholics who want to take communion. Some bishops want a change to the rules that bar such people from receiving sacraments.
But it is the issue of how the Church relates to gay believers that has dominated the headlines in recent weeks. Pope Francis has personally fostered a climate of tolerance towards such believers, most recently embracing a gay friend who brought his partner along for a visit with the pontiff in the US.
- TELEGRAPH, LONDON
==============================
## Title: Prime Minister addresses Japanese Parliament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 03:15
Prime Minister addresses Japanese Parliament
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe who is on an official visit to Japan commenced addressing the Japanese Parliament this morning. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe is the third world leader who had the privilege of addressing the Japanese Parliament after US President Barack Obama and Indian PM Narendra Modi.
==============================
## Title: Promoting early detection of breast cancer
## Supertitle: A special offer from Ceylinco Healthcare
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
A special offer from Ceylinco Healthcare
Promoting early detection of breast cancer
The Ceylinco Healthcare Centre will join institutions around the world this October to promote early detection as a means of minimising the adverse impacts of breast cancer on individuals and communities, to mark the month dedicated universally to breast cancer awareness.
The Centre, a wholly-owned subsidiary of life insurance market leader Ceylinco Life, has announced discounts of 15 per cent and 20 per cent respectively for individuals and groups of five or more who obtain one of two precautionary screening packages throughout October.
The first package for women over 40 years of age comprises consultation, a mammogram and a breast scan, and will be offered at Rs 6,375/- instead of the standard price of Rs 7,500/- the Centre said. A group of five or more who book the package together will pay just Rs 6,000/- per person.
The second package, reduced to Rs 2,750 from Rs 3,250/- is for women below the age of 40 and comprises of a consultation and a breastscan. The group price of this package during October will be Rs 2,600/- per person.
The Centre said it will also offer discounts on additional tests such as Pap smears and CA 125 to those who obtain these discounted screening packages this October, and make other special offers available to visitors to the Centre's Facebook page.
"Although it has been established that detection and treatment in the early stages can result in breast cancer being overcome, many women are reluctant to make periodic screening part of their healthcare regime," states Dr. Charuky Weerasuriya, Senior Medical Officer in a press release issued by Ceylinco Healthcare Centre. "Our efforts every October are to leverage the awareness created globally during the month to encourage more women to undergo screening. After all, if one has a potentially life-saving opportunity at the cost of a meal at a quality restaurant, why not take it"
The Ceylinco Healthcare Centre is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for the detection and treatment of cancer. Visitors undergo screening or treatment in a comfortable non-hospital atmosphere.
The Centre also offers moral support to cancer patients through a cancer support group, a team of professionally trained caregivers who assist cancer patients on a one-to-one basis.
The team at the Centre's Breast Care Unit comprises of doctors, radiologists, a pathologist, breast surgeons, oncologists, nurses, radiographers and customer service staff. Located at Park Street, Colombo 02, the Centre offers services ranging from history-based risk assessment to clinical examination, mammography, ultrasound investigation as well as multi-modal treatment options.
==============================
## Title: Ready to quit NDA if it helps Sri Lankan Tamils - Indian MP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 05:30
Ready to quit NDA if it helps Sri Lankan Tamils - Indian MP
PMK MP Anbumani Ramadoss on Monday said he was ready to quit the BJP-led NDA alliance if his decision could help find a permanent solution to the problems of the Sri Lankan Tamils.
Reacting to TNCC president E.V.K.S. Elangovan who asked why he was continuing in the NDA when India supported the diluted resolution in the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) for a probe into the war crimes, Mr Anbumani said the Congress leader was only diverting the issue.
If it helps the Sri Lankan Tamils, I am ready to leave the NDA. Indias stand shocked me and I have returned a disappointed man, said Mr. Anbumani, who attended the UNHRC meeting in Geneva a few days ago.
He said even though the UNHRC Commissioners report had not used the word genocide to describe the crime against Tamils in Sri Lanka, there was adequate evidence that pointed to genocide.
An international inquiry will bring out the truth because the report had described the killing of Tamils as a system crime, he said.
Mr. Anbumani said even now it was not late for Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to hold an all party meeting to prevail upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put pressure on the international community to get justice for the Sri Lankan Tamils.
(The Hindu)
==============================
## Title: Repent at leisure
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Repent at leisure
Even though he held a prestigious job with ample perks he was never satisfied but aimed at earning more and often said he liked to work overseas. Finding employment on contract basis for seven years he left abandoning his love of three years. Her pleadings not to leave fell on deaf ears. Pretty Cathy was now a jilted lover, all her hopes for the future were dashed by Mark's harsh words, when he had said he did not wish to marry her. It was too late when she realised that the past years he had not been serious and his scathing words kept ringing in her ears, 'Find somebody else', wasn't that very demeaning. How could he do this to me, he had forgotten the vows they had made to each other constantly whenever they met, it was like throwing pebbles into the ocean, burying them. She had cried for days after his departure.
Cathy was a quiet and sensitive girl and her parents too were very disturbed over their daughter's plight having wasted her young years. The vibrant young girl now hid herself in a cocoon. 'Give her time she will get over it', her grandparents had said. Her parents were very angry with her for not listening to them and her friends had repeatedly warned her that Mark was a hypocrite and cheat, she had not heeded their advice but carried on her affair regardless. It was only Jenny her one faithful friend who stood by her side consoled her. 'Let him go Cathy stop lamenting he is only a 'saalaya' there are so many fish in the sea with your beauty and goodness you could find a good 'thora' she had said; they had both laughed and gone into the canteen. Jenny's jovial remarks enlightened her and her troubles vanished whenever she was depressed.
Concentrating with her work in the office made her forget him gradually, when one day she received an invitation. It was from Mark, he was getting married in another three days. Once again he had re-kindled the old fire and she had sobbed when her father had found the card, shredding it to bits threw it into the hearth. 'How dared he do this to my child, this scoundrel should be shot', bellowed he, when he was pacified by her mother to calm down. What audacity her friends had said, he was a brute just think the man is dead, wash him off your system they had advised.
The episode was fast forgotten when the office held its annual get-together. It was at the masked dance that Cathy met Eric. Much to her amusement he never left her side and partnered her at all the events. She had enjoyed dancing with him, and at the end of the day he had shyly proposed to her. With no reply and only a smile from her he refused to take an evasive answer. Eric was quick to notice her change of behaviour and light-heartedness when she enjoyed his jokes but at times he noticed that she was not listening and was in a mood of her own. Something seems to be disturbing this pretty girl, let me find out. Cathy vowed that she would never marry all men were the same she had told Jenny. "Lets' see, hold a bet, Cupid is around the corner, do not waste your beauty' she teased. Finally, after much persuasion and still the answer was in the negative, Eric decided to confront her parents and ask for their daughter's hand. Delighted at his politeness, they did not with-hold to tell him of Cathy's former involvement and her awkwardness to marriage. 'Dad, I am not interested of the past, let by-gones be by-gones' he had said. With parental blessings from both sides, Eric and Cathy tied the knot.
Meanwhile, Mark had spells of misfortune. Now abroad for the past five years he led a very unhappy life. His sophisticated wife a high society dame neglected the house whilst he had to shoulder all responsibilities. Moreover her evenings after office were spent at pubs returning late at night. He was compelled to wait up for her resulting in breaking rest. Since his work entailed as an Overseer at a construction site, the delay to attend office on time hampered the on-going work which was prolonged much to the wrath of the contractors, thus he was reprimanded by his superiors for the lapse. Dejected and disgusted with his problems and his failure in marriage, he finally decided to end it and managed on his own until the expiry of his contract. Later on he decided to return to his place of origin.
None of his former associates knew that Mark was in town. With a haggard look and unkempt hair he looked very much older, could not be recognized, but Cathy's mother who had accidentally seen him in town quietly disclosed it to her husband. Mark thought he would use his charms once again and seek solace in his former love, who knows she must be still pining for me. When he learnt that she was happily settled having a small family, a wild jealousy cropped up in him with vicious and random thoughts to find ways and means to destroy her happiness. How could I do that he pondered
Making enquiries of her husband's place of work he tried to contact him but was unsuccessful since he was at several important meetings. Finally, one day posing off as a business partner he was put through to speak to Eric when he had blurted out his relationship with Cathy several years ago. Being the respected gentleman he listened patiently and knew at once the man's motive. He was trying to create mischief and destroy my beautiful family I should act fast and keep this dirty man at bay, let me give him a good hearing and invited Mark to meet him at coffee the following evening.
Warned by his in-laws that the man may have returned with bad intentions, Eric planned his retaliation. He watched Mark walk in with vicious glee on his face and he pretended not to show any ill-feelings. 'Look here friend where were you all these years, do not repeat your sayings of yesterday I am not interested, just let me hear about yourself' he said. It was then that Mark blurted out his unhappy marriage. 'You have reaped your own sins, now sink in them', was Eric's answer.
==============================
## Title: Restaurant attacked with hand grenade
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 04:30
Restaurant attacked with hand grenade
A restaurant located along the Kuburupitiya  Akkurassa road had been attacked with a grenade which was thrown near its entrance last night.
However, the hand grenade had not exploded on impact. The Kuburupitiya police stated that if the grenade had exploded, a large number of people would have been injured inside and in the surrounding area. The main entrance of the restaurant was damaged due to the impact of the dud grenade.
The Kuburupitiya police are carrying out investigations into the matter and the Army Bomb Disposal Unit had inspected the grenade and contained it.
==============================
## Title: Reviving the rurality
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Reviving the rurality
At first glance, Kamiyama looks like any other rural town in Japan: shuttered stores on the main street, a gas station unencumbered by customers, hunched-over old ladies tending rice fields.
But on closer inspection, this mountain village on Shikoku, the smallest of Japan's four main islands, also has many highly unusual attributes, such as wood-fired pizza, tech start-ups and young people.
As rural Japan battles the twin afflictions of a population that is getting smaller almost as quickly as it's getting older, Kamiyama is one of a handful of towns that is bucking the trend. It's practicing "creative depopulation" - trying to make sure it gets younger and more innovative, even as it shrinks, by attracting youthful newcomers who are weary of big-city life to work in new rural industries.
There's a French bistro run by a former Apple employee, a handmade shoe atelier, an organic coffee roaster, long-haired guys in "no nukes" T-shirts and a bunch of techie types opting out of the rat race. Think of it as Japan's answer to Portland, Ore.
"For me, it's simple. I can have my work and my hobbies coexisting here," says Kiyoharu Hirose, the director of a Web design company who moved here with his family a year ago from Osaka, Japan's second-largest city. His sons are in fourth and sixth grade, and his wife works as a florist.
"Here, I can go fishing in the morning before I come to work," said Hirose, 42, sitting on a camping chair outside his office in jeans and sneakers on a recent sunny day. "Even though it's still May, my boys come home wet after playing by the river."
His office is an open-plan kominka, a traditional wooden Japanese building, with big computer screens inside and racks of fishing rods outside. The only skyscrapers are cedar trees and the only noise pollution comes from birds.
About 10 steps away is his home, an old kominka, several times larger than the one they had in Osaka.
"My designer friends said there would be no work for me if I came somewhere so rural, but my work is client-oriented, so this is a great chance to try to create my own work and jobs."
That is exactly what Shinya Ominami, a Stanford engineering graduate and Kamiyama native, had in mind when he started thinking about creating a "Green Valley" here.
"There is no way to stop the depopulation trend, so we wanted to concentrate on the quality of the population by bringing in young people and diverse working styles," Ominami said.
It's also an example of what Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government in Tokyo has in mind as it tries to stanch, if not reverse, the flow of migration into Japan's metropolises. The Japan Policy Council, a think tank, predicted last year that a third of Japan's 1,800 municipalities were in danger of vanishing, with the number of women of child-bearing age dropping precipitously in half of them.
Meanwhile, greater Tokyo has a population approaching 38 million. People commute long distances from tiny apartments on packed trains - at rush hour, there are even white-gloved attendants to pack people into the carriages - to work 12-hours-plus days.
But an increasing, though still tiny, number of people are opting out of this daily grind.
They are moving to Kamiyama and a handful of other towns across Japan that are seeking to attract young people, who civic officials hope will create jobs and have children there. Iketani village in Niigata, the site of a major earthquake almost a decade ago, is being resurrected by young volunteers offering eco-tourism. Amacho, on a tiny island in the Sea of Japan, was on the verge of extinction but now boasts 300 newcomers thanks to new businesses and educational programs - earning it the title "the star of remote islands."
Kamiyama's population has fallen from 21,000 in 1955 to about 6,000 now. But in 2011, the year when Japan's population started to decline, Kamiyama's numbers grew - even if by only 12 people.
With no public funding to help with traditional incentives such as tax breaks for investment, Ominami and his "Green Valley" team have had to sell the lifestyle - especially the opportunity to live and work in atmospheric traditional houses - and the collaborative community aspect. They also run an unpaid artist-in-residence program.
Two things have helped propel Kamiyama's metamorphosis: a high-speed broadband connection used by relatively few people and its location on an island famed for its Buddhist temple pilgrimage, which means people here are used to welcoming outsiders.
Existing businesses are happy with the influx.
"There are so many shops around here that closed down, so it's good to see new businesses opening up," said Masakazu Kitai, who has run Kitai Dry Cleaning here since the 1960s. His son, Junji, added: "The people who moved here are more fashionable, so they're more likely to get their clothes cleaned."
Ominami's plan began as an idea to encourage companies to set up satellite offices in Kamiyama.
That idea took off after the Fukushima earthquake and tsunami in 2011, when many companies realized they should have another location in case disaster struck Tokyo.
That was the main reason that Tetsu Sumita opened a satellite office in Kamiyama in 2013 - as part of a "business continuation plan" for his company, Plat-Ease, which develops computer programs to manage and monitor television broadcasts.
Ninety Plat-Ease employees still work in Tokyo, but 20 are based here, working in a renovated kominka with cartoons playing on large televisions above their heads.
But Sumita's plan to remain based in Tokyo and to come to Kamiyama when needed didn't last long.
He soon realized he wanted to be here all the time.
"In Tokyo, I lived in an apartment building, I didn't know any of my neighbors, and of course, I didn't know anyone on my commute.
- Washington Post
==============================
## Title: Singer launches Mitsubishi air conditioners
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Singer launches Mitsubishi air conditioners
Singer Sri Lanka entered into a partnership with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mahajak Air Conditioners at a launch held at Kingsbury rece.
The event was patronized by Asoka Pieris CEO, Mahesh Wijewardene Director Marketing and Commercial of Singer Sri Lanka and Noritake Hossyo - Director, Daisuke Shigeta- Manager and Krit Charuckwong - Assistant Manager of the Marketing and Sales Department at Mitsubishi Heavy Industries - Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Through the partnership Singer Sri Lanka will be marketing and servicing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Industrial/Commercial and Residential use air conditioners.
Speaking about the partnership Asoka Pieris - CEO Singer Sri Lanka said, Singer Sri Lanka will be turning a new chapter in the local air conditioning industry through the partnership today with a global leader. We are living in an era of technological innovation, and it is important that we offer the very best of solutions for our customers all around the country to relish these tech advances available globally.
Demonstrating their true customer commitment Singer Sri Lanka launched the Singer Industrial Air Conditioning Division in early-2012.
The primary role of the division is to work closely with the customer from the point of making accurate product recommendations to providing a professional design, installation, commissioning and maintenance service, and the timely completion of projects and island wide after-sales support.
This initiative exemplifies Singers undisputed reputation for delivering superior quality solutions as well as effective and speedy customer service. Singer Sri Lanka launched the Institutional Air Conditioning Division equipped with a team of marketers to support its corporate clientele, another initiative to enhance customer satisfaction.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan legal system and its influence over society
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Lankan legal system and its influence over society
(A former Secretary of BASL and Administrator of the Legal Aid Commission)
The Independence of Judiciary concerns the entire judicial system as, when the judges are not independent, not quality and not living up to the expectations, the administration of justice will collapse. Judges are charged with the ultimate decisions over life, freedoms, rights, duties, and property of citizens.
The 6th United Nations Congress called upon the Committee to create guidelines relating to the independence of judges and selection of professional training and status of judges and prosecutors. This system trickles down to all jurisdictions worldwide. Judges are bound to decide matters before them impartiality on the basis of facts and in accordance with the law without any restrictions, or improper influences.
Our Judicial system is advanced and stands above any world system though there were unfortunate black patches from time to time such as the era of Sarath Silva - the most controversial Chief Justice to lead the Judiciary in Sri Lanka.
The Supreme Court was established in 1801 during King George and the great traditions and reputation are maintained to date. Our Judges and Lawyers have served in United Nations affiliated bodies and governments respected by the world at the highest esteem.
Our Judiciary is protected constitutionally and remunerated well with all facilities up to the status and standings of a judge who should be economically sound to maintain independence and independent from pressure from Executive or the Legislature. It is accepted that everyone shall have the right to be tried by ordinary courts or tribunals using established legal procedures. The term of office - their independence, security, adequate remuneration, and conditions of service, pensions and the age of retirement shall be adequately secured by law.
Promotions should be based on ability, integrity, and experience. We are fortunate to have judges/judicial system well equipped with all these ingredients second to no other country. We are now free from Privy Council and free to be tried by our own judges who are conversant without culture and say of life. There is news of impeachment of two Supreme Court Judges which is worrying as it will send wrong signals to the international brotherhood when we are in a controversial situation after having agreed to a compromised resolution on the Human Rights issue. There were attempt to impeach Neville Samarakoon and Sarath Silva which did not proceed to the end. As our superior and ultimate court is the Supreme Court, it is our duty to maintain the respectability and continuity of the highest court established on 1801 court structure and the system of administration of justice.
Fearless judges
In Sri Lanka from the inception of the system of governance, the principle of separation powers were in existence and the three branches namely the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary, performed their duties in harmony except for few instances of turbulent situations. Chief Justice Neville Samrakoon had differences with President J. R. Jayewardene who appointed him from the unofficial Bar to be the Chief Justice. He was an outspoken, honourable and fearless judge who went through a turbulent period with the Executive. But that particular incident has not damaged the continuity of existence of separation of powers and the co-existence among the three branches of the Government.
Impeachment of ex CJ Shirani Bandaranayaka was an unfortunate situation which should not have taken place. Young and energetic academic judge was misdirected and misled by left oriented political party and some lawyers backed by NGOs with different and political agenda.
Removal of ex CJ Mohan Peiris - an excellent Judge and a leading versatile lawyer by a mere letter from the Executive on the basis he was not properly appointed as the Chief Justice is the most unfortunate blot in the annuls of the Supreme Court history. Apart from these isolated incidents since 1801, we can be proud to be one of the advanced and independent judicial systems in the world with great jurists in the calibre of Justice Professor Weeramanthrie who was elevated to the position of the Deputy President of the World Court. In short, we are blessed with judges of world standard to cater the needs of this educated Nation.
Legal system
Sri Lankan legal system was originally a combination of Roman Dutch and English Law. The present system of judicial administration and organization is based on the current Constitution introduced in 1978 apart from the personal laws in existence. No changes to the judicial system were made under the recent changes to the Constitution with the changes of the government towards Good Governance popularly known as Yahapapalaya. The Judiciary comprises of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, Provincial High Courts, District Courts, Magistrates Courts and Primary Courts.
The Supreme Court is the highest court headed by the Chief Justice of and other judges. Infringement of any fundamental rights declared and recognized by Chapter 3 or 4 will have a remedy where Article 126 of the Constitution has exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any questions relating to infringement or imminent infringement by an Executive or administrative action.
Human Rights activism gradually developed the human rights jurisprudence, with the knowledge on Conventions Covenants and Human Right instruments which are being directly, indirectly and tacitly imported to Sri Lanka. Comparatively Sri Lanka has largest number of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOS) Human Rights Activists Organizations in a developing country.
NGOs found Sri Lanka a fertile ground to live and enjoy being one of the most beautiful and islands in the world with affordable cost of living for their NGO activism. Some were engaged in religious conversions mainly concentrated in villages, some engaged in business enjoyed the luxury of the country with powerful Dollars and Pounds against Sri Lankan rupee. It has been the general belief that they have misused the polite and good nature of Sri Lankan and economic backwardness of the rural polite.
Judiciary and the Bar Association
The Bar Association is the only recognized professional body for lawyers who will atomically be enrolled as a member of the BASL as a right on the enrollment as an Attorney-At-Law of the Supreme Court. BASL membership is exclusive for the lawyers. It is a powerful profession consist of members who are extremely powerful in the political business administrative and judicial arenas. Judges are selected among the lawyers and promoted to the higher positions on seniority.
The Attorney General is the leader of the Official Bar and the President of the Bar Association is considered to be the leader of the unofficial Bar.
Therefore BASL is expected to maintain independence which they jealously guard and protect until recently when there are attempts to import political affiliations and external interventions indirectly and tacitly.
The BASL appear to have taken part in the Regime change process led by then leadership by making statements, organizing press conferences on matters outside the purview of the BASL, for which they appear to be amply compensated.
The union of the Bar Association with the American Embassy has raised the eyebrows of the membership and the public as from time immemorial the independence of the Bar, was maintained by the Bar Association which is a statutory body recognised by the State and the Judiciary.
Dealing with Embassies and receiving funds and assistance is prohibited and unprofessional by this most respected and respectful profession and professionals proud of being independent.
Sorry state is the silence of the membership and enjoyment the privileges and foreign funds with no hesitation as fat cat NGOs powerful in Sri Lanka. We should maintain friendly relations with our close friend USA with care who is a world power with hidden motives and agendas in favour of their Nation as it is natural for them to be pro USA as much as we are pro Sri Lankan. As an independent professional body we should be whiter than white and be cautious with dealing with powerful world powers.
Hybrid judges
This is a term used after the proposed resolution of the UN High Commissioner of Human Rights on Sri Lanka in view of the annual human right sessions. UN Human Rights Commissioner proposed international judges when Sri Lanka proposed Commonwealth and foreign judges- not international judges to the Hybrid courts suggested by the proposals. It is difficult to differentiate foreign and Commonwealth Judges from international judges as any way the foreign and commonwealth judges too are international judges. The High Commissioner of Human Rights in the UN is a Prince from Jordan - a Middle East Islam State headed by King Hussain - a close ally of USA expects Sri Lanka to import international judges from other jurisdictions, when we maintain highest judicial standards on legal education in our respected and sophisticated legal system second to no country in the Globe.
When Sri Lanka is armed with a highly developed legal, administrative, and a system of governance with an educated workforce and jurists above many Asian counterparts, it is unnecessary to import foreign Hybridge Judges whose thinking is different and has prejudicial briefings by interested parties.
We are on a bad wicket now as we have already agreed in principles for there solution adopted in the Human Rights Council agreeing to foreign judges and jurists to intervene and interfere with the newly proposed hybrid mechanism.
We are self-sufficient with the highest standards on legal knowledge jurists advanced legal and administrative system no second to any part of the world.
Measures by the BASL on regime change process
BASL was active in political activism with the media by organizing press conferences and issuing statements on the matters outside the purview of the BASL objects and traditional duties. The previous BASL administration was vociferous and active on regime change process for which they are amply compensated by the appointment/s of the most powerful financial and investment organization in the Business world in Sri Lanka.
Now that Sri Lanka has agreed on a mechanism with Hybrid Judges there will be additional funding from the international brotherhood of $ 337.800 for the implementation mechanism of the resolution, for Judges, Lawyers, Prosecutors court systems and implementing centres with a Colombo Office and branches with staff with Diplomatic immunity to implement the decisions taken and to implement the mechanism. But as the UN EU and internationals are slow in action, this mechanism is bound to be the same and there is a possibility to take a long period as has taken place in similar mechanisms in the other parts of the world. Our experience in such international courts is that it takes few decades for the completion of the trials and the mechanism will be in Sri Lanka with all facilities and diplomatic privileges until the end of the trials and even thereafter to supervise the implementation as envisaged in the resolution.
BASL leaders may have taken the cover of Article 2 C states as follows,
The consideration of matters of national importance relating to the rule of law and administration of justice and if need be, making of representation thereon to the Government and/or any other relevant authority and taking any further steps in respect thereof including faking of actions and intervening in actions in Courts of justice. The MOU/Trust Deed entered into may have been under the cover of this clause as all other objects of the BASL are on the membership and connected matters. Never in the history of the Bar Association and the Law Society this kind of activism has taken place outside the preview of the professional body and it is time to be cautious in the future to be whiter than white.
US Aid Funds for the Bar Association
US Aid Development Funds for the Bar Association - MOU/Trust Deed appear to have signed between the BASL and the US Ambassador Michele Sison, then Ambassador on USAID scheme to help civil society initiatives, strengthen democracy, democratic institutions, rule of Law, help administration of justice and varied matters.
Enormous sums of funds have been pumped to BASL, which is continuing to date with staff currently working hand in hand with BASL staff. The danger is the possibility of free access to the Date Base and important confidential information of the members of this powerful professional body consists of most powerful personalities in Sri Lanka including the Executive, Legislature and judiciary which is a worrying situation. Where the USAID staff on this project is stationed is a matter of an important topic at Hulftsdorp. Is it safe for us to expose our data bases and important information of the most powerful professional organisation with most powerful personalities in the country to an outside interested parties is a matter we have to consider in a broader spectrum outside political racial and other considerations.
Way forward
It is time for the BASL, OPA, and other professionals/organisations and national minded civil society to plan out a strategy to sail through this difficult voyage on our decisive era in the main cross roads in our history keeping all political and other differences aside in the interest of the Nation in crisis. It may be that the people concerned needs guidance and directions of the professionals and intellectuals when the governance is lacking in such row materials and ingredients.
We have a battery of competent and world reputed intellectuals and educated in Sri Lanka and worldwide who will be prepared to assist the country.
Lawyers and professional have a main role to play in this crisis. If we are trapped to interested parties and world powers, it will be for ever as the international instruments enforced in the guise of the resolution will have a long term binding effect on us for which we are too weak to resist or to correct in future.
We deal with human beings who are selfish and have strong love towards their nations. Leaders of counties and international organisations are selfish to themselves, their countries and organisations as their primary concern is them their country and rest secondary.
Therefore we have to take our own precautions for which we are competent. We were cheated by Portuguese, Dutch and British. India imposed us the Indo-Lanka Accord with the power of the Indian army and the regional power. FTA and the proposed CEPA with India may be a Trojan Horse with a threat of indirect invasion for employment and business.
We are a fortunate beautiful country existed over five thousand years next to a giant neighbour still independent and leading as a prosperous developed country leading to be a leading HUB in the Indian Ocean.
There are no comments by the Bar Association, OPA, or from the civil society except for handful, on the FTA, water, junk food, environment pollution in large scales and CEPA which will have direct effects on the lawyers and professionals, and the UN resolution on Sri Lanka proposing Hybrid Judges and number of proposals which involves direct and indirect external intervention. It appears that the BASL and the media has self-imposed censorship on matters of public and national importance. It is time to think of the nation without petty political or racial issues for a better future for our children and the motherland.
==============================
## Title: Stone's Throw
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Stone's Throw
Geologists tend to notice when rocks, especially big ones, are out of place. A few years ago, a group of researchers working in the Cape Verde islands, off West Africa, made a particularly jarring discovery-elephant-sized chunks of basalt and limestone that had formed at sea level and somehow ended up more than six hundred feet above, on a volcanic plateau on Santiago Island.
The rocks constituted only the final few pages of an unusual narrative. What remained for the scientists, Ricardo Ramalho and his colleagues at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, was to reconstruct the plot. Since it isn't easy to move more than seven hundred tons of stone at a time uphill, there were only a few possible protagonists. The one that they settled on was larger than life: a tsunami some eight hundred feet high, almost six times taller than the wave that hit Japan's Pacific Coast in 2011.
Back in the early nineteenth century, when geology was just emerging as a distinct science, such catastrophic explanations for modern-day features were fairly common. In those years, geologists in Europe and the Great Lakes region of North America began to take note of so-called erratic boulders, which were composed very differently from the local bedrock on which they rested. Monoliths of granite sat, illogically, on limestone; slabs of schist, improbably, on sandstone. The most reasonable interpretation of these foreign rocks, in the context of the contemporary understanding of Earth's history, was that they had been washed in by the waters of the Great Flood of Noah. Geologists called such flotsam "drift," and an early version of the geologic time scale included a period known as the Antediluvian-that is, "before the deluge."
Within a few decades, however, the maturing field of geology had distanced itself from Biblical accounts of Earth's evolution, and the incongruous rocks were reinterpreted as glacial hitchhikers, remnants of the Ice Age. Gradualistic explanations for geologic phenomena, informed by processes that could be observed today, became de rigueur; invoking the Noachian flood-or any catastrophic origin for rocks or landscapes-became a geologic taboo. (Even so, a vestige of the old flood paradigm persists in the name of an unglaciated region along the Upper Mississippi Valley: the Driftless Area.) The taboo finally lost some of its power in the nineteen-eighties, when it began to seem probable that a meteorite impact at the end of the Cretaceous Period had wiped out the dinosaurs. This unleashed into the scientific literature a pent-up flood of neocatastrophist papers, which sometimes veered toward the sensationalism of tabloids (with references cited, of course). Geologists were at last free to suggest that calamitous but infrequent events-powerful deluges, colossal landslides, gargantuan volcanic eruptions, supersonic impacts from extraterrestrial objects-did in fact play a role in shaping our world. Bad things sometimes happen to good planets.
In the past thirty years, the initial giddiness over extreme geology has subsided and the scientific standard for documenting ancient disasters has risen. When Ramalho's team began developing their theory about the Cape Verde rocks, there was a heap of skepticism to dispense with. At a latitude of just fifteen degrees north of the equator, the islands were never glaciated. This meant that the only other possible anti-gravity agent was water-namely, a very high and very powerful wall of it. The terrifying force of earthquake-generated tsunamis has already been seen twice in this new millennium, in Indonesia and Japan. But both of those island chains, unlike Cape Verde, lie hard up against the boundaries of tectonic plates, which occasionally lurch into motion, displacing immense volumes of seawater. Cape Verde is comparatively far from the edge of the African Plate. Whence, then, the wave
- The New Yorker
==============================
## Title: Those playful days
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Those playful days
It was a one stretch of coconut land from Mount Lavinia up to the Moratuwa Bridge on either side of the main Galle Road. The oldest buildings were then Glaxo and Pfizer, the two white buildings, other than the temples and churches here and there and scattered huge villas and schools on both sides of the main road. One could see the extent of sea on one side and the Panadura river on the other side through a stretch of coconut trees.
This was the period ranging from 1950s to 1970s. Sri Lankan children had their own way of games which came down to them centuries back. Most games were Sinhala but the words of certain games had a touch of either Portuguese or English.
Children would put up their own doll houses or playhouses. Girls become the mother and boys become the fathers. They would also become doctors, farmers, grocery sellers, while the little girls line up with their dolls covering them for medicine or buy provisions to their houses. Mostly pebbles were used as money. The doctor pours coloured water into small bottles. Some little girls in their imaginative world, cook in their little clay pots, sand as rice and all sorts of leaves, pebbles, pieces of flower petals and serve rice on to a lid of tin which is treated as the plate.
They enjoy it rather than eating real food with nourishment served by the mom at home, because imaginative sand has filled their tummies. The boys pretend as if they are in paddy fields with cardboard hoe. They tie their cows made out of the coconut "piththa" pretending that they are gazing at the meadows. The playhouse is mostly made by the boys. That is an initial step taken into a happy wedlock.
Various Sri Lankan games include 'karapoththan bai bai' , lame time, hide and seek, hopscotch - plane type, eight squares and six square. 'Gas Maru, Pethi Thoru Inna gasak netho', for instance speaks of the children in 1950s when they were closer to the nature. These games train a child to have a balanced mind, physically fit and aiming at the correct target.
They sit around and place their palms on the surface. One would count "Athuru Mithuru", which maintains harmony among them. They make small playing articles with the coconut leaf, many structures, sewing machine, "runa" and they fold it such a way that it becomes a long reptile. By that the brain cells keep them cheerful.
Children draw five lines and calls the space, diya, goda, mada, kola and kiri. One child commands and the rest jump into one destination. If a child cannot jump, he is out. There was another game "Utchchi Utchchi - Thol, Thol" and then the commander ask: "will you do what I say", and the rest say "yes", Then the commander gives them an impossible task like bring something which is not in the vicinity. Whoever brings gets a point. By that they learn the nature and names of things. They have to run fast. That is a physical exercise. They played with marbles. Where are the marbles now
"Rosy ruvath Lamayek" is where a girl sits in the middle and the king skips to take the princess. Here we go round the mulberry bush, also, "kage watte mal kadanne ada me bareta". These games improve their vocal codes, melody and stimulation.
Then with the Western touch, they swing the hula-hoop, they play "Categories". By this the children learn English language, words, pronunciation, beat etc. Then the game "I spy with my little eye" - by that they learn language and spellings, the game on - " the king in the palace has lost some honourable caps". By this children learn to speak, Then, "Here's the robbers passing by" - like the present tug-of-war two groups pull each other, that creates group leadership and fellowship. They play cards, seven tricks, "Old Woman" that too creates fellowship.
We, in our early teenage in the class room, we did not have laptops nor cell phones to play or enjoy.
Can you remember we playing with a five cent on a sheet of paper drawing six squares , like hopscotch on the foot, we use the second finger to pull the five cent on all squares (i.e."Athe Batta"). Also," girls, boys, fruits,names of flowers etc" on a sheet of paper where almost the whole class joins, (i.e."Genu Pirimi"). Certain times two get together and try to join dots to get a square, there were many more paper games, if it rains heavily we make paper boats and place in the drains. Do we now find that type of drains - no - floods or mud instead.
From the Western touch, our Sri Lankan children used to play games like - "Fairy Whispers", "Fairies and Goblins", children stretch the legs and sit as a circle, and each girl without trampling anybody runs on the space in between which is called "train". That was real balancing of body and brains. Children fall into two groups keeping their hands behind and a child tries to hide the pebble and the other group has to say who bears the pebble. Another famous game at that time was playing "Farmer in the Day". At times children in the classroom hide something and make the others search for it, when a person goes near they say" fire, fire" if they come away they say "water water". By these the children pick an immense vocabulary.
The children in their homes are now glued to their chairs or travel in the bus for tuition classes, dancing classes and elocution.
==============================
## Title: Tourist from Portugal arrested for public nudity
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 09:00
Tourist from Portugal arrested for public nudity
A seventy year-Old tourist from Portugal was taken into police custody for bathing naked at the Hikkaduwa beach. The tourist in question had arrived in the island recently and had been staying at a hotel in Hikkaduwa. The tourist was arrested after the police was notified by the Manager of the hotel he was staying
==============================
## Title: Trump supports Putin 'bombing the hell out of ISIS'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Trump supports Putin 'bombing the hell out of ISIS'
US: Moscow is "bombing the hell out of ISIS" because President Putin wants to prevent terrorism spilling into Russia, said US Presidential candidate Donald Trump, criticizing failed US Middle Eastern policies that have already turned Iraq and Libya into a total mess.
"Iraq is a disaster... Libya is not even a country," he explained. "You can make the case, if you look at Libya, look at what we did there - it's a mess. If you look at Saddam Hussein with Iraq, look what we did there - it's a mess."
Trump said that Washington is "destroying our country" by wasting too much money on Middle Eastern policies that do not seem to work: "We have spent $2 trillion in Iraq, probably a trillion in Afghanistan..."
"[Syria] is going to be the same thing," Trump said, criticizing US support of so-called moderate Syrian rebels.
At one point the interviewer mentioned that Russian airstrikes could be "hitting people we've trained," but Trump interrupted him by stating: "We are talking about people we don't even know!"
"The rebel group we have no idea ... I was talking to a general two days ago, he said: 'We have no idea who these people are.' We are training people, we don't know who they are. We are giving them billions of dollars to fight Assad," Trump said.
- RUSSIA TODAY
==============================
## Title: Twenty six injured in wasp attack
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 05:00
Twenty six injured in wasp attack
Twenty six persons including 21 school students of the Balleketuwa Sugatha Vidyalaya were injured in a wasp attack that occurred in Ella around 7.15am this morning, the Police Media Unit told Daily News.
The wasp attack had occurred when the group including the students were traveling in a van along the Dodamgolla-Ilukpelassa Road. Thirteen male students, eight female students, four adult males and a female were injured in the wasp attack. The injured were transferred to the Balleketuwa and Demodara Government Hospitals for treatment.
==============================
## Title: Voting rights for the mentally ill
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 01:30
Voting rights for the mentally ill
Voting rights have been granted to persons receiving treatment at the National Institute of Mental Health with the assistance of Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya, the institutes former director Dr. B. Jayan Mendis said. Addressing the media at the National Institute of Mental Health, Mulleriyawa yesterday, he said before granting them voting rights, these persons were fully educated on voting.
They were also provided with National Identity Cards.
Usually when a person is admitted to the institute his or her guardian or family members keep their IDs and use them to obtain all benefits granted to the patient by the state and other institutions, he said.
Dr. Mendis said patients at the institute were not ill treated. Several changes have been made to give them dignity. Mothers of new born babies can stay in the institute with their infants and husbands while taking treatment for postnatal depression. This facility saves their family lives, he said. Dr. Mendis pointed out that the majority of the health staff in the institute did not support changes which uplift the dignity of the mentally sick patients but a handful of staff members supported him.
==============================
## Title: Ward place temporarily closed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 09:15
Ward place temporarily closed
Ward Place in Colombo 7 was temporarily closed from Town Hall a short while ago due to a demonstration by University students. (Await Details)
==============================
## Title: Y.O.U
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 - 19:30
Y.O.U
The youth decide the the future of a country. Today it is a struggle to fit into the world right out of your cocoon but young activists are joining hands all over the island, to bring about innovative ideas, team spirit and a sense of unity!
On September 22 another such youth activist forum came into existence. The official launch of the newest youth activist forum, 'Youth Outreach Union' was held at the Royal College Union Skills Centre.
The launch initiated the inaugural activist effort of a movement aiming towards creating awareness among the public regarding the growing threats of climate change and how Sri Lanka can work on climate change mitigation through active social participation of the community.
A press briefing officially introduced the motives and the root cause of the initiative as well as the functional standpoints of the organization.
The briefing followed a panel discussion, with the presence of well-known young activists- and guest participations from the wildlife film maker/ researcher Taya F. Diaz, Indi Samarajiva- entrepreneur and Director at Yamu.lk as well as a representative from the Environmental Foundation, Sashini Gomez- Project Manager at International Organization for Migration, as well as Shayani Weerasinghe as a representative of Environmental Foundation as panelists.
The Vision of The Youth Outreach Union is to help understand and then make aware about climate issues that affect the world and Sri Lanka.
Their Mission is three-fold;
To understand how the general public reacts and views about climate change.
To develop an expert panel of activists and help make aware about climate issues that affect Sri Lanka, in contrast to the public opinion.
To use the expert panel address issues raised by the public.
The topics highlighted in the discussion were youth activism, environmental hazards and overcoming them as well as the youth and the community responsibility in initiating a positive change.
The climate change awareness campaign revolved around four focal points: promotion of public transportation, initiation of an attitudinal change towards waste management, encouragement of energy star appliances as well as recognition of biogas as a game changer in the energy crisis. The young activists of Youth Outreach Union had already launched a successful social media campaign related to the matter and had also reached out to the public with their innovative surveys and video graphic finesse, which saw a collection of valuable ideas and food for thought, that had originated from the grass root level of the society. Youth Outreach Union has partnered with South Asian Youth Environmental Network (SAYEN) alongside Climate Action Network South Asia (CANSA). The initiative is in line with the United Nations Environmental Program as an empowerment for young environmental activists.
Youth Outreach Union is a convergence of young academics who specialize in an array of fields. They had joined hands as a part of the fulfillment of their social responsibility as agents of a positive social change towards the betterment of the society and the world.
According to Jedeshkeran Chandrasegaran, the founder of Y.O.U, "Climate change is a major concern in the 21st century that has triggered due to various reasons. As an effort to direct the youth towards environmental protection and mitigation South Asian Youth Environment Network (SAYEN) has initiated the youth activist forum that spans for a period of two months and the project is bolstered by the participation of a group of youth activists representing various sectors including academics, journalism, social media activism, as well as the NGO sector. The local facilitating partner for the project would be Climate Action Network South Asia (CANSA)."
==============================
