## Title: Proposed Rs 10,000 basic salary hike for govt.servants complete by 2020: Minister Maddumabandara
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Proposed Rs 10,000 basic salary hike for govt.servants complete by 2020: Minister Maddumabandara

The proposed Rs 10,000 hike to the basic salary of government servants would be complete by 2020, Public Administration and Management Minister Ranjith Maddumabandara said.
The minister was addressing over 100,000 UNP supporters at the UNP May Day rally in Colombo yesterday.
This year, Rs 2,500 will be added to your basic salary, he said while adding that the government would soon introduce legislation to make Rs 10,000 as the minimum wage for all.
He further said that all workers would be allowed to work until 60 years of age with no conditions attached.
Yesterday, we introduced a circular allowing retired government servants to be eligible for the Agrahara Insurance Scheme. We will also increase the amount given though Agrahara. Maddumabandara said. Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake admitted that they have been slow in prosecuting the criminals of the Rajapaksa regime,
People ask us where the benefits are after one and a half years in government Why have we not caught any of the criminals he said, but added, By the next May Day rally, we will have caught all the criminals and they will kneel before you.
He further said,Mahinda Rajapaksa goes to Thailand and meets Udayanga Weeratunga who is wanted by our Police. We ask him, why are you mixing with criminals
"Weeratunga gives Rajapaksa a brief case of money and Basil Rajapaksa is now handing out that money from village to village. Gotabhaya Rajapaksa has now gone to America but he refuses to come to the FCID. We ask the police, why are these people still out, Minister Karunanayake said.
Karunanayake however assured that they had struck no deal with the Rajapaksas.
The UNP which also chose to make racial harmony and unity as a key factor in their rally, had SLMC leader Rauff Hakeem calling all to support a new Constitution which would be acceptable to all,
On 5th May, Parliament will once again sit as a Constitutional Council to discuss a new Constitution.
"But, certain factions are trying to ruin this valuable opportunity by targeting minority leaders. As a minority leader I also say that we must not use any fiery speeches to simply rouse the sentiments of the masses and act carefully, said Hakeem. Recently appointed Chairman of the Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam however insisted that they would not let their hard won victory go to waste but push forward to govern the country for the next 10-15 years.
Mahinda Rajapaksa has gone to Kirulapone to simply get back into power, so that he can continue with his corrupt ways. We will not let that happen,he said.
He added that the UNP government would ensure that every worker gets a fair wage for decent work.
Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure Minister Harin Fernando said it was only 5 months since the budget had been passed and asked the people not to think about short term benefits but a long term future.
Health Minister Dr.Rajitha Senaratne who also joined the UNP rally asked that the people support the Ranil-Maithri duo at the next Presidential election in 2020 too while targeting a UNP general election,
Neither Mahinda Rajapaksa nor another Prabhakaran will be able to rule this country ever again, said Senaratne.
==============================
## Title: The Govt. is our common enemy - MR
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
The Govt. is our common enemy - MR

Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said they are never ready to stop the struggle they have launched against the government as the government is the common enemy.
The observation was made by him while speaking at the May Day rally of the Joint Opposition at Kirulapone Lalith Athulathmudali Stadium last afternoon.
Rajapaksa added that he is accused by certain persons that he is going for deals with the UNP. He highlighted that he will never engage in deals with the United National Party (UNP), which is responsible for harassing the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and party supporters.
I regret that the SLFP is now in the bosom of the elephant betraying the ideals of SLFP founder S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike. Bandaranaike formed the SLFP with the assistance of five social forces. But, the present leader brought the SLFP to the embrace of the elephant, he said.
He further said that the SLFP is now in danger of losing its identity as a political party as the result of the coalition government.
As an outcome of this situation, the SLFP is now in danger of losing its identity as a political party, he said.
Rajapaksa added that he participate in the Kirulapone May Day rally representing the SLFP since the May Day rally, which organised by the Joint Opposition consists of several parties including the SLFP.
There is another May Day rally in Galle organised by the SLFP. But, I came here to Kirulapone representing the SLFP. Several persons who went there promised me to come here using the highway constructed during my tenure, he said.
He added that the Cabinet is equally divided between the UNP and the SLFP in what has been called a national unity government. Eventhough, the policy of this government is decided mainly by the UNP, resulting in a situation where the SLFP has been held captive and forced to follow the UNP line.
Professional groups in this country have been agitating against the decision of the UNP government to sign an Economic and Technological Cooperation Agreement (ETCA) with India. The government is going to privatise the SriLankan Airlines claiming that it is a huge burden to the countrys economy he said.
However, he noted that the airline had been making profits during his tenure. Even though the Prime Minister says that the airline is not profitable he said that he is not willing to believe it.
He said that the Prime Minister is ready to file a case against him as he had not conducted the war in a proper manner. He said he did not conduct a war but liberated the country from the clutches of LTTE terrorists. Mainly Tamils and Muslims were benefitted by the eradication of LTTE terrorism.
Rajapaksa highlighted that he would never allow anyone to separate the country, which was liberated by him.
He said that regardless that even though the prices of commodities in the world market have drastically dropped, the prices in the local market go up daily.
If you reload Rs. 100 to your mobile connection, you can talk only to the value of Rs 53 as the rest is deducted as various levies. This government has not even given lovers a chance to use their mobile phones, he said.
He said the government plans to initiate legal action against Basil, Namal, Gotabhaya and many others.
I asked Namal to get ready to go in. Wimal too should get ready, he told Wimal Weerawansa.
Speaking on the loans obtained by his government, he said that an amount of only US $ 12 billion was obtained by his government. Of the US $ 12 billion, US $ 4 billion was spent on the war.
The balance US $ 8 billion was utilised for development activities carried out countrywide, including the Mattala International Airport and Hambantota harbour. But, this government has up to now obtained US $ 7.43 billion.
Commenting on media freedom, he said that media freedom can be seen when considering the letter of the Media Ministry Secretary.
He added that he will stand for the persons who lost their jobs under this government, including those persons removed from the Presidential Secretariat
It was significant that no sooner Mahinda Rajapaksa started delivering his speech, it began raining and no sooner he finished his speech, the rain ceased.
==============================
## Title: Neither UNP nor SLFP suitable to govern country: JVP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Neither UNP nor SLFP suitable to govern country: JVP

Neither the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) nor the United National Party (UNP) is suitable to govern the country since both parties consist of corrupt politicians, Parliamentarian JVP leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake said yesterday.
He added that the parties that held May Day rallies at Kirulapone, Galle and at Campbell Park protected the corrupt politicians. Therefore, these parties are not suitable even to remain in politics.
The JVP Leader was addressing the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna May Day Rally at the BRC grounds yesterday.
He said the JVP would not allow for a return of a Mahinda Rajapaksa regime that put the country into a debt trap, deprive the people of democracy and ignite racism again.
He added that the JVP's next struggle is to defeat the SLFP and UNP together.
The people do not need the Nadagamas in Kirulapone and in alle,Dissanayake said. Ranil Wickremesinghe before the elections said their party was able to strengthen the economy. But, now they say they are unable to strengthen the same. The government can't run SriLankan Airlines, The CPC is burdened with debts and there are no funds etc,
He said that not only Ranil Wickremesinghe's economy is facing difficulties but the entire capitalist camp is facing difficulties.
He alleged that for the first time, the country's economy is run without a budget. We ask as to what this Government's budget is,Dissanayake questioned.
The President's rally in Galle is organised by Sajin Vaas Gunawardena Anura Kumara Dissanayake said. These Parties would do any mean thing to remain in power.
He said that Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran and some others are spreading racism in the North and Rajapaksa and his colleagues spreads the same in the South.But, the youth from Kilinochchi, Jaffna, Mulaitivu etc have joined the JVP rally to unite all the communities to take the country forward.
Some allege that the JVP has rooms at Temple Trees,Dissanayake said.
K.D.Lal Kantha said that before January 8, members of this government said that the UNP had the economic experts in the country.They say they cant give pensions. VAT is being increased from today (02), Lal Kantha said.
This government is drafting laws to curtail the rights of the working people. The fertiliser subsidy is being reduced, he said. He further said that fertiliser prices was increased. The prices of vegetables and fruits will be increased very soon. He added that the UNP government tells the people that it would provide everything by 2020. Will it run until 2020. No, even by now the image of this government is fading away, Lal Kantha said. It wont last until 2020 and we should not allow it to run until 2020.
Lal Kantha also said that President Maithripala Sirisena while he was the Presidential candidate promised to absorb all the manpower employees into the permanent cardre.
But, he has not so far been able to do so," he said. We demand that he absorbs them into the permanent cardre.
World Federation of Trade Unions Secretary General George Mavrikos, JVP Propaganda Leader Tilvin Silva and Ramalingam Chandrasekar also spoke on the occasion, Vijitha Herath, Bimal Ratnayake, Sunil Handunnetti and Namal Karunaratne were also present.

==============================
## Title: Massive crowds brave weather at UPFA May Day in Galle
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Massive crowds brave weather at UPFA May Day in Galle
The Sri Lanka Freedom Party  led United Peoples Freedom Alliance May Day Rally was held on a grand scale yesterday at the Samanala Grounds, Galle with the participation of hundredsof thousands of people under the auspices of President Maithripala Sirisena.
The processions with blue and red flags moved towards Galle from the Pinnaduwa access point and along Galle Road starting from the Mahamodara Hospital.
A recorded number of people representing the Pancha Maha Balawegaya comprising the Sanga,Weda,Guru, Gowi, Kamkaru from every nook and corner of the country participated at the May Day celebrations.
Politicians and the supporters representing 17 political parties participated at the UPFA May Day celebrations held under the theme of Ratak Hadana Athak Lowak Dinana Hetak Mabima Wenuwen Wedabima". Various cultural events added more colour to the ceremony. People waited till the end of the ceremony braving the heavy rains.
==============================
## Title: We will work for worker friendly society:Leslie Devendra
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
We will work for worker friendly society:Leslie Devendra
Veteran Trade Union Activist and SLFP May Day Organising Committee Chairman Leslie Devendra yesterday said that they will force the government to ensure a worker friendly society with a common labour policy.
He was addressing the UPFA May Day rally at the Samanala Grounds in Galle yesterday. Five demands including the issue of Man Powere mployees, maternity leave, pension for private sector employees, etc was forwarded by him on the occasion.
He also added that the present government has already taken number of measures to ensure the rights of workers and to solve their issues.
==============================
## Title: LG elections after delimitation process is complete: Minister Mustapha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 15:00
LG elections after delimitation process is complete: Minister Mustapha


There is no fear for the SLFP or the Government to hold the Local Government Elections as mentioned by some during the May Day rallies.
The LG polls will be held early next year once the delimitation process is completed, Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faizer Mustapha said. Addressing media during a press briefing held at his office in Colombo he said that holding LG Polls according to the old system without completing delimitation process is simply going against the people's mandate given to President Maithripala Sirisena during the presidential election, who promised the people to abolish the corrupted preferential system based on money power.
According to Minister Mustapha, even the UPFA General Secretary wanted him to hold the LG Polls as soon as possible because there is an advantage for the UPFA to win the election at this moment. But it cannot be done because what is more important is protecting people's democratic rights than following time frames. There are over 2000 complaints with the Delimitation Commission. Some ethnicities do not have a representation in some electorates.
Minister Mustapha pointed out that one more month will be given to the commission from August 1st to complete its work. Delimitation should be done for more than 1000 electorates. I do not interfere with the committee which is represented by all political parties.
Nobody raised hands against holding the LG Polls according to the new system when the issues was taken up in the Parliament. There are both good officials and good politicians while there are both bad officials and bad politicians. It depends on the persons and not on the fact that whether a person is an official or a politician. Therefore all LG bodies will be monitored and managed properly until the LG Polls hold.
==============================
## Title: SLFP CC to decide on Kirulapone rally participants
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 21:00
SLFP CC to decide on Kirulapone rally participants

It is up to the Sri Lanka Freedom Party Central Committee to decide what to do in connection with the SLFP MPs who took part in the Kirulapone May Day rally, Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faiszer Musthapha said.
President Maithripala Sirisena said that the SLFP Central Committee will be summoned this week, he said. Addressing the media at his office in Colombo today, Musthapha said President Sirisena acts democratically in the SLFP.
The SLFP May Day rally was held in Galle. It was a historic May Day rally for the SLFP with the highest number of participants ever. The space was not adequate to accommodate all. According to Minister Musthapha, there is no legal base for the proposal passed in the Northern Provincial Council in connection with establishing a federal system. Anybody can express any idea but two third of the parliament and referendum is required for such a proposal.
Sri Lanka will be a unitary state for ever. "I say this with a responsibility," the minister said. Foreign Employment Deputy Minister Manusha Nannayakkara said a huge crowd gathered to Samanola grounds, Galle for the SLFP May Day rally. The people showed the country the importance of following the leader of the political party by taking part in the SLFP May Day rally in large numbers. This is the largest ever crowd took part in an SLFP May Day rally. Participants from 40 electorates could not enter into the grounds due to over crowding, he said.
==============================
## Title: Kyrgios slumps to Almagro defeat at Estoril
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Kyrgios slumps to Almagro defeat at Estoril
Estoril, Portugal Saturday: Australia's Nick Kyrgios lost his chance to reach a second straight final at the Estoril Open when he went down to a 6-3, 7-5 defeat to Nicolas Almagro on Saturday.
The semi-final victory by the experienced Almagro set up an all-Spanish final against Pablo Carreno Busta, who took full advantage of a serving collapse from Benoit Paire to post a 6-3, 6-3 success.
Carreno Busta benefitted as his French opponent dropped serve seven times.
Kyrgios came into his match with the 71st-ranked Almagro as a heavy favourite after dominating opponents all week as he returned to the event a year after losing the final to Richard Gasquet.
It was tough conditions, he played better and I didn't serve great. But this was only my first week on clay, Kyrgios said. I played two solid matches, so it's not too bad.
I fly to Madrid now for the Masters, but I'm not expecting too much.
Almagro has dedicated much of the last few seasons to coming back from injury.
But the 30-year-old is now in the position to earn a 13th career trophy if he can get past Carreno Busta as the compatriots play for the first time.
Almagro came out ahead after a run of three service breaks and then earned a break for 6-5. He advanced in the next game on the first of three match points.
Kyrgios was competing in his fourth semi-final of 2016 having only stepped onto clay for the first time this year as the start of Roland Garros approaches on May 22.
Today was a really tough match against one of the most important players on the tour -- he is the future, Almagro said.
He plays very aggressive and can do whatever he wants with the ball. The wind made it difficult, but I'm very happy.
I tried to play my game with intensity, I was very focusssed. All I could do was fight, fight, fight.
Carreno Busta will be involved in his second career final.
The Spaniard constructed his second straight victory over Paire to put himself into possible title position after reaching the Sao Paulo final last February, where he lost to Pablo Cuevas.
Paire made a brief last stand by breaking as Carreno Busta served for victory, but the triumph was short-lived as the 50th-ranked Iberian broke straight back to earn victory.
He was better and it was too windy, was Paire's short, sharp analysis of his loss.
It was very hard to play well. Congrats to him, now he can fight in the final.
Carreno Busta advanced with modest form, striking five double-faults and finding a mere three aces. He lost serve on four occasions.
-AFP
==============================
## Title: Break free from the chain of consumerism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Break free from the chain of consumerism
Lets face it. We have become a nation of big spenders. Our already high ratio of household debt to income continues to grow year on year. For example, our nations credit card debt as at end of last year stood at Rs. 60 billion. Just five years ago, the corresponding figure was Rs. 30 billion. The increase of active cardholders during this period was 35%, but the total debt increased by 100%. In addition to the credit card debt, we have also been told that in the last five years, the total of the bank loans for consumer durables were experiencing considerable increases year on year.
This high household debt total is indicative of the fact that as individual citizens, we are inclined to spend money which we have not yet earned. We have adopted the modern global economic policy of consumerism.
Today, consumerism has already become the hallmark of our economy in spite of it goes against our ancient philosophical approach towards life. Consumption has become a more important source of self-identity and status than work for many people. And, they are willing to go into debt to achieve it. Consumption then has become an indicator of achievement.
Consumerised events
Business leaders use two techniques to power this excessive consumerism: planned obsolescence and perceived obsolescence. In planned obsolescence, companies design products so that people will need or want to throw them out within a short period after they buy them. In perceived obsolescence, companies use advertisements and gimmicky new models to convince the consumer that they need the new model. It is the concept of keeping up with the Joneses.
Consumerism have now turned major life events like weddings and births into consumerised events with their own hierarchy of demands. For example, the bride's dress and accessories assumes far more significance than the bride's state of mind. Baby gifts take precedence over helping with the baby.
Recreation, too, has become commercialized. Branded leisure clothing, shoes and sporting equipment and attendance at expensive sporting events with corporate sponsorship are the manifestation of consumerism in recreation.
Millions of cans, bottles, plastic cartons, are thrown away each year. "Disposable" items exemplify this. Rather than compete on quality or reliability, products are made for a one time use. "Fun" is a catchword discarding notions of inherent value, longevity, and the environmental consequences.
What can we do about it
To move away from the web of consumerism, we will need a cultural shift in our society and its values. Perhaps the current financial crisis gives us the ideal opportunity to think about the direction in which were heading as a society, and to consider new ideas.
Sri Lanka has been shaped by neoliberal policies by successive regimes since the open economy reforms after 1977. Whether the neo-liberal economic philosophy applied in toto is suitable for Sri Lanka has now become questionable. This economic policy is based on the view that human beings are rational consumers seeking to maximise their share of available goods. All of the systems and institutions that we go through in life and the communications we receive in day-to-day life serve to promote lives that uphold this view - so it profoundly affects and moulds our world views.
However, we are not simply rational consumers who want to maximise our share of goods  we are also human beings who need love, human touch, personal relationships, cooperation, nature and, above all, the ability to choose the lives we want. Neo-liberalism therefore leads to a system that fails to give us what we really need and forces us to live the lives we might not otherwise choose. It only promotes the restricted view of what a good life consists of and doesnt give us any opportunities to consider alternative views or ways of living. It also puts pressure on us to behave in particular ways or be particular people that may not be 'us' and this causes us stress and anxiety.
New economic policy
We need to move towards a society that has a much broader and refined view of what gives us well-being and happiness, and use the economic system simply as one of the means to achieve this end, rather than as an end in itself. We need to do all this within parameters of sustainability and social justice.
Therefore, we need a new economic policy that sees real choice as a key aspect of the good life. It should enable people to have real choices about the lives they want to lead, give them the skills they need to make those choices, and encourage them to pursue the lives they really want. It should include a basic level of material goods such as food, drink, shelter and money, plus non-material goods such as the life skills we need to be truly self-determined and live happily.
The new economic policy should also promote particular conditions that are felt to be conducive to human flourishing, such as stronger local communities, greater equality, education to promote well-being and the opportunity for children to grow without being exposed to external influences that they are not yet equipped to deal with. There should be regulations to ensure that we live within the resources of the planet and within some boundaries of social justice.
Defend ourselves
Even if a new economic path is adopted, the changes in society will not happen overnight. There are however some immediate steps we can each take in our own lives to release ourselves from the grip of consumerism, and to start living the lives we really want.
Firstly, we must be aware of how consumerism touches our lives and when people or organisations are trying to manipulate us. We must defend ourselves from unwanted external pressures. When we receive any message, whether it is in a social conversation, at work, in a newspaper, or on television, we must consider the source it came from and whether it might have a particular agenda. Then decide whether we can trust it and whether we should make any allowances for it in our interpretation of the message. We can then choose whether the message is to be digested or ignored.
Secondly, we must also take some time to stand back from our lives, away from external influences, and think about what really matters to us in our lives and how we want to live. Then, try to live the life we want, not the one that others would like us to lead. Many of us will find that reducing our levels of consumption, caring less about materialism and refocusing our attention and time towards things that really matter to us will eliminate a lot of problems in our lives and give us a great deal more satisfaction, whilst also leading to a more sustainable and fair future for all.
Policy matters
What Government policy agenda would help move Sri Lanka beyond consumerism
First, there are basic steps, that would help immensely: (1) eliminate wasteful subsidies and impose limits on emissions, toxics, and other residuals discharged to the environment; (2) insist on full-cost, honest prices, to protect our producers and workers from unfair foreign competition; (3) impose a surtax on high-end consumption spending along with various luxury taxes;(4) provide high-quality public services, infrastructure, and amenities; (5) move to much greater social and economic equality and security; (6) conduct educational and social marketing campaigns that not only provide accurate information to consumers but also address deeper issues such as the shortcomings of consumerism; (7) impose tight regulation on easy credit, predatory lending; and (8) promote initiatives to shift cultural norms that promote consumerism.
We also need to put advertising in its due place. A good start would be a ban on advertising to children under twelve years. We should also severely restrict out-of-home advertising, especially near schools. We must ban on highway billboards. We should make it unlawful to circulate mail-order catalogues except on request.
To ensure greater truthfulness and relevancy in advertising, a committee of each companys directors should be required to attest to the accuracy and relevance of all claims in major ad campaigns, and accuracy and relevance should be closely policed by the appropriate Government agencies, with fines levied when appropriate. Television and radio should be required to make time available so that the public can challenge advertising pitches and commercialism generally.
Consumerism has affected our generations peace of mind and health, capacity to save and build future income, capacity to spend at will, capacity to pay lawful tax, capacity to get quality education and capacity to have a work-life balance. It is the price of consumerism that we pay every day, without realising what we have lost.
==============================
## Title: Statesman who walked the talk
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Statesman who walked the talk
As one who had the opportunity to serve President Premadasa as the Chairman and Director General of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission and also as the First Chairman of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka from 91 to 93 and prior to that as the Chairman of the People's Bank, it will be appropriate for me to write about the economic developments undertaken during this period especially the 200 Garment Factories Programme and the poverty alleviation Janasaviya Programme.
It is sad that the country lost a dynamic leader who was action and result-oriented and had the vision to spread economic development throughout the country by taking the garment factories to the villages and providing jobs to rural youth, which resulted in the upliftment of the economy in the rural sector.
As chairman of the People's Bank during the period of President Premadasa, I was closely associated in the implementation of pro poor programmes such as direct lending to self-employed and small scale projects through the People's Bank and its network of branches spread throughout the country. The new concept of President Premadasa for the banks was to set up Praja Naya Niyamakas (PNN) who were given a loan of Rs 100,000 by the bank on provision of security and on lend small amounts of loans ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 10,000 per person for micro projects. Further the rates of interest charged by the PNN and the on lending rate were recommended by the bank to enable the people to get loans at a very much reduced rates compared to the money lenders.
Two of the major programmes launched by President Premadasa in which I was able to make a contribution were the Janasaviya or the poverty alleviation programme when I was chairman of the People's Bank and the 200 garment factories programme as the chairman and director general of the BOI, both of which had a direct impact on the upliftment of the rural economy.
Both these programmes made a significant contribution to the economic emancipation of the rural people which comprised 70 percent of the population of this country.
Janasaviya programme
President Premadasa had feeling for the common man and reached out to uplift their living conditions in many of the programmes, such as the housing development projects, supply of drinking water and electricity and annual Gam Udawa celebrations which culminated in the many development projects completed in the area.
Although giving free handouts were the order of the day, President Premadasa was able to change this concept by pushing economic development to the provinces by inviting the private sector businessmen to set up garment factories in the rural areas.
Preference was given to Janasaviya certificate holders in the granting of jobs and this enabled the people to earn a wage rather than depend on free handouts. He was also able to activate the state banking sector to play a lead role in the Janasaviya poverty alleviation programme.
This was one of the thrust projects of the government and was handled by a separate ministry. However, the two state banks - the People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon - were called upon to play a major role in these two schemes.
In fact, I remember that when the late President was the Prime Minister, he summoned me as the Chairman of People's Bank and Dr. Nimal Sandaratne, the Chairman of the Bank of Ceylon to a meeting at the Sucharitha and wanted us to come up with a proposal to set up agency banks in the AGA divisions to provide small sector loans at the door step of the villager.
This meant that villagers would not have to come to banks and fill lengthy forms but could use the agency banks to obtain their loans without going through the normal lengthy procedure applicable to the grant of loans.
These agency banks were named Praja Naya Niyamaka (PNN). The banks were to identify persons to be appointed as agents of PNN who could undertake the task of lending money to the people of the area.
They had to provide security for the money advanced by the banks at normal interest rates and they were to on lend at rates of 3 to 4 percent a month which rate was very much lower than the rates charged by money lenders which was 5 to 6 percent a month. The maximum money advanced to the PNN was between Rs. 50,000 to 100,000. The Janasaviya scheme was implemented by both banks and was accelerated after the late President assumed office after winning the presidential elections. The People's Bank had appointed 4,000 PNNs and the Bank of Ceylon a similar number.
The PNN scheme provided the opportunity for the rural masses another channel to obtain small sector loans. The private sector banks like the Sampath Bank also came up with a scheme for such small sector loans in certain selected areas and this was a scheme launched by late N U Jayawardena who was the then Chairman of Sampath Bank.
The People's Bank, which was set up mainly for the rural sector, at the inception was able to play a lead role in the setting up over 4,000 PNNs, grant of loans without security, self-employment loans to youth, agricultural loans, start up loans, tiny sector loans, athamaru loans, pawning, janasaviya loans, assisting the cooperatives and the cooperative rural banks.
The competition between the two banks also resulted in the rural sector benefiting and areas hitherto not visited by banks were targeted for the grant of loans. However, the People's Bank was able to overtake the Bank of Ceylon in the grant of loans in rural areas.
Change in attitudes and monitoring of performance
The policies of the late President Premadasa resulted in change of attitudes of the staff of banks to go to the small man who was earlier neglected and meet their requirements rather than wait for the people to come to the banks and queue up and fill forms.
Today we find that many promises are made by politicians without having a proper implementation plan and later forgotten.
However, President Premadasa made it a point to monitor and evaluate performances of banks, ministries, departments and officials not only by verifying statistics but by sending his staff to visit the sites and give him a report after inspection.
This enabled him to find out the officials of ministries and corporations who worked tirelessly to achieve results as well as those who bluffed their way through and enabled him to have an effective monitoring and control mechanism and also to take early remedial action.
Garment factory programme
One evening I had a call from the then Finance Secretary Paskaralingam, who told me that the President wanted me to take over the GCEC now BOI. This was quite a surprise and a challenge for me as I knew that the GCEC was quite different from the Peoples Bank which had over 350 branches and over 10,000 employees with a good cadre of senior management staff who were the best products turned out by our local universities.
However I had always accepted challenges and entered another new organisation which had a major role in attracting foreign direct investment, increasing exports, creation of jobs and the overall economy of the country.
There were many new changes taking place at the GCEC at this time. Some of the major projects and new regulations to promote investment were as follows.
1. Setting up of the Koggala Export processing Zone.
2. 200 Garment factories programme.
3. Conversion of GCEC to BOI.
4. Grant of incentives for the first time for infrastructure projects were brought in compared to the earlier concept of only export oriented projects.
5. Setting up of the One stop Shop at BOI.
6. Cabinet Sub Committee on Investment approvals.
7. BOI projects became the main export earner for Sri Lanka.
The 200-garment factories programme could be considered as one of the main achievements and contribution made by President Premadasa to uplift the rural economy of Sri Lanka with the help and support of the big companies in the private sector. Well organised factories were set up in the rural areas and the rural girls became a part of the export economy. For the first time we saw factories shifting out of the Katunayake and Biyagama free trade zones in the Colombo and Gampaha Districts to outside provinces.
The US garment quotas were utilised by President Premadasa as a strategic tool for developing the rural economy and to help alleviate poverty in Sri Lanka and was one of the main effective tools which provided a trickle down approach to benefit the poor man.
The garment industry became the largest industrial export from Sri Lanka due to the vision of the late president. Workers who had to leave their villages and come to Colombo and Katunayake and stay in boarding houses with measly savings were now able to travel to work from their homes and have a substantial take home pay.
In fact governments which criticised the 200 garment factories programme when in the opposition, once in power commenced the 50 garment factories programme and other schemes thereafter which enabled to build the garment industry on the strong foundation laid down by President Premadasa.
The private sector was drawn into the 200 garment factories programme by giving tax incentives, infrastructure such as land, electricity, telephone, water, roadways and other benefits, quotas depending on the area selected to enable them to undertake expansions or new projects without much hassle and free of bureaucracy. This was the era where the One Stop Shop concept for the approval and implementation of projects was carried out by the BOI. All approvals were done under one roof by the BOI.
To undertake this project the late president selected the then Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) and converted it to the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (BOI) in order that it would cover the entire country. This was a swift and significant change made within a few days and the Bill was approved by parliament.
The BOI was used as the vehicle to achieve this massive task of setting up 200 garment factories which indeed was a dream come true due to the dynamic leadership provided by President Premadasa.
Since the BOI was directly under the president we found that we did not have any political interference and could work to achieve targets and goals according to set rules and regulations. In fact in 1977 President J R Jayewardene heralded the Open Economic Policy, the Greater Colombo Economic Commission was set up to attract foreign direct investment, set up Free Trade Zones and promote export oriented projects. The GCEC/BOI was a very powerful organization coming directly under the President and had the power of giving tax incentives, approval to open a foreign currency banking account and Customs functions for the imports and exports relating to GCEC/BOI companies. The first zone was set up in Katunayake and the second in Biyagama and the current Prime Minister who was MP for Biyagama played a major role in setting up the zone in Biyagama. Both Katunayake and Biyagama could be considered two of the very successful free trade zones in the world. President Premadasa set up the Koggala Free Trade Zone.
The success of the 200 garment factories programme was the grant of tax incentives, textile quotas and luxury vehicles which was carried out under BOI as per the applicable rules and regulations without any political interference. In fact President Premadasa did not tolerate any political interference and we hardly ran into problems with any of the politicians. The staff of the BOI and others who were seconded from various ministries played a major role in making the 200 garment factories programme a success. This indeed showed that given the right direction and authority, the public sector management could play a major role in the economic development of our country.
In fact the BOI was a one-stop shop where investors could come to one place for all their requirements. The numerous meetings that we had with investors, government ministries, banks chaired by the late president himself and others chaired by the finance secretary were action oriented to solve problems of investors and not talk shops.
Investors experienced a marked improvement in the business climate with President Premadasa, his Secretary Paskaralingam and other staff who were men of action and always result-oriented. The private sector and foreign investors really appreciated such speedy action and was not pushed from pillar to post but were served from one centre. President Premadasa wanted men who could perform and those with the Can Do approach and did not worry whether they were red, blue or green.
I remember the frequent meetings we had at Sucharitha where President Premadasa invited investors who were due to open their factories and solved any problems they had. Always at these meetings the Chairman of CEB, Roadways and Water Board were present as these were three items where investors complained of which was electricity supply, roadway and water supply.
The weekly meetings with the Cabinet subcommittee was another vehicle which sorted out matters especially relating to transfer of land for BOI projects and many Cabinet papers were submitted for approval on the recommendation of the Cabinet subcommittee.
The twin objectives of the trickle down benefits of the grass root level development and alleviation of poverty were achieved directly by the implementation of the 200 garment factory programme.
All factories under the 200 Garment Factory programme had a minimum of 500 employees in each factory in an electorate had a money circulation among the workers per month of Rs. 2.0 to Rs. 5 million. In addition all factories had to give the breakfast to the workers.
The target was 200 factories employing 100,000 youth and putting into the economy Rs. 500 million to Rs. 1 billion per month. The youth in the villages were for the first time producing export quality garments going to the main markets of USA and UK.
Credit should also be given to the USA government, as the late president was able to utilise the garment quotas given to uplift the rural economy and move industrialisation from the city to the village.
Increase in quotas was also obtained to sustain the expansion, which took place. Even factories were set up in the north in Vavuniya and in the east in Batticaloa.
The then USA ambassador visited the opening of a garment factory in Puttalam with an OPIC investment delegation and they were highly impressed with what they saw. Thereafter, she also visited many other openings where USA investors had set up.
We also had investors from UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Germany investing in factories in the rural areas hitherto not even thought of by any industrialist, local or foreign.
In the 200 garment factory programme the late president was present for all the official openings of factories and he gave opening dates to all investors and they had to work round the clock to open their factories on the scheduled dates. The opening of a factory was marked by the construction of a clock tower in all the areas which was undertaken by the investor and opened by the President before the factory opening.
At the initial stages it was slow but once started it was a hive of activity and industrialists were queuing up looking for sites to open factories. In fact the initial idea came from the late Kumar Dewapura who was the Chairman of the Tri Star Group. He was given a land in the Kurunegala district by the then Chief Minister Jayawickrema Perera to set up a garment factory. President Premadasa visited the factory and developed the concept of the 200 garment factories programme. Kumar Dewapura was instrumental in setting up of the first few factories and giving a lead for others to join the programme.
At the time of his untimely death of President Premadasa, 160 areas had been allocated to construct garment factories and 117 factories, all opened by the late president, six were ready for opening and 37 factories under construction.
Punctuality
Another special feature was that each town or village got a clock tower and this indicated that a garment factory had been opened in the area.
Punctuality at the openings may be due to the clock towers that were constructed and on many occasions, President Premadasa was ahead of time to open the clock towers to avoid the rahu time.
There were many teams working to successfully carry out this gigantic task of setting up of the 200 garment factory programme. Many teams from the BOI, UDA, Housing Ministry, CEB, RDA and Telecom were working and included the identifying of investors, areas and land for investment, granting of quota, incentives, infrastructure such as land, electricity, telephones, water and roadway up setting of target dates for opening of factories, supervision of building construction and reporting progress, assisting in the recruitment of the workers many of whom were from Janasaviya families, arrangements for the opening of the factory and construction of a clock tower in each area.
In addition, the late President also spoke to investors and we had to meet almost daily in the evening at the Sucharitha to review the progress in the presence of investors who had come to sort our problems.
In all these instances they were sorted out on the spot or if the officers were not there, they were given instructions on the phone to attend to matters immediately.
Examples of some of the common matters were the supply of electricity, construction of roadways, provision of telephones which were attended to immediately with the president giving them the date for opening of the factory.
All these showed the excellent managerial skills, commitment and efficiency in which all departments worked to carry out this gigantic task with the outstanding leadership of President Premadasa.
Investors were able to speed up their import and export facilities by the setting up of the separate BOI customs clearing centre. This mainly assisted the 200 garment factories set up outside the zones and immensely benefited investors by removing many bottlenecks. Therefore, it was really planning, implementing, monitoring and working round the clock that enabled these results to be achieved.
In 1991 the Apparel and Garment exports were approximately US$ 764 M. With the setting up of the 200 garment factory programme the exports which gave a boost to the garment exports increased tremendously and have today exceeded US$ 4.7 billion.
One of the main advantages of the industry was that since it was the main export earner for Sri Lanka comprising 40 percent of total exports all governments assisted in the development of the industry. Even today new factories are opened in the North and East and one of the few avenues available to create employment. Many who criticised the Garment industry as a sunset industry can see for themselves the benefit it has given the country. The highest export earner and highest employer of females and meeting tough environmental and working conditions to meet global standards.
Infrastructure projects
It was during the period of President Premadasa that for the first time incentives were given for infrastructure projects. The World Trade Centre (WTC) was one of the significant investments that took place during this time in addition to the Exhibition and Vonvention Center in Fort, and many other hospitals, housing, TV, radio, mobile phones and hotel projects.
1. World Trade Centre:
This was the first major infrastructure project undertaken by a Singaporean Investor S P Tao that was commenced and approved under the BOI incentive scheme. This was going to be a 39 storey twin tower costing app US$ 130 M and the biggest project undertaken at that time. The ceremonial construction commenced with the presence of S P Tao and myself as Chairman of BOI and with Ven. Podi Hamuduruwo chanting seth pirith. The BOI was able to act as a one stop shop and provide the necessary facilities to the investor to undertake this massive project. One of the key people who convinced and later helped in expediting the project was R Paskaralingam the Secretary Finance at that time. S P Tao was also a good friend of the late Baku Mahadeva a former Secretary of Finance. This shows the role played by the BOI in its true form in the economic development of the country led by the President Premadasa.
2. Kandalama Hotel project
This hotel project was approved by the BOI and when construction was to begin, there were lot of protests from the politicians and villagers mainly due to environmental hazards and pollution that would result from running a hotel in this area.
President Premadasa obtained expert opinion and found that there was no danger to the environment nor to the lake as a result of this project and carried out a campaign to inform the public of the benefits and advantages of this project to the people of the area and to overcome the fears of residents and people of the area.
These protests later turned out to be political as in many cases. However, the government never gave in to these objections and protests and it was possible for the owners of the hotel to construct the hotel. The right decision of President Premadasa is testimony not only to the popularity of the hotel with both local and foreign tourists but also their winning many international awards for the eco tourism and environment friendliness.
Many who had vociferously campaigned against the construction of the hotel had been present at the official opening of the hotel. The tourist and hotel industry should pay tribute to the late leader who fought for the rights of the tourist industry and made them internationally famous.
In fact, the tourist industry was given many benefits such as tax incentives, duty free concessions and this applied to both new and existing hotels.
Other infrastructure projects
Some of the leading companies today in the mobile telecommunication sector such as Dialog, Singapore telecom, were approved under the new infrastructure incentives granted.
In the Television industry some of the main channels such as MTV/Sirasa, Swarnavahini, TNL which were approved under different names was licenced during the period of President Premadasa under the BOI incentives. This included some radio stations also.
Today the biggest investment is in the infrastructure sector and this includes the port development, telecommunication, power plants, hospitals, hotels and housing apartments are all approved by the BOI.
Lessons for future
Today with people in the north and the south having lot of expectations with the peace process, it is essential to implement development programmes to accelerate economic development and alleviate poverty and usher in prosperity.
The ambitious programmes of the government could be easily achieved if they follow the policies of President Premadasa by providing leadership and being action and result oriented. The leaders should follow President Premadasa's policies to go to the villages and to see for themselves whether their needs are met and work for the upliftment of the rural poor.
President Premadasa played a gigantic role of reawakening economic development and was one of the very few action oriented presidents with the common man at heart. He was a leader who was able to activate the economy by utilising both the public and private sector and accelerate development. Today's leaders should make use of the Premadasa policies to give a jump-start to our economy and make our people more industrious and prosperous.
President Premadasa made use of the Free Trade Policies and the GCEC/BOI set up by President Jayewardena for the economic development of the entire country and give the benefits to the rural people. It is imperative that the BOI should be brought to the place it was during the period of President Jayewardene and President Premadasa. Successes achieved during this period should open the eyes of the present day rulers to the vision of President Jayewardene and the implementation policies of President Premadasa using the BOI. Many have stated that the era of President Premadasa if continued would have led Sri Lanka to a disciplined and industrious nation similar to Singapore which was rebuilt by another great leader, Lee Kuan Yew.
==============================
## Title: Why Mahinda Rajapaksa was rejected
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
Why Mahinda Rajapaksa was rejected
In 2005 Liberal Party decided to support Mahinda Rajapaksa candidacy in the Presidential Election though there were dissenting views in the party against that decision. The relationship continued till 2010 Presidential election and Liberal Party was also considered as an alliance party though there was no formal agreement with the UPFA. In 2010 over 30 political parties rallied under Mahinda Rajapaksa and he won the presidential election comfortably. The Liberal Party initiated some talks with the heavyweights of UPFA and was able to include one of its members as a national list candidate from UPFA national list. With election victory the leader of the UPFA Mahinda Rajapaksa offered the Liberal Party a national list seat.
18th Amendment
To our dismay the first policy decision by Mahinda Rajapaksa after the parliamentary election victory was to introduce the18th Amendment to the constitution to revoke the 17th Amendment and while doing so made provisions the incumbent president to contest future presidential election erasing the two term limitation. Few of us in the Liberal Party were against 18th Amendment but a real and a genuine debate against the 18th Amendment was not taken place in the party that had continuously stood for democratic reforms. As the party under Dr. Chanaka Amaratunga (leader since 1987-1996) had always agitated against these types of draconian legislation, in 2010 the partys inactivity and subordination under Rajapaksa administration resulted in losing its integrity as a party of principles.
Impeachment of Chief Justice
The next incident that the Liberal Party could not support Rajapaksa policy was the impeachment against the chief justice. The Liberal Party initially did not accept and approve the appointment of Shirani Bandaranayake as a superior court judge as it was against the seniority basis and the appointment was widely regarded as political. However during the course of time she performed well in the Supreme Court. When Rajapaksa administration wanted her to act according to the whims and fancies of executive she refused to work accordingly. Thereafter the impeachment was brought against her in late 2012. The then leader who was also a member of parliament was in a difficulty as the party stance was clear and he abstained from voting the impeachment motion.
Ban of Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom
Another incident that affected the relationship with the Rajapaksa administration was the ban on Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom known as FNS in 2013. FNS is a German Foundation affiliated to Free Democratic Party of Germany. This organization had been doing activities in Sri Lanka since 1974. The major objectives of the organization is to promote liberal democracy, free market economy, human rights and small and medium enterprise as a model for economic development. The initial charge against the FNS was that it funded a seminar or workshop that was organized for UNP parliamentarians and it was alleged by Rajapaksa administration that FNS was funding UNP to topple the government. Further the government authorities made various orders against the FNS representative in Sri Lanka including travel restrictions. At the time leader of the party was a government member and the national organizer was working under a government ministry.
This event had a far reaching influence in the Liberal Party. When Dr. Chanaka Amaratunga was the leader he was able to negotiate with FNS to receive funds to the Liberal Party think tank the Council of Liberal Democracy (CLD) to conduct a series of workshops to promote the ideas of constitutional reforms. Further it funded for various seminars that promoted liberal democratic values and views. FNS is a worldwide organization and closely associated with many liberal and democratic parties in the world where they are in power or in major oppositions. However since 2004, FNS has been doing some promotional activities on democracy and good governance through various non-governmental organizations affiliated to UNP parliamentarians as well as for government parliamentarians. Since 2005 and especially after 2010 as the United National Party had been in the opposition for a long time it had agitated against some of the unjust policies of Rajapaksa administration and more fully stood for political reforms. FNS might have thought that UNP as a more moderate political party and had assisted its affiliated organizations to popularize democratic ideas and views.
Incidentally, The Liberal Party is a member of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats (CALD) which has 10 political parties in the group based in Manila, Philippines. This organization was mainly funded by FNS. CALD conducts periodical workshops and party also sends representatives to these seminars. FNS funded the lodging, and air tickets for these seminars. With the ban of FNS in Sri Lanka, FNS in Manila stopped funding the Sri Lankan representatives of the Liberal Party who had to participate in these seminars. However during the critical hour the Liberal Party should have criticized and condemned the Rajapaksa policy to ban FNS in Sri Lanka. The Liberal Party of Sri Lanka under the then leadership did not criticize and condemn the unwisely act of Rajapaksa administration to ban FNS. (Now under this government FNS is in Sri Lanka and it has started its activities to promote liberal democracy.)
The Liberal Party took a decision to support Maithripala Sirisena candidacy at the end of 2014. If Dr. Chanaka Amaratunga had lived he would have definitely condemned the above mentioned three reactionary policy decisions of Rajapaksa administration and its notion of familial rule.
==============================
## Title: President Premadasa was close to common man: President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, May 2, 2016 - 01:00
President Premadasa was close to common man: President
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday said President Ranasinghe Premadasa was a political leader who was very close to the common man and that he reached out to uplift their living conditions through many of his programmes.
He was speaking at the 23rd death anniversary commemoration of President Premadsa at Gunasinghepura, Colombo yesterday morning.
President Sirisena said President Premadsa was a political leader who was very popular within his own party and even in the opposing camps.
The President also praised President Premadasas programmes on economic development and poverty alleviation and singled out the Gam Udawa programme as one which helped uplift the living standards of low income earners immensely.
He said President Premadasa was very good at communicating to the people about the development and good work done by the government.
President Sirisena said that Premadasa strongly believed it was highly important to get an effective message across to the people about work done by the government and added that this was something others should emulate. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said President Premadasa always strived to achieve reconciliation and unity among communities.
The Prime Minister said President Premadasa always believed that unity among communities could propel the country towards prosperity.
The religious observances on the occasion were led by Most Ven. Ittapane Dhammalankara Nayaka Thera. Religious leaders of other faiths too attended. Speaker Karu Jayasuriya, political leaders, the late Presidents wife Hema Premadasa, his son Minister Sajith Premadasa, family members and the public also participated.

==============================
