## Title: How Englands one-day fortunes have transformed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
How Englands one-day fortunes have transformed
There is an English way of doing things.See a queue, get in it. Apologise even though you were the one bumped in to. Cheer when a glass is smashed in the pub.
The English way of playing one-day cricket - nice and steady at the start, wickets in hand, have a bash at the end - last had major success 24 years ago with a run to the 1992 World Cup final.
If that was a time when the tortoise managed to keep pace with the hare, then the following 23 years saw the rest of the world accelerate past England. Those nations did so to such a degree that at times it looked as if they were playing a different sport.
Former off-spinner Graeme Swann tells a tale of how England were told that if they scored 239, they would win 72% of games.
In the 2011 World Cup quarter-final against Sri Lanka in Colombo, we had batted to our plan almost perfectly and scored 229. Jonathan Trott got 86 in 115 balls, said Swann.
Everyone said brilliant. Then Sri Lanka knocked them off in 39.3 overs.
The nadir came at the 2015 World Cup, an embarrassing exit sealed with defeat by Bangladesh a result described as pathetic by legendary England all-rounder Sir Ian Botham.
It was thought by many than an inflexible approach and an over-reliance on statistics hampered Eoin Morgans men in Australia and New Zealand.
Now, instead of looking at data, England see the ball and whack it out of the ground. There is a new English way, one that was born in their first completed ODI after the World Cup.
On that sunny afternoon at Edgbaston, with current assistant coach Paul Farbrace keeping the hotseat warm for Trevor Bayliss, England plundered their first ODI score in excess of 400 against a New Zealand side who had previously provided them with a blueprint on how to play the 50-over game.
A lot has can be said for former New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum, who is best mates with Eoin Morgan, said Swann.
He tore up the book in and said to his team: Whatever has happened in the past in nonsense. Its a new game, play with freedom and your team-mates back you. England are now playing with a similar amount of freedom.
Morgan has taken that to the England team, Trevor Bayliss has allowed that to happen and director of cricket Andrew Strauss has separated the one-day team from the Test team. It was a blatant move that had to be made - it just took some chutzpah to do it.
Since the 2015 World Cup, Englands win ratio in ODIs of 1.75 - which is 1.75 wins for every defeat - is bettered only by world champions Australias 2.13.
Former captain Michael Vaughan has called this team the best England one-day side he has seen while BBC Test Match Specials Simon Hughes, the ex-Middlesex seamer, wrote in the Times that the current crop must grab their opportunity to win a global trophy in the next decade.
England one-day series results since 2015 World Cup
Englands transformation built on batting
In the main, Englands spectacular upturn has been built on a batting line-up that is as destructive, dynamic and boundary-hungry as any other on the planet.
Prior to the World Cup, England were chugging along at only 5.18 runs per over, slower than every other Test side apart from Zimbabwe and Bangladesh.
Since then, players such as Jason Roy, Alex Hales, Joe Root and Jos Buttler have bumped England along at 6.33 runs an over, a scoring rate faster than any other nation.
In the same period, six men have scored more than 500 ODIs runs at a strike-rate of better than a run a ball. Half of them are English - Buttler, Roy and Ben Stokes.
During the past 15 months, England have posted six of their eight highest totals of all time. Twice they have passed 400, including the world-record 444-3 in the third ODI against Pakistan at Trent Bridge last month, in which Hales 171 broke a 23-year record for the highest score by an England batsman. Of Englands first-choice top seven, Hales is one of five survivors from the World Cup, which shows it is a change of approach, rather than a change of personnel, that has sparked such a shift.
These men have not learned new shots, do not hit the ball any further than they did before, but simply have the freedom and confidence to play to the limit of their ability.
Better bowling - but with room to improve
If the batting line-up has seen few changes, then the bowling attack has been overhauled.
Whereas the World Cup saw England dine exclusively on a diet of right-arm fast-medium and off-spin, new England agree with the rest of the world that variety is the spice of life. In have come left-armer David Willey, the extra pace of Liam Plunkett and Mark Wood, along with the mystery of Adil Rashids leg-spin.
Since the World Cup, Willey and fellow left-armer Reece Topley have the best strike-rate of all England bowlers to have taken at least 10 ODI wickets, while Rashids 38 wickets is higher than any other bowler on the planet. Still, it is bowling that provides England with room for improvement.
While England are not alone in conceding more runs per over since the World Cup than the year before (5.73 now compared to 5.43), their economy is still only better than four other major nations.
Before the tournament down under, England were more miserly than only Pakistan, New Zealand and Sri Lanka. That remains the case. If that involves looking at the attack as whole, then individual numbers can also be bettered. In the past year and a half, 27 bowlers worldwide have taken 10 wickets or more and conceded fewer than five runs per over. None is English.
Fielding is also an area where England can find further gains. Of the current squad, only Roy, Stokes, Jonny Bairstow and Chris Jordan could be considered of the highest class and the latter two are not in the current strongest XI.
Learn the lessons, slay the demons
Even with these gains still to be made, England are currently one of the finest one-day sides in the world and would be among the favourites if a global tournament began tomorrow.
As it is, they must wait for the Champions Trophy on home soil next summer, or the World Cup, again in the UK, in 2019.
And therein lies a note of caution, for England have previously shown form between World Cups, only to be humbled on the biggest stage. Just over a year after the 2011 World Cup, England found themselves top of the world rankings after a 4-0 home series win over Australia.
That counted for little when Michael Clarkes men were crowned world champions in the spring of 2015.
Us getting to number one was an anomaly, said Swann. We played a lot of games at home, in English conditions and it nearly always rained before the game - our seamers had a field day.
We were playing decent cricket, but not the new brand where anything is possible.
We had a good team, but everyone else quickly realised that to move forward you have to throw away all the old rules.
However, there is no reason to believe that England cannot continue on their upward curve, especially with all bar one of the current squad - Plunkett - below the age of 30. If they do, there is the opportunity, in front of their home fans, to lay to rest some significant demons that lurk in the past of English cricket. The first involves the Champions Trophy, where England have twice hosted the tournament and twice lost finals in agonising circumstances - to West Indies in 2004 and India in 2013.
Then comes the World Cup. In 1999, England were humiliated on home soil and in 2015 they were just humiliated.
Maybe, just maybe, at Lords in the summer of 2019, an England captain may finally get his hands on the biggest prize in one-day cricket and end a 44-year wait.  BBC
==============================
## Title: Weight jumpers eight boxers who dared to be great
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Weight jumpers eight boxers who dared to be great
Back before the world of boxing became clogged up and confused by junior and super titles and weight classes that accommodate men so tiny they could fight on a Petri dish, jumping weight divisions really meant something.
This explains why Kell Brooks audacious bid to become only the second man to reign simultaneously as a welterweight and middleweight world champion has attracted so much attention - no stopping off at light-middleweight for Sheffields Brook, instead hell challenge Gennady Golovkin for his WBC and IBF middleweight titles in London on Saturday in his first fight at 160lb.
BBC Sport takes a look at eight famous occasions when boxers jumped divisions - or, to use the parlance of the day, dared to be great.
Sugar Ray Leonard v Marvin Hagler, Las Vegas, 6 April 1987
As Muhammad Alis career was spluttering into darkness in the late 1970s, Leonard began to dazzle In 1979 he dethroned Puerto Rican great and WBC welterweight champion Wilfred Benitez, only to lose his title two fights later to Panamas Roberto Duran, perhaps the greatest lightweight ever.
In 1982 Leonard retired because of a detached retina, and again after a comeback fight in 1984. But missing the limelight, he challenged fearsome middleweight king and fellow American Hagler in 1987.
Many feared for Leonards health against a man who hadnt lost since 1976, but the naturally smaller man deployed his speed and reflexes to great effect, persuading two of the three judges that the WBC middleweight belt should be his - although many observers believed Hagler was robbed.
Verdict: HIT
Michael Spinks v Larry Holmes, Las Vegas,21 September 1985
Before the cruiserweight division was slowly introduced in the early 1980s, boxers from lower divisions challenging for heavyweight honours were rare. This didnt deter Spinks, who won the light-heavyweight title in 1981 and defended it 10 times before challenging heavyweight world champion Holmes, who had reigned over boxings blue riband division for seven years.
Spinks piled on 25lb in two months but still weighed 22lb lighter than Holmes, who was 46lb heavier than anyone Spinks had ever faced. However, Spinks won a unanimous decision to deal Holmes his first defeat and become the first reigning light-heavyweight champion to win the world heavyweight crown.
Verdict: HIT
Henry Armstrong v Barney Ross, New York,31 May 1938
Back when only eight pure weight divisions existed, jumping divisions was a more daunting prospect, given that it usually meant bridging a stone in weight. But in 1938 Armstrong attempted the truly outrageous, challenging for the welterweight world title while still featherweight world champion.
Homicide Hank won the 126lb title in 1937, before bypassing the lightweight division and challenging 147lb champion Ross instead. Armstrong was outweighed by 10lb at the Madison Square Garden Bowl but battered Ross for 11 rounds before showing mercy and carrying him for the last four.
Only 10 weeks later Armstrong dropped down to the 135lb lightweight division and outpointed Lou Ambers to complete a remarkable world title triple crown.
Verdict: HIT
Roy Jones v John Ruiz, Las Vegas,1 March 2003
By the early 2000s Jones Jr had grown bored of beating up light-heavyweights who werent fit to carry his jockstrap and sought greater fame and fortune in the heavyweight division. Conveniently, the heavyweight division had collapsed and the rugged but limited Ruiz was the reigning WBA champion.
Jones won the middleweight world title in 1993 before cleaning up at super-middle and light-heavyweight. But no former middleweight champ had won a heavyweight world title since Cornish-born Kiwi Bob Fitzsimmons in 1897.
It speaks volumes for Jones prodigious talent (as well as the decrepit state of the heavyweight division) that he was the favourite to beat Ruiz, and so it came to pass. Despite, or because of, being 33lb lighter, Jones comprehensively outboxed Ruiz over 12 rounds and was awarded a wide unanimous decision.
Verdict: HIT
Jose Napoles v Carlos Monzon, Paris,29 February 1974
Perhaps the closest comparison to Brook v Golovkin was when Cuban emigre Napoles stepped up to challenge the great Argentine middleweight Monzon - although Napoles was a far more proven champion at 147lb than Brook, having landed the undisputed world title in 1969 and defended it 11 times.
That said, Napoles had contested 82 pro fights before facing the wild Monzon in his first fight at 160lb - although it should be noted that Monzon had had 93. Having, like Brook, skipped the light-middleweight division, Napoles found Monzon too big and too strong and failed to answer the bell for the seventh round. Napoles dropped back down and continued to reign at welterweight.
Verdict: MISS
Sugar Ray Robinson v Joey Maxim, New York,25 June 1952
Robinson, probably the greatest boxer who ever lived, had laid waste to the welterweight and middleweight divisions and lost only two of his 135 pro fights before challenging Maxim for the light-heavyweight world title.
To put Robinsons challenge into perspective, he started out as a lightweight. Meanwhile, only two fights before he fought Robinson, Maxim was beaten on points by former world heavyweight champion Ezzard Charles.
Robinson was beaten by the conditions rather than Maxim - with the temperature running at 103 degrees in Yankee Stadium, Robinson, miles ahead on the scorecards, was unable to come out for the 13th round. Still, Robinson lasted longer than referee Ruby Goldstein, who collapsed after the 10th.
Verdict: NEAR MISS
Emile Griffith v Dick Tiger, New York25 April 1966
Virgin Islander Griffith won and lost the world welterweight title several times in the early 1960s, while earning unfair notoriety for killing bitter Cuban rival Benny Paret in 1962, in a bout that was broadcast live on American television.
In 1966 Griffith vacated his welterweight title to challenge Nigerias middleweight world champion Dick Tiger, who had won the title from American veteran Joey Giardello only six months earlier.
Despite being outweighed by 10lb, Griffith floored Tiger for the first time in the Nigerians career in round nine before being awarded a narrow decision. The Madison Square Garden crowd booed and 17 out of 22 boxing writers perched ringside thought Tiger had won, but the record books state the opposite.
Verdict: HIT
Amir Khan v Saul Alvarez, Las Vegas, 7 May 2016
Brooks compatriot and cross-Pennine rival Khan hoped to become only the third former light-welterweight world champion to win a middleweight world title when he signed to fight WBC title-holder Alvarez earlier this year.
Many observers dubbed the fight a suicide mission on Khans part - the match was made at a catchweight of 155lb, five pounds below the traditional middleweight limit, but that was still eight pounds heavier than Khan had ever weighed, while a rehydrated Alvarez reportedly weighed 180lb on fight night. The fight panned out as many had predicted, the Briton using his superior speed to keep his Mexican rival at bay for the first half before walking on to a crackerjack right hand that rendered him unconscious before he hit the canvas. Alvarez promptly vacated his belt rather than face Golovkin.
Verdict: MISS
 BBC
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Telecom athletic champions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Sri Lanka Telecom athletic champions
The Sri Lanka Telecom won the championship at the 33rd Mercantile Annual Athletic Meet having scored 422 points. The MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd with 410 marks and Airport and Aviation Services (SL) Ltd with 193 points were adjudged 2nd and 3rd runners-up respectively. Around 2,000 sportsmen of 44 Mercantile establishments participated in the event sponsored with the Telecom financial patronage.
In addition 50 Indian sportsmen also took part. The venue was the Mahinda Rajapaksa Sports Grounds, Diyagama.
Chief Enterprises and Wholesale Officer, Kitthi Perera said, he was happy to be associated with the MAF who had organized the sports festival in a commendable manner. There was a large number of sports personnel who took part in the athletic meet. In future too we could extend our patronage to made similar sports meet a success, he said.
Ceylon Mercantile Services Association President Sydney Ratnayake said he was happy to perform his role as MAF Chairman. Throughout we have acted in the larger interest of the sports personnel to enable them to score good results.
The Association has recorded many successes thanks to the commitment on the part of the membership. We hope to send a contingent of 50 sportsmen to the Bangalore Athletic Meet next November, he said.
==============================
## Title: Waruna Prabash High Jump Champion
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Waruna Prabash High Jump Champion
Gama Ethige Waruna Prabath, a maintenance Technician employed in the Maintenance department of the Kalutara Regional Electricity Board, Kalutara, emerged High Jump champion, at the Janasathuseva Athletic Meet, organized by the Lanka Electricity Board, and held at Mahinda Rajapakshe Sports Complex, Diyagama, Homagama recently.
Waruna Prabhath who participated in the High Jump Event in 2014 and 2015 was placed first at the same Sports Competition Waruna is an old boy of Mihindu Central College, Agalawatte in the Kalutara district.
==============================
## Title: Empty seats - but plenty of passion - at Rio Paralympics
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Empty seats - but plenty of passion - at Rio Paralympics
RIO DEJANEIRO, THURSDAY:The stadiums may be mostly empty but passionate fans and the enthusiastic Brazilian hosts insisted Thursday that the Rio Paralympics are off to a good start.
Only a smattering of seats were taken at the 60,000-capacity Engenhao stadium for the beginning of track and field events in South Americas first Paralympics.
The judo and table tennis arenas at the Olympic Park were both only about one-quarter full, although turnout was much better at the swimming center, where Brazilian Paralympic star Daniel Dias -- winner of six gold medals in London 2012 -- was competing.
At the Olympic Park, the main hub for the Paralympics and the Olympics which Rio hosted in August, volunteer Liliam Lima, 65, said the crowds were much smaller than on the first day of the Olympics.
Then it was more than twice as many people, maybe three or four times more, she said, adding that she expects attendance to peak this weekend.
When a staff member took the microphone during a break at the table tennis arena to ask who in the crowd would like a gift of an autographed ping pong ball, he didnt seem to realize at first that nearly everyone had already left -- there was no one to give the ball to.
But where numbers lacked, enthusiasm filled the gap.
About 100 Brazilians chanting Brazil, Brazil! and singing samba choruses at the table tennis venue made the place feel anything but empty.
And Thabiso Ratsoane, a track coach from Lesotho, did his bit for the noise levels at the Engenhao, screaming encouragement every time one of his athletes took to the track. Organizers say they arent worried.
A joyful, dramatic and even sensuous opening ceremony played to a sold-out Maracana stadium on Wednesday night. Organizers say that while there was deep concern a few weeks ago about unsold tickets, they are now on track for healthy attendance figures. At this point we are very happy about the fact that the park is full of school-aged kids coming here to have a magical experience, spokesman Mario Andrada told journalists, putting latest ticket sales at 1.7 million.
Access still an issue
Rio de Janeiro, like Brazil in general, is hardly wheelchair-friendly, so the Games are seen here as a chance to transform attitudes.
The main legacy of these Games is certainly to convince the Brazilian society that we need more inclusion, we need more accessibility and we need to understand our differences, remembering always that everybody has the same heart, Andrada said.
I think the opening ceremony went in that direction spot-on. We could see people worried, we could see people crying, we could see people rethinking about these issues.
Jadir Antunes, who lost both legs in a car accident when he was six, said that access on public transport to the Olympic Park, where he was watching basketball, was excellent -- but that Rio still has a long way to go.
It has been very good, well organized, Antunes, 49, said, wheeling himself along. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Rohan hands over scrummaging to Darshana
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Rohan hands over scrummaging to Darshana
Dharshana Munasinghe one of the top wing three quarters who sported Trinity College colours in the early 1990s will lead the Old Trinitians Rugby Scrummage for 2016/17. He takes over the leadership from one of the finest ruggertes of this school Rohan Abeyakoon who gave off his best with the rest in the scrums and lineouts. The AGM took place on Friday at the Orient Club. Among the vice presidents is one of the famous ruggerite, basket ball player, bodybuilder, actor and Mr. Sri Lanka 99 in modeling Duminda de Silva and Tyrone Smith another top sportsman and a good promoter, Ryde Gold Medalist Asanka Ranhotty continues to be the secretary. Old Trinitians Rugby Scrummage (OTRS) is an organization affiliated to the Old Boys Association of Trinity College Kandy and manages rugby across all age groups at the school under the guidance of the principal. OTRS remains responsible in the areas of management, administration and coaching of rugby at Trinity. From the day, they started this scrummage; it has been good for Trinity rugby in all forms of the game.
Hillwood Girls College to promote Lawn Tennis
The 126-year-old Hillwood College is a prestigious private girls school situated in the heart of Kandy. The school is famous for their well-mannered girls in sports and studies. This school was one of the first to play tennis after the game was introduced by the British in 1915. The history of tennis dates back to 1916 at this school. Tennis was perhaps the first game introduced to Hillwood College. They have one of the best tennis courts situated in a picturesque hill just above the Kandy Lake where you get a birds eye view of the city of Kandy & the surrounding areas. The Tennis Court is celebrating its centenary this year. The parent body of the Past Pupils Association under the leadership of Sirini Dunuwille have got together and are raising funds to resurface the 100 year old tennis court. They recently organized Gold and Silver Breeze Dinner Dance in Kandy for this need. Past Pupils Association is all out to re-do the court and make tennis a popular sport at this century old school.
Colours and Lions for Trinitians
On Tuesday, the first day of the third term it was nice to see Trinity College principal Andrew Flower-Watt presenting colours and the coveted Lion the highest award in sports. It was for sportsmen in Cricket, Table Tennis, Ironsports, Football and Cadetting. Normally this presentation takes place at the end of the term. But they failed to do as some of the cricketers were out of the country. Five cricketers who received the Lion are Nushan Weerasinghe, Dilanja Jayalth, Sahanogeeth Shnamuganathan - all good strokemakers, and the two bowlers who were honored were Lahiru Kumara and Duvindu Tillakartne. This is the third time that five lions have won awards. The first time was in the very first year of the award in 1915 when R. Aluwihare, W.O. Beligammana, H.C. Inman, M.P. Kallora and R. Ondaatje were awarded the Lion. Then in 1946 there were five awards, A.B. Imbuldeniya, S. A.B. Pilapitiya, C.N. Schokman, Frank R. Sirimane and W. Wanduragala. There were colours awards to Shavindu Amarasinghe, Thisira Dilshan and Hasitha Boyagoda was rewarded. The other awards: Cadetting - R. K. P. M. K. Rajapakse, Football - D. T. Ediriweera, R. U. B. Herath, H. M. T. D. B. Pitawela, B. G. Pethiyagoda and N. D. Jayalath, Table Tennis - A. Manzil, Weightlifting and Bodybuilding - B. J. Wijewickrema and A.H.M. Hamza.
Vidyartha, Hillwood and Mahamaya win TT awards
The 2016 Table Tennis awards was held in the capital city, which was organized by the Andro Table Tennis Academy in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Table Tennis Association. One-hundred and ninety-two awards were presented based on ranking in which the most outstanding players award was won by Vidyartha Colleges Udaya Ranasinghe, a top class player who has won many events. The best up and coming players award in the Girls went to Bimandi Bandara of Hillwood College and the most popular girls junior award was won by Mahamaya Girls College Thanushi Rodrigo.
Sanjaya de Silva to coach Vidyartha at cricket
Top coach Sanjaya de Silva will once again coach his old school Vidyartha College. He played for the school from junior level, and was in the senior side from 1999 to 2002. During his playing days he was a top class off-spinner and took many wickets. Soon after school he played for Rio Cricket Club Ambalangoda and later for Kandy Cricket Club and Kandy Youth Sports Club. After a successful stint with the club he took up to coaching. It was at Vidyartha College that he started his coaching, first at junior level and was there for six years and later at Dharmaraja College. From there he joined Trinity College and coached the juniors and in 2013 and 2014 he was junior head coach. Vidyartha play their first game on Tuesday and Wednesday against St. Thomas College Matale, a traditional game. Leading the side is Ravishka Upananda, a fine all-rounder.
Playgrounds chief and rest help for sports
Thanks to Kelum Shanthasiri, the head of the Municipal playgrounds sport is promoted in the correct way. A look back into playgrounds reveals that it was introduced in 1938. The first was the Rakade grounds known as the Wewlpitiya Playgrounds now it is called P.T. Rajan Playgrounds. Then came the Victoria Drive playground and the third was Deyanawella playground now known as Edmund Silva Playground. At present there are over 20 playgrounds, which help the area sportsmen at grass root level. Today there are some top coaches in these play grounds department but sad to say in the last three years few community centers had to be closed due to members rivalry.
KDCA to organize a one-day tournament
The newly elected president of the Kandy District Cricket Association Janaka Pathirana a product of St. Sylvesters College, who has good backing from the Sri Lanka Cricket president, is all out to organize a limited overs cricket tournament among the clubs in Kandy. In the past couple of years there was no active club cricket.
CPRFU to get a Japanese coach
According to the president of the Central Province Rugby Football Union Isphan Omar S.L.R.F.U. with the collaboration of Japan International Cooperation Agency., (JICA) have made arrangements to get a volunteer rugby coach for a period of two years for the CPRFU. He is scheduled to arrive on October 6. He is known as Ito Yuri born on June 7, 1992. He is a qualified coach and a Certified Referee (Grade C, Tokyo Rugby Football Union) and a new start coach (Japan East Rugby football Union).
Sports promoter ACS Hameed remembered
Last Saturday was the 18th death anniversary of the great politician sports promoter A. C. S Hammed, who passed away on September 3, 1998.
He had his primary education at St. Anthonys College, Katugastota, and his secondary at Vijaya College, Matale where he excelled in athletics and hockey. During his days he was also very much involved in sports promotion, when B.M. Liyanage ex-DIG was the president and H. Marikar was the secretary of the Kandy Football Association. ACS was a member of Harispattuwa, the second largest constituency next to Colombo Central. Some of his close associates are planning to play a hockey match between Kandy Schools and Matale Schools for a trophy in his memory.
Rajans sporting principal comes to Ananda
A keen sports promoting principal of Dharmaraja College S.M. Keerthirane assumed duties as principal of Ananda College. He was at Dharmaraja College for well over 15 years and gave a big hand for sports, it was under him that the Rajans won the schools inter league rugby title for the first time, and also emerged as limited overs cricket champions. It was under him the swimming pool came into being and the Lake View cricket grounds was re-developed and expanded with turf wickets and also the new pavilion. He should continue the good work at Ananda College.
==============================
## Title: Newcomers Textured Jersey and DIMO feature in openers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Newcomers Textured Jersey and DIMO feature in openers
Textured Jersey (TJ) and DIMO will make their debut at the MCA Big League when the 24th Singer-MCA Premier League 2017 gets underway from today. A press conference was held at the MCA fine dining restaurant The Pitch to announce the launch of Singer-MCA Primer League, Knock out and T20 tournaments recently.
Textured Jersey earned their due promotion by winning the B division last season. They are led by Sri Lanka fast bowler, Dhammika Prasad. TJ will play their first game today against Sampath Bank at Surrey Village.
DIMO was promoted, being the B division runner-up last season. They are led by young Matheesha Perera. DIMO, too is billed to play on the opening day against the defending Champions, MAS Active Trading at FTZ Grounds, Katunayake.
On Sunday, MAS Unichela will take on HNB at the P. Sara Oval and Commercial Credit & Finance will meet John Keells at the Moratuwa Stadium.
The league stage containing 28 matches will work off from Sept. 10 to October 1 in a round robbin format. The group leader will be crowned the League winner.
The Teams and their captains -
1. MAS Active Trading A led by National Cap, Jehan Mubarak, 2. Commercial Credit & Finance A led by National cap, W. Upul Tharanga, 3. MAS Intimate Unichela A led by National cap Chamara Silva, 4. Sampath Bank led by National cap Jeevan Mendis, 5. HNB A led by Sri Lanka A player Madawa Warnapura. 6. John Keells Group A led by Sri Lanka A player, Bhanuka Rajapaksa, 7. Textured Jersey led by National cap, K.T.G. Dhammika Prasad, 8. DIMO led by club Player Matheesha Perera.
The Knock-out stage will see the 08 teams slotted into the draw according to their placing in the League points table. The tournament consisting 07 matches will commence on October 08 with Quarters followed by the semis on Oct. 15-16. The Knock out final will play on October 23.
The T20 tournament will be conducted in a knock out format consisting seven matches on October 26 (quarters), Oct. 28 (semis) and final on October 30.
Apart from the usual special awards there will be a new introduction to the fray, the Emerging Player who will be decided by a competent panel of judges based on the performance of League stage. The Emerging Player will receive a two weeks scholarship at the Darren Lehmann Cricket Academy, South Australia. Other special award on offer are: Best Batsman, Best Bowler, Man of the Tournament - (based on performances in the League stage). Man of the Match, Best Batsman and Best Bowler (in the Knock-out final) and Man of the Final for the T20. Cash awards will also be given to special award winners and for three winning teams in each segment.
Speaking to the media, MCA president Niran Mahawatte thanked Singer Sri Lanka for their generous sponsorship right from the beginning for the consecutive 24th year and said that they have re scheduled the tournament calendar this time with the approval of SLC to avoid hindrance from bad weather.
Singer Sri Lanka Marketing Director Kumar Samarasinghe was very enthusiastic on their venture with MCA and told that he is delighted to be a part of MCA for a long time as a player, a committee member and now a main sponsor.
Singe always believe in promoting cricket in Sri Lanka and we are thoroughly involved in fostering school cricket being the main sponsor for the biggest annual school tournament which includes 6900 matches. Many National cricketers who played for the country have either played for MCA or took part in MCA tournaments. So we hope to strenghten our ties with MCA in developing Sri Lankan cricket, he revealed.
==============================
## Title: Rohan de Silva wins AmCham - FedEx Golf Tourney
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Rohan de Silva wins AmCham - FedEx Golf Tourney
The AmCham - FedEx Golf Tournament 2016 was held on August 27 at the Royal Colombo Golf Club (RCGC).
The first Tee-off was at the break of dawn at 6.00 A.M. and the last Four-ball came back to the Club House at 5.30 P.M. The course in immaculate condition encouraged high scoring with the overall best score of the day of 44 points, coming from Rohan de Silva, winning a return air ticket to any destination in Europe courtesy of Turkish Airlines in addition to the handsome trophy.
The RCGC Club Champion Amrith De Soysa confirmed his place at the top of the club Amateurs by returning the best gross score of 37 points to be the overall Gross Winner.
The captain of RCGC and long standing AmCham Member Primal Wijeyanayake won the Prize for the best score among the AmCham members, with a well compiled 36 points pushing Ibrahim Saleem to the runner-up berth.
Katthy Twerenbold won the best score for the ladies, for the second consecutive year with 39 points edging out Kumari Herath who scored 38 points. The consistent Sharon Hall also won the Longest and Most Accurate Drive on the 8th Hole while Geoff Cooke was the Longest and Most Accurate Drive in the men's challenge.
The A Division was won by Mangala Niyarepola. In addition to being crowned the overall winner, Rohan de Silva also won the B Division with the best score of the tournament of 44 points. Liu Laifu a keen golfer won the C division with a solid 43 points. Jouni Aitamaa and D. Serasinghe won the Masters and Seniors category with 38 and 34 points respectively.
As was in the past, part proceeds from the Golf Tournament will go towards a nominated charity and the recipient this year is the AmCham CSR Initiative AmCham gives back whose initiative is to provide equal opportunities for the children of the Glenanore Tamil School in Haputale, by uplifting the schools IT and sanitation infrastructure.
Speaking about the tournament Asanka Ratnayake, President of AmCham Sri Lanka said, The AmCham Golf Tournament has been a tremendous success throughout 16 consecutive years. Over the past 16 years the funds raised from the tournament has helped and supported different charitable projects. We are pleased to partner with Mountain Hawk Express (Pvt) Ltd. (MHEL) on the 17th year of this tournament as they too make their mark in the courier industry with a top of the range brand such as FedEx.
Sanjeeva Abeygoonewardena, CEO, MHEL, stated that It was great to see the interest among golf fraternity in Sri Lanka towards the tournament. Sports can open up whole new worlds for people, and AmCham golf tournament does fantastic work in showing people how sport could help them to connect with each other and to do more together leveraging upon the values such as speed, focus, and accuracy. These same qualities are part of the FedEx philosophy, making our relationship with golf, a complimentary fit.
==============================
## Title: Anjana, a promising rider in the making
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Anjana, a promising rider in the making
Anjana riding to victory at theGajaba Supercross 2016
T. G. Anjana Weerawardena, a grade four student of Clayton College, Maradagahamula is a budding rider who has shown great promise on two wheels at a tender age of nine. Anjana hails from Ulalpola, Divlapitiya and has won many victories at famous racing events. He first participated at Foxhill Supercross 2015 and won the fourth place in Mx Motorcycle up to 50cc  under 10 event. He improved his skills and won the third place of the same event category at 2015 Walawa Supercross.
Anjana came to the limelight with his superb performance at the last years Sigiriya Rallycross where he storm to beat all fellow riders and bagged the title. He went on to continue his winning streak and came up with a stunning performance at the Vijayabahu Motocross by clinching victories in both under-10 races. Anjanas riding skills and speed maintaining were unmatched to any of the fellow riders and he won the both races with ease. His most recent triumph came at the Gajaba Supercross as he was adjudged the Best Young Rider (under-10) and walked away with the Rolling Trophy presented by the Colonel of Gajaba Regiment. Itll be interesting to see Anjana riding at todays Walawa Supercross at the Sevanagala Craftsman Autodrome.
Anjana was inspired on racing after watching motor bike races on TV and some how got agree his parents to step into racing. Later he was assisted by the owner of the Shane Motors  Waikkala who let Anjana to use PW 50cc motor bikes maintained by Shane Motors in competitions. Anjana is trained by Milan Niranjan of Shane Motors. Anjana hopes to continue his riding career from national level to international level in future.
==============================
## Title: Serena crashes as Pliskova, Kerber set-up US Open final duel
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Serena crashes as Pliskova, Kerber set-up US Open final duel
NEW YORK, FRIDAY: Karolina Pliskova shattered Serena Williams's bid for a record-breaking 23rd Grand Slam title Thursday, her 6-2, 7-6 (7/5) win setting-up a US Open final against new world number one Angelique Kerber.
The win for Czech 10th seed Pliskova meant the 34-year-old American was deposed as the world's top player, losing her chance to stay at the peak for a record 187 weeks.
In Saturday's championship match, Pliskova will tackle second seed Kerber who marked her coronation as the new world number one with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over two-time runner-up Caroline Wozniacki.
It will be Pliskova's first appearance in a Grand Slam final while Australian Open champion Kerber will be in her third of the year having finished runner-up to Williams at Wimbledon.
Williams, who also lost in the semi-finals last year which ended her bid to claim a rare calendar Slam, said she had been suffering from a knee injury in the run-up to the semi-final.
When you're hampered you're thinking of other things, said the American, a six-time US Open champion.
Like I was making errors that I never make, and definitely I didn't make in this tournament in particular.
So many simple, simple shots that I easily could have made. I just blame that on just mentally thinking about my leg and just not thinking about the shot.
Pliskova, the first Czech woman in the US Open final since Helena Sukova in 1993, said she had not noticed that her opponent was carrying an injury.
The 24-year-old preferred to focus on finally making a Slam championship match after never making it past the third round of a major in 17 prior attempts.
I knew I had the chance to beat anyone if I played my game. I am excited to be in the final and to beat Serena as she is such a great champion, said the 6pht 1in (1.86m) Czech who had also beaten Venus Williams in the fourth round.
Even when she was down a set and break she was still fighting. I had to fight hard to win.
Despite the injury, Williams admitted Pliskova earned her victory. Karolina played great today. I think if she had played any less then maybe I would have had a chance, said Williams.
Kerber, the 28-year-old left-hander, is the first German woman to reach the final since Steffi Graf in 1996. Graf is also the only other German woman to achieve the top ranking.
It's incredible to be in the final and to be the world number one, it's a great day, said Kerber, who has made the final without dropping a set.
Number one dream
To be the number one in the world, that was always a dream for me. I was trying not to think about it too much the last few weeks.
The German leads Pliskova 4-3 in their head to heads, but the Czech won their most recent meeting in the Cincinnati final last month.
Wozniacki, down at 74 in the world after missing almost three months of the season with an ankle injury, had refused on the eve of her fifth semi-final in New York to dampen speculation that she was on the brink of announcing her retirement.
But she certainly appeared to have her mind elsewhere throughout the match.
I'm a little disappointed not to win today, but at the end of the day it's been a good tournament, something I can be proud of, said the Danish player.
I came into this tournament ranked 74 in the world and probably people ruled me out, but it's nice to prove people wrong once again.
At least she has the consolation of knowing her surprise run to a fifth semi-final in the city where she keeps a second home will translate to a place back in the world top 30. AFP
==============================
## Title: Pacquiao reveals retirement anguish as comeback looms
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Pacquiao reveals retirement anguish as comeback looms
BEVERLY HILLS, FRIDAY: Manny Pacquiao says he knew almost as soon as his retirement began that he had made a mistake, revealing that loneliness and love for the sport had drawn him back into the ring.
The legendary Filipino icon, who hung up his gloves after what was supposed to be a farewell victory over Timothy Bradley in April, ended his short-lived retirement in early August.
The 37-year-old fighter is now targeting a slice of the world welterweight title when he faces World Boxing Organization champion Jessie Vargas in Las Vegas on November 5.
Pacquiao had initially planned to focus on his political career after being elected to the Philippines Senate in May.
But politics proved to be no substitute for pugilism in the eyes of the Filipino great, who showed he had plenty left in the tank with his stylish win over Bradley five months ago.
First when I hung up my gloves I realised, Pacquiao told AFP on Thursday.
I felt lonely. And thinking about it over and over, I thought Boxing still likes me. Boxing still loves me. So why stop my boxing career So that's why I decided to continue my journey as a boxer.
No surprise
Freddie Roach, Pacquiao's long-serving cornerman revealed the fighter had made up his mind to scrap his retirement before he had even flown back to the Philippines from Las Vegas following the Bradley bout.
Before he left for the airport after the last fight, he told me very clearly We will fight again, Roach told AFP. It was no surprise.
The only surprise, Roach said, was the timing.
I knew that after he became a Senator he would fight again. I just thought it would be next year.
Pacquiao insists that while his boxing career is now firmly back under way, he remains committed to politics, maintaining that he has had a perfect attendance record in the Senate since his election.
I've learned a lot and not only talking about the problems. The most important thing is common sense, Pacquiao said.
The only challenge has been fitting his fitness regime around his duties in the Senate.
In the morning I'll go for a jog and then rest a little bit, and then start work in the office, he said.
By 10 o'clock I go to the Senate building and attend committee meetings. And after the committee meetings, attend the full session.
And after the session I go straight to the gym, which is only 500 meters away from the Senate, and then train. After training, back home and rest.
Hard worker
Roach said he had been impressed by Pacquiao's conditioning after seeing him this week.
He works out every day. He's in pretty good shape, he told AFP. He's the hardest worker I've ever seen. Many commentators have speculated that Pacquiao views his election to the Senate as a stepping stone for a presidential run.
Pacquiao dismissed the suggestion however. That's not in my mind right now, he said My focus is to serve honestly, and to pass laws that will help less fortunate families.
AFP
==============================
## Title: ITAK marking time: Sangaree
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
ITAK marking time: Sangaree
Tamil United Liberation Front Leader V. Anandasangaree yesterday said Opposition Leader R. Sampanathan and the ITAK were not concerned about the situation of the Tamil people adding that they were just marking time.
Anandasangaree said Sampanthan convinced the Tamils as their saviour.
But you have now left in the lurch both the Tamil people and the LTTE. They were made use of by you to enter Parliament," he said.
Anandasangaree said the Opposition Leader is ungratefully and unreasonably now demanding that the LTTE should be tried for their war crimes, when they should be treated as minors.
I wish to remind you that the TULF took up the position that the LTTE cadres was made use of like weapons to fight the war which most of them joined innocently voluntarily and under compulsion," he said.
He was of the opinion that they should not be treated as conventional army.
Excerpts from the letter: "I am not at all interested in gaining power and position but only interested in finding early solutions for our ethnic problem and for some other complicated issues. As a first step I request you to drop the TNA garb that is causing much confusion, and come to the ring, with clean hands.
The TNA has lost its credibility due to frequent misuse of that term. It brought much luck to you and to some others but certainly not at all to the common people. They are now beginning to think that they are being cheated, after your admission to the media that the LTTE had nothing to do with the formation of the TNA. You are not unaware that the TNA was the creation of the TULF, of which you and I were Secretary General and President respectively. I alert you that the new development about the origin of the TNA, will cause damage to the very existence of the so called Good Governance.
It is a pity that you and the ITAK members of the Alliance are not taking seriously, the pathetic situation our poor people are facing and just marking time. You convinced the people that you are their saviors representing the LTTE but you have now left in the lurch both the Tamil people and the LTTE. They were made use of by you to enter Parliament. Now ungratefully and unreasonably you are demanding that the LTTE should be tried for their war crimes, when they should be treated as minors.
I wish to remind you that right from the beginning the TULF took up the position that the LTTE cadre was made use of like weapons to fight the war which most of them joined innocently, voluntarily and under compulsion. They should not be treated as a conventional army.
All these years the TULF was compelled to remain silent on some of these matters fearing repercussions from your group and to avoid getting branded as a traitor to the Tamil cause when in fact all 60 years of my political carrier was devoted for the welfare of our people and the country. Things are now going out of control.
The people who had full faith in you have lost their faith. The most honorable thing for you all to do, is to resign the membership of the ITAK members in the TNA, handover the TNA back to the TULF and to leave the issues facing the Tamils in the hands of the TULF that never failed in its duty to the Tamil people."
==============================
## Title: [Parliament (10-09-2016)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
[Parliament (10-09-2016)]
Sri Lanka focusing on Green Sustainable Development
As envisaged in Maithri Palanayak manifesto
Sri Lanka is focusing on green sustainable development as envisaged in the Maithri Palanayak Election Manifesto, said Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe in Parliament yesterday.
He said the government had already approved a Sustainable Development Council Bill and the same has been referred to Provincial Councils for their observations. He added that following their observations, the government could debate on it and pass the bill in Parliament, adding that following the bill being passed, the Sustainable Development Minister could come up with new plans for the future.
He made these observations moving the Ratification of the Paris Agreement on the United Nation's Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted in New York on May 09, 1992.
He said that he was happy that Parliamentarians take a keen interest on the matter and he should also explain as to why a change in Parliamentary business is needed to bring this forward.
Global Climate Change has captured our attention during the last few decades. The United Nations adopted the framework at the Convention on Climate Change in 1992. But the problem was that the countries could not agree to the steps to be taken. We can see how long it had taken for global countries to come into an agreement. The problem was that, developed countries did not need to control the emission as they thought their own development process would be affected, Premier Wickremesinghe said. We are well aware that during the last two centuries, the the industrial revolution, the rapid development of the world economies, the World War 11, use of atomic weapons, the test on nuclear weapons, etc. have made a significant impact on the Global Climate Change. Therefore,concerning the Climate Change, the expected 1.5 to 2 Celsius degree increase is getting exceeded. As I told you earlier, the waters of the Mahaweli river could get affected, while tea cultivation too could be affected. Due to this reason, there had been many meetings held, while last was in Copenhagen which also ended without reaching any agreement despite the efforts made as many countries were looking at their own interest.
He said that it was possible for a country to develop fast, while controlling its emissions. We are happy that Europe and Japan took the lead on these matters. However, the Paris Climate Talks last year reached a decision. I won't say that I was 100 percent satisfied with it, but it was a great leap forward. Now the process of ratification has commenced. For ratification requires fifty five percent of the countries with 55 percent of the global emission to ratify the agreement for it to come into force. Although many countries have agreed to it, there are still issues in some of the western countries and also in some of the Asian development economies. While they agree to control emissions, these are major issues coming up when they face the forthcoming elections in western countries this year and next year, Premier Wickremesinghe said.
He said in this background, it gave us great encouragement that the President of the United States of America and the President of China agreed to ratify the agreement prior to the G 20 Meeting. Following it, many countries and parliaments have decided to go ahead to ratify the agreement. Sri Lanka is concerned that President Maithripala Sirisena's manifesto agreed to take all necessary measures to protect the environment. The President has taken over the Environmental Ministry and had taken many measures to protect the environment. So, we have a great responsibility to ratify this agreement. Sri Lanka has the ambition for rapid development, however it should be a green development.
The government has already approved a Sustainable Development Council Bill. It has been sent to the Provincial Councils. I have asked the Provincial Council Minister to expedite the process so that we could debate it and pass it here. Later, we could take other necessary measures. In this background, we have to ratify it quickly, by ensuring that at least by the time the UN General Assembly meets, there would be ample ratifications at the November meeting this year by the time this agreement would come into force. We had discussed this matter with President Maithripala Sirisena. We felt that Parliament should ratify this agreement before President Maithripala Sirisena's visit to New York for the General Assembly in November. This is the last week that we could sit before the President's visit to New York, Premier Wickremesinghe said. So we moved this agreement.
Strike unfair after agreeing to requirements
Making a special statement in Parliament yesterday with regard to the Labour officers strike, State Minister of Labour Ravindra Samaraweera, said it was unfair to hold a strike after coming in to an agreement with the relevant authorities with regard to the fulfillment of their requirements.
He made this statement as a response to a request made by SLFP MP Dinesh Gunawardane and Chief Opposition Whip MP Anura Kumara Dissanayake on Thursday (8), requesting the government to intervene on behalf of the Labour officers strike.
The State Minister said that Labour officers are demanding for the promotion of all labour officers from their current salary scale of MN -5 to SL-01. But according to the Labour officers, it is necessary to face an examination after the completion of a 10 year service period as a Labour office to the salary scale of SL-01 which is the current salary scale of an Assistant Labour Commissioner.
After recognizing the necessity for restructuring the Labour Department, a committee was appointed by the Labour Minister to look in to matters and submit a report within three months. Various ideas and proposals have been received to the committee by various groups.
In line with this process of seeking ideas and proposals, Labour officers also emphasized the necessity of making a service minute and they submitted a draft of earlier prepared service minute namely Sri Lanka Labour Relations Service, to the Labour Minister as well as to the Commissioner General of Labour. According to this proposed minute, Labour officers demand that they be placed the SL-01 salary scale.
But during discussions held among representatives of the Labour Officers' Union, Labour Ministry and Labour Department, it was decided to complete the service minute after completing the restructuring process of the Department. But the Labour Union urged the government to certify the proposed service constitution as soon as possible. So a committee comprising officers of the Labour Ministry and Labour Department was set up to work out details.
We informed the Labour Officers Union, that the Labour Ministry of the Department could not work on this alone and it was necessary to get the approval of the Public Administration Ministry, Management Services Department and Public Service Commission. But on September 9, the Union informed the Commissioner that they were to hold a continuous strike, he said.
The State Minister said that another discussion was held under the patronage of Labour Minister W.D.J. Seneviratne, which had taken three decisions and the Union had agreed with the minister to give a three month period to fix the proposed service minute after completing the restructuring process within three months. Even after it came to this agreement, the Union sent another letter to the Commissioner General of Labour claiming that they were to hold a strike on September 7. It was unfair to hold a strike after coming in to an agreement.
Interchanges on Expressway constructed not adhering instructions
A new interchange at Bombuwala is being considered for the Southern Expressway, said Higher Education and Highways Minister Lakshman Kiriella. He was responding to a proposal made by JVP MP Nalinda Jayatissa during oral questions.
JVP MP Nalinda Jayatissa alleged that some interchanges of on the Southern Expressway have not been placed properly due to political influence.
'Certain political parties sabotaging moves to introduce new electoral system'
Certain political parties are involved in crippling the government's moves to introduce new electoral system, Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) Youth Front Chairman Shantha Bandara said.
He was addressing a media briefing at the SLFP Headquarters yesterday.
"Both Bharatha Lakshman Premachandra and Duminda Silva were victims of this twisted election system. Therefore, it is our responsibility to help change the current preferential voting system and replace it with an mixed electoral system that ensures representation of individual members for Parliamentary constituencies, with mechanisms for proportionality," Bandara said.
"It will take some time to have a new electoral system in place that do not lead to clashes and ensuring greater democracy. Although we also supported the passage of the Local Government Amendment Bill in 2012, there are still 17 more amendments to be implemented," he said.
Condemning the attack on Sri Lanka's High Commissioner in Malaysia, he said that the Youth Front vehemently condemns the attack. The Youth Front urges both the Sri Lankan and Malaysian governments to show the world that they will not tolerate any vestiges of terrorism. Both governments should also act to end all forms of terrorism.
He said the SLFP Youth Front is organising itself in a discipline and orderly manner identifying various shortcomings and also other factors that can improve the SLFP.
"We are making the youth aware about the major force is being built around the party led by the country's youth. We will show the results of this at a nation wide election. The SLFP's 65th Convention was a great success," he said.
The party rank and file had some initial doubts with regard to President Maithripala Sirisena taking over the SLFP Chairmanship. Earlier, all SLFP Chairpersons were elected as Presidents with the full backing of the party. But this time, President Sirisena did not have the full backing of the party when he became the SLFP Chairman.
"The President became a Common Candidate with the assistance of other political parties such as UNP, JHU, JVP and Civil Society organisations," he said.
"President Sirisena addressing the 65th SLFP Convention said that he was determined to make the party stronger and not weaken it. He further said that the SLFP will contest the upcoming Local Government polls under the SLFP's traditional 'Hand' symbol. He also promised to give leadership to form a future SLFP Government at this convention," Bandara said.
Climate Change, Global Warming leading to environmental challenge
Climate change and Global warming is the leading environmental challenge in this Century, Chief Government Whip and Mass Media and Parliamentary Reforms Minister Gayantha Karunathilake said.
He was participating in the Adjournment Motion on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in Parliament yesterday.
The minister said achieving the targets mentioned in the Paris Agreement would help to arrest global temperature rise which in turn would help protect the health of the people and eco-system stability. He said Sri Lanka could make an active contribution towards this end.
He reminded that Sri Lanka ratified to the Paris Agreement on April 22 along with 178 countries. He said Sri Lanka is now making plans to achieve the stipulated targets within the stipulated timeline.
Joining in the debate MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardena pointed out that meeting the stipulated targets of the Agreement before the given deadline of 2030, could have an impact on the countrys development.
However, he said the full support of the Joint Opposition would be extended to implement the Agreement. He also emphasised the need to harness potential of the solar, wind and water resources to generate power. Our country is full of solar and wind energy. However, we are yet to harness them in the proper manner, he said.
He also said that researches had warned that one billion people in the Asian region would suffer from water scarcity in another 30 years. He reminded that safe drinking water sources are fast shrinking in the world.
Chief Govt Whip presents estimate for projects to House
The Government yesterday, submitted a supplementary estimate seeking Parliament approval for a sum of Rs 2.07 billion for the initial work and land acquisition for two highway projects and the Marine Drive extension project upto Panadura.
Accordingly, the approval was sought to spend the above sum of money for the initial work, including land acquisition for the elevated highway from the Kelani Bridge to Athurugriya, the Port Access Elevated Highway project and the Marine Drive extension up to Panadura.
In addition, the approval was sought for a sum of Rs 1billion to pay compensation for the acquisition of land for roads to be developed under the Kandy City Development Project. These allocations have been made to the Highways Ministry.
The supplementary estimate also sought approval for a sum of Rs 19.8 million to settle leasing instalments of 68 luxury buses imported for the CHOGM held in 2013.
It also sought the approval for a sum of Rs 112 million for the Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Ministry to cover up the expenses of establishing Emergency Pre Hospital Care Ambulance Service, which had been introduced to Sri Lanka with assistance from India.
A sum of Rs 3.04 billion had also been sought for several projects of the Pubudumu Polonnaruwa Programme under various expenditure headings. Approval had been sought for a sum of another Rs 150 million to meet the expenditure of construction, rehabilitation and improvement of damaged houses due to the Salawa incident in Kosgama.
As of the Supplementary estimate, Rs 11 million had been asked to pay the June months rental of the office of the Regional Development Ministry.
The estimate was presented to the House by Chief Government Whip and Minister Gayantha Karunathilaka.
==============================
## Title: Lanka shows fight but Australia wins T20I series
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Lanka shows fight but Australia wins T20I series
Sri Lanka put up a poor batting display but compensated to some extent when they gave a glimpse of turning the match around by grabbing four cheap wickets for six runs in 13 balls, however Australia had enough batting firepower in their line up to knock the required runs off with 13 balls to spare and win the second Twenty20 International by four wickets at the R Premadasa Stadium yesterday.
Dilshan salutes the crowd by going down on his knees after being dismissed for one in his final international innings. 
The win gave Australia the two-match series by 2-0, having won the first T20I at Pallekele by 85 runs and saw them head home after a lengthy two-month tour of Sri Lanka on a triumphant note having also pocketed the five-match one-day series 4-1. Their only setback was losing the Test series 0-3.
For Sri Lanka to make a fight of the match their total of 128 for nine after winning the toss and batting first was hardly enough to contain Australia.
Another crackerjack innings from Glenn Maxwell  66 off 29 balls with four sixes and seven fours saw Australia make Sri Lankas total look even smaller.
Maxwell and skipper David Warner (25) set Australia towards reaching Sri Lankas total in a canter posting 93 off 51 balls before the formers dismissal triggered a mini collapse with four wickets tumbling for six runs off 13 balls. From 93 for no loss Australia was suddenly reduced to 99-4 in the 11th over but they had plenty of overs in hand to score the required 30
runs for victory which they achieved quite comfortably despite losing a further two wickets.
Former captain Tillakaratne Dilshan closed the final chapter of his career five weeks before his 40th birthday by dismissing Usman Khawaja (6) and Mathew Wade (14) off successive overs to have the crowd chanting Dilshan, Dilshan but his cameo role came a wee bit too late to turn the game in Sri Lankas favour.
Man of the Match and Man of the Series Glenn Maxwell on the attack during his knock of 66 off 29 balls. 
However the two wickets he took compensated somewhat for his batting failure when he was dismissed for one by John Hastings.
Sri Lanka were only briefly in the game when Kusal Perera and Dhananjaya de Silva were batting together in partnership. They raised 35 off 26 balls for the second wicket, but otherwise the rest of the batting was a mixture of poor shots against accurate bowling.
The Aussies gave nothing away on the field and the energy they displayed was too much for the Lankans to handle.
Leading them from the front was skipper David Warner with three brilliant catches taken from three different positions. The bowling changes that Warner made were also spot-on with John Hastings and James Faulkner each taking a wicket in their opening overs.
Faulkner once again proved what a great one-day bowler he is by picking up three wickets and leg-spinner Adam Zampa whose bowling action resembles that of the great Shane Warne broke the middle order with three wickets for 16 runs. Dhananjaya de Silva played a lone hand for Sri Lanka scoring his maiden half-century in T20 internationals making a useful 62 of 50 balls but lacked support from the other end.
Apart from De Silvas half-century the only other batsman to get into double figures was Kusal Perera with 22.
Maxwell picked up his second successive Man of the Match award and also the Man of the Series award.
Dilshan was honoured by Sri Lanka Cricket with its president Thilanga Sumathipala presenting him with a silver plaque.
Glenn Maxwell after being dismissed by Seekuge Prasanna
==============================
## Title: ICC congratulates Dilshan for a successful career
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
ICC congratulates Dilshan for a successful career
The International Cricket Council has congratulated former Sri Lanka captain Tillakaratne Dilshan for an impressive international career that ended on Friday with the Twenty20 International series against Australia.
ICC Chief Executive David Richardson said in a statement today that Dilshan, who is one of only 11 players to have scored a century in each format of the game, was the epitome of the modern-day cricketer with his ability to adapt.
Dilshans accomplishments across all three formats are fantastic. He started as a solid batsman but adjusted to the demands of the faster-paced game and came to be known as one of the best in ODI and T20 Internationals.
He will be remembered for his innovative strokes and as a destructive opener. He was also a useful spin bowler and an outstanding fielder. We congratulate Dilshan for a fine career and wish him every success in the future. Mr. Richardson said.
Dilshan, who retired from Test cricket in 2013, topped the ICC World Twenty20 rankings for T20 Batsmen in June 2009 and the ODI all-rounders list in 2015. He was selected in the ICCs ODI team of the year four times  in 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015, and won the 2009 Twenty20 International Performance of the Year for his 96 off 57 balls against the West Indies in the semifinal of the ICC World Twenty20 in 2009.
Dilshan was a member of the Sri Lanka side which shared the ICC Champions Trophy 2002 title with India, and won the ICC World Twenty20 2014 in Bangladesh. He also featured in the finals of the ICC Cricket World Cups in 2007 and 2011. He scored 5,492 runs in 87 Test matches with 16 centuries and plundered 10,290 runs in 330 ODIs with 22 centuries. In T20Is, he got 1889 runs in 80 matches including one century, which makes him one of only 11 batsmen to have scored centuries in all three formats in international cricket.
==============================
## Title: Blatter faces new FIFA probe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, September 10, 2016 - 01:00
Blatter faces new FIFA probe
Banned FIFA president Sepp Blatter and his former chief lieutenants were under investigation Friday over illicit bonuses totalling $80 million (71mn euros), FIFAs ethics committee said.
Footballs ruling body claimed in June that Blatter, Jerome Valcke and Markus Kattner had skimmed off the eight-figure sum in salaries and bonuses in a coordinated effort to enrich themselves between 2011-2015.
It says it has passed on its finding to the Swiss police. In a statement, the investigatory chamber of FIFAs ethics committee announced it had opened formal proceedings against the three men who it suspects of conflict of interest and corruption.
Blatter is serving a six-year ban from football over ethics violations relating to a suspect $2 million he authorised in 2011 to former UEFA boss Michel Platini. Valcke was himself banned for 12 years, reduced to 10 on appeal, over misconduct regarding television deals and 2014 World Cup ticket sales.
Kattner, who briefly succeeded Valacke as Blatters righthand man, was fired in May over breaches involving millions of dollars. AFP
==============================
