## Title: National Govt. formed to serve people - Kiriella
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
National Govt. formed to serve people - Kiriella
President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe did not form this National Government to distribute Ministries, but, to solve the country's problems," said Leader of the House and Higher Education and Highways Minister Lakshman Kiriella.
The minister was speaking at a tree planting ceremony organized by the Road Development Authority to yesterday celebrate President Maithripala Sirisena's completion of one year in office.
The minister said it was exactly one year ago that Maithripala Sirisena became President by ridding the country of a dictatorship. Today, we celebrate the completion of one year since that historic moment. "The President and Prime Minister promised to form a National Government. Today, the two main parties, the United National Party and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party have got together and formed a National Government. This National Government wasn't formed to distribute Ministries among the parties.It was formed to provide permanent solutions to the problems facing the country. Therefore, we must protect this government like protecting the environment," Minister Kiriella said.
"If our environment is destroyed, the world will be destroyed. Even though Sri Lanka is a small country, we give priority to environment protection. Sri Lanka has signed many international agreements towards the protection of the environment, when even some developed countries have failed to do so. The developed countries are the main cause for environmental pollution, and have understood the importance of protecting the environment."he said.
"When new projects are initiated, they provide job opportunities and bring profits etc. But, on the other hand the environment gets polluted. We have to find ways of balancing development with environment protection.Sri Lanka has given pride of place to environment protection from ancient times. Epigraphs of King Pandukabhaya stand as proof to this,"Minister Kiriella added.
State Minister of Highways Dilan Perera, Charmaine Kiriella, Private Secretary to Higher Education and Highways Minister Chamindrani Kiriella, Road Development Authority and Higher Education and Highways Ministry officials were also present on the occasion.
==============================
## Title: Reading with Kipling
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Reading with Kipling
Joseph Rudyard Kipling was a British Journalist, Novelist, Poet and a Short Story writer born on 30 December,1865 in Bombay, India during the British Colonial era. John Lockwood Kipling was his father and Alice McDonald was his mother.
Rudyard Kipling learnt the local language at his young days both he and his younger sister Alice enjoyed the exotic scenic beauty of the surroundings and the cultural and ethnic diversity in India.
At the age of 6 years Rudyard Kipling and his sister Alice were sent to England to receive formal British education. Rudyard Kipling lived with a foster family known as Holloways.
Mrs. Holloways ill-treated the young Kipling in the most horrendous manner and at the age of 11, he was on the verge of a nervous breakdown. Under these unfortunate circumstances, young Rudyard Kipling found solace only in reading books written by Daniel Defoe, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Wilkie Collins sent by his parents.
In 1877, Rudyard Kipling was sent to United Services College in Westward Ho, Devon.
During this period, he started writing  Schoolboy Lyrics  In 1881, he came back to Lahore and became the Assistant Editor of Civil and Military Gazette.
On 18th January 1892, Rudyard Kipling got married to Caroline Balestier and settled down in Brattleboro, Vermont, and compiled two of his famous works  The Jungle Book and the poem  Gunga Din. At the age of 32, Rudyard Kipling became the highest paid writer in the world.
 Echoes by two Writers, Civil and Military (1884),,  Departmental Ditties and other Verses, Civil and Military Gazette( 1888),  The Rhyme of True Thomas ( 1894 ) ,  Recessional (Victorian Ode in Commemoration of Queen Victorias Jubilee 1897),  Poems, Ballads and Other Verses (1899)  Wee Willie Winkie and Childrens Stories (1888),  IF  (1895),  Gunga Din,  Kim  ( 1901) and  The Jungle Book,  Just So (1902)are some of the major works of Rudyard Kipling.
He won Nobel Prize for Literature in 1907 and known as the highest paid writer of the world. In 1902, Kipling family settled permanently in a house called Batemans in East Sussex, England. At the beginning, Rudyard Kipling became the target of anti-imperialism dominant in the countries under the British colonial administration.
Majority of his works had been portrayed as imperialist jingoism and ethnocentrism. Rudyard Kipling was brought up in a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic pluralistic environment in India. Contrary to the bitter criticism against Rudyard Kipling as an advocate of the British imperialism, numerous works compiled by Rudyard Kipling if viewed in another perspective has exposed his genuineappreciation of diversity of cultures, customs, rites and rituals of Hindus, Muslims, Buddhists, Jews and Anglo-Indians lived in India.
For instance in the  Ballad of East and West  the first few lines of the introductory stanza of the poem have confused and misguided some of the literary critics.
Oh! East is East and West is West and never the twain shall meet, Till Earth and Sky stand presently of Gods great Judgment Seat: But there is neither East nor West, Border,Breed nor Birth, When two strong men stand face to face they come from the ends of the Earth. 
Closer analysis of Kiplings poems revealed that even if he had been branded as a staunch imperialist advocating the course of the British imperialism he had conveyed a message of balance point of view in the majority of his works.
But there is neither East nor West, Border, Breed nor Birth  reveals that Rudyard Kiplings works have an aura of pluralism and tolerance of diversity. Vast experience he had garnered during his numerous travels the world across and living among the people of the East and West and their belief systems had lively portrayed blended with an invisible slight tinge of imperialism in his works.
It is quite natural for Rudyard Kipling as a British expatriate writer in India under the British empire and as a person involved to some extent in the British politics toblend his works with imperialism.
But in his works he had conveyed strong warnings of the consequences to the perpetrators of the crimes of pillage of the treasures and the exploitations of the other races in the British empire. Rudyard Kipling conveys the message through his poem  Recessional  that the service done by the British by expanding their empire is negligible on comparison to the mighty service done by God for the humanity.
For frantic boast and foolish word,
Thy mercy on Thy people Lord!
In addition Rudyard Kipling conveys the message that earthly powers are transient  reminding the fate of two fallen empires of Ninevah and Tyre.
IF is one of the most famous didactic poems composed by Rudyard Kipling in 1895 giving inspirational instructions on bothethical and moral behavior. Rudyard Kipling had been influenced by his knowledge on Buddhism, Hinduism ,Christianity and myriad of other rituals and belief systems prevailed in the Indian subcontinent. According to literary analysts, the poem  If  has been identified as Kiplings instructions to his son John.
 IF  comprises of essential qualities such as  patience ,  rational nature , honesty,  dependability , and  perseverance required to be an ideal man.
Origin of Kiplings  If  has been attributed to numerous other sources.  If  can also be considered as a compendium of Stoicism.  If  was first written as a series of instructions for children in his childrens book based on a story  Brother Square Toes depicting George Washington as a model leader to be emulated bythe children.
==============================
## Title: 'Theravada Kathikawatha Bill presented to Parliament due to Maha Sangha request'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
'Theravada Kathikawatha Bill presented to Parliament due to Maha Sangha request'
The Government nor any political party should be blamed for presenting the Theravada Kethikawatha Bill in Parliament, since the Government had done it at the request of the Maha Sangha themselves, said several Sangha Nayaka theras who are members of the 2006 Sri Sambuddhdatva Jayanthi Committee at a press conference held in Colombo yesterday. Among those who expressed these views were Ven. Diviyagaha Yasassi Nayaka thera, Ven. Akuretiye Nanda Nayake thera, Ven. Omalpe Sobhitha Nayake thera, and Balapitiye Siri Seevali Nayake thera.
The Nayaka theras who said that the government should be commended for introducing this bill, added that it was the duty of the Mahasangha to offer their full blessings at a tune when their request was about to bear fruit.
They however said that there were certain provisions in the bill which needed amendments and noted that both President Maithripala Sirisena and Justice and Buddhasasana Minister Wijayadasa Rajapakshe had invited suitable amendments to the bill from the Maha Sangha and other interested parties.
==============================
## Title: A True Legend remembered
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
A True Legend remembered
Felicitating or commemorating a deserving individual is fine by any means. Somadasa Elvitigala is such individual who had made his contribution for the betterment of the local music industry. His works with evergreen qualities are appreciated by people of yesteryear and present day. Elvitigala will also be remembered by future generations who will have their feet firmly placed on the soils of mother Lanka.
Somadasa Elvitigala commemoration program held at the BMICH on January 14 was organized by Somadasa Elvitigala Foundation headed by Sumedha S Elvitigala in association with the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation. Guidance of present SLBC Chairman Nanda Muruththettuwegama paved way for the event to become a huge success.
House was packed with people from all social strata and the President Maithripala Sirisenas participation added more depth to the occasion.
Sinidu Sudu Mudu Thalawe show got a kick start with the symphony style music of the song came in the film Sath Samudura. People who were in their youth in the golden era of Sinhala cinema would have recalled how stunningly a youthful Cyril Wickramage portrayed the main character in Sath Samudura. A matured Cyril Wickramage who too deserves a felicitation was seated in the audience witnessing his youthful looks on screen.
Creativity Par Excellence
Somadas Elvitigalas mentors had been Don Vincent Peiris, Soorya Shankar Molligoda, Ananda Samarakone, H W Rupasinghe and J Sadiris Master. Creativity lying within young Elvitigalas soul would have ignited due to the shock of the untimely demise of his loving parents. Finding difficult to fathom with the unbearable void created by this tragic incident in his early life young Elvitigala went to India with the little money his parents had saved for him. In Mumbai under the guidance of Usthad Ali Akbar Khan young Elvitigala learned to play the Sarodh and became an expert Sarodh player.
Witnessing the famed Indian music director Naushad directing songstress Lata Mageshkar to sing a film-song had inspired Elvitigala to indulge in film music direction. With this surging stimulation Somadasa Elvitigala came back to his motherland to let lose the creativity that was oozing from his soul.
Association with veterans Chitrasena, Lionel Edirisinghe and Prof Sarachchandra kept Somadasa Elvitigala on a high pedestal when engaging in creative work. Radio Ceylon embraced Somadasa Elvitigala in 1958 and provided strength to him in his quest to open new vistas in music direction.
There are diverse experts views on importance of music in the cinematic construction of ideologies. Some say cinema is a film directors brainchild and cinema music is just one component in the whole creation that adds value to a particular cinema.
Yet music compositions made by Somadasa Elvitigala for the Sinhala films Sath Samudura, Binaramalee, Bakmaha Deegae and Welikathara have become monuments in the film music direction history in Sri Lanka. The songs Sinidu Sudu Mudu Thalawae, Dakkoth Pathmawathie and Pipunu Kusuma Parawuwa in Sath Samudura cinema will forever linger in the minds of Sri Lankans.
If one could revisit memories in relation to Welikathara cinema and recall the drum beats heard from the background in its climaxing scene when Gorin Mudalali is chased by the police battalion, he would see one aspect of late Elvitigalas musical prowess.
In contrast were the songs and music scores in Bakmaha Deegae or Binaramalee.
Stage dramas were no exception for Somadasa Elvitigala in letting lose his musical ability. The heartwarming song Muhudu Pathula Yata Indala in the stage drama Moodu Puththu, Anna Balan Sanda in Kundalakeshi and Meka Thamai Kanthoruwa, Udeta EnawaHawasata Yanawa in Janelaya are registered in the minds of stage drama lovers.
Somadasa Elvitigala received the best music director Sarasavi award for the film Sath Samudura in 1967.
He was bestowed with the Deepashika award in 1974 for his yeomen contribution to the local music field. In 1985 Royal College, Colombo felicitated Elvitigala. He was recognized with Kala Bhushana award in 1988. Somadasa Elvitigala left SLBC to join SLRC the same year.
Somadasa Elvitigala commemoration show at the BMICH brought to fore all these memories and took the audience down memory lane for a couple of magical hours.
Pictures by Sudam Gunasinghe
==============================
## Title: THE VEXED QUESTION OF MR
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
THE VEXED QUESTION OF MR
Repetition is the soul of politics, at least in Sri Lanka. At various points in the countrys recent political history, political parties have used the same strategies and tactics over and over again, to outsmart their opponents and grab power.
The UPFA dissidents and the SLFP group supporting former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, believe they can regain control of the party by repeating the same old fear-tactics which they adopted to get nomination for Rajapaksa to contest the Parliamentary election on the UPFA ticket. They assume the local government election  which will take place six months behind the scheduled date  will provide the ideal platform for their take-over mission.
At this point, they are trying to create a fear psychosis among the rank and file of the party saying the Rajapaksa group, popularly known as the Abayaramaya cabal, will form a separate political front to contest the Local Government election. Some minor partners of the UPFA, including the National Freedom Front and the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya, have already stated that they are in the process of formulating a new political alliance with members of the joint opposition.
Any attempt by UPFA dissidents to form a new political alliance will certainly create a split in the SLFP. Although the top rung members of the party have aligned themselves with President Sirisena, a sizable proportion of back-bench MPs and grassroots level representatives still back former President Rajapaksa. Therefore, the ongoing dialogue over the formation of a new political party has sent ripples across the decision-making bodies of the party.
Dr. Gunadasa AmarasekaraPrasanna SolangarachchiMahinda Rajapaksa
Going another step further, the pro-Rajapaksa group has already selected a name for the new political alliance. According to informed sources, it will be named as the New Sri Lanka Freedom Front carrying the symbol lotus. Just like they did in the run up to the last Parliamentary election, they are now in the process of organizing meetings at Bala Mandala levels, with the participation of provincial politicians, stressing the need for a new political alliance unless Rajapaksa is given the opportunity to lead the partys campaign at the Local Government election. It is all too evident that the group is attempting to push the SLFP and its decision-making bodies to a wall with their threat to form a new political party. To prevent a split in the party, President Sirisena, the Chairman of the party, should take a backseat and Rajapaksa should be given the chance to lead the campaign, as the de facto head of the party, a Local Government representative of the party told the Daily News, underscoring their collective message.
Various internal discussions too took place among party seniors over this new development. Some SLFP seniors representing President Sirisenas group took part in discussions with party stalwarts supporting Rajapaksa. A few SLFP ministers namely Nimal Siripala de Silva, Susil Premajayantha and Anura Priyadarshana Yapa took part in discussions representing the President while Dinesh Gunawardena, Kumara Welgama and Dullas Alahapperuma represented the Rajapaksa faction. The main objective of these discussions is to work out an acceptable solution to all parties and prevent a split in the SLFP camp. However, the two factions still have to go a long way to arrive at a solution.
Meanwhile, some minor partners of the UPFA, including the National Freedom Front and the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya, are pre-empting the new political party for their own political gains. Contesting under a new political party at the Local Government election, needless to say, will be advantageous to minor parties of the UPFA who project themselves as the true sons of the Rajapaksas. They will cash in on this perception in terms of votes when it comes to the Local Government polls.
Basil  Gota at the forefront
Apart from former President Rajapaksa, his two brothers, Basil Rajapaksa and Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, are also involved in the new political initiative. Especially Basil Rajapaksa, who lied low during the Parliamentary election campaign, is now playing a key role in the new political alliance. He even took part in a discussion between the former President and some Local Government representatives of the Kurunegala district at the residence of Provincial Councillor D. B. Herath. After the meeting, the former President told a group of provincial reporters that the government should take measures to hold the Local Government election without any delay.
There is another group of Rajapaksa supporters who believe that former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa should be the second in command of the new political front. Although the former Defence Secretary has not made any direct remark unraveling his future plans, he had, on a few occasions, expressed his willingness to engage in active politics. However, the core issue is that both Rajapaksa brothers are facing a surfeit of legal issues on the anti-corruption front and it can make a negative impact on the new political alliance at a crucial point. On the other hand, some party leaders supporting the pro-Rajapaksa group, such as Democratic Left Front Leader and UPFA MP Vasudewa Nanayakkara, have serious concerns over the former Defence Secretarys foray into politics.
This comes against the backdrop where some elements in the group are attempting to position Dinesh Gunawardena as the second in command of the new political alliance. It is still too early to attempt to promote Gotabhaya as the deputy leader or the second in command of the front which will irk the group backing Gunawardena. In the face of any such development, Gunawardena, a senior politician who has weathered many a political storm, may take a backseat making way for the former Defence Secretary to come to the forefront.
SLFPs crucial Central Committee meeting
It is against this backdrop that the SLFP has decided to convene an urgent Central Committee meeting this week to discuss about the present state of affairs in the party. However, one should not forget that the majority of SLFP Central Committee members are supporters of President Sirisena.
According to informed party sources, a group of SLFP members will present a proposal at the SLFP Central Committee meeting to accommodate Rajapaksa in the election campaign to prevent a split in the party. However, accommodation does not mean transferring leadership responsibilities to the former President. This has to get the nod from President Sirisena and the group supporting him who are in control of the party Central Committee. President Sirisena, on multiple occasions, has said in no uncertain terms that he strongly opposes the ultra-nationalist path along which the Rajapaksas are trying to take the SLFP. In this context, one has every reason to believe that President Sirisena will shoot down any attempt to project Rajapaksa as the de-facto leader of the SLFPs election campaign.
It is not very difficult to understand the Presidents line of thinking, said Prasanna Solangarachchi, Chairman of the Kotikawatte-Mulleriyawa Pradeshiya Sabha and a close ally of the President.
Look at the bottom line! He said he would not allow Rajapaksa to be the President for the third time he made it happen. He said Rajapaksa would not be made the Prime Minister and he made it happen. Now Rajapaksa wants to be the Chairman of the Tangalle Urban Council. That wont happen too, Solangarachchi said, when asked about the Presidents possible response to demands from the pro-Rajapaksa group.
They dont understand that dynamics have shifted rapidly over the past few months. Before the Parliamentary election, the Central Committee had a lot of Rajapaksa supporters. Today, the President has the majority in the Central Committee. The most senior and top rung members of the party, who backed Rajapaksa at the Parliamentary election, are now with President Sirisena. Before the Parliamentary election, our General Secretary was in favour of giving nomination to the former President. Today, we have a General Secretary who challenged Rajapaksa even before the Presidential election last year, the Provincial Council Chairman, who is also a Central Committee member of the party, explained.
The most interesting aspect is that they lost the last Parliamentary election after using the same tactics. So can they even think of repeating the same old tactics at the Local Government election The party needs a new approach and the President will epitomize it. If Rajapaksa wants to support the partys campaign, he is free to do that in the capacity of a Patron. But he cannot be the party leader, Solangarachchi added.
The Provincial Council Chairman said what was happening in the SLFP could only be explained through the Buddhist teaching of Dhitta dhamma vedaniya karma.
When Rajapaksa was the SLFP leader, he created splits in the UNP and the JVP. Today, as a result of his conduct, the SLFP is facing a split, he added.
Meanwhile, multiple government sources confirmed that the Local Government election would be held under the new electoral system. The ruling coalition promised to change the electoral system before the Presidential election last year and that was the main reason behind the postponement of the Local Government election.
If the election is held under the new electoral system as a three-cornered fight, it will certainly play into the hands of the UNP whose election machinery is in full swing after the last Parliamentary election. One has to also understand that floating voters will not be a key issue at a Local Government election as they are not too excited about local polls. A careful examination of statistics of the previous LG elections shows that the poor voter turnout is a direct result of the lukewarm approach on the part of floating voters.
Tug o war over PSC
While the SLFP is dealing with a serious internal power struggle, the national unity government has made some important steps in the direction of comprehensive constitutional reforms.
The SLFP however is in two minds about the manner in which they should approach constitutional reforms while the UNP is campaigning for a new constitution with a total abolition of Executive Presidency.
The SLFP is pushing for the formation of a Parliamentary Select Committee to formulate constitutional reforms vis--vis the UNPs idea to convert Parliament into a Constitutional Assembly.
However, it is now clear that the UNP is not in favour of the idea of setting up a Parliamentary Select Committee to work in this regard.
The SLFP needs a select committee because they want to say something within the committee and contradict their own positions when they speak in public. But, we have created an open dance floor and now the public can see what every party is doing in this regard. On the other hand, it will give every party the opportunity to be stakeholders in the entire process, Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella said, while sharing his views on the matter.
We do not want any party to feel that they have been left out of the process. That is why we are trying our best to arrive at a common ground and reach a consensus when it comes to contentious matters. It cannot be construed as a weakness of the government. We want to rectify mistakes various governments made in the past when formulating new constitutions. We do not want any political party  major or minor  to opt out of this process, the Leader of House added. The Ministers remarks gave a strong indication that his party was ready to consider the SLFPs request with an open mind, despite the UNPs misgivings.
While this debate is going on, the Committee to seek public opinion on the proposed constitutional reforms began its work on Monday.
The committee, appointed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, will obtain public opinion from 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. from today till Friday at the secretariat at Visumpaya, Staples Street, Colombo 2. Senior lawyer Lal Wijenaike heads the committee.
The public can present their views to the committee both orally and as written statements.
Conflicting views from Abhayaramaya cabal
Breaking his silence on constitutional reforms, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa issued a strong statement on Sunday, addressing a gathering at the Abhayaramaya temple, Narahenpita.
Controversies have emerged about the procedure to be adopted in making changes to the Constitution. The Opposition has suggested that the process of constitutional change should be within the provisions of the present Constitution and the Standing Orders of Parliament. I believe the government will be flexible on this matter. This is not the first time that changes have been made to the present Constitution. By keeping matters within the available parliamentary mechanisms everybody will be able get on with the task at hand.
My manifesto for the 2015 presidential election, Mahinda Chintana lowadinanamaga also pledged to take steps to formulate a new Constitution for Sri Lanka. Earlier in 2011, my government had appointed a Parliamentary Select Committee under the chairmanship of Nimal Siripala de Silva to look into the changes that need to be made to the constitution including changes relating to the executive presidential system. That responsibility now lies with the present government. The single most important pledge on which the present government was elected into power was the abolition of the executive presidential system. The 19th Amendment to the Constitution passed last year purported to reduce the powers of the presidency, but the executive powers of the president still remain intact.
The preamble of the resolution introduced in Parliament last Saturday by the Prime Minister repeatedly stressed that the main objective of the new Constitution would be to abolish the executive presidential system and to institute electoral reform. These objectives should receive our fullest support. The executive presidential system was mired in controversy from the beginning. The SLFP opposed it even when it was first instituted. Now, when the very UNP that created this position is putting forward proposals to abolish it, we in the SLFP cannot oppose it. Furthermore, its a nephew of J. R. Jayewardene, the founder of this system, who is putting forward proposals to abolish the executive presidential system.
Although the former President did not take any significant steps to abolish Executive Presidency when he was in power, he has now agreed  at least in principle  with the governments intention to scrap it. At the first glimpse, one might even jump to the conclusion that the former President was ready to support the government on constitutional reforms given his concerns are addressed. However, the pro-Rajapaksa camps actual position on constitutional reforms was expressed when some members of the Abayaramaya cabal, who function as thought-leaders of the former Presidents ultra-nationalist political campaign, held a press briefing in Colombo yesterday.
The enactment of a new constitution is not an urgent need of the country, but the present government is trying to fulfill the needs of the western community, Dr. Gunadasa Amarasekara, a staunch backer of the former President said, speaking to reporters at the Abhayaramaya yesterday.
He also said that the anti Sri Lankan western communities did not want to change the country's electoral system or to abolish executive presidency. Their only intention is to form a separate state in the North and East, Amarasekera added.
Meanwhile, another associate of the former President Ven. Bengamuwe Nalaka Thera said that the prevailing constitution was a very powerful constitution fulfilling the needs of the country. According to Nalaka Thera, the only minus aspect of the current constitution is the 13th Amendment, introduced under the presidency of J.R. Jayewardene. By making this remark, the Thera strongly contradicted the statement made by the former President, supporting the abolition of Executive Presidency.
But the present government is trying to make the 13thAmendment more powerful while removing the 6th amendment to the constitution which is very important to the country. By enacting a new constitution, the government trying to fulfill the requirements of USA, UK, UN and UNHRC, he said.
It is important to understand that the conflicting views expressed by two groups of the same party cannot be interpreted as an accident. It is a strong sign that the same group, while overtly supporting the rationale behind the constitution amendment, will try its best to sabotage the whole process by resorting to patriotic rhetoric. On one front, the former Presidents group representing Parliament will attempt to block constitutional reforms citing technical issues and on the other front, his Abhayarmaya supporters will vehemently oppose the move citing possible threats to national security and western conspiracies.
==============================
## Title: Wiggie wants new constitutional reforms to be based on power sharing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Wiggie wants new constitutional reforms to be based on power sharing
Northern Province Chief Minister C. V. Wigneswaran called for new constitutional reforms to be based on power sharing through shared sovereignty while stressing that the Northern and Eastern Provinces should be merged to form a single Tamil-speaking province.
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) considers the principles and constitutional provisions establishing "sharing of the powers of governance through a shared sovereignty amongst the peoples who inhabit this island" to be paramount to the resolution of the national question, Wigneswaran said addressing a seminar on constitution making in multi-ethnic societies held in Jaffna.
"And the devolution of power on the basis of shared sovereignty shall necessarily be over land, law and order, socio-economic development including health and education, resources and fiscal powers," he said.
The Chief Minister also stressed that the Tamil speaking people of Sri Lanka has the right to self determination.
==============================
## Title: New constitution, second phase of Jan. 8 conspiracy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
New constitution, second phase of Jan. 8 conspiracy
The enactment of a new constitution is the second phase of the January 8 conspiracy of the present government, Federation of National Organisation (FNO) chairman Dr. Gunadasa Amarasekera said yesterday.
Addressing a media conference at Abhayaramaya in Narahenpita, Dr. Amarasekara said the enactment of a new constitution is not an urgent need of the country, but the present government is trying to fulfill the needs of the west.
He said the anti-Sri Lankan west do not want to change the countrys electoral system or to abolish the executive presidency. It only wants to form a separate state in the North and East, Dr. Amarasekera said.
FNO Co-chairman Ven. Bengamuwe Nalaka Thera said the prevailing constitution is a very powerful constitution which consists all requirements of the country except the 13th amendment. The present government is trying to make the 13th amendment more powerful and remove the 6th amendment to the constitution which is very important to the country, he said.
By enacting a new constitution, the government is trying to fulfill the requirements of USA, UK, UN and the UNHRC, the thera said FNO General Secretary Wasantha Bandara also spoke.
==============================
## Title: Animatedly spellbound
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Animatedly spellbound
Q: Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation spearheaded a number of animation programmes before other channels took over. Your comment
A: In 2009, Japan introduced a special project. But we had no facilities to create quality cartoons. I requested their assistance. Accordingly we received a dubbing room. That was a two-dimension room. We received great support from Japanese Ambassador and the heads of JICA. This is the only 3D and 2D room existing in a Sri Lankan television company today. Our creations had a facelift with these studio facilities.
The 'Tomiyayi Kitiyayi' turned out to be a successful animation programme at the time. It was produced with Grade Five scholarship students in mind. It was recognized at the Raigam and Sumathi Television Awarding ceremonies too.
Then the programmes such as 'Sunil Gee' and 'Kumara Gee' moderated by Dr Ruvan Ekanayaka also became popular. 'Podi Hamuduruwo' programme was a turning point. It made use of live characters as well as 3D animation. The programme was recognized by the state as well as Sumathi Raigam Awards. It is the first children's programme to receive such recognition. Now we have initiated a programme called 'Freddy and Prem' presented by Prof Sunil Ariyaratne. It also gets a good audience feedback.
Q: Animation seems to be your passion.
A: From the very beginning, I tried to highlight our identity through modern technology. We offered folk stories like Andare and Kadawalalu plus Dhammapada verses. We have also created Panchantantra stories for children.
Q: Animation requires time as well as a large number of dubbing artistes. However, your unit does not take long to produce animations. How have you accomplished that status
A: We have only a few animation artists. They are Anil Susan, Sanjaya Gunarathne, Charitha Ranasinghe, Ayesh Wadduwage, Ruwan Perera and Isuru Tharanga. But they are a talented team. They took only 21 days to complete 'Gamarala Divya Loke Yayi'.
We do not have first technological facilities like Walt Disney and Sony.
Nor do we have the luxury of time for animation experiments. Unlike in cinema, the television animations do not attract a fat profit. I think it is the team spirit and their talent that work wonders.
Q: What's in store for your audience
A: For the first time in Sri Lankan television history, we will create an animation film. That is a two-hour film titled as 'Dosthara Honda Hitha Lankawata Ewith'.
Our next challenge is 'Andaragen Passe'. We revive the old radio programme moderated by the three entertainment legends, Annesley, Samuel and Berty. These three characters appear on the screen as animated characters. This could also be a new experience to the Rupavahini audience.
We have a great support from JICA and Japanese ambassador.
==============================
## Title: Anoja Weerasinghe: Privileging Instinct
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Anoja Weerasinghe: Privileging Instinct
Films and plays by nature portray good and bad as polar opposites, and for this reason the actors personifying them sometimes give the impression that the world is housed by paragons of virtue on the one hand and absolute villains on the other. Reality isn't cast in black-and-white, but the temptation to give into the notion that it is ails our artists and actors. It is for this reason that stars who've refused to lend credence to the good/bad dichotomy are to be lauded. Going by this hence, Anoja Weerasinghe, actress and social activist, is a living testament to what acting should entail.
Anoja was born in Kailagoda, Badulla. Although she never received any formal training in her field as a child, she admits straight off that the experiences she went through in her childhood taught her enough and more. Her family had been artistically inclined, moreover, while the intimate bonds they had with their village and temple shaped their innate sensibilities. All this must have helped a lot when Anoja began taking part in stage plays, no doubt.
Her childhood had oscillated between Badulla and Moneragala, with her attending schools in both regions and performing items in them. Remembering those days, Anoja relates to me one such item, where she had to act as a Japanese princess and one she performed when she was about five or six. "That was my first experience onstage," she smiles.
She took part in her first play when she was 13. The play, "Anduren Eliyata", had won the praise of the Chief Guest (a prominent local politician), but it was what he had to say about Anoja that moved her. "He basically said that he could see a great actress in me, and that he could see me in mainstream films. Now imagine a 13-year-old village girl hearing those words from a politician, and one who regularly visited and resided in Colombo. Naturally, this was BIG news to me!" she laughs.
Distorted frame
What she gained during all these years, she puts to me quite clearly, was compounded by her interest in the cinema. Back then, when going to the cinema hall was considered a ritual, Anoja would watch films and walk back about four miles ("because there weren't any buses after 6.30 in the evening"). She is correct in implying that it was a ritual, of course, and I wonder: do actors receive their baptism of fire at the theatre, and not (as is supposed) in school The way Anoja describes how she trudged with her friends to the nearest hall for the latest shows in town affirms that, I suppose, even though she herself doesn't admit it explicitly.
I'm sure people have that one film they watch and are awed for the rest of their lives by, and I'm also sure Anoja is no exception. Without any hesitation, she comes out with it: "I remember watching 'Welikathara' quite vividly even today. That was the first Sinhala film shot in Cinemascope, as you know, and at the time we had very few halls, scattered for the most in and around Colombo, which could screen it properly. Not surprisingly, when I saw it, the frame was distorted and the images were projected on the wall."
Film star
She admits that during these years, she remained fixated on the cinema. "I watched as many Sinhala films as I could, for the most because of the actors but also because of their storylines. This was when Malini Fonseka had becomes a star. After watching her in some films, I became a fan." She adds that whenever she got to see Malini's performances, she would imitate her for days on end.
But of course, she was by now a stage actress, not a film star, and because of this she found it difficult to get rid of a penchant to overemphasise. "I still hadn't grasped the essence of film-acting, which was CLEAN DIFFERENT to the cinema in terms of acting. Not surprisingly, I used to highlight every emotion, even when I was initiated into the cinema."
That initiation came about in 1979, when she acted opposite Malini Fonseka in "Monarathenna" ("My first real performance was actually in 'Tak Tik Tuk' some time back, which lasted for about 30 seconds"), which had marked the first ("and last," she emphasises with a smile) time she made the mistake of blurring the distinction between cinema and theatre.
"Basically, I overacted. My co-stars could have got angry at me for this, when it was clear that I committing the mistake again and again, but they didn't. Malini akka and Daisy akka (Rukmani Devi) instead comforted and corrected me. They tutored me on the mechanics of acting in front of a camera. I found that very helpful, and to this date I am grateful. They never made me feel as though I were an outsider or a newcomer."
Anoja has had her fair share of both commercial and non-commercial films, but it'd be wrong of me not to say that we remember and admire her greatly for those performances where she acted free of frill and seriously. She rattles off a list here, but because of spatial constraints I can't include them all here. Suffice it to say that they all show her at her best, depicting the sort of female protagonist the Sinhala cinema epitomised in the 1980s, free of the black/white distinction I alluded to before.
When talking about her in this regard, however, there's no way I can evade talking about D. B. Nihalsinghe. "How on earth could I have known that about a decade after watching 'Welikathara', I'd end up acting under him" she smiles. "He was the cameraman for Professor Sunil Ariyaratne's film 'Muhudu Lihini', in which I acted, and he saw my performance."
Apparently when her name was suggested as the female lead in Nihalsinghe's adaptation of Arawwala Nandimithra's "Maldeniye Simion", both author and producer had been sceptical.
"They were worried about how well I could fit in a serious setting when all they'd seen of me, by that time, was a crooning lover running from one bush to another in commercial films. But Nihalsinghe was adamant. He wanted me for that role, and if he couldn't have me, he wouldn't make the film."
They relented in the end, thankfully, and she took part in what would be later regarded as one of her finest performances. I haven't seen "Maldeniye Simion", nor have I seen "Keli Madala" (also directed by Nihalsinghe and featuring Anoja), unfortunately, so I can't comment beyond this. But Anoja's fond reminiscences about the director merit mention.
"I was like a ball of clay under D. B. Nihalsinghe's direction. He moulded me, in other words, and to this day I still can't understand how I played for him in those two films. He's so soft-spoken that when he instructs me, the other actor beside me can't hear him. In a very subtle manner, he drew the characters I played for him into my soul. In the end, I acted with the likes of Joe Abeywickrama, Swarna Mallawarachchi, Ravindra Randeniya, thanks to him. He was and remains my guru."
Dramatic Art
"Maldeniye Simion" got for Anoja an award at the New Delhi International Film Festival, the first for a Sri Lankan. "People think that the competition was centred on South Asia, but this isn't true. There were actors and actresses not only from Asia, but from the rest of the world as well." In any case, her winning the award led to the next chapter in her career, when Lever Brothers, together with some friends of hers, financed a studentship at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA).
At this point she tells me that although we draw a boundary between actors who're formally trained and those who're not, that boundary is actually a fiction.
"Look at Gamini Fonseka and Joe Abeywickrama. They didn't 'study 'acting as such. But they learnt their trade, whether at school or in their village. To me, hence, this distinction people talk about is meaningless, because even though we were never actors professionally at the outset, we knew our trade by instinct."
To wrap things up, I end this little piece by her reminiscences in another film she looks back at fondly: Parakrama Niriella's "Siri Medura".
"Back then, I didn't really know what film-acting entailed. This bothered me particularly in the final sequence of that film, when I had to give into hysterics after shooting and killing the main character.
This involved a lot of footage, which necessitated a series of rehearsals and a perfect final take. When Parakrama aiya asked me to do a rehearsal, however, I was lost. How could I act out when there was nothing in my mind I told Parakrama aiya to go for the take, hoping that something would 'come out'. What happened next I don't really know, but when the camera started rolling, I began asserting my natural self. This led in turn to a barrage of hysterics which continued until the very end shot. That first take was taken in. Then and there."
It is to Anoja's credit that there are very few actors, even veteran ones, who can act and come out unscathed this way. Of course, she offers a qualifier here: "If I were to do this sequence again, I don't think I can comply!" The confession of a truly instinct-driven actor, I believe, and one because of whom our cultural firmament has become richer and richer by the decade.
==============================
## Title: 'Bhikkhu Kathikawatha' Bill will be debated in Parliament'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
'Bhikkhu Kathikawatha' Bill will be debated in Parliament'
President Maithripala Sirisena said the 'Bhikkhu Kathikawatha' Bill to be presented in Parliament, is not the ultimate Bill and the acceptance, rejection or amendments to it will be prepared with the consent of the Nayaka Theras of the Tri Nikayas.
He made these remarks addressing a felicitation ceremony to honour Bhikkhus and lay people of Amarapura Chapter as well as the Remembrance of Pioneers of the Amarapura Chapter, held at the BMICH on Monday.
The President said that the drafting of this Bill did not take place following the establishment of the new government and it has been drafted according to a request made by the Maha Sangha 25 years ago.
He also said that every government that came to the power had taken certain steps in this regard and the present government is also engaged in a similar task with the advice and guidance of the Maha Sangha.
President Sirisena said that after completing the drafting of the Bill, and before the Bill is presented to Parliament, it will be sent to the Maha Sangha. He said he has given instructions to the Ministers, including the Prime Minister and the Minister of Buddha Sasana to present the Bill to the Tri Nikayas' Sanga Nayaka Theras to seek their consent in this regard.
"While further strengthening the existing provisions regarding Buddhism in the Constitution, the government will take every possible step to develop the Buddha Sasanaya," he added.
Most Ven. Davuldena Gnanissara Mahanayake Thera of the Amarapura Maha Nikaya, the Most Venerable Kotugoda Dhammawasa Anunayaka Thero and Ven. Professor Kandegoda Wimaladhamma Thera, were felicitated at this ceremony for their immense contribution in developing the Amarapura Nikaya and the Buddha Sasanaya. Prof. M. U. de Silva and L. H Piyasena were also felicitated at this ceremony for their service to the Amarapura Nikaya.
More than 1,000 bhikkus, Ministers Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Patali Champaka Ranawaka and others participated.
==============================
## Title: Bubbly but not in a bubble
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Bubbly but not in a bubble
Cuban Ambassador to Sri Lanka Florentino Batista likes to keep a low profile. He prefers the easy going practice of diplomacy which he says is the Cuban way. He enjoys simplicity and finds extreme protocol too overwhelming. Simple, sociable, direct, friendly, engaging and sometimes too direct, are his own words to describe himself.
This lively and cheerful ambassador is a father of two sons, Camilo and Gabriel, both in the school going age, and who had greatly enjoyed Sri Lanka. A large number of Cuban Embassies are comprised of only one couple, and thats the case of Sri Lanka, which entails a heavy and varied workload.
Cuban Ambassador to Sri Lanka Florentino
Batista with his sons
Batista passed out from the Higher Institute of International Relations in Havana. Fortunately or not, he was pushed into the deep end as soon as he started his career when he was posted in the US in 1998 - the first posting outside Cuba after commencing his diplomatic career in 1996.
First posting
It was the most complex and interesting posting I have ever been for many reasons, Ambassador Batista claimed. I was very young. It was my first time outside Cuba. The relations between Cuba and US was most complex during this time, he pointed out.
The Cuban Embassy in the US in 1998 had been an extremely small embassy for the size of the workload they have had. Since relations between Cuba and the US were almost non-existent at the time, it had beenextremely hard work, extremely long hours and demanding.
Sometimes we had to be the reception, or the bartender to make the cocktails! the ambassador laughed. But it had been the training in the US right at the onset of his career that had shaped the Cuban Ambassador to what he is today. We did what is needed. I got an intense and heavy training which I consider very lucky, he added almost nostalgically.
Cubans and Sri Lankans have many things in common. But one thing in particular is the island mentality, which Batista claimed is what led him to become a diplomat.
We islanders have an intense curiosity for the outside world. We dream of going to see the rest of the world, he said.
On the other hand, Cubans are well-versed in international relations as it has played a pivotal role in the recent history of Cuba. Especially after the Cuban Revolution, foreign relations have been fundamental for Cuba as it was the only way to defend itself, Batista added. Without family members in the field, this major fact that shaped the Cuban way of life had been the motivation for Batista to take up Foreign Service.
Rewarding experience
Batistas second posting in the volcanic island of the Caribbean - Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, was one that had been most rewarding. With a proud claim to a world class health system, the Cuban Embassy had brought relief to many who had eye diseases in the island. Batista spoke highly of the Cuban healthcare system which was a more preventive system with one doctor for every 120 families. This had been key to controlling dengue; in the way the Cuban health system focuses on the prevention of diseases. Cuba also prides itself to having a bio-tech industry which is second to none, according to the ambassador. After 55 years of no relations with the US, it had been the lung cancer vaccine, only developed by Cubans that had brought US personnel officially to Cuba.
Although his experiences in the Caribbean had been the most rewarding, it is Asia that he wants to stay close to, especially after his period in Malaysia.
Thats when I fell in love with Asia, he said excitedly. Its an entirely different story with many cultures, religions and histories existing side by side, he said. When his superiors asked him where he wants to go next, he had promptly told them: Please keep me around Asia! It was soon after that he arrived in Sri Lanka, first time as Ambassador and came to be in awe of the Sri Lankans respect for nature especially influenced by Buddhist philosophy.
Even his mother, whose first time out of Cuba was Sri Lanka, had according to Batista, been impressed by the immense respect Sri Lankans had for nature. She had even been protective of insects, preventing others from hurting them while she was here!
Its not that we are not respectful to nature in Cuba, but we cannot be compared to the kind of respect that Buddhism brings into nature, he said, fondly recalling his mothers visit.
Exceeding expectations
Sri Lanka seemed to have exceeded all his expectations, in the beauty of nature, the golden sandy beaches of Bentota and the grandeur of the heritage in Sigiriya. But he had not been prepared to the chili level that Sri Lankans seem to tolerate quite easily!
For me this had been the hardest part being in Sri Lanka! I had some Malaysian training, but here it was over my expectations! he exclaimed.
Luckily for him, he was blessed with a Sri Lankan cook who had been at the embassy for many years. During his initial months in Sri Lanka, it was this cook who had given the Cuban name to a dish which Batista had tried hard to get her to cook, not knowing that she is already an expert in Cuban cuisine. After explaining vigourously for days about what goes in that particular dish, she had finally asked the ambassador whether he wants her to cook Potaje!
It seems that his disdain for Lankan chili is compromised only by one thing  the Sri Lankan graduates in Cuba, of whom he is extremely proud. With many Sri Lankans travelling to Cuba for their tertiary education each year, the ambassador enjoys keeping a tab on them and building a good relationship.
I enjoy hanging around with them, he added, pointing to a small group of alumni who had gathered at the table nearby to plan a Cuban event, during the time the Daily News was interviewing the ambassador. The youthful ambassador seemed to fit right in with them, laughing with them to a joke told in Spanish.
It is no surprise thus, that Batista seems unrecognizable as an ambassador during official gatherings. Maybe it is due to his simplicity and unpretentious ways that many seem to be often misled. Not once but during two official meetings here, the ambassador had been overlooked as an official from the embassy, rather than being the ambassador himself. But instead of taking offence, he had found this quite amusing!
Although he enjoys life to the fullest in Sri Lanka, there had been more to enjoy back home.
Among the household games of dominoes, cigars and parties, it is dancing that the ambassador misses the most. Dancing is not my hobby, its my passion! he claimed.
Instead of sports, it is the rhythms of salsa that give him a workout! Im not a sports guy but I consider myself a very good dancer! he claimed, adding: Maybe not a very good ambassador but a very good dancer! Unfortunately Batista has very rare opportunities to dance here unlike in Cuba where it does not need much effort to find places.
Cuban culture is made up of Cuban music. Most men in Cuba are good dancers, especially because it is hard to find a girlfriend if they dont dance, Batista quipped. Even if someone has zero talent for salsa, that does not bar them from taking to the floor! he claimed.
Cuban Son is the salsa music and added variations make it salsa, the ambassador explained. Salsa is the name given in Spanish in the US. To us its not salsa but its just Cuban music, he said. A programme is in place to bring the Cuban beats to Sri Lanka very soon.
Missing Cuba
It is evident that he misses his social life in Cuba. It is impossible to talk to friends due to the time difference.
I cant wake them up at 2 am! he pointed out. Yet, it is during late nights that he is most awake, trying to do most of the office work during daytime in Cuba, with espressos keeping him company through the night! Its my guilty vice, he admitted.
During the course of 20 years in his career, Ambassador Batista has learned that the most effective way of building relations is at the peoples level, not just at the protocol level. And it is this strategy that he adopts in Sri Lanka too. I am doing what I can to build people to people connections, he said.
Since we are all cultural constructs, the ambassador says he likes people to identify him with his Cuban culture. Im trying to bring Cuban art, music and culture here. And I hope people will Identify me with that dancing, that music and that happiness.
Pictures by Ranjith Asanka
==============================
## Title: DC report to be gazetted in April
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
DC report to be gazetted in April
The detailed report from the Delimitation Committee (DC) will be gazetted in April. Measures will be taken to hold the local government elections before June this year, Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Mustapha said. Addressing the media at the Local Government and Provincial Councils Ministry, Mustapha stressed that the elections will not be held under the old electoral system. He said he has directed Delimitation Committee chairman Asoka Peiris to complete the report by April. The delimitation is carried out district wise and nearly 1,000 appeals have been received so far, he added.
Mustapha noted that the new system has 30 percent of the proportional electoral system and 70 percent of the ward system and the proposal of 25 percent of female representation will also be taken into consideration to increase women participation.
He added that the pledges made by the President and the Prime Minister to amend the electoral system will be fulfilled.
==============================
## Title: How reading to babies turns babble into language
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
How reading to babies turns babble into language
Reading to babies does more for language development than playing with toys or puppets. More back-and-forth interaction could be the reason why, a new study finds.
Researchers looked at how mothers responded to their 12-month-olds during book reading, puppet play, and toy play. They found that the babies made more speech-like sounds during reading than when playing with puppets or toys. They also discovered mothers were more responsive to these types of sounds while reading to their child than during the other activities.
The findings might explain why book reading has been linked to language development in young children.
"A lot of research shows that book reading even to infants as young as six months of age is important to language outcomes, but I'm trying to explain why by looking at the specifics, which could be responding to speech-like sounds," says Julie Gros-Louis, assistant professor of psychology at the University of Iowa.
"If we know what specific interactions are occurring between caregiver and child and we can link that to language outcomes, then it wouldn't just be telling parents, 'Read a lot of books to your kids.' That would definitely be important to tell them, but you could also identify specific behaviors to do during book reading."
The study shows that no matter the context, mothers' responses to speech-like sounds were often imitations or an expansion of the sound. For example, if the baby said, "Ba," the mother would respond with "Ba-ba" or "Ball," even if it had nothing to do with the story being read. Mothers frequently provide labels during reading, too.
Babies prefer to hear 'baby talk' from other babies
Gros-Louis says she used mothers and their babies for this study because their interactions have been studied more than those between fathers and their children, so she could more readily compare her findings to past studies.
Gros-Louis and colleagues observed the interactions of 34 mothers and their 12-month-olds during three 10-minute periods of different activities: puppet play, toy play, and book reading. The hand puppet was a cloth monkey; the toy was a Fisher-Price barn with manipulative parts, such as buttons to push and knobs to turn; and the books had bright pictures and simple sentences rather than single words or labels. The babies were seated in a high chair to control proximity to their mothers and to prevent them from getting up and moving around the play room.
Researchers coded each child's vocalizations and his or her mother's responses. Vocalizations included any sound the baby made except distress cries and fusses, hiccups, coughs, and grunts. Mothers' responses were coded for verbal content in the following categories: acknowledgments ("mmm-hmm," "uh-huh"); attributions ("it's pretty"); directives ("push that"); naming ("it's a ball"); play vocalizations ("getcha!"); questions; and imitations/expansions.
"The current findings can contribute to understanding how reading to preverbal infants is associated with language outcomes, which is not well understood in contrast to reading interactions with older toddlers," the authors write. This isn't the first time Gros-Louis has studied how mothers respond to the babbling of their infants. In a study published in 2014, she and researchers from Indiana University found mothers who consciously engaged with their babbling 8-month-olds could accelerate their children's vocalizing and language learning. Futurity.org
==============================
## Title: ICC suspends former Sri Lanka player Jayananda Warnaweera
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 13:45
ICC suspends former Sri Lanka player Jayananda Warnaweera
Sri Lankan pitch curator Jayananda Warnaweera has been suspended for three years by the International Cricket Council after he failed to take part in an anti-corruption investigation.
Warnaweera, who played international cricket for Sri Lanka 16 times between 1986 and 1994 and latterly worked at Galle International Stadium, was asked to co-operate with the ICC anti-corruption unit (ACU) in an ongoing probe.
The 55-year-old failed to attend two interviews with the ACU scheduled in September and October and did not disclose documents when requested, the ICC said in a statement.
Warnaweera was charged with "failing, without compelling justification, to co-operate with any reasonable investigation carried out by the ACU in relation to possible breaches of the anti-corruption code, including failure to provide information and/or documentation requested by the ACU that may be relevant to such investigation" under article 2.4.6 of the ICC anti-corruption code.
The ICC, which has not revealed full details of its investigation, said Warnaweera failed to respond to the charge and was "deemed to have admitted that he committed the offence" and "waived his right to a hearing, and to have acceded to the imposition of a sanction within the range specific in the notice of charge".
ACU chairman Sir Ronnie Flanagan said: "The ICC takes no pleasure in imposing a suspension, but this decision clearly illustrates what the code means to the ICC and how seriously we take matters that relate to corruption.
"It should also act as a reminder to participants of the need to comply with their obligations under the code. The ICC has a zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and it will not hesitate in taking such decisions in its endeavour to eliminate this menace from the sport."
(News Agencies)
==============================
## Title: ISABELLA RESURRECTED
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
ISABELLA RESURRECTED
Two combined verses from his 1818 long poem, Isabella (or the Pot of Basil), a robust tragedy spiced in romance and death, laid upon a helpless, beautiful girl who is at the mercy of her two brothers. The story has high quality value, seeped in romance, death, and cold-blooded murder. It is a remarkable story of passion and compassion but Keats fail to rise to its depth. The verses are filled with unwarranted melancholy and stero-type, run-on-the-mill poetry. It is sad that he failed to draw out the essence, the aura that surrounds the subject. Compared to Keats' ENDYMION, Isabella takes a back seat with so much potential that has gone untapped. Given to Shakespeare, Isabella could have been dialogued to such scaling heights with a spectacular, rise, that Isabella would have been among his top tragedies.
It was a vision... In the drowsy gloom
The dull of midnight, at her couch's foot.
Lorenzo stood, and wept; the forest tomb
Had marr'd his glossy hair which one could shoot
Lustre into the sun and put cold doom
Upon his lips, and taken the soft lute
From his lorn voice and passed his loamed ears
Had made a miry channel his tears.....
Keats has failed to seize the significance of his own story and build around it a glorious episode. Instead, his mile long stanzas are painful to read and if the reader was not updated with the story, he would have felt reading nonsense.
In fairness to Keats, we must realize that he never wrote a play rather a narrated story stat would have been better written to a tale rather than a poem. May be he was intent conveying the poem into a poetic play but it never happened. When the poem was published, it met with a lashing from some while others saw a glint of hope in the flagging poetry scene. This tale was praised by Charles Lamb but in 1853, Mathew Arnold pitched it for criticism. But later, the reader was given the option to decide to himself on a comparison with his ISABELLA as with A SICLLIAN STORY, written by his friend, Barry Cornwall in a version of modern refinement. It was conceived with love and misery of Isabella.
Yet the question remain:- Why did it have to trail behind ENDYMION  or for that matter, why did Keats have to trail behind Wordsworth Keats confined himself to his own art of writing and drew heavily upon archaic and pseudo English that produced a sense of public disgust not so much for Isabella but in general. By this time, poetry readers were tired of antiquity and were looking for robust Romanticism and his style was static where certain spellings could have been removed. I am not a great poet to sit in judgment on Keats but taking for granted that poets such as Shelley, Coleridge, Milton, Wordsworth; Robert Browning and lesser known English poets who had left him behind in spite of his spectacular ENDYMION and the rest. However ENDYMION was the target for the criticism against Keats but later, one critic asserted it on the failure of those critics to understand the beauty and meaning left behind this literary saga even after his death.
Keats opted to dream a story to evolve around Isabella but came up with a long poem instead and originally titled The Pot Of Basil derived in turn from the narrative in Baccaccio's THE DECAMERON. The love story trend into a tragedy; a gruesome murder where Isabella becomes the innocent victim. Lorenzo visits her in a dream and tells her where his body lies so that she could exhume it and hold unto her heart in a bottle of basil where later, the brothers discover it only to destroy what she obsessively possessed whereupon she pines and dies.
ISABELLA RESURRECTED Keats died in 1821 and Frank Bridge in 1879, fifty eight years later. Bridge was to resurrect Isabella as well as Keats to phenomenal heights of fame and popularity. Keats was buried after casts of his head, hand and foot were taken before his body was interred in the Protestant Cemetery according to his wishes where violets grew and wrote his own elegy. Bridge was the Messiah for the awakening of Isabella in symphony.
I attended this massive orchestration in September, 2011 at the Royal Albert Hall by the BBC symphony Orchestra with the rare notation by Frank Bridge whose music had been a regular feature at the RAH.
Bridge had been only 27 years old when he scored Isabella after its tone-poem inspired by the most horrible, gruesome story of the innocent eponymous heroine whose brothers kill her lover, Lorenzo and who visits her in a dream and inform her whereabouts his body is. Isabella finds the grave, cuts off his head and conceal it in a pot of basil. Later the brothers discover, it, steal, and destroy the head and whereupon, she pines and dies. Great was her love for Lorenzo.
Bridge completed the score of Isabella of 1907 and was his most effective orchestral work. It established him as recognized individual music voice. The symphony was conducted by Sir Henry Wood and was a smashing success. In 1935, The BBC Orchestra played the score with Bridge conducting for the first time.
The grisly story related in John Keats' Isabella (or POT OF BASIL) was derived from a narrative, THE DECAMERON. No other work by Bridge follows a literary programme so closely as this poem.
The composer had segement the score into four division in order to retain the elements of sadness, horror and love tragedy. It is a simple diatonic melody which reflects Isabella's bold character as suggested by Keats.
Apparently Bridge had studied Liszt's symphonic poems as well as Tchaikovsky's Romeo and Juliet, and perhaps some of Richard Strauss's essays in genre.
But the radient orchestral outpourings that Bridge combined Lorenzo's and Isabella' theme pointed forward to his maturity in mixing tone poems in symphonic scores, to outshine many who tried to follow him.
Thus Isabella remain resurrected.
==============================
## Title: Jaden and Aaron Gunawardena create racing history
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Jaden and Aaron Gunawardena create racing history
Young racing star brothers Jaden and Aaron Gunawardena created history by being the first Sri Lankans to win an international motor racing event for their country when they emerged overall winners of the three-stage Asia Cup Road Race in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The duo aged 12 and 13 years stunned seasoned campaigners of the Asian fraternity in winning this event.
Jaden Gunawardena astride his Honda HPM 250cc at the Kuala Lumpur circuit
The championship was conducted as an open age category event and included three stages worked off in Japan, Thailand and Taiwan. The Sri Lankan pair earned an aggregate of 10 points from the three stages to crown themselves as champions and receive their award the Federation of International Motorcycling (FIM) Asia General Assembly in Kuala Lumpur.
Jaden and Aaron fearlessly challenged matured and experienced riders from countries such as Japan, Thailand, India, Philippines, Taiwan, Indonesia and Nepal. They beat many riders on their home soil and placed Sri Lanka high on the Asia racing map.
The two brothers came into the limelight in 2011 when they first participated at the ACRR as eight and nine-year lads. The determined riders came through the national selection process beating national level and three Forces riders over twice their age to become the best riders of the 150cc and 250cc events.
Jaden and Aaron hail from a racing family and are siblings of retired national motorcycling champion Shane Gunawardena. Shane has stamped his class in motor racing and won the Best Rider award at the inaugural Foxhill Supercross. He is the manager, coach and consultant to this champion duo.
Avindra Mirando, the President of the Federation of Motorcycle Sports in Sri Lanka said the Association is greatly honoured to receive this award as this is the first time Sri Lanka has carved their name in the 102-year-old history of the FIM.
He wished the young champions and expects them to bring further glory to the country in the future.
AA
==============================
## Title: Literary extravagance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Literary extravagance
*Sinhala Winner - Sepali Mayadunne (Maha Sami)
*English Winner - tie between Rizwina Morseth De Alwis (it is not in our stars) and Ayathurai Santhan (rails run parallel)
*The DSC Prize for South Asian Literature 2016 was held in Sri Lanka this year and Anuradha Roy was announced the recipient of the prize.
Over the years thousands of literary lovers flock to Galle to experience this festival is all its multifaceted glory. Simply put it, at the Festival one can experience and discover culture in a wondrous way from literary works to documentaries to some of the most groundbreaking films. Galle is at once transformed into a meeting place of diverse personalities and a fusion of ideologies. Daily News visited the Fairway Galle Literary Festival and managed to capture the joy and freedom it brings.
ProfMaithriWickremesinghe
Two of the highlights of the Fairway Galle Literary Festival are the Fairway National Literary Awards and the DSC Prize for South Asian Literature.
Fairway National Literary Awards
In his address, Festival Curator Shyam Selvadurai said that the Fairway National Literary Awards have been introduced with the intention of recognizing and rewarding the best Sri Lankan storytellers.
"With Fairway Holdings' support of the revival of the Galle Literary Festival, the idea of strengthening Sri Lankan Wordsmiths was conceived."
The format of the awarding is that three prizes are to be given for works in all three national languages. These awards are the richest literary prizes in Sri Lanka. The winning author in each language taking away 500,000 rupees. In addition five publications from each language will be shortlisted for the award and each of the shortlisted writers will be given 100,000 rupees each.
This year the panel of judges for the English entries are - Shyamalee Tudawe, Lal Medawattegedera and Tissa Jayatilaka.
For the Sinhala entries - Dr. Sunil Wijesiriwardena, Harshana Rambukwella and Nirmal Devasiri.
Tamil entries - Dr. Suren Raghavan, Saminathan Wimal and Prof. M.A.M. Nuhuman.
DSC Prize for South Asian Literature
The prestigious DSC Prize for South Asian Literature celebrated its shortlisted and winning writers at the festival. The prize now in its sixth year is committed to showcasing the rich and varied literature of the South Asia region.
Address by Guest of honor Prof. Maithree Wickremasinghe for the awarding of the Fairway National Literary Awards:
"From the stylus on an Ola leaf to the pen on a manuscript to the typewriter on paper to the finger on a keyboard, you will agree with me that we live in the most prolific, the most proliferate and prodigal age of writing that the world has ever seen. When I say prolific I mean productive. The Huffington Post records over three million books having been published alone in 2010. When I say proliferate I mean the way in which today's writing multiplies and travels. Understanding of theories and ideas that travel from place to place, time to time and mind to mind but also quite simply in terms of copies and new editions and reproductions that journey mentally. Prodigal when one considers the abundance of overwriting that takes place especially on various social media and other cyber sites. Yet at no point in history has writing and reading been considered more democratic in the popular sense of the word, more representative or more independent or more egalitarian obviously thanks to contemporary technology or advancements and achievements.
Sri Lanka too has increased its hard literary output as any discerning book browser would tell you, especially in terms of self- publishing, translations of Sri Lankan books and children's books. In an age of such literary extravagance where there is no dearth in choice what should the critic look for in literature
Creative writers, literary critics, fellow readers and friends. It gives me immense pleasure to be here at the inaugural Fairway National Literary Awards presentation for writing in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Fairway's inclusive and far sighted vision and commitment to promote Sri Lankan literature, stimulate an interest in Literature in all three languages needs commendation. It is also refreshing to note the generosity of Fairway which is essentially a commercial organization for their committed to the promotion of literature above corporate responsibility.
A literary award is a symbol of intrinsic quality and of literary standards. It is of Aesthetic value and of political, social, cultural and economic relevance. In today's context, I believe it is increasingly a touchstone in ethics. In other words a literary award is a symbol of excellence.
What should an astute critic look for in today's creative literature Are there glimpses of originality in a novel Are there critical insights into particular political, social, personal or ethical issues Has the novel been adequately researched so it is not mundane or mediocre Is there a skillful command, range, flow and polish in the language Is there sheer brilliance in creative style and structure Is there rich satire and irony
When all has been read and said we can still go back to the traditional concern - the impact of a work of literature. What we in the discipline call 'effect theory'."
==============================
## Title: Living with fairytales
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2016 - 01:00
Living with fairytales
People have been fascinated from the childhood on reading and listening to fairytales irrespective of the country of its origination. It is believed that the tales of magic and supernatural has a power of changing the attitudes of the reader and the listener.
As such the tales which contain and centre round the aspects of characters with magical and supernatural powers are named as fantasies or fairytales. Why are they called fairytales may make one wonder. This aspect was in the first instance spelled out by a specialist in the field of fairytales named Geoffrey Brereton who translated the fairytales collected by Charles Perrault (1628-1703) from the well known French collection to English titled as 'Fairy Tales'.
He says: 'from many of the fairy tales it is possible to deduce patterns of ancient ritual, usually connected with sun worship or seasonal ceremonies. The fairies themselves would be then be nature spirits, presiding over particular streams lakes and woods. Where nature is kindly, them incline to benevolence Where life is hard, they are hostile like the mountain trolls of Scandinavia.' This explains a lot about the background nature of the fairytale.
It is also believed that in the prehistoric times there lived some small men and women. But as time went by they were replaced by long or tall men and women. The tall and strong beings had ousted the small creatures driving them to forest abodes to live. From time to time they had been trying to mix. The small creatures had been helpful in many ways.
But the tall and big creatures who are humans had not been too kind. Those who showed kindness were replayed with equal gratitude. At times this attitude changed due to circumstances beyond the control of humans. This view had given way to the belief in fairies who are normally kind-hearted and witches who are said to be unkind and hostile. Traces of such beliefs are still found in various cultures.
As Margeret Mead the anthropologist points out in her 'Culture and Commitment', 'humans are destined to believe in supernatural gods goddesses fairies demons and witches due to their own follies and pitfalls. This too tends to give vested interest in the study in fairy tales which are basically fantasies or make believe tales and legends. There is also the belief that fairy tales stem from the folklore. As Perrault states, the fairies had another function, more intimately bound up with human affairs than their role of nature spirits.
They attended births and weddings in order to bless the humans. The gifts which they brought had a decisive effect on the life of the new born and the married couple. In this manner some of the friendly fairies were named as godmothers and attributed divinity to them.
Fairytales remain a genre that excels all other narrative forms due to the creative layers that are embedded in them. This factor was observed when the Grimm Brothers collected their stories from Germany and Andersen from Danish regions and sources and Perrault from French and Scandinavian sources. The counterpart is seen in the Orient with the Jataka, Upanishad and Panchatantra sources.
They are more known as Hindu and Buddhist mythology. They in turn over the years, kindled the interest as religious forms of popular communication.
Through the oriental fairytales the most significant factor that emerged was the way paved to think of happiness in reality itself. In moments of grief the humans tend to be crestfallen.
But the reminder in a tender life-giving episode in a fairytale makes it forgotten. Leo Tolstoy was one writer who believed in fairytales. He made others believe that magical powers could lead a person to be a good human being.
This ideology enabled him to collect a large number of Russian folk tales which centre round supernatural events. It was Tolstoy who branded them as Russian fairytales.
Though some child educationists detest the reading and listening to fairytales, the great writers like Dickens implied the necessity of thinking beyond the material realty popularly known as realism and naturalism.
While Dickens wrote a short novel called 'The Christmas Carol' he never wanted to say that it is either a fairytale or a ghost story.
But the readers feel that he had been influenced by the supernatural and magical elements in fairy stories. On the other hand, George Orwell stated in his celebrated short novel 'The Animal Farm' that he is writing a fairytale.
But in the subtext it happened to be a narrative of realism and a social comment. Maxim Gorki who took the cue from Andersen's 'The Little Match Girl' wrote an inspiring Christmas story titled as 'About a Small Girl and a Boy who did not Freeze to Death'.
This according to literary sources had been translated into several world languages. This remains as the only fairy story written by Gorki.
==============================
