## Title: Biased electoral system during previous regime caused delay in LG polls
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Biased electoral system during previous regime caused delay in LG polls
An attempt for a biased electoral system by the previous regime was the major cause for the delay in Local Government polls, Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champaka Ranawaka yesterday pointed. During the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime, there were certain changes introduced to the electoral system. However, there was much resistance against the attempt then because the proposed electorate system seemed in favour of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, Minister Ranawaka said.
He also said the new government opted for a new and fair delimitation process. However, some groups have made it a legal issue by complaining of minor errors in the Gazette Notification with regard to this matter, in court.
Minister Ranawaka also urged for the Local Government Polls to be held at the earliest possible date. He observed that people must not be robbed of their sovereignty which is exercised through the vote.
The Minister made these observations in a video published on an official social media page.
==============================
## Title: e-Government policies must be effectively implemented
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
e-Government policies must be effectively implemented
Sri Lanka needs to step up efforts to effectively implement e-Government policies with a unified approach, said Wasantha Deshapriya, Secretary, Ministry of Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure.
This could only result in easier access, less cost and faster delivery of services for citizens, Deshapriya said.
He was speaking at a event titled, Go Digital with Google hosted by Finetech Consultancy together with Google Inc, in Colombo. The first e-Government policy was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2009, Deshapriya said adding that only 30 per cent of government organizations are making efforts to follow policy recommendations in delivering government e-services whilst ensuring consistency in their ICT practices and activities.
Though the government efforts in regard to digitization process has made considerable progress over the years, according to Deshapriya, Sri Lanka has to go a long way in terms of national enterprise architecture and common standards to provide faster and better services for citizens and businesses.
==============================
## Title: The Tea Hub: The reality behind the TEA faCade
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
The Tea Hub: The reality behind the TEA faCade
The TEA, in its response - in a daily newspaper of November 10 - to my writing, TEA brews toxic blend for its own survival, has resorted to vague generalities whilst accusing me of misrepresenting facts to suit my interests, without clarifying these facts. In the absence of rational arguments to support its call for liberalization, a transparent euphemism for the importation of cheap tea, it has also attacked me, personally and offensively. Therefore, though it is not in my nature, I am compelled to respond appropriately. Unlike the TEA, however, I shall confine myself to hard, verifiable facts.
My philosophy
My philosophy has always been, not to be the Biggest but the Best. The 3% of the national export volume which Dilmah represents is exported at an average FOB value in excess of three times the national average. Dilmah is the exclusive serving brand in some of the best international airlines and in the most prestigious hotels around the world. That is the value of the  Pure Ceylon Tea quality proposition and an accurate reflection of the quality of my purchases. The Dilmah operation enables research and development of innovative products and international advertising and promotion; the latter alone costs over LKRs. One Billion annually, promoting Pure Ceylon Tea across the globe, to the advantage of other exporters who wish to benefit from that image in their marketing.
The Dilmah research and innovation initiative has introduced a totally new culture to tea marketing, through the Dilmah t-Lounges, which market food and pairs it with drinks based entirely on Ceylon Tea, a ground-breaking concept since adopted by other global brands, the latest being Tata with their Chai Cafes. It is an example of a global trader duplicating the Dilmah strategy but without the passion for  Pure Ceylon Tea, which is the Dilmah motive force.
My business also enables me to provide a service to marginalized groups, wildlife, ecosystems and communities across Sri Lanka. These programmes are supported entirely on group earnings, through the initiatives of the MJF Charitable Foundation and Dilmah Conservation.
Over the years my philosophy of being the Best as against the Biggest, has produced unique benefits to my shareholders. An initial investment of Rs.10,000 in my listed company has, today, grown to Rs. 11 million, of a net worth of around Rs 18 million with dividend earnings. These are values created on the back of Pure Ceylon Tea.
..And the converse
HVA Foods, one of the strongest proponents of the liberalization concept, ended both 2015 and 2016 with operational losses whilst its 2017 share value has vacillated between Rs 9.50 and Rs. 3.80. Compared with the results of my company, the latter figures should educate the reader as to the more successful course to follow, for a Sri Lankan tea exporter. Further elaboration is unnecessary as the statistics speak for themselves.
The TEA has also made a snide reference to ..political support to get a large part of the tea promotional budget to build their own brands. In a previous writing, Dilmah and its Initial Struggle, in the 14th October 2007 edition of a Sunday newspaper, I have comprehensively debunked this ridiculous canard. That article presents fact and reality as against rumour and innuendo. Suffice it to say that, had the then Sri Lanka Tea Board given me the generous and unstinted support they extended to every foreign brand, the Dilmah position would be even stronger today.
Support for liberalization
I have countered the TEA proposal for importation with verifiable facts and figures, which support my claim for the primacy of  Pure Ceylon Tea. A paradigm shift in the industry trajectory cannot be permitted on the basis of extravagant statements of possible benefits. The TEA has yet to support its claim for the massive financial and other tangential benefits of importation, with a single, financially verifiable equation. In its latest writing, the TEA claims that the call for liberalization was supported by a majority of the exporters it represents but deliberately omits to specify that majority, statistically.
The truth is that Sri Lankas largest tea exporters, such as Akbar Brothers, Stassens Exports, and Jafferjee Brothers who, along with Dilmah, collectively account for the greater proportion of value added tea exported from Sri Lanka, do not subscribe to the call for liberalization. What is more relevant is that the so-called majority of exporters, is still a small minority in relation to the totality of the industry stakeholders who would be adversely affected by liberalization. The major players in the value added tea business are opposed to the liberalization proposal in view of the possible adverse consequences to the industry AND the national economy.
It is agreed that importation was permitted up to 1981. However, it was subsequently withdrawn when the then Minister of Plantations,on a visit to Egypt with a trade delegation, ascertained for himself that exporters had been blending cheap Chinese tea with Ceylon Tea, to reduce the blend cost and exporting as Ceylon tea, providing the Egyptian market with a very low quality product whilst totally devaluing the image of Ceylon Tea. That is an accurate pointer to the possible outcomes from liberalization of imports.
Importation of speciality tea
There is no argument against the limited liberalization available for the serious exporter, for the importation of specialty tea such as Darjeelings and select Assams, and other non-traditional varieties not produced in the country. They are used by genuine marketers as a strategy to widen their range of offerings for supermarket buyers. Such teas are invariably more costly on an average than Ceylon tea and the government permits imports without restriction. As the TEA itself has pointed out, the annual volume of such imports amounts to approximately 5 million kg, equivalent to less than 2% of the national black tea production, a quantity that has no impact on the local industry. If the global demand for such tea increases, there is absolutely no barrier to proportionately increasing the quantities to be imported for blending and re-export.
In the same breath, identifying the high cost of Ceylon tea as a barrier to servicing international markets, the TEA suggests that the opponents of liberalization assume - wrongly - that liberalization means the importation of cheap tea. If the TEA is actually calling for importation of speciality tea varieties which are more costly than the local product, then the facility for the importation of such tea already exists. In that case what, specifically, is the TEA driving at
Current position
The TEA says some companies always talk of cheap teas when the subject of liberalization of tea imports comes up.. It is a very valid apprehension. Our 2016 national NSA was Rs 468.61 and to end October 2017 it is Rs. 617.22, whilst the national export average for all varieties in 2016 was Rs. 639.88. Would the TEA confirm, beyond doubt, with clearly defined numbers and projections, how the liberalization would improve those statistics, bearing in mind that a devaluing of the current positions through importation would be detrimental to the Sri Lankan tea industry economy in its totality. For example, a 75% component of cheap, imported tea in a blend - which would require a sizable foreign exchange outgoing - would have its value enhanced by the Ceylon tea component, whilst the value of the Ceylon tea itself would diminish. The cheap blend would then be marketed as Packed in Ceylon and, in the eyes of the consumer, perceived as genuine Ceylon tea. Historically, that has been the strategy of the TRADER, the promotion of a brand on the quality image of Ceylon Tea and then gradually reducing the latter component, thus exploiting the local farmer and deluding the customer; that is exactly what the TEA is driving at and, clearly, why the TEA is seeking to delink itself from the rest of the industry.
In actual fact, foreign exchange earnings from Ceylon tea will drop below present levels as every kilo of imported tea will devalue Ceylon tea.
The comment by the TEA .most international brands reduce the Ceylon tea component in their blends due to the high prices which would be detrimental to the local tea industry is a clear pointer to their agenda. How can a high price paid for Ceylon tea be detrimental to the countrys tea industry
Notwithstanding all the other arguments that the TEA has offered in defence of its call for liberalization, it eventually circles back to this issue- the high price of Ceylon Tea- and their obvious need to devalue it so that it will fit in comfortably with their cheaper blend proposals, thus ensuring the survival of the TRADER.
Ceylon Tea in the global market
The TEA argues, irrationally, that the diminution of the Ceylon Tea component in the global market can be countered by a liberalization process. The proportionate decline of the Ceylon tea volume in the international market corresponds with increased exports from other traditional producer countries, and from new entrants to tea production. However, those factors have not had a depressive effect on the national auction average, or the national FOB, of which the benefits flow back to the producer and the many millions of its dependents. Since 95% of what we produce is exported, the only means of increasing our share in the global market is to increase plantation production.
If the TEA proposal for importation, blending and re-export is permitted, the global price average is bound to decline with the injection of cheaper blends into the market, unless there is a corresponding increase in the global consumption of tea.
Stagnant production is a completely different problem and cannot be resolved by liberalizing imports. If our global market share is improved through increased production, our production costs will decline and prices will stabilize. That is the only sustainable means of growing our foreign exchange earnings.One of the immediate impacts of blending with cheap varieties at source of production would be to further dilute the image of Ceylon tea and exacerbate an existing situation. In the tea export trade, there are two obvious ways of competing: either make the product cheaper or make it more exclusive. Which is the route that the TEA proposes to take The exporter comes in two forms, the timid, unimaginative supplier and the bold, innovative marketer; in the context of meeting competition internationally and promoting a national product, which is more preferable
The TEA constantly cites this mythical target of USD 5 Billion in annual export earnings as a certain outcome of liberalization. Currently, we earn USD 1.5 Billion by exporting 300 million kg annually. Assuming that the current national export average will remain steady even with massive imports, does the TEA propose to eventually import a quantity more than double the local production in order to arrive at this grand target
What is a Hub
I understand, perfectly, the nature of the Tea Hub, proposed by the TEA. However, establishing Sri Lanka as a hub for logistics, financial services, tourism and IT cannot be equated with the concept of a Tea Hub, supported by the importation of cheap tea. The former involve the improved provision of services, infrastructure and knowledge and does not envisage the importation of a home-grown agricultural product. For example, would the major wine-growing countries permit the importation of spirits from other countries for establishing a  Wine-Hub in the home country When Chile and Australia entered the wine market with cheaper, more competitively priced products, French wine producers simply improved the image of their product and made it more exclusive. UK distillers of Scotch Whisky followed the same route, when challenged by new Asian entrants to the Whisky market. Neither of those countries considered establishing blending hubs in order to compete at the low end of the market.
The old adage of bringing coal to Newcastle" seems appropriate at this point. As for Dubai becoming a tea hub, there was always an overpowering logic in its choice; Dubai is in a centrally located country which does not grow tea, within its borders. If the Hub proponents wish to purchase cheap tea for blending, they should seek incentives to enable themselves to re-locate to Dubai - or any other appropriate destination-, though I am certain that they will not do so, for the simple reason that they need the Packed in Ceylon label, which to unsuspecting consumers means Ceylon Tea.
Untenable arguments
65% of the  Ceylon Tea which is exported in bulk form is blended outside the country. The TEA suggests, vaguely and hopefully, but with no great conviction, that with a local Tea Hub, ..international tea brands that hardly use Ceylon tea in their blends now may start using more Ceylon tea in their blends. The TEA has frequently spoken glibly, and confidently, of the benefits from liberalization that would accrue to the packer, the freight forwarder, the shipper, the banker and the printer but is absolutely silent on the possible benefits to the producer sector and its dependents. My concern is for the industry in its totality and not the ancillary service providers. Multi-national packers who would like to use Sri Lanka as a centre for their operations using cheap, imported teas in their blends would only be doing themselves a favour, and not the country. Value addition, branding and marketing are weak features of our exports and a blending hub with imported tea would only worsen that situation.
The TEA speaks of the shift from the consumption of loose tea to tea bags, even in traditional markets. But what is the market share in weight that we have lost as a result Once again I will point out that despite the TEA argument that international brands have reduced the component of Ceylon tea in their blends, our auction average is the worlds highest by a considerable margin. We have not been compelled to dump our tea. In fact, from the standpoint of a globally active marketer of  Pure Ceylon Tea, I would advise that the top end of the market is now gradually moving towards leaf tea. Again an unpleasant reality is that in some key foreign markets such as Russia, Sri Lankas exporters helped local brands to establish themselves on the strength of Ceylon tea.The result is that they have now become our biggest competitors in key markets.
The TEA claims, that it is"fully aware that, tea industry consists of a number of stakeholders and its strong impact on the social and economic aspects of the country, and that ..it has organized workshops and had meetings with other stakeholders to discuss the liberalization of imports". Has the TEA ever presented the proposal on importation to representatives of the 400,000 smallholder producers, worker representatives of the 1,000,000 plus residents of the plantations or even the plantation Trade Unions The seminars conducted appear to be seemingly one-sided to already biased audiences.
Value of Single Origin
Unarguably, Single Origin" is a niche product, which the cheap brands dominate. That is exactly my point, that converting Sri Lanka to a Tea Hub by importing and blending cheap tea, would be to sacrifice the entire tea industry of Sri Lanka to the principle of mass-marketing of discounted, characterless, multi-origin products, instead of leveraging the advantages of Pure Ceylon Tea with its great variety of appearance, liquoring properties and multi-regional distribution within the country.To subordinate all it stands for to a cheap, blended, homogenous product would be to dilute our most unique selling point.
There are now a number of exporters who are contributing to the branding of Pure Ceylon tea globally, with highly focused marketing thrusts. Liberalization would marginalize all such exporters who, in actual fact, should be encouraged to expand their businesses on the same premise. The need of the hour are not TRADERS but MARKETERS, who can sell the image of Pure Ceylon Tea, on the strength of its intrinsic value.There are suppliers and marketers and I belong in the latter category.
The exporter is secondary
I made the statement that the export sector is not the most important segment of the industry,with intent; and I reiterate it although an exporter myself. It is in acknowledgement of the millions whose daily toil brings the product to the market; it is in awareness of the exploitative nature of multinational initiatives operating in third world countries, all over the globe in the name of profit alone. In all the numerous arguments that the TEA has offered in support of its proposal, the TEA has studiously ignored the major segment of the industry.
The importance of an enterprise, particularly in a developing country like Sri Lanka, with a largely rural economy, lies in the number of people it sustains. In that context, the fraction at the export end becomes insignificant when weighed against the millions in the producer segment. No government would support a far-reaching revision in an industry policy that would have the potential to impact on the livelihood of such a large proportion of the population.
Answer my questions
At a Tea Council meeting held in 2012 I challenged the liberalization lobby with six questions, in regard to their purpose. To this day those questions remain unanswered.
The TEAs defence of their request to isolate themselves from the rest of the industry, is to cite, as examples, the Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association and The Federation of Small Holder Tea Growers. The fact is that those bodies were formed to meet new developments in the industry which emerged only a couple of decades ago, whilst the CTTA, in my firm view, has always been more than adequate to represent the industry.
As for the call by the TEA for a public debate on the liberalization proposal, I would welcome the opportunity.
==============================
## Title: Abans audio launches LG X-Boom lineup in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Abans audio launches LG X-Boom lineup in Sri Lanka
Abans Audio, the audiovisual arm of Abans, recently released the new progressive range of LG X-Boom hi-fi and home theatre systems for the first time ever in Sri Lanka.
The lineup represents LGs ground-breaking evolution in sound technology as well as its commitment towards offering a total entertainment solution that can make any moment a party. The full range will comprise of seven models of differing sizes, formats and designs, making LG X-Boom the ideal choice for todays generation.
The most distinct characteristics of the LG X-Boom series include its loud but dynamic sound-quality and responsive settings, which work together to create the perfect music environment for all types of parties or gatherings.
Unlike other brands that produce shrill sound as you increase the volume, LG X-Boom audio systems retain the clarity and harmony of your sound whilst delivering powerful, room-filling music.
This is evidenced by the products ability to pump out flawless bass with well-defined mid and treble frequencies, and stunningly clear vocals at any volume setting. The LG X-Boom range also enhances the tone of music that feature electronic/EDM beats, making your sound truly pleasurable to dance and listen to all throughout the night.
In addition, all LG X-Boom systems are equipped with DJ effects that make you feel like you are listening to a DJ. The Auto DJ feature also lets you play your music on an endless loop, similar to a DJ in a nightclub. Other specifications include two USB inputs, two mike jacks, and an auxiliary input through which you could connect audio sources.
Beware of purchasing LG audio systems from dealers who are not LG-certified. Such products can either be unauthorized fakes or LG merchandise that have been illegally imported from other countries.
This impedes your overall audio experience since non-authorized LG products are often not acclimatized to Sri Lankan weather and technological conditions. Plus, these products are not customized to local audio preferences.
Choose to purchase genuine LG lifestyle audio systems from Abans Audio, the exclusive authorized distributor and importer of LG in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: AGs Department requests Appeals Court to take up delimitation petition on Nov. 30
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 16:58
AGs Department requests Appeals Court to take up delimitation petition on Nov. 30

The Attorney Generals Department has filed a motion at the Appeal Court to take up the petition filed against the Delimitation Gazette Notification on November 30.
The Court of Appeal last Wednesday issued an Interim Order suspending the operation of the Gazette Notification dated February 17, 2017 on the Delimitation Committee Report, untilDecember 4.
The Court made this order consequent to a writ petition filed by six electors who challenged the legality of the Gazette Notification issued by Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government on the Delimitation Committee Report with regard to the boundaries in respect of Local Authorities.
==============================
## Title: Akuressa Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman rape case fixed for trial
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 16:17
Akuressa Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman rape case fixed for trial

A case filed against former Akuressa Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman Saruwa Liyanage Sunil who was indicted for raping an underage girl at his own guesthouse in 2012 was fixed fortomorrow.
Colombo High Court Judge Sampath Wijeratne made this order, when the case against former Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman was taken up for trial.
The Attorney General indicted Saruwa Liyanage Sunil party for sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl on or around 23 May, 2012 to July 2, 2012.
The Woman and Child Protection Bureau of Matara Police conducted the preliminary investigation and took the accused into custody following his surrender over the crime.
According to investigation the accused had raped the minor keeping her at his own rest house for two days.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (27-11-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (27-11-2017)]
A.M.A. Azeez
An iconic nation builder
A.M.A. Azeez was born on October 4, 1911, to a traditional elite family of Vannarpannai in Jaffna. He had his childhood and entire schooling in Jaffna. He attended leading Hindu schools and was a brilliant student. He passed away on November 24, 1973.
The legacy of Dr. Azeez, I sometimes think, is like an iceberg. What is visible is miniscule and the profound part is just submerged in history, which has to be carefully extricated through time-consuming and methodical research. Quite often, when we revisit the life and times of Dr. Azeez, we remind ourselves of the mature and astute political leadership he practised as a senator, his profound contribution for the advancement of the education of Muslims and the active role he played in the upliftment and reform process of Muslim society. Overreaching all these achievements, is his distinction of being the first Muslim to be recruited to the very prestigious Ceylon Civil Service of the bygone era.
His Senate and other speeches are erudite and have all the hallmarks of a visionary, a true statesman and a patriot. The mere reading of what he said in his speeches and writings are an inspiration to its readers, with his forward looking thoughts that transcend time. His contribution in the field of Muslim education is there for all to see even today. The grandeur and splendour of Zahira College and the Ceylon Muslim Scholarship Fund that he founded, continue to invigorate generations of Muslim youth to forge ahead in life and strengthen their role in Sri Lankan society. The YMMA movement he founded has energized the aspirations of many Muslim youth island-wide, and this has over the years helped young Muslim men to play an honourable and dignified role in society.
There is another more profound facet to Dr. Azeezs legacy which is quite often forgotten by many people. This is his outstanding achievement in introducing major agrarian reform in the Eastern Province, which has resulted over the years, in the Ampara district being elevated to the rank of a major rice bowl of Sri Lanka. As the architect of this groundbreaking reform, he virtually opened the flood gates for economic prosperity of the people in the region where large numbers of Muslims live.
I was a student at Zahira College during the stewardship of Dr. Azeez. As he was my principal, I had the rare opportunity of getting to know first hand the fine qualities of this refined gentleman. During my student days I also learned a lot about Dr. Azeezs other accomplishments. I also moved very closely with Ali, the eldest son of Dr. Azeez. Ali has been my dear and close friend for over fifty years starting from our university days. Despite all my close links with the Azeez family, I was never alerted to the role Dr. Azeez played in the economic uplifting of Muslims in the Eastern Province.
I discovered this quite accidentally when I was given a part time teaching assignment at the South Eastern University at Oluvil. Oluvil is 400 kilometers from Mount Lavinia where I live, and my long journey by car usually took about 8 to 10 hours. The tail end of my travel was through predominantly Muslim areas like Maruthamunai, Kalmunai, Sainthamaruthu, Sammanthurai, Nintavur, Oluvil and beyond that Addalachenai, Akkaraipattu and Pottuvil. As I entered Maruthamunai, I would always see the glorious sight of vast, in fact very vast, expanses of paddy fields stretching from the main Pottuvil road up to and beyond the horizon. This carpet of verdant green paddy fields encircle the predominantly Muslim areas, bringing enormous prosperity to the people of the region.
These vast paddy lands extending over 100,000 hectacres, irrigated by the plentiful waters of Senanayake Samudra at Inginiyagala, Ampara, has transformed the Ampara district into a granary of the Eastern Province. These lands are owned almost entirely by Muslims and large-scale paddy production has been the source of financial empowerment of this Muslim community. Whenever we reflect on matters concerning food security of the nation, we must remember with gratitude the remarkable contribution made by these people, who year after year have helped to feed the nation and eradicate famine and extreme poverty from our country. In the process, these people have also improved their economic status. The Muslims of this area enjoy robust and strong cash flows and the prosperity they enjoy is externally very visible. Home and motor car ownership, is very broad based, the ubiquitous motorcycle has invaded the precincts of nearly every household in the region and people generally enjoy a very high quality of life .
Several good schools in the region have sent large numbers of students to universities and the Ampara district continues to produce significant numbers of professionals including engineers, university lecturers, accountants, administrative officers, doctors, teachers, erudite ulemas and an army of highly entrepreneur businessmen.
This road to prosperity obviously has been the result of the dedication, tenacity and sweat of these hardworking people. At the very early stages of this agrarian revolution there was also an important catalyst who planned, energized and put together the vital ingredients of development. The role of this catalyst is what many of us have forgotten. My contemporary at school and at university, the Late S.H.M. Jameel has highlighted in his excellent and well researched article in 2007 titled Contribution to Eastern Development 65 years ago, this catalyst of change, who was none other than the illustrious Dr. A.M.A. Azeez.
My journey to Oluvil was always through Habarana, Polonnaruwa and Batticaloa. As I took the turn at Habarana on to Polonnaruwa road, I entered the majestic Habarana jungle stretch, which led me to Minneriya. I then go past the Minneriya reservoir which nestles like a mini ocean in the midst of virgin jungle. It is surrounded by thousands of acres of fertile paddy fields producing vast quantities of rice to feed the nation. I then drive past Giritale and Parakrama Samudra reservoirs which irrigate vast extents of paddy lands. This region has been energized to become a major granary of the North Central Province.
Around the same time when Dr. Azeez was assigned the task of accelerating food production in the Eastern Province, D.S. Senanayake picked another eminent civil servant, C.P. De Silva and assigned him the similar task of increasing paddy cultivation in the Polonnaruwa district. Incidentally, Dr. Azeez and C.P. De Silva sat and passed the tough Civil Service exam together. Dr. Azeez was placed second in the merit list with C.P. De.Silva being ranked eighth.
C.P. De.Silva restored the ancient glory of the Polonnaruwa district by renovating the ancient tanks, rehabilitating irrigation channels and bringing thousands of acres of neglected jungle land under the plough for paddy cultivation. During the immediate post war years, the rich harvest from these vast paddy lands was like God given mercy, with food shortages being slowly relegated to the backwoods.
The people of the region benefited immensely from this new agricultural reawakening and profuse material prosperity came to them like in tidal waves. The grateful Sinhala people of Minneriya never forgot their benefactor C.P. De Silva. His name still reverberates in local folklore and he is reverently referred to even today as the Minnery Deviyo the Deity of Minneriya.
When the Gal Oya scheme was completed, Senanayake picked another Civil Servant of the same batch, K. Kanagasundram (ranked first), as the first Chairman in 1952. He did a splendid job. The others in the batch, H. Jinadasa (ranked third) and M. Rajendra (ranked sixth), attained the highest posts before retirement. Some of the post CCS administrators say that the Civil Servants of yore were revenue collectors and did not contribute to development. This is not so looking at the above CCS batch of 1934.
Apart from agriculture, Dr. Azeez established institutions for the educationally backward Muslims in the district, encouraged by Poet Abdul Cader Lebbe and Swami Vipulananda.
God made some humans with major structural flaws, forgetfulness, and no gratitude. The good that people do is either trivialized or quite often forgotten.
This is the fate that has befallen Dr. A.M.A. Azeezs legacy in the Ampara district. Dr. Azeezs name is now unsung and unheard of in the predominantly Muslim areas of the Ampara district. Recorded history will perhaps be the only silent sentinel of the achievements of this fine gentleman, educationist, thoroughbred professional administrator and an iconic nation builder.
The Tamil poet Subramania Bharathi has stated that a community that fails to honour its heroes tends to lose its capacity to nurture heroes in its midst.
A.I. Marikar
Dr. Sarath Abeyakoon
He was a loving uncle
I would pace the corridor impatiently as I waited for you to come home; to hear your car turn in at the metal gates, to run and open the garage door for you to drive in. I would have been three, four, five, and six years at the timeI am now 37. I can still feel that sheer joy and excitement I felt as you came home, the familiar hospital smell as you get down from the car with your newspaper and stethoscope. It feels like it was yesterday. To be honest, that pure childhood joy of spending time with you, maama, never faded, but only matured as I grew older.
Just last month, when we visited Sri Lanka, whenever our doorbell rang, there was always a leap of happiness that it may be you at the gate. With all your work, you never disappointed or failed to spend time with us. To me, you were a parental refuge of happiness, peace, kindness, and comfort. It seems impossible for me to explain it in words, but to describe inadequately; you always seemed to have a special aura of loving kindness that managed to lift my spirits simply by being there, whether at home, over the phone or during numerous tests when you have been by my side, even while I was losing consciousness.
Maama, you were a second father to me. I feel incredibly privileged to have not one, but two of the most amazing, kind and selfless fathers along with the most amazing, kind and selfless motheryour Akka, who doted on you and whom you doted on and took care of so devotedly. You were the best Malli she could ever wish for, and through her, you were my precious maama. People who know me may remember that I regularly cite The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins. Dawkins theorises genetically why your mothers brother is exceptionally close to you. To me, this seemed to be a scientific explanation of the exceptional bond I feel with you. I remember amma saying how angry I used to get as a child if she ever told you off, even though I later realised it was always only a bit of sibling adviceboth of you never bickered or fought, ever. Thank you for teaching me the value of family. To this day, this is still how I feel about you; I cannot bear the thought of you being hurt or pained in the slightest way.
Your bond with me didnt stop there. My husband was like a son to you and my son, like a grandson, and the feelings were reciprocated. You were so worried about my sons hearing and even from afar, managed to be a key part of making him better. He regularly remembers you, often saying, Am I a good person like Sarath seeya Am I a mini Sarath seeya I will of course encourage him to keep looking up to you as a role model. You are a role model to all of us though aspiring to be like you is beyond my capabilities. If I could be one-millionth of the person you were, it would be a massive achievement.
To this day I do not understand how you managed to have time for everyone, although I know that this was often by giving up your own needs. You never forgot a birthday and yours was always the first birthday card we received. You even took the time to write new year cards. You planned so much ahead that you, Luckshmi nanda, and Chathuri managed to give my little boy his birthday present when you saw him, even though his birthday was months ahead, and now you, are not even here to be a part of his big day. I, on the other hand, am ashamed to say that I still have a birthday card that I wrote to you, but never got round to posting. You faithfully called or messaged regularly, however busy you were, even though I am many thousands of miles away. Not once in my whole life have you ever not had the time for us. But it looks like you have always had time for everyone. How did you do it
Thousands of people have shared their personal stories of what an exceptional person you were professionally, as a colleague, and as a friend, and how many thousands of lives you have touched. Although I knew that, even if a single word hadnt been said, I could not be any prouderI just could not feel prouder. How honoured I am to have been your niece. The last few weeks have been the hardest Ive ever been throughI hadnt felt the meaning of a part of me is missing until then. Whilst I sought answers in the teachings of the Buddha over the last few weeks, I suddenly came to a realisation; you understood the Four Noble Truths so well. Suffering, the cause of suffering, cessation of suffering, and the path to the end of sufferingyou must have experienced and explained this day in and day out in your own special way with loving kindness (metta), compassion (karuna), sympathetic joy (muditha) and equanimity (upekkha).
The words of your patients and their families are testimony to how exceptionally well you did this. You have taught me so much about whats important in lifenot through words, but just from the way you lived. I hope that I have enough wisdom to keep this at the forefront of my mind for the rest of my life and remember to live as you did. Luckshmi nanda and Chathuri, I am sure you take comfort in this knowledge as well.
I could write on for several books and never be able to scratch the surface of what you meant to me, to us, to everyone who has had the good fortune of knowing you. However a picture speaks a thousand words and your loving kindness, compassion, joy, and equanimity continues to shine in every picture of you as if you were in the room. Maama, that seems to be a little bit of magic that you have left behind.
Maama, you know that I usually do not express my feelings so freely and publishing this has been very difficult. However, you often pushed boundaries for others and I feel that I owe it to you.
The void you have left in our lives can never be filled, but I know that with all the merit you have gained, you will be reborn to an exceptionally good life and that your path to Nirvana will be a short one. Dear maama, may you attain the supreme bliss of Nirvana.
With much love from you ever loving,
S. duwa
Josephine Kumarasingham
A dedicated dramatist
Josephine Manoranjini Kumarasingham was called to rest by her maker on November 12, 2017. She was born to Navaratnam and Thayamani in Jaffna on October 5, 1953.
Mano was educated at Vembadi Girls High School, Jaffna. She married Williams Arulnayagam Kumarasingham on May 28, 1980, and had two children; Rathieshan and Wishanka. She was an active member of the Vembadi PPA, Colombo branch, and being a dramatist, took part in all the activities of the PPA. Villu Pattu was her favourite item to entertain her schoolmates at Vembadi functions. Being a member of the Vembadi-Jaffna Central Choir, she took part in the annual carol service every year.
Mano showed leadership in all church functions, bringing comfort to those in need. She had been a teacher at Leighton Park International School and then at Wycherley International School till her last. Teachers say mould a generation and Mano took pride in her teaching profession.
She is survived by her husband Kumar, children; Rathieshan, Wishanka; son-in-law, Jason; daughter-in-law, Azusa, and three grandchildren; Lucas, Ayden and Miu.
Mano has now gone to be with her Maker. May she rest in peace and rise in glory!
Dr. Premini Ariaratnam, Past President, Vembadi PPA
Dr. Nath Amarakone
He was an inspiration
Dr. Nath Amarakone had his early education at Nugawela Central College and later joined Ananda College, Colombo, for his secondary education. He was a bright student who received various prizes at every level including a gold medal from Ananda College.
His first degree was in engineering and after its completion, he was awarded a Commonwealth Scholarship and then continued his studies at Imperial College, London. After Working for a few years with renowned engineering establishments, he returned to Sri Lanka. He was then employed by State Engineering Corporation.
He was appointed as the Housing and Construction Ministry Secretary, where he introduced innovative ideas for housing. It was at this stage that he felt professional knowledge in various fields had not been exploited and to elevate professionals roles, he embarked on programmes to promote professionalism in the country. It was at this stage that he requested a professional association to come together.
He initiated the Organisation of Professional Associations of Sri Lanka. Dr. Amarakone met various top-ranking members of the Commonwealth Foundation and convinced them to provide a sizeable grant for the construction of the Professional Centre and also met government ministers and officials to discuss about the benefits to be gained from that programme.
The government allocated around 1 hectare of land in a prime location in Colombo. Dr. Amarakone was also the architect who erected the Buddha statue opposite the BMICH, which was put up within 23 days and was ready when the nonaligned conference was held at the BMICH.
He had a keen interest in upgrading the skills of others, not only of the work force, but also of the middle-grade employees, and he had a conducted various programmes to achieve this objective at his Sanathana Foundation Complex in Maharagama.
He was involved in various social and religious service activities.
Dr. Nath Amarakoon has left us leaving behind a vast legacy for those who will follow him. May he attain the supreme bliss of Nibbana!
Organisation of Professional Associations
==============================
## Title: Attorney General to study delimitation gazette
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:04
Attorney General to study delimitation gazette
Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya PC yesterday appointed a three member committee comprising Senior State Counsel to look into all legal aspects pertaining to the Delimitation Gazette Notification.
The Gazette Notification was issued by the Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister on the Delimitation Committee Report with regard to the boundaries in respect of Local Authorities.
The Court of Appeal last Wednesday issued an Interim Order suspending the operation of the Gazette Notification dated February 17, 2017 on the Delimitation Committee Report, until December 4.
The Court made this order consequent to a writ petition filed by six electors who challenged the legality of the Gazette Notification issued by Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government on the Delimitation Committee Report with regard to the boundaries in respect of Local Authorities.
The Attorney General told the Daily News that one of the senior counsel looking into the issue was involved in handling matters relating to the writ petition and two others handling local government laws and regulations.
The Attorney General went on to say that he had appointed the three member committee since the Attorney Generals Department is an intervening party to the writ petition filed in the Appeal Court against the local government elections delimitation gazette.
Last Friday, the Attorney General had reportedly agreed to submit a motion today (Monday) requesting to advance the hearing of the petition before the Court of Appeal to November 30, without waiting till December 4. The Attorney General had reportedly said that he would submit a motion on Monday at a special Party Leaders Meeting held in Parliament on Friday.
The meeting took place at the Speakers Office soon after Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe arrived in Parliament after his visit to India. Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya too attended.
Last Wednesday the Court of Appeal three-judge-Bench comprising Justice L.T.B. Dehideniya, Justice Kumuduni Wickremasinghe and Justice Shiran Gunaratne observed that in promulgating the Gazette Notification, the Minister of Local Government has acted ultra vires the powers vested in him under section 3D of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.
The Court further held that if any electoral process commenced in terms of the concerned gazette notification, irreparable damage would be caused to the peoples franchise rights. The Court also issued notices on the respondents to appear in Court on December 4.
Meanwhile, the Elections Commission on Saturday decided to announce nominations dates, for the conduct of elections for 93 Local Government bodies with no legal obstacles. The district returning officers will issue notice calling for nominations for 93 undisputed local government bodies on Monday, the Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya had said, following a meeting attended by all commission members.
Deshapriya on Saturday had said, the Appeal Court stayed the gazette notice issued by the Minister in February. It refers to only 203 LG bodies of the 336 (announced by the President).
Deshapriya had added, the stay order had no bearing on 133 LG bodies. There were typos in the gazette in relation to 40 LG bodies. Before the elections can be held, these mistakes need to be amended.
But we did not want to further delay the polls, therefore, we decided to issue the notice of intent to hold elections for the 93 LG bodies on schedule, he said.
==============================
## Title: Central Bank resolves four insolvent financial institutions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Central Bank resolves four insolvent financial institutions
As announced to the public on 10.10.2016, the Monetary Board at its meeting held on 14.10.2016 considered resolution issues pertaining to a number of non-bank financial institutions in the context of relevant legal provisions in the interest of protecting the public trust in the financial system.
Accordingly, the Monetary Board approved a resolution mechanism for repayment of depositors of three finance companies and legitimate investors in government securities-linked investments in Entrust Securities PLC.
The three finance companies are The Standard Credit Finance Ltd., City Finance Corporation Ltd. and Central Investments and Finance PLC. All three companies got into a chronic financial position in 2008 and 2009 due to fraud and mismanagement of funds and, therefore, these companies did not have assets to pay off deposits.
All restructuring efforts made by the Central Bank, from time to time, could not produce envisaged results as those who managed these companies failed to arrange an infusion of new capital.
As a result, these companies became insolvent and were out of business since then. The Entrust Securities PLC, a company with a primary dealer license to trade government securities, got into a chronic liquidity and insolvency crisis during latter part of 2015 as a result of fraudulent use of funds placed by customers for investment in government securities. The Central Bank on January 4, 2016 suspended the Board of Directors of the Entrust and vested its operations in the National Saving Bank to protect the investors.
The Monetary Board reviewed the lack of progress so far and took cognizance of the fact that there was no further room to revive these companies to enable them to repay depositors and investors in the foreseeable future. Given the long-delay involved so far, the Monetary Board approved the company resolution plans submitted by the Department of Supervision of Non-banking Financial Institutions to repay deposits and investments annually commencing from 2017 over a reasonable period of time with a fair interest rate during this repayment period.
In the case of the three finance companies, repayment will cover Rs. 4,868 mn of nearly 11,878 depositors.
In the case of the Entrust, investments secured with government securities amounting to Rs. 3,100 mn belonging to 107 investors will be settled in the coming weeks. In respect of unsecured investments in the Entrust amounting to Rs. 8,508 mn belonging to 24 individuals and entities, government securities will be allocated and be repaid under the repayment plan to be implemented with the managing support of the Seylan Bank PLC.
The Central Bank will complete the required administrative procedures and communicate details to all those depositors and investors. Once the repayment plan is legally finalized, those companies will be dealt with through applicable laws for liquidation.
The Monetary Board is of the view that this is the only option that now remains as there are no assets in these companies and no investors have been willing to revive these companies and repay above depositors and investors.
As part of the resolution plans, the Central Bank will set up a new Enforcement Division in the Department of Supervision of Non-bank Financial Institutions to institute legal action against Directors and managers who have been responsible for the fraud and misappropriation of funds and to make every effort to recover such funds from them.
In the case of the Entrust, the law enforcement authorities, in association with the Central Bank, have already initiated legal actions.
The Enforcement Division will also introduce a routine procedure to take legal action against parties who have committed similar fraudulent practices in existing companies, in the event such instances are detected by the examination staff.
Further, action will be taken to address lapses in the Central Bank and to strengthen regulatory and supervisory mechanisms on a priority basis to ensure the safety and soundness of existing institutions.
However, it is important to stress that the regulation and supervision do not mean a guarantee for each and every deposit and investment made by the public in banks and financial institutions. Those who make such deposits and investments and those who undertake businesses based on these funds are primarily responsible for their business decisions regarding prudent management of their funds. In fact, almost all funds placed in the above distressed companies have been mobilized through unauthorized financial products.
Even large depositors and investors have been negligent in not undertaking the normal due diligence on risks and return, despite being sufficiently knowledgeable and skillful to do so.
The responsibility of the Central Bank is only to provide an external safeguard through regulation and supervision to the extent permitted in law while facilitating institutions to carry on their businesses essential for the economy and general public in a safe and sound manner in a stable financial system.
Therefore, all those who are stakeholders to these resolution plans are kindly requested to co-operate with the Central Bank in order to end this long-standing issue in the public interest. In the event of non-cooperation, the Central Bank will have no option but to reluctantly permit these companies to be wound up under the law.
==============================
## Title: Cheques worth Rs.56.9 mn left in Kandy train
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Cheques worth Rs.56.9 mn left in Kandy train
The Kandy railway station security officers found a package containing cheques worth Rs.56.9 million left in an express train to Kandy from Colombo, last Saturday. The security officers handed over the package to the main security office at the Kandy railway station.
The cheques belonged to a private company in Boralesgamuwa.
The package was returned to an agent sent by the company following a verification. The security officers of the Kandy railway station conduct checks when a train arrives in Kandy. The package was found in a similar security check.
==============================
## Title: CICT invests over US$ 10 mn towards Green infrastructure
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
CICT invests over US$ 10 mn towards Green infrastructure
Colombo International Container Terminals (CICT) has completed a project to convert the companys diesel-operated rubber-tyred gantry cranes to electric-powered rubber-tyred gantry cranes or E-RTGs, making a major contribution to efforts by the Port of Colombo to go Green.
Costing more than US$ 10 million, the project has resulted in CICT deploying 40 zero-emission E-RTGs at the company-managed Colombo South container terminal, achieving a 45 per cent reduction in the terminals overall carbon dioxide emissions to the environment and a reduction of more than 95 per cent in diesel consumption.
Commenting on the E-RTG project, CICT CEO Ray Ren said, This initiative demonstrates CICTs as well as our parent company CMPorts commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the Port of Colombo and the maritime industry as a whole. We believe in leading from the front in the sphere of caring for the environment, even at a time when some stakeholders in the global industry are still said to be driven by costs rather than green ethics. This is just one of several environment-related CICT projects in the pipeline, and we intend to continue investing on initiatives to reduce emissions.
The electrification of CICTs rubber-tyred gantry cranes involved modification work of fitting electricity collector trolleys in the RTG cranes and constructing a Conductor bar system (Bus-Bar) in the terminal for the cranes to function with electricity. Recognised around the world as an innovative port technology, E-RTGs have been proven to deliver significant environmental, technological and financial benefits to terminals.
Their environmental benefits include reducing air and noise pollution; in economic terms they reducing operating and maintenance costs and in terms of technology represent an optimisation of productivity and performance.
From its inception in 2013, CICT took the first step towards addressing environmental concerns by specifying and installing state-of-the-art hybrid-diesel engines for the full fleet of rubber-tyred gantry cranes.

These engines had minimal impact on the emission of environment-impacting gases.
However, with the growing emphasis on addressing and reducing environmental damage on a continuous and sustainable basis in the maritime and port industry, CICT decided to make further significant capital investments in its contribution to reduce green-house gases.
In recognition of the importance of the E-RTG project, the ceremonial commissioning of the electrified gantry cranes was attended by several dignitaries including the Chairman of the SLPA Dr Parakrama Dissanayake, Vice Chairman Mr P. G. Dassanayake, Mr Ranjan Sibera, Director Investment Appraisal at the BOI, Mr Ananda Rajakaruna, Executive Director Imports at the BOI, Hang Tian, Chairman of CICT, and senior representatives of CICT, CMPort, Haiqin (the project consultant), and ZPMC International Group and ZPMC Lanka, the project constructor.
CICT, which commenced operations in July 2013, manages the Colombo South Terminal of the Port of Colombo, the first and currently the only deep water terminal in South Asia equipped with facilities to handle the largest vessels afloat. The commencement of CICTs operations is widely credited as the factor in the Port of Colombo achieving double digit growth in 2014 after a lapse of over ten years.
In just three years of operation, CICT has brought some of the largest vessels plying the Asia-Europe routes to Colombo. Of these, Milan Maersk (20,568 TEU), MSC Maya (19,224 TEU), Mogens Maersk (18,300 TEU), MSC New York (16,652 TEU), CMA CGM Marco Polo (16,020 TEU), Edith Maersk and EMC Thalassa Hellas (each 14,000 plus TEUs) and their sister vessels are now regular callers at CICT.

==============================
## Title: Commercial Bank opens  branch in Katana
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Commercial Bank opens  branch in Katana
The Commercial Bank of Ceylon has opened its 257th branch at Katana, further expanding its presence in the Gampaha District.
The fully-fledged branch located at Delgas Junction, Katana, is equipped with its own Automated Teller Machine (ATM), a Cash Recycler Machine (CRM) and a Cheque Deposit Machine, offering customers the convenience of 24-hour services.
The new branch was open by Sandra Walgama, Deputy General Manager Personal Banking at Commercial Bank.
The Commercial Bank is the only Sri Lankan bank to be ranked among the Top 1000 banks of the world for seven years consecutively, and operates a network 701 ATMs in Sri Lanka. The Bank has won more than 25 international and local awards in 2016 and 2017 and has over the years received multiple awards as Sri Lankas Best Bank, Best Trade Bank, Strongest Bank and Most Respected Bank from a number of local and international institutions and publications.

==============================
## Title: Conman who duped youth remanded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Conman who duped youth remanded
A suspect on the charge of running a bogus kachcheri, was remanded till November 30, by the Matara Chief Magistrate and Additional District Judge Uresha de Silva.
Police officers have found two fake driving licences, nine temporary driving licences, seven birth certificates, twenty eight licences and ten job applications in the raid.
Police said drivers who failed to legally obtain their driving licences,had been roped into this racket. Rs 60,000 had been charged from each of these men for a driving licence by this suspect. The suspect had disguised himself as a sales assistant of a reputed commercial firm.
The suspect aged 38, is a resident of Sultanagoda in Matara.
OIC Kotawila Police OIC Janaka Thushara led by crime branch OIC Jayathilake Bodhipakse carried out the raid on a tip-off.
==============================
## Title: Custom-built courage
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Custom-built courage
Sri Lanka Customs, one of the oldest Customs administrations in the world, has a history of more than 200 years. Customs and its operations currently come under Finance and Mass Media Ministry. This department which brings in a huge portion of Governments revenue is now headed by P S M Charles, the first ever woman to be the Director General of Customs. Prior to the appointment, Charles served as the Batticaloa Government Agent (GA).The appointment was made on the recommendation of the Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.
To make Sri Lanka Customs the place that delivers the best customs service in South Asia is the vision that she wants to achieve together with her supportive staff.
National efforts
Sixty percent revenue of the government is collected by the Customs. Its ordinance is more than 200 years old. The mission of Sri Lanka Customs is to dedicate to enforce revenue and social protection laws of the State while facilitating the trade with the objective of contributing to the national efforts at large. I am assisted by five Additional Director Generals and there are over 2000 employees working for the department to help me achieve this massive task, Charles said.
Collection of revenue, prevention of revenue leakages and other frauds, facilitation of legitimate trade, the collection of import and export data to provide statistics, cooperation and coordination with other Government departments and stakeholders in respect of imports and exports are some of the functions of the Customs Department. Sri Lanka Customs is a member of the World Customs Organisation which has a membership of 177 countries. We are aiming to improve the systems at the department, she added.
According to Charles, Sri Lanka is still lagging behind in some areas in trade facilitation. She said Customs is planning to implement Singapore Trade Concept to increase the revenue while protecting the nation. We are working to improve the services we provide to be on a par with globalisation that is taking place. We will benchmark a few countries and increase trade facilitation. We have to identify and address the areas that need to be developed and facilitate more international trade, she said.
She also pointed out that fighting against the circulation of drugs which is done using the path of transport and preventing any activity that involves terrorism are the main objectives of the departments social protection service.
Values and norms
Charles, a Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, has 26 years of service in the public sector. She previously served as the Additional GA and the GA of Vavuniya. Born in the beautiful coastal village Ilavalai, Jaffna, Charles is the only child in her family. Her father being a Police Officer and mother being the Deputy Principal of a Government school, she grew up witnessing the service her parents rendered to the needy people.
I was inspired mostly by my parents. My uncles were also in government service. This enkindled a passion in me to serve people. I grew up in a family that upholds values and norms. It shaped my life and today I have the opportunity to serve the people, Charles said.
This appointment opened up a new avenue for me. It is a very challenging job. I thank the President, Prime Minister, Finance and Mass Media Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers for placing their faith in me and handing over this greater responsibility. This is a male-dominated area. I am glad to be the first female to get this opportunity through which I can serve the country and its people. I am here because of the people around me. With this position they bestowed on me I will serve them back, she said.
Charles added that she enjoys her work at the department though each day brings a new set of challenges for her. My intention is to prove myself. Being a woman does not have to be a barrier to achieve top positions. Women in whatever position, whether in private or public sector, should not mix their family life with the career. Being a wife, mother, sister or a daughter is different. When you are a social worker working for a company or a department it is important to give priority to your responsibilities in office. At the same time, I think being a woman it is important to respect our culture and values without blindly following fashion and other trends in the society. Working genuinely and honestly for the people will one day reward you, she added.
Vavuniya, the richest district
She points out that although Sri Lanka is full of resources, the failure of the people to commit themselves to the nation has hindered the countrys development. When I was in Vavuniya, I handled a lot of responsibility. The experience gained in the government service laid a strong foundation for my career. I was in charge of the Menik farm during the conflict times, and I made arrangements of resettling around 300,000 internally displaced persons. I converted Vavuniya to the richest district declining poverty to 2.3 percent. When I took over the Batticaloa as its GA, the poverty level was at 20.4 percent. With several livelihood projects that I initiated poverty dropped down to 7.5 percent in 2016, Charles said.
Among many projects she commenced empowering women financially takes the lead. I invested a lot of money in livelihood development programmes especially for widows and woman-headed families. The youth leadership programmes were also given a prominent place. Even today the people of those districts talk to me with gratitude and it brings me immense joy to be a part of their accomplishment, Charles said.
Charles is a graduate of the University of Jaffna and has also obtained two Masters Degrees from the Universities of Peradeniya and Rajarata in the fields of Disaster Management and Business Administration. Like every other woman, Charles derives her strengths morally and physically from her family. Her husband, who serves as the Assistant Director of the Agriculture Department, her children and her mother supports and encourages her to handle her responsibilities efficiently and finally to achieve goals of the nation.
A woman educated or uneducated holds the family together. A woman has the capacity to make decisions for her family, protect the members and provide for them. If they are educated they have the ability to serve better the country and their community, she concluded.
==============================
## Title: Customs nabs Indian with gold items
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Customs nabs Indian with gold items
An Indian female (45) bound to Chennai by UL 127 at 12:30 hrs on November 11 carrying several gold pieces was intercepted by Airport Security personnel and handed over to the Customs. The gold pieces were hidden in her hand luggage.
Gold pieces of 114.28gms valued at LKR 628,540 were seized.
The suspect was released on a penalty of Rs. 10,000. The seized gold items were forfeited.
==============================
## Title: Cyberbullying   a threat to Lankas future generations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Cyberbullying   a threat to Lankas future generations
Cyberbullying has increased its spread rapidly in recent years, where it involves the use of cell phones, instant messaging, e-mail, chat rooms or social networking sites to harass threaten or intimidate someone.
Often carried out by children and teenagers who have increasingly early access to these technologies, the act of cyberbullying is carried out against individuals or groups of individuals, with a bullying motive, to intentionally harm the reputation of the victim or cause physical or mental harm, or loss, to the victim directly or indirectly, or with just the simple intention of teasing a friend using modern telecommunication networks.
A study conducted at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura revealed the inroads of cyberbullying among young university adults.
The study was designed to distinguish patterns of cyberbullying activities at the university level (1) in order to identify what causes bullying and determine how to deal with bullying acts.
Fifty-five students ages 20-25 from four Sri Lankan universities participated in the study. Results showed that approximately 90% of students had suffered from cyberbullying; almost all survey participants said they knew people who had been bullied online; 80% of cyberbullying offenses took place on social media with Facebook being the most common bullying site; the most prevalent bullying offence among university students was the posting of embarrassing videos or photos (65%); posting private information of victims on the web was second (15%) followed by spreading gossip or lies (9%) and posting insults (2%).
In light of this Etisalat Lanka has identified that this behaviour in cyberspace is turning into a social issue causing serious damage to future generations. During a recent forum held in Colombo, Etisalat called to attention the impact cyberbullying has on teenagers and young adults and how it could potentially be controlled.
The forum was moderated by Etisalat Lanka Director Customer Experience Romesh de Mel with the participating panelists: Sri Lanka Computer Emergency Readiness Team Co-ordination Centre (Sri Lanka CERT CC) CEO Lal Dias, Etisalat Lanka Director Marketing Yarthav Mathiaparanam and Amaya Suriyapperuma (Wonder Woman Cosplayer) deliberating over the issue.
Most social media platforms follow a very defensive method - report, block and inform. But that may never change the behaviour of the bully or offer consolation to the victim.
Many of the victims had experienced cyberbullying initially as teens.
The average age for first time cyberbullying victims was between 16 and 19 years. For many students, online bullying activities carried over into their university years. Most students reported being bullied from 1-3 times, after which they put measures in place to reduce the risk of being targeted, i.e., privacy settings, blocking trouble makers, etc. In extreme cases, there have been instances where the victim has committed suicide.
The psychological impact is so heavy that they go to the extreme of taking their own lives.
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank gets US$ 30 mn from BlueOrchard to support SME, micro-financing sectors
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
DFCC Bank gets US$ 30 mn from BlueOrchard to support SME, micro-financing sectors
DFCC Bank recently secured US$ 30 million in funding from BlueOrchard, a leading global impact investment manager, following an agreement signed between the management of both organizations.
The funds will be used to increase the levels of lending that the bank offers SMEs, whilst strengthening its micro-finance portfolio.
With a proven a track record of nurturing small businesses from their early stages, DFCC Bank takes pride in being one of the premier banking institutions in the country that promotes and supports the operations of small and medium enterprises.
The bank has also set up a special unit dedicated to Micro and Small Medium Enterprises (MSME) and endeavours to fulfil the unique requirements of these businesses by providing them with customized financial and banking solutions.
The recently obtained funds will be utilized to provide dedicated loans for small and medium enterprises and to enhance the banks micro financing solutions. The bank will also help these enterprises to overcome the challenges and risks that they may encounter in both local and hypercompetitive global business markets.
The loan facilities have been created with MSME needs and challenges in mind, and offer a wide range of options including loans for start-ups, for expansions or relocating machinery and operational activities, as well as for working capital.
Commenting on the banks success in securing the USD 30 million in funding Lakshman Silva, CEO, DFCC Bank said, We have recognized the immense potential and demand that small scale businesses have for dependable and structured loans, over informal lending which can prove troublesome for small business owners in the long-run.
We have always done our best to empower a multitude of grass root level enterprises, by providing them with a full-spectrum of tailor-made financial products and services that offer reliability and flexibility. By injecting USD 30 million over time, into our banking system, to support the needs of SMEs, we will be able to ensure that smaller enterprises across the entire island have greater access to loans and funding, and can reach their full growth potential with greater confidence and peace of mind. We also hope that uplifting local entrepreneurship and small-scale enterprises will enable us to align with and support national economic policies and contribute to the countrys long-term development and growth at large.
Kapila Nanayakkara, SVP, Treasury and Resource Mobilization, DFCC Bank said, Our team is pleased to have secured a line of credit from BlueOrchard, a leading global microfinance fund based in Luxembourg. This transaction was facilitated by the Banks Treasury and Resource Mobilization unit and the funding would enable DFCC Bank to further support the growth of small business segment across the country.
BlueOrchard is a leading impact investment manager that focuses on micro financing. Since its inception in 2001, the organization has been consistently committed to providing innovative financing solutions to financial intermediaries in emerging markets, and financial and social returns to investors.
By developing and offering attractive financing solutions to microfinance institutions and companies, BlueOrchard has been able to establish a strong presence in over 350 institutions across 70 countries.
TSW Capital Services served as an advising partner for the agreement and transaction between DFCC Bank and BlueOrchard. TSW Capital Services, renowned for its ability to deliver insightful analytics and provide trusted transaction advice, is a Mumbai based Indian financial advisory company.
The company shares an excellent affinity with a cross-section of financial enterprises across the world and provides advisory services primarily in South-Asian, and African markets.
==============================
## Title: Duminda Silva death sentence appeal fixed for support
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 14:25
Duminda Silva death sentence appeal fixed for support

The appeal petitions filed by five accused, including former Defence Ministry Monitoring MP Duminda Silva, challenging the judgment of Colombo High Court was fixed forMarch 29, 2018by Supreme Court, today.
Five accused, including former MP Duminda Silva, who was sentenced to death by the Colombo High Court for committing the murder of four persons - including former MP Bharatha Lakshman Premachandra.
The five had filed an appeal petitions in Supreme Court challenging the judgment of the Colombo High Court.
When the matter came up before the three-judge-bench comprising Chief Justice Priyasath Dep, Justice Buwaneka Aluvihare and Justice Vijith Malalgoda, the appeals were fixed for argument onMarch 29, 2018.
==============================
## Title: Ekroma Realtors  launches Elegant 16
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Ekroma Realtors  launches Elegant 16
A BOI approved real estate and development company, Ekroma Realtors, hopes to encourage a lifestyle that exudes style, elegance and comfort with their inaugural boutique-style residential apartment project, Elegant 16.
The show apartment will be declared open for public viewing on November 18, 2017 and provide potential buyers with a glimpse of the end result.
As of late, the real estate industry in the country has been booming and the quiet skyline that used to hover over Colombo City is no more. Even though luxury apartment complexes and properties are plenty, you are not likely to receive your moneys worth with each and every one of these properties.
Elegant 16 will redefine the range of luxury apartments in Colombo as the key project which will be designed according to a boutique apartment concept that will house apartment units that will offer maximum luxury within a limited amount of space.
The property will be comprised of sixteen apartment units that will either be two bedroom or three bedroom units and the building will comprise of facilities such as swimming pool, gym, function room, rooftop with recreational and BBQ area, jogging path, kids play area and many others.
Elegant 16 which is situated in Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5will be completed by next year and each unit will range between 900 to 2,000 square feet. Residents will be given a special opportunity to work with interior designers at Ekroma and personalize the space according to their needs. And now Ekroma is proud to showcase a mock apartment designed by the LifeStyles Home Store, by Softlogic which will definitely leave you spellbound.
At its inception, Ekroma partnered with Design Advocacy (Pvt) Ltd, spearheaded by the highly celebrated architect Piyal Silva to conceptualize this luxury boutique apartment project. The other key stakeholders in the project were D. P. Jayasinghe Piling who efficiently completed the piling project and N&A Engineering Services who is the main contractor.
The show apartment that will be opened to the viewing of the public on the 18th of November will pave way for the ultimate completion of the luxury project.
The mock apartment conceptualized and created by the team at LifeStyles Home Store which is a part of the Softlogic Group, will share a glimpse of the luxury amenities, quality fittings and high-end finishes that will be offered to the buyers through these apartment units.
More information could be obtained from www.ekromarealtors.com/elegant
==============================
## Title: Eleven more arrested
## Supertitle: Jaffna violence
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Jaffna violence
Eleven more arrested
Eleven more suspects allegedly involved in the recent violence in Jaffna were arrested by Point Pedro Police during a search operation in Point Pedro on November 25 morning.
After questioning them, five suspects were released and the rest were detained awaiting legal action.
==============================
## Title: FPS Alpha to represent Akzo Nobel as agent for protective coatings
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
FPS Alpha to represent Akzo Nobel as agent for protective coatings
FPS Alpha (Private), a recently started Joint Venture company established between FPS Projects and Optimus Alpha (Private), recently signed an exclusive Agency Agreement with Akzo Nobel India (Pvt.) Ltd. to represent them in Sri Lanka and the Maldives for their Protective Coatings business.
These premium coatings are marketed by Akzo Nobel under their global brand of protective and marine paints namely, International. They include highly specialized paints that are used to cover and protect substrates over long periods, particularly providing long termed protection and decoration to concrete or masonry surfaces and corrosion and fire protection for steel.
Akzo Nobel needs no introduction in Sri Lanka having retained market leadership for its range of decorative and vehicle refinish coatings for decades through its brands Dulux, Glidden and Sikkens which are all household names.
Akzo Nobel is the largest coatings company in the world and has products and technology in its arsenal that spans almost every type of application requirement.
They even have coatings that can be applied underwater.
Famous Pacific Shipping Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd is a globally recognized Freight and Logistics Company, affiliated to FPS Shipping in Hong Kong and having representations in over 100 countries and 4000 ports and destinations around the world. FPS Sri Lanka is a member of the SAS Holdings Group, with core business in Shipping, Projects and Logistics with a strong global presence with a key portfolio of overseas Partners.
Projects FPS have now partnered with Optimus Alpha (Private) Limited to establish a joint venture that plans to offer its Project customers a full business partnering service that will span technical advisory and trouble shooting support, coatings consultancy, supply chain planning and logistics services, coating system specification, warranty management and even supply and apply support if required.
Speaking on the subject, Gerald De Saram, the Joint Managing Director of FPS Alphaand the former CEO of Akzo Nobel Paints Lanka (Private) Limited said, FPS Alpha will not be just another distributor of paint, but will instead focus on building long termed inter-relationships with its project clients, helping them to reduce costs and improve operational efficiencies in their businesses and thereby enabling their clients to focus on what is core to them.
==============================
## Title: Freelan Enterprises  goes live with PBSS  on SAP Business One
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Freelan Enterprises  goes live with PBSS  on SAP Business One
Freelan Enterprises Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka marked a milestone in their company history by going live with SAP Business One from November 2, 2017.
Freelan is a leading spice manufacturer and distributor since 1982 and has grown tremendously over the years. They are known for the best quality spices from Matara area and have spread their wings to other products such as noodles, soya products, curry mixture etc. Freelan has expanded their business to the export market venturing overseas to Maldives, Australia, Japan, Italy and the USA.
Perfect Business Solutions is the implementing partner for SAP Business One and has been working on the project with Freelan team in mapping and training the staff. SAP Business One has brought all the business critical areas such as manufacturing and WIP Tracking, selling and distribution, finance, inventory and warehousing, dispatch etc integrated as one solution thereby enabling freely management to monitor the operation from one central point.
The Go Live ceremony was held at Freelan Enterprises head office in Matara Chairman of Freelan Enterprises Lanie Gamage marked the milestone by issuing the first invoice from the system. He also made a heartfelt speech thanking everyone for the support extended in making launch a success.
"We will take our business to the next level with SAP Business One, as the ERP solution having all the areas planned and monitored, said Director of Freelan, Jayarathne at the event. PBSS is a service provider for ERP solutions in Sri Lanka for SAP Business One with over 15 years of experience in the industry. They have completed over 150 ERP sites in Sri Lanka from different domains such as manufacturing, trading and distribution, job costing, service, construction etc.
They are geared up with 80+ consultants and software engineers and believe in best of class deliveries in all the projects they undertake. PBSS was the Gold winner at the National Business Excellence awards as the best ICT and best SME Company in 2015 and in 2017 was the GOLD winner at the CNCI AWARDS as the best service company.

==============================
## Title: Government condemns terrorist attack in Egypt
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Government condemns terrorist attack in Egypt
The Government on Saturday condemned the terrorist attack on worshippers at a mosque in the Sinai region of Egypt on Friday.
Attacking those at prayer is an act of inexplicable brutality. The Government and people of Sri Lanka offer deepest condolences to the families of the victims, and wish those injured a speedy recovery, a statement by the Foreign Affairs Ministry said.
While expressing solidarity with the Government of Egypt at this time of national mourning, the Government of Sri Lanka urges the international community to join hands to find effective ways and means to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, the statement added.
The death toll in a bomb and gun attack on a Sufi mosque in northern Sinai has risen to 305, with 27 children among the dead, agency reports said quoting Egypts state prosecutor.
Another 128 people were wounded.
Between 25 and 30 armed men carried out the assault on the al Rawdah Sufi mosque in Bir al-Abe.
The attackers arrived in five SUVs and were armed with automatic machine guns, the statement said. They took position in front of the mosque and its entrances. The attackers had long beards and hair, were wearing military fatigues and were armed with heavy machine guns, agency reports said.
At least one of those who entered the mosque was carrying an ISIS flag. There has not yet been a claim of responsibility from ISIS or its affiliate in Egypt. The attack bears the hallmarks of a strike by ISIS, which maintains a foothold in the north of the Sinai Peninsula and inspires local Islamist extremist groups, despite the efforts of Egyptian security forces, the news reports added.
==============================
## Title: Gun barrel pierces womans head
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Gun barrel pierces womans head
A woman was admitted to the Bibille Hospital with a steel barrel of a gun that pierced her head.
The gun under a bed of her house in Galgamuwa, Bibille had accidentally misfired and its barrel pierced the head. Police said the loaded gun had misfired when she was pushing a crowbar picked from her back garden under the bed where the gun was kept knocking its trigger.
Her husband reportedly had assembled the gun and hidden under the bed. Allegedly, he had used the gun for poaching in the nearby jungles.
The victim, Inoka Damayanthi, was to undergo a surgery to remove the barrel in her head.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Habaraduwa railway station opened
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Habaraduwa railway station opened
The newly constructed Habaraduwa railway station was opened by Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva yesterday.Tertiary Education Minister Chandima Weerakkody and Railways General Manager S.M. Abeywickrema was present.
(Pictures by Lankinda Nanayakkara,Imaduwa group correspondent)
==============================
## Title: Illegal drug pills worth Rs 2.1 mn netted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Illegal drug pills worth Rs 2.1 mn netted
One person was arrested in Wellampitiya, Kolonnawa for having 1,475 Yaba pills worth of Rs.2.1 million.
The arrest was made following a raid conducted by officers attached to Organised Crime Prevention Division .The suspect was identified as a 35-year-old resident of Kolonnawa.
He was produced to the Colombo Magistrates Court yesterday.
Those tablets contain a mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine.The most common names for yaba are crazy medicine and Nazi speed.
Yaba is an illegal drug because it contains methamphetamine.Yaba is sold as tablets.
==============================
## Title: Justice of Peace appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Justice of Peace appointed
Senior media person Upali Bandara Weerasekera has been appointed as an All-Island Justice of Peace, by the Ministry of Justice, with effect from November 1, 2017.
Weerasekera has contributed towards the betterment of the society for over 30 years as a journalist, lyricist, script writer, actor, and an author.
Novels written by him are popular among young readers.
He has served various newspaper institutions, as well as radio stations in the capacity of a senior manager.
Being a dedicated social worker, Weerasekera is always keen on using his pen to make aware the authorities of the grievances of not-well-to-do people in society.
He is an old boy of kurunegala Boyagane Maha Vidyalaya, Malkaduwawa Maha Vidyalaya, and Maliyadewa Piriwena. Upali Bandara Weerasekera resides at 7/1B, Bodhiya Road, Udahamulla, Nugegoda.
==============================
## Title: Katina Cheevara Pooja held
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Katina Cheevara Pooja held
A unique feature of the Buddhist world is annual Katina Cheevara Pooja. The Katina Cheevara Pooja of the Malwatte Maha Vihara was held recently as the robes were placed and offered to Maha Sangha residents at three separate temples.
The ceremony was held at the Sri Sanghajara Commemoration Hall of the Thumpone Temple of Malwatte Maha Vihara, which was organised by Malwatta Maha Vihara Karaka Sabha Senior Member Ven. Mahopadyaya Aggamaha Panditha Aluthgama Dhammananda Nayaka Thera with the assistance of Sri Sangharaja Gunanusmarana Sagnamaya of the Kantha Sangamaya of the Sri Sangharaja Daham Pasala and the Buddhist societies of Kandy and its suburbs.
It was held under the guidance of Venerable Thibbotuwawe Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Maha Nayaka Thera of the Malwatte Chapter.
==============================
## Title: Kohli rested for Sri Lanka ODIs, Rohit Sharma named skipper
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 17:07
Kohli rested for Sri Lanka ODIs, Rohit Sharma named skipper

Virat Kohli, the Indian skipper, has been rested for the ODI series against Sri Lanka, the BCCI announced on Monday.
He will, however, captain the Test side for the third game of the ongoing series against Sri Lanka. India's limited-overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma will take over as captain for the three 50-over games starting from December 10.
Kohli, who had recently spoken aboutIndia's workload management, is the only Indian player to have played in excess of 100 matches across international formats since January 2015. Kohli has played 113 matches in the said period while Dhoni, who retired from Test cricket in December 2014, has played 92 matches since.
Hardik Pandya, who was rested for the Sri Lanka Tests, is part of the ODI squad which includes one newcomer in 27-year-old Punjab pacer Siddarth Kaul. Kaul, who recently featured in two one-day games for India A against New Zealand A, bagged a couple of three-wicket hauls and was the joint third-highest wicket-taker in the tri-series in South Africa.
R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja yet again miss out on limited-overs selection with the MSK Prasad-led panel persisting with the trio of Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav and Axar Patel. Also missing out from the squad that was selected for the New Zealand ODIs is Shardul Thakur while his Mumbai team-mate Shreyas Iyer finds a place in the team for the 50-over games against Sri Lanka. KL Rahul, Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav, too, aren't part of the ODI set-up.
Meanwhile, Shikhar Dhawan, who missed the second Test against Sri Lanka in Nagpur owing to personal reasons, returns to the squad for the final Test in Delhi starting on December 2.
Dhawan is the only addition to the squad that defeated Sri Lanka by an innings and 239 runs. Uncapped all-rounder Vijay Shankar was retained for the final Test, as was Shami, who had missed the second Test due to a niggle.
India squad for the third Test:Virat Kohli (Captain), M Vijay, KL Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-Captain), Rohit Sharma, Wriddhiman Saha, R Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Kuldeep Yadav, Mohammed Shami, Umesh Yadav, Ishant Sharma, Vijay Shankar.
India squad for the ODI series:Rohit Sharma (Captain), Shikhar Dhawan, Ajinkya Rahane, Shreyas Iyer, Manish Pandey, Kedar Jadhav, Dinesh Karthik, MS Dhoni (WK), Hardik Pandya, Axar Patel, Kuldeep Yadav, Yuzvendra Chahal, Jasprit Bumrah, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Siddarth Kaul.

==============================
## Title: Lalith Athulathmudali Birth commemoration
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Lalith Athulathmudali Birth commemoration
A commemorative ceremony to mark the 81st birth anniversary of the late Minister, Lalith Athulathmudali, was held yesterday (26) with the placing of floral tributes at the foot of his statue at the Royal College Roundabout. Parliamentarian Ravi Karunanayake, Lotteries Board Chairperson Shermila Perera, Kesaralal Gunasekera and Provincial Councillor Samaraweera Weeraman participated. Picture by Ranjith Asanka.
==============================
## Title: Landmark Developers Holding introduces Nano Homes concept
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Landmark Developers Holding introduces Nano Homes concept
The concept of a Nano House was first introduced in Switzerland and was named the world's smallest sustainable house.
The design was based on a combination of pre-engineered sections made from cement fiberboard, recycled light gauge steel and polyurethane foam. These create flexible spaces and use renewable energy systems.
Innovative property development solutions provider Landmark Developers Holding (Pvt) Ltd is bringing this unique concept to an increasingly metropolitan Sri Lanka. Landmarks version of this global phenomenon is being set up in two stages at Nugegoda and Thalawathugoda.
These compact yet luxury homes will be sold at an affordable cost and consist of facilities such as two bedrooms, back yards, solar power and more in a minimum space.
Each unit will also have amenities such as built in cupboards for easy storage, interior design solutions that suit the whims and fancies of the dweller, ergonomically designed spaces for easy access, highest quality fittings and technologically sound lighting, electricity and sewerage systems.
Within a space of just 1,300 square feet a Nano Home is the next revolution in surban living. With 3-4 bedrooms and the modern amenities that make life convenient, Landmarks Nano Homes will be the trend-setter in modern age living.
Targeting the firs-time homeowner and young executives, these projects will also spread out to other key cities in the country as the demand increases.
Landmark (Pvt) Ltd hopes to also create spaces that will allow for building communities. The unique structure of Nano Homes with four or five cluster homes in one block is not put together by chance. The community of potential house owners is subject to meticulous scrutiny to ensure that they are in fact on par with the expectations of a Nano Homes Project.
Similarly Landmark is also interested in redefine minimalism. By living in a Nano Home, not only will you be contributing to the greater good by practicing minimalism but also become a trendsetter by choosing to lead a minimalistic lifestyle, a change gradually accepted in the Western part of the world but slow in the developing world.
More information could be obtained from www.landmarkdevelopers.com
==============================
## Title: LAUGFS opens standalone MEDZ Pharmacy in Bandaragama
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
LAUGFS opens standalone MEDZ Pharmacy in Bandaragama
Taking a yet another strategic step in its vision to become a multi-faceted force in the countrys healthcare sector, LAUGFS Health and Wellness, a subsidiary of LAUGFS Holdings, recently opened its first standalone pharmacy in Bandaragama.
Well-equipped with high quality pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products together withqualified professionals registered with the Sri Lanka Medical Council, the new pharmacy outlet will add to the MEDZ chain of Pharmacies. In addition to dispensing prescription medication, the outlet will serve as a small scale grocery store for the benefit of residents in the area.
We are taking numerous strategic steps to become an impactful player in the countrys healthcare sector. As a truly Sri Lankan company, we have strong ambitions to expand our services in the healthcare sector to better serve our local consumers. Our pharmacy chain which was primarily located within LAUGFS Supermarkets will be further expanded with a network of standalone pharmacy outlets, commented LAUGFS Health and Wellness Chief Operating Officer, Sujeewa Goonetilleka.
The MEDZ Pharmacy and Wellness outletin Bandaragama.
Currently, LAUGFS Health and Wellness runs 21 pharmacy units at LAUGFS Supermarket premises throughout Sri Lanka. The chain will expand further with new MEDZ pharmacies located together with LAUGFS Supermarkets and two additional standalone outlets during the financial year.
LAUGFS has already set specific investments in motion to reinforce its presence in the healthcare sector and plans are well in place for aggressive expansion by the end of the current financial year.
LAUGFS is one of the largest diversified business conglomerates and a trusted name in Sri Lanka. Founded in 1995, LAUGFS today has expanded across 20 industries in Sri Lanka and overseas, establishing a strong presence as a leader and pioneer in the power and energy, retail, industrial, services, leisure, logistics and real estate sectors. With over 4,000 employees and an annual turnover exceeding Rs.28 billion, LAUGFS continues to expand and empower millions as a trusted Sri Lankan brand.
==============================
## Title: LG Polls: Nominations to be accepted from Dec 11
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 14:00
LG Polls: Nominations to be accepted from Dec 11

District Returning Officers will call for nominations for elections of 93 Local Government bodies from December 11th to 12 noon on December 14, the Elections Commission said.
The commission which convened on Saturday decided to hold polls for 93 Local Government institutions which are not affected by the issue of the delimitations gazette notification and with no legal obstacles to hold elections.
Accordingly, the announcement with regard to calling for nominations has been issued today (27), the Elections Commission said.
Meanwhile the commission also said that deposits with regard to the elections can be made with effect from today.
The Elections Commission said that the time period for making deposits will end at 12 noon on December 13.
==============================
## Title: In love with Yogyakarta!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
In love with Yogyakarta!
You havent lived until you have visited Yogyakarta Indonesia! Truly my visit to Yogyakarta Indonesia was amazing. I can honestly say that if you are looking for comfort, adventure and unforgettable memories, Yogyakarta Indonesia is the place for you! It is a land of stupendous beauty and a land with a rich history and diverse culture. The place is another world, and it is fast becoming one of the hottest tourist destinations in the world.
We flew to Indonesia from Colombo to Singapore on Singapore Airlines and on Silk Air from Singapore to Yogyakarta. If you wanted to be treated like royalty and pampered, then Singapore Airlines is the flight for you! They are friendly and professional and are a class of their own. It was such a comfortable flight.
Yogyakarta is a paradise destination that has such potential. It is one of the top tourist destinations. On the Yogyakarta media tour we were taken on a journey that got better and better. There was so much to take in, so much to experience, the whole tour was enjoyable and thrilling, and an experience I will never forget.
Our first stop was our hotel, InnSide Melia Hotel. The service was more than satisfactory. This is definitely a hotel I would recommend because of the high standard.
This was the beginning of a media tour where we fell deeper in love with Yogyakarta with every passing hour.
Borobudur Temple
The first stop on our cultural excursion was the Borobudur Temple, a vast, fantastic and imposing structure. It is a Mahayana Buddhist temple which is also an architectural masterpiece! It is recognized by UNESCO andt has the reputation of being Indonesias largest and most beautiful temple. This amazing Buddhist temple is estimated to have been built between the end of the 7th century, and the beginning of the 8th century. A popular destination, the sculptured reliefs which number over 2672 are a representation of Buddhist philosophy. The Buddha statues, nearly 504, are very prominent in the temple. The sculptured reliefs are extremely fascinating with a story behind all of them. The Borobudur is certainly mysterious and one can spend the entire day absorbed in its unique architectural beauty. Borobudur Temple was built by King Samaratungga and the architect was Architect Gunadarma. It is one of the largest stupa complexes in the world. It is a must visit site if you are traveling to Yogyakarta.
However Yogyakarta is not only all about culture. It is also reputed to be a shopping destination! First stop was the Grand Ambarrukmo, easily twice the size of Majestic City! A shopping paradise, it has everything under one roof.
The next site on our tour was the Royal Palace. Walking through the palace, I was able to appreciate the significance of the place which had this aura of majesty, this atmosphere of royalty. I would certainly rate this site if you are a history buff! The current Sultan is Hamengkubuwono X. Sultan of Yogyakarta, a hereditary title that dates back to the eighteenth century. The royal palace is a splendid place and one of the icons of Yogyakarta. The Sultan is currently also the Governor of the modern Yogyakarta Special Region. The royal palace is an attractive place and is used for official functions, political meetings, and as the royal residence. Being a guard at the palace is a privilege and it is a job for life. It is considered a great honor to be a royal guard at the palace. Being a Sultan or a Guard, are two titles passed down through the generations. When a son is born, his father knows that his son will take on special responsibility.
Prambanan temple compound
Another site worthy of consideration is the Prambanan temple compound. Words cant express the wonder I felt when I looked at this construction. It was like stepping into a world where time ceased to be. I felt like I had been transported into some sort of a tunnel connecting two points within the universe. I felt like I was suddenly in a different time and dimension!
Prambanan temple compound is a 9th century Hindu temple compound dedicated to the Trimurti  the expression of God as the creator (Brahma), the Sustainer (Vishnu) and the Destroyer (Shiva). The temple is a UNESCO World heritage site. Actually when visiting these temples, you sort of get the feeling that the old gods are still present, always watching you as you traverse through their domain!
Mount Merapi
Finally we visited Mount Merapi, an active stratovolcano. This was the most adventurous part of the tour as we traveled close to it. It was raining that day, so in our raincoats we journeyed in our jeeps. It was absolutely exhilarating. This was actually the item on the trip where I really got to connect with nature. The drizzling rain made the bumpy ride in the jeeps very enjoyable.
The restaurants around Yogyakarta were very pleasant. The culinary aspect of the tour also receives high praise from me!
And before we knew it the trip was over. It was a magnificent experience. Absolutely unforgettable. The food, lodgings and the fellowship was fabulous. A place where I would certainly like to go to again.
All our customers will be pampered with our award winning brand of personalized service, to ensure a great experience on the ground and in the air. MI 427 which operates on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday at 11.30am, is a perfect journey to Singapore for those who do not prefer sleepless nights in airports and flights.
Using the new flights in the morning gives a good time for hotel check in, dinner and good sleep to start the next day fresh in Singapore, said Singapore Airlines PR and Premium Services Manager Sri Lanka Shihana Cader.
Another opportunity for the customers traveling with Singapore Airlines is that they will be able to redeem their Changi Dollar Voucher when transiting through Singapore Changi Airport. The voucher can be used at retail, food and service outlets at Changi Airport.
SilkAir Manager  Yogyakarta Hanafee Abdrahman said inbound tourism was growing strong.
SilkAir started with just three flights a week and today it has grown to seven times a week.
The demand and possibilities of travel are picking up in Yogyakarta as connectivity inbound as well as outbound is good. The Government is also pushing inbound tourism. In terms of sightseeing, activities, food, and shopping we see potential in Yogyakarta. We are always trying to create a new Bali, said Abdrahman.
==============================
## Title: Major water project for north, NWP, ncp
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Major water project for north, NWP, ncp
The first phase of a huge water management project was launched for farmers in the dry zone recently.
Anuradhapura Government Agent R.M. Wanninayake told the Daily News that it would provide water for farmers in the North Central, North and North Western Provinces. The project will benefit around 770,000 people in the Malwathuoya, Meeoya and Yanoya river basins. It will enhance water supply systems, boost environment friendly agriculture, establish community base rural water schemes, and decentralise drinking water projects.
The project also strengthens warning systems of flood and drought and other natural disasters. Assuring food security and alleviating poverty in the areas will be other targets of the project.
The Green Climate Fund Grants and 38.1 million American dollars were provided for the project. The Government is to invest US$ 14 million and the project will be complete by 2025. The UN Development Program (UNDP) along with the Disaster Management Ministry, Agrarian Services Development and Agriculture Departments, National Water Supply and Drainage Board and National Community Water Supply Department will assist the project. Wanninayake said. Rs. 3,113 million will be invest to improve agriculture in the river basin areas, while rehabilitating 325 rural tanks, 30 cascade systems. Thirty five community based water schemes will be established with 125 high-tech water filtering machines and 4,000 rain water harvesting tank systems at a cost of Rs. 1465 million, he said.
UNDP Project Coordinator Asoka Ajantha said women headed families, jobless young women, disabled persons, kidney patients, destitute families due to conflicts and flood, children and mothers suffering from malnutrition and underage children will be given priority thorough the development projects.
==============================
## Title: Markets decline 69 points for third consecutive week
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Markets decline 69 points for third consecutive week
The Bourse continued to lose ground as the ASPI decreased by 69.87 points (or -1.08%) to close at 6,413.68 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also decreased by 64.90 points (or -1.71%) to close at 3,733.10 points.
Turnover and marketcapitalization 
Commercial Bank was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 1.32 Bn or 28.07% of total turnover value.
Dialog Axiata followed suit, accounting for 18.40% of turnover (value of LKR 0.86 Bn) while JKH contributed LKR 0.40 Bn to account for 8.49% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 4.69 Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 4.62 Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 0.94 Bn (+1.61% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.92 Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.87% W-o-W (or LKR 25.65 Bn) to LKR 2,923.50 Bn cf. LKR 2,949.15 Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms) 
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 41.75% (or LKR 1.96 Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by Commercial Bank,Sampath Bank & HNB which accounted for 88.59% of the sectors total turnover.
The Telecom Sector meanwhile accounted for 18.42% (or LKR 0.86 Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by Dialog Axiata which accounted for 99.89% of the sector turnover.
The Diversified Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 12.19% (or LKR 0.57 Bn) to the market driven by JKH which accounted for 69.67% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Telecom sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 44.85% (or 66.50 Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 0.86 Bn.
The Banking,Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 16.60% to total turnover volume as 24.61Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR1.96Bn of total market turnover value. The Health Care Sector meanwhile, contributed 15.64Mn shares (or 10.55%), amounting to LKR 0.18 Bn.
Top gainers and losers 
Peoples Merchant Finance was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 12.60% W-o-W from LKR 12.70 to LKR 14.30. Bimputh Finance gained 10.1% W-o-W to close at LKR 38.00.
Carsons (+9.4% W-o-W) and Renuka Foods (+9.4% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
Adam Inv. was the weeks highest price loser, declining 25.00% W-o-W to close at LKR0.30 while Kelsey Developments (-20.8% Y-o-Y), Selinsing (-19.7% W-o-W) & Paragon (-17.2% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net selling position with total net outflows amounting to LKR 1.21Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 1.41 Bn (-185.8% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases decreased by 33.7% W-o-W to LKR 1.99 Bn from last weeks value of LKR 2.99 Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 3.20 Bn relative to LKR 1.58Bn recorded last week (-102.51% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Melstacorp & Renuka Foods led foreign purchases while Commercial Bank & Access Engineering led foreign sales.
In terms of value Sampath Bank & Melstacorp led foreign purchases while Commercial Bank & Cargills led foreign sales.
Point of view
Equity markets continued to lose steam, losing 69 points yet again this week as investors opted to remain on the sidelines amid expectations of amendments to the Budget.
Since the presentation of the 2018 Budget 3-weeks ago, markets have lost a cumulative 208 points, with the ASPI wiping off 69 points in each of the subsequent 3-weeks since the 1st reading of the Budget.
Turnover levels meanwhile, remained broadly unchanged from last week with average daily turnover totaling LKR 0.94 Bn relative to LKR 0.92 Bn last week. Lower retail and institutional participation accounted for the lower turnover levels, with lower institutional and HNI participation in particular resulting in lower activity.
Crossings over the week accounted for just 36% of total market turnover in contrast to the last five weeks when crossings have averaged 50% of total market turnover levels.
Net foreign flows to the CSE meanwhile reverted to a net selling this position as net sales of LKR 1.34 Bn on Thursday and Friday offset the net buying of LKR 0.13 Bn at the start of the week.
Nevertheless, the net selling position on the Bourse was ~46% lower than that of two-weeks ago when net sales for the week totaled LKR 2.2 Bn (cf.LKR 1.2 Bn this week). YTD net foreign inflows to the CSE meanwhile totaled LKR 17.6 Bn by end-week, the highest net buying since 2014 when net buying totaled LKR 21 Bn.
Growing foreign interest in the market has contributed to a 30% improvement in the Daily Average Turnover YTD (LKR .95Bn cf. LKR.73Bn in 2016). Markets in the week ahead are likely to consolidate at the current levels.
S&P revises up Sri Lankas credit outlook to stable
S&P Global Ratings revised its credit outlook on Sri Lanka to Stable from Negative citing expectations the country would maintain its reform momentum over the next 12 months while smoothing its higher debt repayments especially in 2019.
The ratings agency also affirmed its B+ long-term and B short-term sovereign credit ratings on the country. S&P cautioned however, that downward pressure on the rating could occur in the event of a more fractious political environment which could derail legislative reform particularly its liability management reform.
The Group also noted that although a higher rating is unlikely in the next 12 months, a significant improvement in the countrys external and fiscal indicators along with a substantive improvement in Sri Lankas institutional settings could result in upward pressure on the ratings.
S&P also noted that Sri Lankas growth outlook remains robust and expects the country to record a 4.9% real GDP growth rate over 2017-2020. According to S&P, GDP growth will be underpinned by rising tourist arrivals, a uniquely specialized garment sector, strong potential in business process outsourcing, and moderate inflation but stronger growth would require improved institutional settings and a recovery in export markets.
==============================
## Title: Mount Agung: Bali volcano alert raised to highest level
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 09:56
Mount Agung: Bali volcano alert raised to highest level

Fears of an imminent major eruption of Bali's Mount Agung have increased and the evacuation zone around the volcano has been widened.
The Indonesian authorities have raised the state of alert on the island to its highest level.
The island's airport has now closed, leaving many stranded in the tourist hotspot destination.
Dark smoke has been seen billowing up to 3,400m (11,150ft) above the mountain's summit.
The National Board for Disaster Management said explosions were being heard 12km (7 miles) from the summit.
Bali's main resorts of Kuta and Seminyak are about 70km (43 miles) from the volcano.
The alert was raised to the level four from 06:00 local time (22:00 GMT Sunday), because of "the possibility and imminent risk of disaster".
On Monday the disaster management agency said the volcano was emitting "continuous ash puffs" occasionally accompanied by "explosive eruptions" and a "weak sound of boom".
"The rays of fire are increasingly observed at night. This indicates the potential for a larger eruption is imminent,"it said in a statement (in Indonesian) on its Facebook page.
Authorities have been distributing masks for local residents, and have ordered people within a widened 10km (six-mile) exclusion zone to evacuate the area.
The spokesman for the national disaster management agency, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, has also warned of a possible increase in cold lava due to heavy rains, and has been urging islanders to avoid rivers.
The volcano first began belching thick smoke last week- its first eruption in more than 50 years. It has been rumbling ever since.
Officials and volcanologists on Saturday confirmed that magma - molten rock - had been detected close to the volcano's surface.
Geologist Mark Tingay of the University of Adelaide told the BBC that Mount Agung now appears to be entering the next phase with a magmatic eruption, where the glow of lava is visible from the crater.
But he added that as eruptions are difficult to predict, it was "very hard to tell" how the situation would develop.
"These eruptions can be quite large and extensive and violent, but this could also be a relatively minor eruption over time".
Officials say thatBali's Ngurah Rai airport is shut till Tuesday morning, and that all flights till then have been cancelled.
The airport on neighbouring island Lombok reopened on Monday morning after it was shut briefly.
Officials say volcanic ash rain has fallen on the Lombok city of Mataram.
About 25,000 people are thought to still be in temporary shelters after more than 140,000 people fled in recent months.
Authorities first issued warnings of an imminent eruption and raised the alert to the highest level in September after detecting heightened volcanic activity, prompting mass evacuations.
But some islanders returned to their homes in October after the alert level was lowered with a decrease in activity.
According to official estimates, the holiday island lost at least $110m (83m) in tourism and productivity during that major evacuation.
Indonesia sits on the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where tectonic plates collide, causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity.
It is home to more than 130 active volcanoes. The last time Mount Agung erupted, in 1963, more than 1,000 people died.

==============================
## Title: National Ports Master Plan soon
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
National Ports Master Plan soon
A National Ports Master Plan would be put in place very soon, said Managing Director of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority, (SLPA) H. D. A. S. Premachandra.
Speaking at the Sri Lanka Ship Suppliers Association (SLSSA) Annual General Meeting at Kingsbury last Friday he said that this is in addition to the new Maritime policy. He said that these new policies along with the shipping sector liberalization proposal spelled out in the budget would take Sri Lanka towards a true regional shipping hub.
Premachandra said plans were also under way for the launch of the North Port development project of which a section would be extended up to the Kelani River as well. He added that even today several mega infrastructure development projects in the Colombo Port including the laying of new LMG pipe line and rail track is going on. These are being done to make the Colombo Port more efficient and increase its competitiveness, he said.
Deputy Master, Capt. Athula Hewavitharana and Managing Director of Sri Lanka Ports Authority, H. D. A. S. Premachandra addressing the event.
Meanwhile Deputy Master, Capt. Athula Hewavitharana said that the ship suppliers sector is rather lethargic in exploiting opportunities that were available in regional ports of Sri Lanka especially in Galle. He said that there are around 600 ships that anchor in the Galle harbour monthly. Out of this, around 80% of vessels patronize the Galle harbour for weapons and crew changes to provide security for ships operating in areas that have threats from Somali pirates. However its sad to note that only around 20% of these ships are serviced by Sri Lankan companies.
He said that the Somalian pirate issue is now a major focus of the global maritime industry and the issue would be solved permanently very soon. When the Somalia issue is sorted-out the Galle harbour would lose a lot of opportunities. Hence now is the time that local ship supply companies should come forward and have more dealings with vessels that are engaged in providing security.
He also said that the association should also look at as to why most of the ships by pass Sri Lanka and obtain supplies from Singapore and Dubai ports. Is it because local ship supplies have an issue with their pricing, delay in executing the supplier or red tape issues at the Colombo Port, he asked.
He said that if the delay is with the SLPA they are ready to talk and iron out any grey areas.
Meanwhile Oshan Fernando was elected as the President of SLSSA replacing Hussain Mohamed.
A website to promote activities of the Sri Lanka Ship Suppliers Association (SLSSA) was also launched.
==============================
## Title: Navy apprehends two with 710 kilos of glyphosate
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Navy apprehends two with 710 kilos of glyphosate
The Navy arrested two Indian nationals who tried to smuggle 710 kgs of the banned agrochemical glyphosate in the seas off Mannar on Saturday.
An Inshore Patrol Craft (IPC) attached to the North Central Naval Command intercepted an Indian fishing dhow in Sri Lankan territorial waters, south of the Mannar Lighthouse on Saturday morning.
When the dhow was searched 710 kgs of agrochemical substance glyphosate was recovered and the two Indian nationals aboard were subsequently arrested, a spokesman for the Navy said. It is believed that the suspects had attempted to smuggle the consignment into Sri Lanka via sea in the guise of fishermen.
The apprehended Indian nationals, consignment of glyphosate, fishing dhow and other equipment were brought to the SLNS Gajaba Naval Base and were subsequently handed over to the Mannar Police for legal action, the Navy spokesman added.
==============================
## Title: Nestl Maggi, Nestomalt named SL top 10 FMCG brands
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Nestl Maggi, Nestomalt named SL top 10 FMCG brands
Nestls two iconic brands, Maggi and Nestomalt, were named Sri Lankas Top 10 FMCG brands in the latest Brand Footprint Study by research company Kantar World panel.
They are the only noodle and malted food drink brands to be ranked in the top 10. The study, which covered over five million households, 400 brands and 1.4 billion shopper decisions, based its rankings on how many households around the country buy each brand and how often.
Nestl Managing Director Shivani Hegde All of our brands are dedicated to one shared company purpose - Enhancing Quality of Life and Contributing to a Healthier Future. Our products are bought by consumers who appreciate the intrinsic values our brands stand for. They respect our commitment to manufacturing products that are tastier, healthier and of high quality, as well as our dedication to sustainable manufacturing and ethical operations. Were honoured to have two of our brands ranked amongst Sri Lankas top 10 FMCG brands, as it reflects the meaningful contributions our products make to consumers lives and the trust we have earned.
Maggi recently enhanced its popular chicken flavoured noodles to include no less than eight spices.
In a country where spices are used as natural flavour enhancers for curries and other local Maggi Rasa Musu, an all-purpose seasoning designed for daily cooking, also contains a unique blend of spices like garlic and chilli, as well as turmeric, cumin, nutmeg and fenugreek. Maggi Coconut Milk Powder has also been a Sri Lankan household favourite for generations, encouraging the goodness of home cooked food with high quality coconut milk, made exclusively with Sri Lankan coconuts to ensure a fresh and delicious taste.
Nestomalt also recently further enhanced its nutritional profile with the launch of all-new Nestomalt Plus. Enhanced with the goodness of oats, the new beverage is tailor-made for modern consumers with a busy routine, to support them in living an active lifestyle.
The companys commitment to contributing to a healthier future is also seen across its brand activities. Maggi is helping people cook tasty meals as part of a balanced diet, via on-pack and online advice and recipes, as well as through local events like Maggi Rasa Charika Cooking Shows.
Nestomalt has also long supported local communities to live a healthier and more active lifestyle by hosting large-scale family events, and sponsoring traditional festival games and power marathons every year.
Comprehensive and insightful, Kantars Brand Footprint study shows that, even in uncertain and challenging times, strong brands growth remain rooted as they continue to be chosen more times by more buyers.
==============================
## Title: New Justice of Peace
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
New Justice of Peace
J. P. Ajith Nihal Jayasundera of No. 21, Janaraja Mawatha, Brandiyamulla, Gampaha, has been appointed as an All-Island Justice of Peace.
Jayasundera, who joined the Judicial Service in 1985, is currently serving as the additional registrar of the Chilaw High Court.
==============================
## Title: NHSL Cardiology unit closed for renovation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
NHSL Cardiology unit closed for renovation
The Cardiology unit of the national hospital of Sri Lanka (Colombo General Hospital) will be closed from Friday, December 1), NHSL Director General Dr.Anil Jasinghe said.
According to Dr. Jasinghe, the cardiology Unit will be closed for renovation activities and the all heart patients in the waiting list for heart surgeries will be diverted to Kandy, Karapitiya and Sri Jayawardenepura hospital. The patients will not be required to wait until the unit re-opens.
The renovation activities will be completed by December 15 and the functions of the unit will commence once the renovation is completed. Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne has already taken steps to speed up repairs, he said.
There was a delay in commencing renovation activities by the company which undertook the contract, he added.
==============================
## Title: Opposition Leader in Batticaloa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Opposition Leader in Batticaloa
Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan participated in two meetings held at the Nalver Koddam Hall, Kalmunai and the Fedynance Hall, Thandavenveli, Batticaloa and explained the new constitution to the public on Sunday (25). Jaffna District TNA Parliamentarians M.A. Sumanthiran, Mavai Senathiraja, S. Yogesweran, ITAK General Secretary and Former Eastern Province Agriculture Minister K. Thurarajasingam spoke.
Picture by Sivam Packiyanathan, Batticaloa Special Corr.
==============================
## Title: PARLIAMENT
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
PARLIAMENT
Required funds to renovate countrys first Dagoba- PM
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said the required funds would be provided to renovate Sri Lankas first Dagoba, Girihandu Seya.
He said this responding to a question raised in Parliament on Saturday during the session of questions for oral answers.
MP Anura Sidney Jayaratne informed Parliament that the ancient tablets and artefacts are under threat of being destroyed. Hence, he said attention should be paid to this matter. Expressing his views, Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera said a separate committee should be appointed to look into this issue.
Meanwhile, Buddha Sasana Development and Wildlife Minister Gamini Jayawickrema Perera said, measures have been taken to name Girihandu seya in Trincomalee as a sacred site and a committee would be appointed to develop the site.
Minister welcomes Lord Nasebys statement on HR
Foreign Minister Tilak Marapana said he valued the positive statement made by Lord Naseby with regard to Sri Lankas human rights. Minister Marapana was speaking in Parliament on Saturday.
There are no human rights issues related to Sri Lanka that need to be clarified in an international arena anymore, because we have satisfied the international community that we are quite capable of handling our human rights situation by ourselves, the Minister said. As a government that is responsible for all its citizens we pursue a policy of engaging with all countries and international organisations for the benefit of the people of this country, he said.
Meanwhile, Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka said Lord Naseby had done a great service to this country and as a mark of respect, he should be invited to visit Sri Lankas Parliament.
In response, Minister Marapana said Lord Naseby is welcome to visit Sri Lanka at any time.
Country should progress without any differences - Sports Minister
The country has to go forward without creating differences between Sinhala, Tamil and Muslims as a whole together, suggested Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara in Parliament on Saturday.
He queried as to why a group that does not accept the National Anthem or the National Flag demand that the Constitution be changed.
He also said that the Northern Province Education Minister's reluctance to hoist the National Flag was unacceptable.
He made this observation joining the Committee Stage debate on the budget proposal for financial year 2018 under the Financial Heads of the Transport and Civil Aviation Ministry and Ports and Shipping Ministry. He also said that the country'a National Flag has has a long and proud history. He added that when the British hoisted their Union Jack flag in Sri Lanka, it was put down and trampled. We have to teach these facts to the Northern Province Education Minister, Minister Jayasekara said.
Some are attempting to become a Prabakaran by refusing to accept the National Flag. We urge them not to try and reintroduce another murderous era as during the time of Prabakaran, he added. He added however after independence was achieved a separate Committee was appointed to design the National Flag in 1948 by late D.S. Senanayake. Then there were many proposals, but finally this flag was designed depicting all communities. The Sword of the Lion depicts the dignity of Sri Lankans, Minister Jayasekara said. But some attempt to misinterpret the same. He added that those who cant respect the National Flag could leave the country. He added the only acceptable leader in North is R.Sampanthan. All should get together to bring in Constitutional Reforms.
Transport sector needs to be modernised - Patali Ranawaka
The government has plans to use electricity to run trains, said Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka in Parliament on Saturday.
He made this observation joining the Committee Stage debate on the budget proposal for financial year 2018 under the Financial Heads of the Transport and Civil Aviation Ministry and Ports and Shipping Ministry.
He said that engineer D.J. Wimalasurendra had an idea of electric trains with power generated from the Lakshapana Hydro Power Plant.
Although it is a simple target to achieve, we have not been able to accomplish it, Minister Ranawaka said. The Minister pointed out that the country would face a serious crisis if the transport sector is not modernised. He added that although there are only 5,000 vehicles in the country when we gained independence, there are more than six million vehicles out of which four million are on the roads.
Out of the vehicles on the road, 40 percent are three wheelers and motorbikes, Minister Ranawaka said.
A bus can transport the same number of commuters as 140 three-wheelers and motorbikes,Minister Ranawaka added.
He also pointed out that about Rs.1 billion is wasted additionally everyday, due to traffic congestion.
JO not given due recognition in Parliament - Namal
Joint Opposition(JO) MP Namal Rajapaksa said although the Joint Opposition has 54 members in Parliament, they are not being given due recognition.
He said the TNA holding the post of Opposition Leader has only 16 members in Parliament, while the JVP which holds the position of Chief Opposition Whip has only six members in Parliament.
Rajapaksa was speaking in Parliament on Saturday during the Committee Stage debate of Budget 2018 on the Financial Heads of the Transport and Civil Aviation Ministry and Ports and Shipping Ministry.
Therefore, if you are talking about democratic values, then one should respect the fact that the Joint Opposition has 54 members seated in the Opposition, but we are still not recognised as the main Opposition in Parliament, he added.
He said although the government claims that democracy has been restored, around 12 Parliamentarians are currently remanded.
Over 1000 government servants have been questioned by the FCID. We still believe that the FCID is not established legally unlike the CID or other investigating institutions. Yet there are thousands of civilians and MPs being summoned there for questioning, he added.
He said with regard to the Bond issue, the government is of the stand that a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty. However, he said when it concerns the Joint Opposition, this is not so.
==============================
## Title: PM predicts victory at LG polls
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:03
PM predicts victory at LG polls
As much as the UNP gave leadership and captured power to form a National Government in 2015, the government will win the village level administration in 2018 too and carry forward the countrys development process, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.
If the government can consolidate its power by winning the local elections, it will be possible to build a stronger administration in future after which it will move forward by joining hands with anyone who will work in conformity with good governance policies he said.
As such, he would request all to join hands and unite to ensure the partys victory at the forthcoming election.
The Prime Minister was addressing the inaugural meeting of the Nawalapitiya UNP Balamandalaya held at Nawalapitiya yesterday.
The Prime Minister said the UNP had now commenced a programme to strengthen its provincial Bala Mandalayas. This was an ongoing programme which would be continued even after the local election.
The Prime Minister said that he had noticed immense progress in the development field in Nawalapitiya under the auspices of new organiser Ananda Aluthgamage. The government will be ensured of victory at the future election if these development programmes see a successful completion while National Government administered the country Local Councils would be entrusted with local administration.
The Prime Minister said that in 2014, pessimists said the Rajapaksa regime could not be defeated, until the Rajapaksas abdicated in the face of a major economic crisis. But he (PM) proved them wrong by taking on the Rajapsksa head on and roundly defeating them saying that the crisis could be overcome by tackling it stage by stage after taking over power without waiting for the Rajapaksas to abandon power.
Thereafter, we united as a team to establish Good Governance in the country and Maithripala Sirisena who was fielded as their Common candidate emerged victorious, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said.
The Premier said today Sri Lanka had been able to regain its international image as a country safeguarding freedom and human rights.
The government had also been able to effect a reduction in the prices of many essential items and control the cost of living at a reasonable level. It had also increased the salaries of public servants and private sector employees.
Simultaneously,a massive development programme had been launched throughout the country, the Prime Minister added.
There had been allround development in all sectors, including highways, rural roads, ports, the tourism sector, housing etc. Now steps had been taken to provide employment to youths from this year.Youths should be offered more opportunities and this could be done only if the government gained power in the local councils, the Premier said.
A better climate for the influx of foreign investments occurred when the UNP was in power. Therefore, he would request everyone to show the same enthusiasm shown during the presidential election to rally round to ensure a UNP victory at the local elections too.
Parliamentarian and UNP organiser for Nawalapitiya Ananda Aluthgamage said Nawalapitiya was a peaceful area where people of all communities lived in harmony. Nawalapitiya had witnessed immense development under the present government. A new road was now being built to connect Nawalapitiya with Kegalle.
A housing programme would be undertaken in the plantation areas to assist estate workers. He hoped to provide permanent homes to all families in the Nawalapitiya area before 2020. Parliamentarian Vadivel Suresh also spoke.
==============================
## Title: Poultry farm blamed on environmental pollution
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Poultry farm blamed on environmental pollution
Discharge of chicken offal from a poultry farm in the St Helias Estate into Agra Oya, a feeder canal of the Wimalsurandra Reservoir, has caused a serious environmental hazzard in the region, residents said.
The chicken body parts strewen all over the area by dogs and crows streaming into feed on the offal has created a nauseating smell in the entire area.
The residents say the poultry farm has thousands of birds.
All complaints made to relevant authorities had fallen on deaf ears, residents said.
==============================
## Title: President visits Korea today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 07:00
President visits Korea today
President Maithripala Sirisena, on the invitation of President Moon Jae-in, will undertake a state visit to the Republic of Korea today.
The visit coincides with the 40th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between Sri Lanka and the Republic of Korea.
On November 29, President Moon is scheduled to meet President Sirisena for summit talks, and host the Sri Lankan President to a state dinner.
The two Heads of State will discuss matters of mutual interest to deepen cooperation between Sri Lanka and the Republic of Korea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
Agreements on Economic Cooperation, Economic Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF), cultural cooperation, MOUs on investment cooperation, and the Employment Permit System (EPS) are to be signed between the two Governments during the visit.
President Sirisena is also scheduled to attend a business luncheon co-hosted by the four major Korean Business Associations, and meet with the Sri Lankan community in the Republic of Korea.
The Presidents visit will end on Thursday (30).
==============================
## Title: Queen of the video spring
## Supertitle: CEO of YouTube, Susan Wojcicki
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
CEO of YouTube, Susan Wojcicki
Queen of the video spring
Being a leading personality in the tech industry, Susan Wojcicki has her own share of experiences when it comes to being subtly but firmly discouraged in her job simply because she was a woman.
Ive had my abilities and commitment to my job questioned. Ive been left out of key industry events and social gatherings. Ive had meetings with external leaders where they primarily addressed the more junior male colleagues. Ive had my comments frequently interrupted and my ideas ignored until they were rephrased by men. No matter how often this all happened, it still hurt, she writes to fortune.com, in response to a now-infamous internal memo that was recently released Googles Ideological Echo Chamber.
The memo, which caused quite a stir in social media, was written by US-based Google engineer James Damore about Googles diversity policies and suggested that the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we dont see equal representation of women in tech and leadership.
The ideas portrayed did not fail to hurt the feelings of women like Wojcicki,who is constantly heard speaking for women, encouraging more females to take up jobs in the tech field, motivating more women to make their way to the upper layers of the leadership hierarchy.
Wojcicki, while treading her own path of success, is on her mission to encourage more young women to work in technology because if they did not own the opportunities and retreated in the race in the tech field, women are at risk of losing out on tomorrows best job opportunities.
Google in the garage
In September 1998, the same month that Google was incorporated, its founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin set up office in Wojcickis garage in Menlo Park, California. Before becoming Googles first marketing manager in 1999, Wojcicki worked in marketing at Intel in Santa Clara, California and was a management consultant at Bain & Company and R.B. Webber & Company.
Wojcicki grew within Google to become Senior Vice President of Advertising and Commerce and lead the advertising and analytic products including AdWords, AdSense, and DoubleClick.
Working with YouTube
Two students, in their dorm room, singing to the Backstreet Boys. And their roommate is in the background, doing his homework. This simple, funny moment, captured in a short video was YouTubes first big hit when the site was just starting out. I realized, in that moment, that anybody can be a creator, said Wojcicki to Vanity Fair.
And there are so many people out there who have a story, or a vision or something that they want to communicate with the world, she said. It was a big leap of faith, and there were a lot of things for us to work through but that video alone, made me realize that YouTube is going to be really big. YouTube, a small start-up at first, was successfully competing with Googles Google Video service overseen by Wojcicki. Her response was to propose the purchase of YouTube. She handled two of Googles largest acquisitions: the $1.65 billion purchase of YouTube in 2006 and the $3.1 billion purchase of DoubleClick in 2007. And in February 2014 she became the CEO of YouTube.
Reputation
In the year 2013, Wojcicki grabbed the first position on the Adweek 50 list. In the year 2015, Vanity Fairs New Establishment gave her the 27th rank that is quite commendable.She made it to the top 100 most influential people in 2015, which was one of her greatest achievements. She was also described as the most powerful woman on the Internet. Forbes also gave her the nineth place in the list of Power Women and the 46th place amidst Americas Self-Made Women. These ranks speak of the success and power Wojcicki holds as a one of the smartest minds in tech field.
Family and education
Wojcicki was born on July 5, 1968. She grew up on the Stanford campus, with American mathematical scientist George Dantzig as a neighbour. She attended Gunn High School in Palo Alto, California, and wrote for the school newspaper.
Wojcicki studied history and literature at Harvard University and graduated with honours in 1990. She originally planned on getting a PhD in Economics and pursuing a career in academia, but changed her plans when she discovered technology.
She also received her Masters of Science in Economics from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1993 and a Masters in Business Administration from the UCLA Anderson School of Management in 1998.
She is the daughter of Esther Wojcicki, an educator of Russian Jewish descent, and Stanley Wojcicki, a Polish American physics professor at Stanford University. She has two sisters: Janet Wojcicki and Anne Wojcicki.
Work-life balance
Wojcicki is said to have a strict separation of work and personal life: She and her husband, also a Google executive, make it home for dinner with their five children almost every single night, reports journalist Matt Weinberger of Insider.com. Success is not based on the number of hours that youve worked, Wojcicki said in an interview with the site. If you are working 24/7, youre not going to have any interesting ideas.
Work-life balance was cited by the Industry Gender Gap report as a leading barrier to attracting and retaining women in the tech industry, and something that needs to be critically improved.
Empowering ads on YouTube
She speaks of allowing empowering ads on YouTube: In the recent past, women in commercials were portrayed as either, mothers or models, wives or waitresses, with few depictions of the diverse lives we could lead outside of our relationships to men or children. If we werent arm candy, we were eye candy, as scantily clad women promoted everything from beer to cheeseburgers to gym memberships, she writes on thinkwithgoogle.com.
But recently, some advertisers have portrayed women in a different light. And by encouraging such ads on her website, Wojcicki intends to empower women as These video ads dont just generate impressions, they leave impressions.
From her own daughter to thousands of young women who misjudge their own abilities, Wojcicki is forever in a serious endeavor to call them home, call them into the world of fast advancing technology and inspire them to be passionate about what they can win the future with.
At a net worth of $410 million, compelo.com says shes the queen of Silicon Valley, but it is evident that she doesnt intend to lead the race on her own. For, in the end, what it comes down to is not the so-called biological causes, but ones own courage and ones own will.
==============================
## Title: Queenstown goes to bat for Sri Lankan family facing deportation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Queenstown goes to bat for Sri Lankan family facing deportation
Several hundred people marched through the centre of Queenstown today in support of a Sri Lankan family facing deportation.
An appeal has been lodged with the Immigration and Protection Tribunal on behalf of Dinesha Amarasinghe, her husband and their three sons after their visas were revoked.
Problems arose when Mrs Amarasinghe was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.
Todays march was organised by National MP for Clutha-Southland, Hamish Walker, who said he will meet with the Associate Immigration Minister to discuss the case.
The kids are okay at school but what I am asking for is a work visa be issued to Sam so he can work while the case is before the tribunal. Its very unlikely the minister will intervene with the tribunal so this is really just a march of support. Hamish Walker said the family were an important part of the Queenstown community. - RNZ
==============================
## Title: Royal wedding looms as Prince Harry, Meghan Markle announce engagement
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 15:41
Royal wedding looms as Prince Harry, Meghan Markle announce engagement

One of the worlds most eligible bachelors is officially off the market.
Britains Prince Harry is engaged to American actress Meghan Markle, Kensington Palace announced in a statement Monday.
The wedding's date and venue are expected be announced in the coming days.
Harrys brother, Prince William, married Kate Middleton in April 2011 at Westminster Abbey while his parents, Prince Charles and Diana Spencer, tied the knot at St. Pauls Cathedral in 1981.
Markle, 36, a native of Los Angeles, is three years older than Harry, and is divorced.
Friends introduced the couple in July 2016, but their relationship remained a secret for several months.
Markle stars in the TV drama "Suits," now in its seventh season on the USA cable network. The show is filmed in Toronto, and Harry, who served two tours of Afghanistan with the British army, has visited her there several times.
Rumors of an engagement have been swirling since the couple made theirfirst appearance together in Septemberat the Invictus Games, the prince's sporting tournament for injured or sick veterans. At the closing ceremony, cameras caught the princegiving Markle akiss on the cheek.
Markle is no stranger to the spotlight. She has long championed charitable causes and is an advocate for UN Women, the United Nations office for gender equality and the empowerment of women, as well as a global ambassador for World Vision.
To many, the royal family's embrace of Markle, who is biracial and attended a Roman Catholic school, is an acknowledgment of the demands and challenges of modern life.
I think, from the queen's perspective ... she's never expressed anything other than delight for Prince Harry being with somebody that he loves, said Camilla Tominey, royal editor of The Sunday Express newspaper.
Markle isnt the first divorced woman to join the royal family, but she is perhaps the most enthusiastically welcomed. It stands in contrast to the reluctant acceptance of Prince Charles second wife, Camilla, who was also previously married. In 1936, the queens uncle, Edward VII, abdicated the throne amid a public outcry rather than end his plans to marry an American divorcee, Wallis Simpson.
'We're in love'
Markle spoke about her relationship with Harry ina Vanity Fair interview publishedin September.
We're a couple. We're in love. I'm sure there will be a time when we have to come forward and present ourselves and have stories to tell, but I hope what people will understand is that this is our time, she told the magazine.
This is for us. It's part of what makes it so special, that it's just ours. But we're happy. Personally, I love a great love story.
Though she comes from a different background than Harry, royal watchers expect Markle to quickly adjust to her role as a princess  and that Britons will welcome her as a new member of the royal family.
"I think the British public won't just accept Meghan, I think they will embrace Meghan," said Katie Nicholl, royal correspondent for The Mail on Sunday and a contributor to Vanity Fair. "She is a real breath of fresh air. She's an actress but she's also a humanitarian. And I think she's going to bring something very special to the royal family."
Harry has earned praise for his charitable activities, including his Heads Together campaign promoting mental health, for which he has appeared alongside Prince William and sister-in-law Kate.
The fifth in line to the throne, Harry recently spoke about hisown mental health struggles, admitting that he had come "very close to a complete breakdown on numerous occasions." Harry added that he had endured "years of total chaos" because he was unable to deal with his grief over the death of his mother in 1997 when he was just 12 years old.
He also has a reputation as a party boy, and wasphotographed nakedplaying pool with girls at a Las Vegas hotel in 2012.
After that incident, he worked hard to present a more mature public image, serving a second tour in Afghanistan and continuing to dedicate most of his time to charity programs.
==============================
## Title: Sand loaded tipper truck topples
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Sand loaded tipper truck topples
A tipper truck transporting sand along the Hatton Nuwara-Eliya main road toppled at Radella around 1.50 am on November 25.
The driver and his assistant escaped with minor injuries. Nanu Oya police said the tipper was plying from Mahiyanganaya to Hatton when the accident occurred due to a malfunction of its brake system. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Showery, cloudy conditions to be expected today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 09:50
Showery, cloudy conditions to be expected today

Showery and cloudy conditions over the island and surrounding sea areas will continue due to the low level atmospheric disturbance in the vicinity of Sri Lanka, the Meteorological Department said today.
Showers or thundershowers will occur in the most provinces of the island and fairly heavy falls of about 75mm are expected in the Western, Southern and Sabaragamuwa provinces in particular.
Fairly strong gusty winds of about 50 kmph are expected in the Northern, North Central and Eastern provinces.
Misty conditions are expected in the Western, Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces in the morning.
The Met. Department urged the public to take adequate precautions to minimize damages caused by lightning activity.

==============================
## Title: SL Tourism to launch US$ 20 mn  digital marketing program in May
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
SL Tourism to launch US$ 20 mn  digital marketing program in May
SL Tourism will go into a different era of promotional activities, asserted Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau Chairman Udaya Nanayakkara, addressing the 11th AGM of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises in Tourism (ASMET) on Friday in Colombo.
He said SL Tourism will position the country in a much enhanced manner. In the last three months our normal promotional initiatives have been enhanced and we are going into a different era of promotional activities. All this started at a different level in January, Nanayakkara said.
He said from January next year they would launch the much awaited digital marketing program. This was originally planned for the three main European markets UK, Germany and France. A decision has now been made to include India and China into the program. This, a six months crash program budgeted at Rs 600 million will be the stepping to the global program which will come into play from around May next year for a period of 24 months. The global program is valued at US$ 20 million and will consist of various different components. Towards this initiative an enhanced presence will be appointed in eight countries, which are India, China, UK, France, Germany and Dubai which would cover the GCC countries.
Furthermore, we are going to have our own representatives employed in these countries based in our embassies. We have missions in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai covering India. Whereas in Chin, Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou we will have one each in those missions too.
The whole effort will be driven by a project office based in Colombo and the project office would be outsourced to a reputable company in Sri Lanka after calling for offers in a transparent manner. On to this will come the enhanced PR operation which is called destination marketing units, he said.
With all this the intention is to move Sri Lanka towards a higher level of per day income from visiting tourists.
Sri Lanka Tourisms next year target is very ambitious 3 million tourist arrivals. Sri Lanka has been positioned as a winter destination and during the European winter time is Lankas peak, Nanayakkara said.
He said they were also looking at converting Sri Lanka into a 365 day destination by looking at various markets that the traffic could be brought in. Towards this initiative there are various activities and Colombo has to be converted as a Centre in South Asia for events. Andrew Lloyd Webbers the Production for South Asia will be in Colombo from next month and some Sri Lankan cast will also be trained and the theater will start from January 15.
Similarly there are so many adventure and sports events that Sri Lanka is going to host, Nanayakkara disclosed.
Our offerings have to go beyond sun, sea and heritage. We are looking at various other models. Round the sea with the 1,600 km stretch of beach lays very warm water of the Indian Ocean. During the FWW and SWW Sri Lanka was the main naval base of the British. Round our island there are very iconic shipwrecks in the coastline. We intend introducing submarine visitations for normal tourist who are non divers to view these iconic shipwrecks. Furthermore, he said in July next year they intend hosting the world amateur surfing competition in Arugam Bay and several veteran golf tournaments will be hosted in Sri Lanka. Nanayakkara said there were other events under negotiation which will bring tremendous publicity to Sri Lanka and also visitations from regional tourists.
He said within the next three years another 3,000 five star rooms would be constructed.
==============================
## Title: SLFP unity sans Mahinda, beneficial for all - Duminda
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:02
SLFP unity sans Mahinda, beneficial for all - Duminda
Today, there is justice and fair play in the country and the law is being implemented to the letter. Elimination of bribery and corruption is beneficial to the country. The only person who disliked it was former President Mahinda Rajapaksa,Agriculture Minister and SLFP General Secretary Duminda Dissanayake said.
He is frustrated because he has lost all his political clout and privileges, Dissanayake said.
He expressed these sentiments addressing a Jana Hamuwa held at Galnewa in Anuradhapura recently.
Dissanayake said the forthcoming local elections was not to elect a President or to change a government.
It was an election to elect a regional administration. People should therefore use their wisdom to elect representatives who could render a good job of work to develop their area. It was by electing a member representing the governing party that people cold ensure some worthwhile service for their own benefit and the benefit of their area, he said.
Although some people may love and adore Mahinda Rajapaksa there was no point in electing a person representing his side because no worthwhile purpose would be served by electing such person. What people needed as their local representatives were people who could get some valuable work done for the area with the assistance of the government. Nothing would accrue to their area by electing people opposed to the government, Dissanayake said.
Whatever the critics may say the consensus government of the two major parties had proved immensely beneficial to the country. Today, people disliked vituperative polities which had been the bane of the countrys progress, he said.
Minister Dissanayake said that eventhough they disliked former President Mahinda Rajapaksas style of governance they had no personal enmity towards him. They had followed him when he held the post of President of the country.
Similarly, they had been faithful to Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga when she was in power. Today, they were duty bound to be loyal to President Maithripala Sirisena. Mahinda Rajapaksa was President for two terms. His decision to contest a Parliamentary seat after vacating the Presidency had denied the prospects of a member of the SLFP second rung leadership of becoming Prime Minister,the SLFP General Secretary said.
The SLFP had a good future under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena. No one would have future prospects by clinging onto former President Mahinda Rajapaksa because as he is a spent force who could never aspire to become President, Minister Dissanayake said.
All SLFPers should keep this is mind and try to ensure party unity because this was the best opportunity to form a SLFP government. Any division at this stage would spell doom for the party, the SLFP General Secretary warned.
==============================
## Title: SLTB profit tops record Rs.2 b this year
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:01
SLTB profit tops record Rs.2 b this year
The Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) has turned out to be a profit making body this year by recording a Rs.2 billion profit so far in 2017, Transport and Civil Aviation Deputy Minister Ashoka Abeysinghe said in Parliament on Saturday.
He made this observation joining the Committee Stage debate on the budget proposal for financial year 2018 under the the Financial Heads of the Transport and Civil Aviation Ministry and Ports and Shipping Ministry.
He also said that Rs.48 billion has been allocated for transport this year. Last year, the loss incurred by the transport sector was Rs.5 billion whereas the profit this year is Rs. 2 billion, Deputy Minister Abeysinghe said.
This is the change we have brought about in the country, he said.
He also said that almost 80 percent of the gratuity has been paid by now. We have plans to complete the construction of the railway tracks by 2020. The second railway line on the railway track from Galle to Aluthgama would be opened next year.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankas first NANO satellite into space in 2020
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lankas first NANO satellite into space in 2020
The Science, Technology and Research Ministry planned to send Sri Lankas first NANO technology satellite into space in 2020.
Producing it will begin next year assisted by Russian scientists, Minister Susil Premajayantha said.
The Minister was addressing the media after participating in an awards ceremony jointly organised by the Peradeniya University and the Nan Yang University of Singapore at the Amaya Hotel in Kandy as its Chief Guest recently.
Minister Premajayantha said he observed students of the Samara University in Russia carrying out various experiments using NANO technology during an official tour he made there recently. The satellite would help Sri Lanka to obtain vital data relating to meteorology and several other fields.
The engineers from the Peradeniya University would involved in the project, the Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka vs. India 2nd Test: India win by 239 runs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 13:32
Sri Lanka vs. India 2nd Test: India win by 239 runs

India won the 2nd Test against Sri Lanka by 239 runs, earning a lead of 1-0 in the three match series, at the VCA Stadium in Nagpur.
The Sri Lankan team was all out for 205 in the first innings and 166 runs in the second innings.
India declared a 610 score with a 405 lead in their first innings.
The final and 3rd Test will be held at the Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi this Saturday.
==============================
## Title: Teacher seeks liver donor, financial help
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Teacher seeks liver donor, financial help
Krishantha Chandana Gunasekera of No 356/1, Mahgama, Horampella, Minuwangoda has been diagnosed with non alcoholic cirrhosis and recommended and urgent kidney transplantation at Globe Health city hospital in Chennai.The estimated cost of the surgery is Rs. 7.3 million.
Gunasekera, a teacher attached to a government school says that he is not in a position to foot this bill due his present economic plight and seeks public assistance.
All contributions should be remitted to A/c number 81649500 of Bank of Ceylon, Minuwangoda branch.Gunasekera also seeks an O positive liver. Willing donors can contact him on 0775302304
==============================
## Title: Three wheeler accident kills man, two injured
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Three wheeler accident kills man, two injured
One person died and two others were injured and admitted to the Badulla General Hospital when the three wheeler they were travelling in toppled after hitting a dog at the Katugahatenna Junction in Passara on November 25.
The deceased was identified as Marimuttu Sundararaj and the injured are Sahana Prasandance (28) and Jayanthi Muller (34) of Gonapala, Passara.
They had boarded the three wheeler driven by an officer of the Ella Police from Parapawa. The police officer had escaped with minor injuries. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Tourism should exploit Lankas peace to lure tourists - President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Tourism should exploit Lankas peace to lure tourists - President
With violence and political issues in many countries accelerating, Sri Lanka Tourism has one of the best opportunities to capture the world market and bring in more high spending tourists to Sri Lanka, said President Maithripala Sirisena speaking at the opening of the Golden Crown Hotel in Ampitiya Kandy last Saturday.
He said that today Sri Lanka is one of the safest countries in the world sans any violence and political unrest. The Sri Lankan Tourism sector must exploit this advantage and try to bring in more high spending foreigners to Sri Lanka.
The President who opened the hotel said that he was also pleased to see local entrepreneurs engaged in other businesses diversifying to the tourism sector. This would help to create more local players in the industry and also help retain foreign exchange eared from the industry within Sri Lanka itself.
The President said that tourism is one of the top three foreign exchange earners of the country and the government too would support the promotion of the industry.
Sri Lankan hospitality standards are very high and all newcomers to the industry must maintain this high standard without compromising quality at all times, he said.
Meanwhile Managing Director of Golden Hotel Kandy Chanuka Wijekoon said that they invested Rs 4 billion for the two acre land and the 90 room Golden Crown Hotel which also includes 18 suites.
Most of the building material furniture and kitchen equipment were imported from China and it took three years to complete the hotel.
Wijekoon said that they would be investing a further Rs 500 million to add another 40 rooms to the hotel. This would be ready by November 2018, he said.
==============================
## Title: Town Hall hampered with traffic owing to protest
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 16:27
Town Hall hampered with traffic owing to protest

The area surrounding Town Hall, Colombo is hampered with traffic owing to a protest led by Peradeniya Allied Health Science faculty students.
==============================
## Title: Trump says NO to TIMEs PERSON OF THE YEAR
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Trump says NO to TIMEs PERSON OF THE YEAR
US: US President Donald Trump on Friday said he turned down being named Times Person of the Year after the magazine asked him for an interview and photo shoot but did not confirm he would be chosen.
He tweeted: Time Magazine called to say that I was PROBABLY going to be named Man (Person) of the Year, like last year, but I would have to agree to an interview and a major photo shoot.
I said probably is no good and took a pass. Thanks anyway!
Time responded on its own Twitter account: The President is incorrect about how we choose Person of the Year. TIME does not comment on our choice until publication, which is December 6. Former editor Richard Stengel went further, retweeting Trumps tweet with the comment: Hate to tell you but that PROBABLY means youre NOT Person of the Year.
They just wanted a photo shoot. But Im sure you still have that fake TIME cover somewhere in storage.
The magazine confers the distinction on the person who for better or for worse... has done the most to influence the events of the year.
Trump was named the magazines 2016 Person of the Year following his election, in an edition which carried the title President of the Divided States of America. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Two on motorcycle with swords arrested in Chavakachcheri
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 10:31
Two on motorcycle with swords arrested in Chavakachcheri

Two individuals carrying swords on a motorcycle were arrested by the Chavakachcheri Police earlier today.
The Police say that the two, who were riding on the motorcycle without a valid license, may have intended to commit some sort of crime.
The two arrested, aged twenty-one and twenty-two are residents of Chavakachcheri.
They will be produced before the Chavakachcheri Magistrate today.
Chavakachcheri Police is investigating.
==============================
## Title: Two women killed in Matara
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Two women killed in Matara
Two women had been found murdered around 2.30 p.m yesterday at a house in Nawimana North, Matara, police said.
According to preliminary investigations conducted by Matara police, a group of people had entered the said house and murdered the two women. The deceased were the mother and the wife of one Palitha Abeywardena, who resides in the said house. Matara police is further investigating.
==============================
## Title: UNP denounces LG polls delay: Eran
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 13:00
UNP denounces LG polls delay: Eran

State Finance Minister Eran Wickramaratne said that the UNP denounces the delaying of the Local Government polls and added that elections should be held at the right time.
The State Minister said this joining the committee stage debate on the financial heads of the Ministries of Disaster Management, Women and Child Affairs and Social Empowerment, Welfare and Kandyan Heritage in Parliament today.
It was his view that when a new Constitution is drafted, specific dates on which elections should be held should be clearly defined.
Meanwhile, refuting a statement made by TNA- MP Shanthi Sriskandarasa that liquor licences are being issued which promotes the consumption of alcohol, Wickramaratne said the government certainly has no such intention.
We are ready not just to increase the price of beer but all varieties of alcohol. We need to collect taxes for the benefit of the people. If the Opposition proposes the increase of beer, we are prepared to raise the price of all alcohol.
According to Minister Eran Wickramaratne, the government is now ready to increase female representation in the political sphere fulfilling an election promise made to create a new Sri Lanka for women.
As promised, he noted that the government has stipulated a 25% female representation at the upcoming Local Government elections.
He pointed out that female engagement in the tea and rubber sector is fairly high but in the calculation of the GDP female contribution is not included.
A mothers contribution to society, though highly significant is not included in the GDP, he said.
Female representation in the state sector is around 50% but in the highest rung of management, there is only one female for every six males. In the second level management there is only one female for every five males. While women are ahead of males in the academic sphere, women receive far fewer opportunities in decision making roles. We need to change this, he said.
Wickramaratne noted that with this objective, through the budget it was proposed to create child care facilities at workplaces in order to facilitate greater female participation in the work force.
==============================
## Title: Ven. Muruththettuwes selective amnesia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Ven. Muruththettuwes selective amnesia
The Ven Muruththettuwe Ananda Thera, who has lent his Abayaramaya Temple, to be used as a headquarters of sorts, to the Joint Opposition, has, once again come out roaring against the government, on behalf of his political sponsors. It is this self same Muruththettuwe Ananda, who, at one time, threatened to mobilize the Sangha, and, take to the street, if the full security contingent of Mahinda Rajapaksa was not restored, after the government decided to slash the number of security personnel, of the former President, that was deemed disproportionate by the authorities. Nay, the Ven Thera took upon himself the task of providing security, to the former President, from among members of the Sangha. The governments decision remained, and, members of the Sangha did not take to the street, or, themselves provide the additional numbers, as promised.
Now, the Ven. Muruththettuwe, is, once again flexing his muscles, threatening to bring the Sangha onto the street, this time on behalf of Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, following reports of an imminent arrest of the former Defence Secretary. Addressing the media, at the Abhayaramaya, flanked by pro-Rajapaksa Bikkhus, the Ven. Muruththettuwe Ananda issued a warning to the government against going ahead with the planned move to arrest Gota, and, that, he would lead the Sangha onto the streets, in such an eventuality.
Of course, the Ven Theras reasons for such a course of action is based on the premise that it was Gota, as Defence Secretary, who successfully prosecuted the war against terrorism, and, thus, he belongs to the breed of untouchables. This was elaborated on by Gota himself, at the D.A. Rajapaksa commemorative event, the other day. Asked by a journalist if the rumour of his imminent arrest was true, the former Defence Secretary stated that this was reward for his role in bringing the war to a successful conclusion.
In the thinking of both, the Ven. Muruththettuwe, and, Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, all those who fought the war are inviolate, and, should not be penalized, whatever the offence. However, this mode of thought was applied selectively given the fate that befell Sarath Fonseka, who was thrown behind bars, after a sham court marshal, by the Rajapaksas. There wasnt even a whimper of protest, by the Ven. Muruththettuwe, when the war winning Army Commander was made to exchange his military uniform, for a prison Jumper. And this was an individual who was in the thick of the battle, and, nearly paid the supreme sacrifice, when a woman suicide bomber blew herself up at the Army Headquarters, unlike the former Defence Secretary, who was issuing orders from the cool comfort of his air conditioned room.
Where was the Ven. Muruththettuwe, whose heart is bleeding for the ranaviruwas, when the military personnel providing security to Sarath Foinseka, who was billeted at a five star hotel, after his defeat at the presidential election, was made to kneel on the hotel driveway, on the orders of Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, and, publicly humiliated We did not hear Ven. Muruththettuwe raise his voice in protest, when the Rajapaksas threatened to split the Malwatte Chapter, after the Mahanayake protested at the shabby treatment meted out to the jailed former Army Commander.
Be that as it may, the Ven. Muruththettuwe Ananda, and his ilk, by their conduct and actions are demonstrating a clear lack of concern for the rule law. By preempting the arrest of the former Defence Secretary, the likes of Ven. Ananda are only showing their contempt of the law, and, setting a very bad example to the ordinary public. It is incumbent on the clergy, of any religion, to take a firm stand in upholding the law of the land, instead of attempting to make selective implementation of the law, based on misconstrued notions of patriotism.
The Sangha have already done enough damage in this regard, like creating scenes in court houses. What message does the Ven. Thera seek to convey to the public, by threatening to prevent the law from being implemented No individual can be above the law, whatever contribution he/she may have made on the countrys behalf. The same goes for military personnel involved in criminal activities. Today it has become a habit, nay, a fashion, for the Joint Opposition, and, certain members of the Sangha, to cry foul, whenever a member of the security forces is arrested, for grave crimes, such as murder, and, rape, on the basis that they were war heroes. In their book, members of the security forces can do no wrong.
There is today an outcry for the release of the former Navy Spokesman, who was taken into custody for overseeing the abduction of Tamil youth. Why was there no such noise made when Sarath Fonseka was dragged away like a common criminal and thrown behind bars This, therefore, is a political game, indulged in by political monks, to once again enthrone the Rajapaksas, and, regain their lost privileges, that they enjoyed in abundance, in the not too distant past.
==============================
## Title: Vidhyas 21st birthday marked
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Vidhyas 21st birthday marked
A event to mark the 21st birthday of schoolgirl Vidhya Sivaloganathan, who was murdered by a gang after raping at Punguduthivu, was held at her alma mater Punguduthivu Vidyalaya yesterday (26) with a large gathering including her relatives and a delegation of people from the south.
The event organised by the Students Union of the Vidyalaya was attended by Jaffna Commander Maj. Gen. Darshana Hettiarachchi, Kelaniya University Lecturer Nandalal Marlangoda and film personality Suvineetha Serasinghe.
Bicycles and educational equipment were distributed among 284 needy schoolchildren at the school and the surrounding areas.
==============================
## Title: Woolmark Company partners with Intex South Asia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Woolmark Company partners with Intex South Asia
The Woolmark Company has partnered with Intex South Asia to showcase the latest innovations in Merino wool and The Lab trend forecast kit at one of the largest trade and sourcing fairs in the region.
The Woolmark Company Country Manager, Arti Gudal hosted a seminar recently in Seminar Hall, discussing how Meino wool works to connect luxury with innovation. In addition, Indian fashion designer, Dhruv Kapoor will present a fashion show one for menswear and one women swear each showcasing eight luxurious, innovative Merino wool looks.
New innovations pave the way forward for the Merino wool industry, allowing it to be a dynamic one that is forever changing. As the fair's official innovation Partner, the Woolmark Company will present two performance enhancing products which can be integrated into both the fashion and active wear markets.
Neulana Protect is an innovative 100 percent Merino wool fabric, resistant to wind and rain. Co-developed with the Nanshan Group at the Wool Development Centre in China, the fabric is constructed at very high levels of thread density in warp and weft using fine Merino wool yarns that has been stretched, but not set, during Optim processing.
It is only when the fabric is wet finished that the stretch is released causing the yarns to contract, thus leading to an extreme frightening of the fabric structure and the creation of the immensely dense fabric. Already, leading brands across the world have commercialised products using this special fabric for both fashion and active-wear.
The latest innovations in wool have also led to the rise of wool footwear shoes that enhance the fibre's natural properties whilst constructed in a way which aids performance. The Woolmark Company's technical team has been working to crate shoes that are not only comfortable and allows your foot to breathe, but is also resistant to odour and wicks away moisture.
Working closely with leading knitting machine manufacturers such as Shima Seiki, STOLL and Santoni the Woolmark Company has crated several prototypes using advanced wool yarns to enhance the inherent benefits of the fire. For example, by combining yarns together and 3D knitting, the entire upper can be free of cutting and sewing. Comfortable, for wearing next to skin by using a 100 percent Merino wool yarn as an inner surface layer, the latest spinning technology helps to knit the fabric onto the outer face of the shoes upper, enhancing the abrasion resistance. Post workout muscle recovery can also be improved by using a combination of Far Infrared (FIR) material with wool.
Thank to our more active lifestyle and causal approach, runners are undoubtedly one of the most poplar items in today's global market, explains The Woolmark Company's General Manager, Processing Innovation and Education Extension Julee Davies.
The natural properties of wool such as odour resistance, breathability, comfort and shape retention allows for the ultimate in footwear. By working closely with our suppliers, we have been able to develop technically advanced yarns to be incorporated into the upper, inner and liner for a range of machine washable footwear. (DJ)
==============================
## Title: Young Lankans among 1,500 global entrepreneurs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 15:29
Young Lankans among 1,500 global entrepreneurs

A contingent of young Sri Lankan entrepreneurs will join the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), which will be co-hosted by the United States and India in Hyderabad, India from November 28 to 30.
The United States and India have selected 1,500 individuals who will participate in the 2017 Summit.
Advisor to the US President Donald Trump, Ivanka Trump will lead the US contingent to the summit, which will highlight the theme Women First, Prosperity for All and focus on supporting female entrepreneurs and fostering economic growth globally.
Participants at this years GES represent four key industry sectors: Energy and Infrastructure, Healthcare and Life Sciences, Financial Technology and Digital Economy, and Media and Entertainment.
Approximately one third of the entrepreneurs are from the United States, one third is from India, and the other one third is from other countries.
The 1,500 participants include nearly 300 investors and ecosystem supporters who will catalyze investment and networking.

==============================
## Title: Zigzag.lk to open flagship store
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 27, 2017 - 01:00
Zigzag.lk to open flagship store
Zigzag.lk, one of Sri Lanka's largest online clothing stores, with its own Zigzag fashion brand is now known for its unique sense of style.
This fashion label continuously showcases the best, including trendy and stylish ensembles that are created with only the most discerning local fashionist as in mind.
Zigzag is also just days away from opening its flagship store, which will showcase a wide range and selection of its exclusive casual and evening wear for the urban women in Sri Lanka.
Located at Bagatalle Road, Colombo 3, the Zigzag store will open in early December 2017 and will include many special offers, promotions, giveaways and an exclusive in-store fashion show.
Visit Zigzag.lk or head on to their Facebook and Instagram page to tune in to their exciting giveaways and Zigzag store launch invites! Dont forget to tag your BFFs with the hashtag #Starightupzigzag to win weekly prizes and gift vouchers, so start tagging!
Zigzag will also unveil its first ever mens wear collection in the coming weeks, which is planned for early 2018.
First, with our online portal Zigzag.lk and now, with our soon-to-open Colombo store, we always aim to provide the very best experience for Sri Lanka's fashion-holics.We strive to provide the best omni-channel consumer experience and our aim is to dress the new Lanka. said the CEO of ZigZag, Dinindu Nawarathna.
He further mentioned that Zigzag has made every effort to simplify the process of online shopping by being open to a number of payment options, from Credit Cards and bank transfers, to even Cash on Delivery (COD). Items ordered online will also be delivered free of charge to one's doorstep.
==============================
