## Title: Building a talent pool for the future  has to start now Norwegian Ambassador
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Building a talent pool for the future  has to start now Norwegian Ambassador
The Sri Lanka  NORDIC Business Council along with the Norwegian Business Association Sri Lanka, and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce held an ICT breakfast forum and networking event at Cinnamon Grand on November 9.
The Royal Norwegian Embassy supported the event in cooperation with SLASSCOM and ICT Norway.
The event was held with the aim to facilitate possible collaborations between an ICT delegation from Norway and ICT companies in Sri Lanka. There was also a panel discussion on the theme 21 Century Skills - How do we create a talent pool for the future.
Thorbjrn Gaustadsther, Ambassador of Norway to Sri Lanka and Maldives addressing the gathering
The chief guest at the event was Thorbjrn Gaustadsther, Ambassador of Norway to Sri Lanka and Maldives. Addressing the gathering Ambassador Gaustadsther said, There will be a considerable shift in skills and talent required from the global workforce in the next decades. Jobs of the future will require more critical thinking, advanced skills in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths), creativity, interdisciplinary knowledge and people skills among others. Building this talent pool for the future has to start now and it is the responsibility of government, policy makers, as well as the private sector and individuals.
Speaking during the panel discussion, Jeevan Gnanam, Chairman SLASSCOM said that this year alone the IT industry needs about 16,000 individuals to join the industry, and that the current university system does not meet the needs of the industry. Lars Mortensen Lgreid, Founder of Emergence School of Leadership in Norway said that it is good governance, which makes Nordic countries prosperous. He also spoke of the importance of sustainability for all industries and the ability of technology to provide new solutions to problems.
One of the key areas in which skills are rapidly changing is the ICT industry. With more than 300 companies, the local ICT sector serves a broad range of industries ranging from communication, apparel and textiles, banking financial services and insurance (BFSI), healthcare, manufacturing, media, retailing, transportation to travel and leisure among others. The discussion on the skills requirement was topical in the ever-changing ICT landscape.
==============================
## Title: No change in Indian policy towards Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:03
No change in Indian policy towards Lanka
India is prepared to work in close co-operation with Sri Lanka irrespective of whichever Government is in power, the Indian Central Government has emphasised.
A senior spokesman for the Indian Central Government had said Indias foreign policy remained unchanged even if there is a change of government in any country.
He made this point clear at a discussion held with a visiting group of Sri Lankan Journalists in New Delhi recently.
India which had great faith in democracy existing in Sri Lanka believed that it was the duty and responsibility of Sri Lankan people to resolve their countrys problems themselves by honouring the Constitution. Friendship and relations between Sri Lanka and India had existed for centuries and the Central government hoped to continue them without any interruption he said adding that Mattala Airport project was a joint venture between the two continues with purely commercial motives.
He had said that bilateral negotiations on ETCA were in final stages and its progress would depend on the enthusiasm shown by Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: President Sirisena acted to avert conspiracy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
President Sirisena acted to avert conspiracy
President Maithripala Sirisena had to take a firm step after the details revealed in the Fort Majistrates Court about the dangerous conspiracy which was scheduled to unfold in the country, newly appointed Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister Chamal Rajapaksa said.
Speaking to Health Ministry officials after assuming duties at his office in Colombo on Friday, he said he could not reject the position of Health Minister. I am a person who does not ask for positions. I give up the positions I receive. But this time I could not reject it, he said.
According to Minister Rajapaksa, what people receiving medical treatment from state hospitals need are more beds, more facilities and not new buildings. People receive good service from public servants if public servants are happy. I hope we will be able to work without listening to rumors, he said.
SLFP Vice President and a former Health Minister W.D.J. Seneviratne said he came into Parliament with the Health Minister in 1989 and since then, the Health Minister held several key positions in government. All issues should be solved through discussions and strikes should not be launched without holding discussions, he said.
Health Ministry Secretary Wasantha Perera said there are dedicated and talented staff in the Health Ministry and all should work together without any petty differences. The Sri Lankan health service is ahead of the health services of some developed countries.
Health Services Director General Dr. Anil Jasinghe said the entire state sector health staff in Sri Lanka totals 135,000 and there are 1,000 state health institutions in the country. Rs. 6.5 billion is required to pay the monthly salaries of the Health Ministry staff. This is a dynamic ministry and trade unions should work with patience without resorting to strikes often, he said.
Several leading popular SLFP politicians and MPs such as Sumedha G. Jayasena, Dr. Mrs. Sudarshini Fernandopulle, Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena, Kumara Welgama and former State Minister Salinda Dissanayake were present on the occasion.
==============================
## Title: Rajapaksa family, main target of 19th Amendment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Rajapaksa family, main target of 19th Amendment
Prof. Ven. Medagoda Abhayathissa Thera said people have an opportunity to select a people-friendly leader on January 5.
The Thera added that the country does not need a leader who asks people to drink beer instead of drinking king coconut water.
Ven Abhayathissa Thera was addressing a gathering organised by Eliyaat Pepiliyana Sunethra Devi Pirivena yesterday.
The Thera said only the persons who have maintain the cultural identity of the country should be elected as the rulers of the country.
According to the Thera, the 2015 political change was a result of a political conspiracy. Moreover, the main target of the 19th Amendment was the Rajapaksa family, the Thera said.
The Thera added that the duty of religious leaders at this juncture is to point out the reality of these situations. The present political situation should be well utilised for the betterment of the society and the country.
A mechanism to satisfy the Tamil diaspora and power-craving persons was carried out during the recent past. During that period, people lost many things. A new constitution was about to be brought in. Political power was changed while that so-called constitution was tried to be passed in Parliament, he added.
People should select only persons who can work with every ethnic community in a friendly manner and persons who can create a peaceful environment in which everyone can live happily and peacefully, as leaders.
The Thera added that the Speaker tried to describe the prevailing political issue as a Constitutional issue and a peoples issue. Meanwhile, certain persons tried to highlight Sri Lanka as a country which acted undemocratically.
President Maithripa Sirisena has stopped the federal programme launched to divide the country into pieces, he said.
==============================
## Title: AIA Value of New Business up 17% for 3Q
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
AIA Value of New Business up 17% for 3Q
AIA Group Limited has recorded a 17 per cent growth in value of new business (VONB) on constant exchange rates (CER) for the third quarter ended September 30, 2018.
Ng Keng Hooi, AIAs Group Chief Executive and President said, AIA delivered a strong performance in the third quarter with 17 per cent growth in value of new business to US$979 million. Todays results and our consistent track record of growth are the direct outcome of the quality of AIAs exceptional businesses and our disciplined approach to delivering our strategic objectives.
The needs and expectations of Asian consumers are changing rapidly. Personal health, wellness and the need for financial protection are increasingly front of mind. Combined with rising affluence, this will drive increasing demand for our protection and long-term savings products across our markets.
The powerful combination of AIAs competitive advantages in distribution and product innovation, empowered by our increasing use of technology, places us in an exceptional position to help meet these rapidly-evolving needs. Our brand promise to help millions of people to live healthier, longer, better lives provides a strong basis for developing deep, long-term relationships with our customers and differentiates AIA. I remain confident that our teams will continue to focus on delivering high-quality growth and generating long-term returns for our shareholders.
==============================
## Title: And so to bed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
And so to bed
In a perceptive review of Laurent Binets novel The Seventh Function of Language (2017), Lauren Elkin, the translator of Michelle Perrots The Bedroom (first published in France in 2009), observes that semiotics is a lot like detective work. The decoding of objects symbolic value has been a particular preoccupation of French intellectual life since the 1970s, which is perhaps what gives The Bedroom both its musty, dated air and a sense, in the initial chapters at least, that the text might have been imagined by Binet himself as part of his satire on the rock stars of deconstruction.
Grandiloquent statements  the bedroom crystallizes the relationship between space and time (as opposed, say, to the second law of thermodynamics)  are tossed gaily through the text like abandoned underclothes in the boudoir, while solemn banalities  many women died in childbirth  are earnestly footnoted. The overall effect is of an entrant to the grandes coles rehearsing for her viva. The usual suspects  prominent among them Barthes and Foucault  are carefully cited, but the extent of Perrots research often appears to reach no further than the contents of her own bedroom bookshelves.
Medieval history
Before the bedroom there was the room, before that almost nothing, Perrot announces. She chooses to leapfrog over much medieval history and begin with a description of the kings bedroom at Versailles under Louis XIV  an account for which she relies heavily on the memoirs of the duc de Saint-Simon, who spoke to the Sun King twice. Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie is more thorough as an interpreter of the stultifying etiquette of the Versailles system, and Nancy Mitford much funnier; there is no fresh research or information in Perrots summary, which is at best indecisive as to the significance of the royal bedroom: the kings chamber guards its mysteries.
That said, we learn that Perrot intends to trace the origin of the desire for a room of ones own, which mark of individualization is apparently less universal than it might appear. The Japanese had no notion of privacy, we are told, which might have come as news to the ukiyo-e artists of the seventeenth century; nonetheless, Perrot is broadly correct in her account of the evolution of private sleeping space as depending on the movement from curtained or boxed beds to separate chambers during the same period in Europe.
This is about as far as the tracing of origins goes  Perrot then makes a brief detour into the communal apartments of Eastern Europe before the collapse of communism (though anyone interested in the psychological consequences of this would do better to read Orlando Figes), before announcing confidently that the conjugal bedroom became customary for the middle classes in the West after 1840, in imitation of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, who married that year. On page fifty-five we are reminded once more that the bed retains its mysteries, not the least of which is why didnt the editors step in and attempt to organize Perrots material
Simply baffling
Many of the aphoristic asides in The Bedroom possess a certain charm: in the section on Sleeping Perrot notes that at three oclock in the morning we are always failures. Others are simply baffling: it is as difficult to move from standing to lying down in an apartment as it is on the battlefield. (Surely the latter is all too easy) Thoughts and characters appear to float onto the page in a random, dreamlike fashion. Juliette Grco pops up next to Jeremy Bentham, Fragonards painting Le Verrou evokes Lytton Stracheys memory of sharing a bedroom with Duncan Grant, but while whimsicality feels appropriate to the space under discussion, any sense of method or indeed argument remains elusive.
At times Perrots vagueness is simply too cavalier, as though she begins a thought and then loses the energy to complete it. The origin of the diary is uncertain is the opening to a paragraph on writing in the bedroom, as if the vast body of scholarly literature on journal-keeping does not exist. Elsewhere, Perrot is simply wrong (Zolas Nana dies of smallpox, not syphilis), if not downright bonkers. As non sequiturs go, the fin-de-sicle dandyism exacerbated the need to remove oneself from the crowd yet to remain in the city, a necessary background that obsessed Baudelaire, a lover of the city as well as its cats is unbeatable.
While Perrot is explicit about the limited scope of her intimate history, stating that it will be largely confined to France and England, the reliance on nineteenth-century French authors unbalances The Bedroom even further. Proust is cited so often that we begin to feel as desperate for a breath of fresh air as poor Albertine. John Donne wrote wonderfully about bedrooms, and Samuel Richardsons metonymical use of the eighteenth-century closet in relation to the female body (which might have provided an interesting comparison with The Captive) are just two of many neglected examples which spring to mind when considering the bedroom from an English literary perspective. Andrew Marvell and Robert Graves provide parallels to the bedroom as the site of both love and death, but Perrot offers only more Baudelaire. A list of Perrots omissions would indeed be a serious objection to the thesis of this book, were it to have one.
Courtesans courtesan
In her repeated references to Zolas Nana, Perrot posits that the bed is one of the supreme metaphors of fin-de-sicle French culture. In 1878,when he set out to write his poem of the cunt, Zola created the whores whore, the courtesans courtesan, flesh in all its terrible beauty. Nana incarnates a power before which a whole society of worthies will fling aside their dress coats and roll on her bear- skin carpet begging to be kicked. After the French defeat at Sedan, Alexandre Dumas had attacked the enervating consequences of prostitution, the sapping of the national virility by a generation of gullible boys who had made goddesses of chorus girls instead of minding their bayonets. So for Nana, his golden-fleeced impratrice, Zola needed an emblem of decadence, a field of Venus to decimate the products of the Champ de Mars. He gave her a bed. Impregnated with Nanas intoxicating scent, this becomes the theatre of her societys decline. In solid gold, chased in silver, scattered with golden roses and mucky little cupids, Nana presides over that altar where all Paris would come to worship. Its rose-coloured curtains, tented into a canopy by silver rosettes, signal the illusions of the Second Empire, its flimsy theatricality, as surely as the beds cacophony of styles render it an artistic pastiche, a fake work of art for a bastard society. Our century has no form, complained Alfred de Musset, discussing the reprehensible influence of mercantile money on aristocratic taste. Nanas bed enacts this disturbing challenge to social hierarchy, its excess rendering it shapeless, except insofar as  gold encasing pink velvet encasing gold encasing pink flesh  it mirrors the only paradise Zolas world would pay to find. Nana, the theatre star who cant act or sing, yet for whose nakedness the crowd riots; Nana the million-franc whore who cheerfully turns a trick on the pavement to pay her bakers bill; Nana in her bed as a great beautiful false gem, with a whole world panting to hurl itself upon the fools gold between her legs.
This is not an argument that Perrot elaborates, however. She informs us several times that Nanas removal in death from her opulent apartment to the ignominy of a hotel room is a symbol of her decline, but one feels that here, as throughout this unsatisfactory history, Perrot might have pursued her investigation further.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Andhra Pradeshs push for natural farming
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Andhra Pradeshs push for natural farming
The debate about the use of fertilizer for farming and the banning of the use of some in addition to promoting organic farming is ongoing in Sri Lanka. This piece provides insights into an effort to address similar concerns in India. It has scalable and replicable options for us.
Use of chemical pesticides in India, including those that are banned in other countries, has been a matter of concern and a raging topic of discussion in the country. Addressing the issue, the Andhra Pradesh government has adopted a chemical-free approach with the concept of zero budget natural farming (ZBNF) and is now scaling it up to an unprecedented level to cover the entire state by 2024.
The push for ZBNF by the Andhra Pradesh government has inspired Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh to adopt it as well. Additionally, international agencies like the United Nations Environment (formerly UNEP) and others have expressed interest in supporting the natural farming practice in Andhra Pradesh. ZBNF is a farming practice or set of methods which involve natural farming without chemicals and no spending on purchased inputs.
According to Indias Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh, replying to a question in the Parliament in August 2018, the main aim of Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) is the elimination of chemical pesticides and promotion of good agronomic practices. It also can sustain agricultural production through an eco-friendly process in tune with nature to produce chemical-free agricultural produce.
Soil fertility and soil organic matter are restored by pursuing ZBNF. Less water is required under ZBNF and it is a climate-friendly system of agriculture, he explained.
While ZBNF is being scaled up by Andhra Pradesh and is practised in several other states, it first evolved in Karnataka out of a collaboration between agriculturalist Subhash Palekar, who put together the ZBNF practices for the state farmers association Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS).
Andhra Pradesh is now taking ZBNF to the next level by facilitating the transition of six million farms/farmers cultivating eight million hectares of land from conventional synthetic chemical agriculture to ZBNF by 2024, making Andhra Pradesh Indias first 100 per cent natural farming state.
The money required for scaling it up
It is estimated that the Andhra Pradesh government will require about Rs. 150 billion (Rs. 15,000 crores) over the next few years to achieve their goal of making a complete switch to natural farming in the state by 2024.
In June 2018, the AP government officially launched the initiative even though it has been going on for several years. The event was attended by UN Environments Executive Director Erik Solheim who stated that this is an unprecedented transformation towards sustainable agriculture on a massive scale and the kind of bold change we need to see to protect the climate, biodiversity and food security.
Were pinning a great deal on the Zero Budget Natural Farming programme, which I hope will inspire the widespread adoption of a natural farming scheme. Its a better deal for farmers, consumers, and the planet, he added at the launch event.
According to officials in the AP government, Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidus idea is to showcase the state as the hub of natural farming in India. At present, about 160,000 farmers are practising ZBNF in AP.
Apart from the UN Environment, the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiative (APPI) announced a grant of Rs. one billion (Rs.100 crore) in support of the scheme and the NITI Aayog and international banking group BNP Paribas have also shown interest. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN (FAO) is also giving AP approximately Rs. 10 million ($150,000) for capacity building for the purpose of ZBNF.
B. Rajasekhar, special chief secretary (agriculture) to Andhra Pradesh government, explained that the idea was initiated by the government in 2014 to achieve pesticide-free farming and address problems like agriculture becoming unremunerative for small and marginal farmers.
Around 1.6 lakh (160,000) farmers are already practising it and by the end of the year we want to bring about five lakh (500,000) farmers under it and by 2024 we want to expand to the entire state. ZBNF is what our forefathers used to do before the advent of fertilisers and pesticides. We have estimated that to scale it up to entire state we will require Rs. 15,000 crore (Rs. 150 billion) in next few years. We are trying to mobilise that, said Rajasekhar.
One of the organisations that are playing a key role in mobilising that fund is the Sustainable India Finance Facility (SIFF)  a partnership facilitated by the United Nations Environment, the World Agroforestry Centre and BNP Paribas  which aims to facilitate long-term investments to reverse the continued depletion of agricultural systems, fisheries, forests, renewable energy and wildlife.
Ripple effect of ZBNF
The massive push of ZBNF by the Andhra Pradesh government is already having a ripple effect as international agencies are showing a serious interest in ZBNF. They see it as climate resilient agricultural practice.
In July 2018, Karnataka announced the allocation of Rs. 50 crore (Rs. 500 million) for the adoption of ZBNF. In the following month, August 2018, Himachal Pradesh Governor Acharya Dev Vrat urged the farming community to adopt ZBNF while heartedly stating that it would be helpful in changing the present system of chemical farming. Earlier this year, the Himachal Pradesh government allocated around Rs. 250 million for natural farming in the state.
Indian governments Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Parshottam Rupala recently told parliament that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) and All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRP) on integrated farming systems, has initiated an experiment on Evaluation of zero budget farming practices in basmati rice-wheat system  to study the zero budget farming practices on productivity, economics and soil health including soil organic carbon and soil fertility.
Experts believe the step also makes sense for the Indian agriculture sector. Their effect on human health is also a matter of concern and cases on the issue are being brought to the Supreme Court of India. Recently, the SC started hearing a plea that sought a ban on nearly 85 pesticides used in agriculture across India on the grounds that they pose a health hazard.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (12-11-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (12-11-2018)]
Prof. U.S. Jayawickrama
A remarkable doctor
After a distinguished medical career of 36 years, Prof. U.S. Jayawickrama passed away at the ripe age of 88 recently. A southerner who hailed from Galle, Prof. Jayawickrama received his primary education at Richmond College, Galle and later joined Royal College, Colombo, for higher education.
A brilliant product of Royal College, he won several Art prizes and the coveted De Soysa Science Prize. He entered the Medical College directly from school in 1949, skipping one year of university.
At the faculty, he obtained distinctions in Anatomy, Pharmacology and Medicine and passed his MBBS in 1954 and MD in 1958. He later went to London on a scholarship for his MRCP (London) in 1963.
He was appointed as a physician at the Colombo General Hospital at the relatively early age of 42, a post he held for 18 years until his retirement. He was also elected President of the Ceylon College of Physicians in 1980.
A man of letters, he functioned as the Chairman of the Board of Study for Medicine at the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine in Colombo for ten years. With a few top medical experts, he later initiated the establishment of the Diabetes Association of Sri Lanka, a social welfare project to ensure the well-being of patients suffering from the disease.
In the dizzy heights of his career, Prof. Jayawickrama was appointed Consultant Physician of the National Hospital in Colombo. He pioneered the setting up of the Medical Intensive Care Unit and became its Physician-in-Charge. To add to his fame and credentials, he was appointed Professor of Pharmacology of the Colombo North Medical College at Ragama. Perhaps it would not be incorrect to say that Professor Jayawickrema strongly preferred clinical diagnoses to investigations with sophisticated instruments of modern technology.
Prof. Jayawickrema was a connoisseur of arts and a master of copper handicrafts. His Colombo residence was a mini art gallery, with its walls adorned with his superb artistic creations.
Ars Longa, Vita brevis (Art is long, life is short).
His demise, even at the ripe age of 88 years, is a irreparable loss to the country.
May he attain the Supreme Bliss of Nirvana.
K.D.M. Kittanpahuwa
****
Joyce Fernando
Dedication was in her blood
The unexpected news of the sudden passing away of my cousin Joyce was a shock to her relatives, family and thousands of students who benefitted from her as a teacher of English at Holy Family Convent, Kalutara. She dedicated her life to teaching and continued to do so for 33 long years at the same institution.
She was the second daughter of my uncle Michael and his wife Mildred and was born and bred at Waters Meet, Maggona; a serene location where the river meets the sea at a short distance from our ancestral home at Velmarie. Dedication was in her blood and she chose the noble profession of teaching and made it her own. Joyce enjoyed every minute of it and achieved a fine balance between her career and family life.
During her tenure, Holy Family produced many professionals who achieved high positions having mastered the English Language and she was fortunate to see and appreciate such achievements. She held herself to the highest standards, but was at all times compassionate and fair. Joyce's command of the English language and her ability to instill knowledge in her students was unique. Her loyalty and commitment was never better expressed as the presence of large number of students, young and old, who paid their last respects to her at the funeral.
In a society where teachers' efforts often go unnoticed and unappreciated, the noble gesture by the present principal and teachers of Holy Family Convent who paid her the ultimate honour by carrying her coffin on their shoulders to the final resting place, was unique and hardly witnessed in modern times. This is was a remarkable act of respect and honour for someone who served the school with deep commitment and dedication. More than anything else, she will be remembered for her genuine warmth, which was evident in her deep love for her family and steadfast support of colleagues in an often unforgiving society.
In retirement, she was well cared for by her only daughter Shianka and her husband Nandana. She also had the companionship of her only sister Claudia to the very end. She was blessed with a close-knit family and was active to the very end. It was only a few weeks ago that we all met at a family gathering in Maggona which consisted of four generations and Joyce played an active role in organising the event.
Teachers' lives are never easy and often the financial rewards are meager. Joyce, however, balanced her family life and career as a teacher and fulfilled this task admirably. She was predeceased by her husband, Bert, many years ago and survived by her four children; Hiran, Romesh, Sanjaya and Shianka and their spouses; her only sister Claudia as well as her brother Blaise.
May her soul rest in peace. I believe God will accept her with open arms for all the good she has done while she was on this earth.
Susantha Fernando
Colombo 5
****
Prianca Perera
He was selfless
The air is cool and crisp as a sublime breeze blows from the mountainside towards the patio and into my room. I think of our dear friend Prianca who suddenly passed away on that Monday night. The weekend before, we received an email from him telling us that he would not be able to be with us for Christmas as he was working on a new venture with a friend.
When my neighbor from Colombo called us with the news, we were stunned to hear of his sudden passing. It took us a while to comprehend this news about our good friend. I recalled the first time we met him at Calvary Church with another dear friend, Damayanthi Herath, who sadly passed away many years ago in the prime of her life, due to cancer.
Prianca was a solemn greeter at church; impeccably dressed, he was dedicated to his duty as an usher. Even though we left Sri Lanka in 2005, we kept in touch via email and phone. Prianca and Manique became very dear to Hillary and I, and I recall the lovely times we spent after church, going to Carnival for ice cream. We enjoyed many dinners and gatherings with our friends from Calvary, as well as the black cherry cheesecakes that my sister-in-law Mano introduced us to at the newly-opened Don Stanlys at that time.
We never missed a Purple Rain or Philharmonic Pops concert. We used to listen to lobby music at hotels, just enjoying a fun evening together. Prianca loved keyboard music. I would plead him to treat us to a bit of his piano playing occasionally at his home. The trips we had with our group of friends were always memorable: the ones to Welimada, Worlds End, and Habarana were such scintillating experiences. I remember clearly how we ended up at a tourist bungalow in Anuradhapura during one of those sudden long-weekend trips. Despite the not-so-comfortable atmosphere, we enjoyed the loud taped music of the Gypsies while we laughed at one another's jokes and stories. There was many an impromptu trip we had together. I remember the in-depth conversations we had on social issues and religion, as well as the rationalised explanations that Prianca gave us to clear our minds.
Prianca loved God deeply and would not miss hearing his word at any given opportunity. It is difficult to talk about the once-so-happy memories when our friends are no more. Our minds are the repositories of all those lovely memories of friends who have left us. They will always be vivid and present in our lives.
Prianca was such a caring son and brother who did all that he could. He was also selfless, giving whatever he could to his relatives and friends. Prianca understood all the trials Hillary and I were going through at our home in Colombo; the home where we spent many a time in togetherness and joy with our crowd. He would remind me to be still, to make those two Biblical words our affirmation and to always rely on God.
Priancas earthly life has ended; he is now beyond the moon and the stars. He is with Christ in Heaven. We thank God for the beautiful memories of our times with you, Prianca. All the precious images in the streams of time will remain in the prism of our memory forever.
Goodbye, dearest friend. We will see you again.
Charmaine and Hillary Candappa
****
M.R. Jaldeen
An efficient technician
It was with deep dismay that I learnt of the demise of my erstwhile friend M.R. 'Tony' Jaldeen after an illness bravely borne over the past few years in his home at Mahara, Kadawatha.
Our casual acquaintance in the 60's blossomed into a friendship since we both resided in the large township of Kotahena in Colombo. Our families too teamed up well with our children being of similar age groups. Tony's expertise was in the technical field, having joined the Royal Ceylon Air Force in 1961 and on leaving, was employed at CEGEE Alstom.
Tony, in his quest to seek greener pastures, later decided to leave his young family behind and join a reputed company in Oman. During his long stint, Tony proved his mettle as a technician of incredible efficiency.
He always remained close to his wife, Fareeda and daughters Mumtaz, Muhara, and Ruhani who had their education at St. Paul's Girls' School, Milagiriya. Tony's home was a welcome abode when he returned to Sri Lanka on vacation, evident in the abundant warmth and hospitality present there. I had the privilege of being invited to his home during the visits from the country of my domicile. Tony was an excellent entertainer and the lavish spread of delicious food was his specialty. Our friendship never waned and I still recall Tony's commendable gesture in inviting my family for the weddings of his three daughters at the Mount Lavinia Hotel.
On his return, Tony was successful in securing employment commensurate with his skills and was happy to be back home, where in addition to his family responsibilities, he cared for his bedridden father-in-law with much affection. Our social meetings were frequent, including teaming up to witness inter-club rugby matches in the metropolis during an era when it was played in the correct spirit.
Our friendship took a turning point when my family and I opted to migrate in the early 90's. On the eve of our departure to foreign climes, we were hosted to a sumptuous lunch in his home. I was literally in tears when Tony spoke words of farewell with an emotional aura. It was the most solemn meeting that our families had encountered through the years. We were presented with a crafted souvenir of the Last Supper, which adorns our home to this day and is a perennial tribute to dear Tony's magnanimity in the backdrop of having traversed a three-hour journey from Oman to purchase the invaluable gift; a symbol of inter-religious harmony.
Tony was a man for all seasons and ever willing to lend a helping hand in the clasp of family and friendship. Our ties, though from afar, remained on terra firma; proving that distance cannot dim the essence of an abiding friendship, which for us, lasted until he bade farewell to his earthly sojourn. I have lost a very amiable and trusted friend in the demise of Tony Jaldeen whose extroverted personality and willingness to traverse that extra mile were facets of his life and will remain etched in my memory forever.
Tony was the son of late M.K. Mohamed Khalid Jaldeen and late Gnei Devi Jaldeen (nee Azoor), and besides his wife, daughters and their families, Tony leaves behind his sisters Surabi Sabar, Ahayani Sandarasagara and Noorani. He was predeceased by his younger brothers Fareed (Boney) and Azeez (Rooney).
Farewell, dear Tony. Until we meet beyond the sunset.
Eric Motha
****
Wickrema de Alwis
Industrious planter
I was deeply saddened when I learnt of the passing away of Wickreme de Alwis, the former Chairman of Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation's Board I, from an article of appreciation that appeared in a newspaper recently. I worked with him at the Regional Board Office at Glencairn, Norwood, when he was its chairman and also at the Hingurugama Office Complex on Pasara Road, Badulla.
I came to know of him in the mid-70's, when I visited the Kotiyagala Estate to form employees' councils. The concept of employees' participation in the management of estates through elected employees' councils was conceived, nurtured and promoted by the united left government that was in power during the early 70's. Dr. Colvin R. De Silva was the Plantation Industries Minister at the time. He was enthusiastic in the formation of employees' councils at plantations. The task of going around the estate meeting employees and getting them elected was assigned to me under the designation of Employment Relation Officer of the Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation.
It was during one such visit that I came in contact with Wickrema de Alwis at the Kotiyagala Estate at Bogawantalawa. After his long stay there, de Alwis was transferred to the Strathspey Estate at Upcot, an equally-large estate that was however, running at a loss as there were numerous complaints made by the staff. However, within a short period he transformed the place for the better. I asked him as to how he managed to make it possible and he said that all he did was grant the correct overtime payments to the factory's staff after finding out the cause of their dissatisfaction.
He was a member of the Nuwara Eliya Golf Club and was also a lover of nature. He visited national parks regularly and all through out his life, he had pet dogs around him.
Wickrema de Alwis was a unique and iconic planter of his age. He trained a number of planters who hold key positions in many companies and his contributions to the field were immense. His working life ran through three epochs: the pre-nationalisation period prior to 1970, the post-nationalisation period from 1972 to 1992, and the post-privatisation period till the birth of the new millennium.
At the time he joined the Malwatta Valley Plantation as its Managing Director, the company was initially incurring heavy losses, but by sheer hard work and prudent administration, together with the cooperation of his colleagues, he converted the company into a money-spinner. When regional companies were offered on a long-term lease basis, the Malwatta Valley is said to have fetched the highest price.
After de Alwis left the plantation, he continued to serve a number of estates as a visiting agent.
His relationship with trade unions was cordial and smooth. Though he was firm in his decisions, he showed flexibility and did not allow the unions to go empty-handed after discussions. He always respected senior trade union leaders.
May his soul rest in peace.
K.T. Shanmugam, Attorney-at-Law
==============================
## Title: Are NGOs a force for good
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Are NGOs a force for good
Jeevan Thiagarajahs story titled Why Indonesia is right to limit NGOs (Daily News - November 5) has induced me to add few of my own thoughts on the same subject.
NGOs are nothing new to us since they have been functioning in Sri Lanka for more than six decades. They are highly complex organisations that a simple man-in-the-street will find it difficult to comprehend. In fact, even the term NGO itself has various interpretations.
In simple jargon, an NGO can be defined as a non-profit, citizen-based group that functions independently of government. They are often called civil societies. In nature, they are cooperative, rather than commercial.
NGOs in Sri Lanka are active in politics, literature, cinema, cultural activities, development of the villages, environment, media, human rights, womens movement, and dozens of others. They have been growing and according to the Government statistics, there are more than 1,400 registered non-profit organisations currently. And for most observers, they seem to be well-intentioned actors who do a lot of good on the country.
But NGOs also have their detractors who argue that they are receiving growing amounts of donor aid, but are not the most suitable actors for genuinely improving peoples lives. Some critics also insist that the neo-liberal policies advanced by powerful international actors have limited the influence of the State and that NGOs have benefited as a result.
NGOs are also criticised for their focus on technical solutions to poverty instead of the underlying issues. For example, an NGO might provide few water tanks for the poor without addressing the power imbalances that resulted in some having water while others do not.
Another criticism is that NGOs are more accountable to their funders than those they serve. Because they are largely dependent on funding, their projects are crafted in line with donor preferences instead of those they supposedly represent.
A final criticism relates to the fact that NGO workers tend to be foreigners or local elites. Instead of empowering local populations to organise themselves, NGOs provide employment and a sense of purpose for elites with degrees in subjects like development studies.
Theres much truth to these criticisms. But does this mean that NGOs have no role to play in Sri Lankas struggle for development and social justice
History
To answer this question, we need to go back our recent history. It was 1980, the Government took the first step to enact the Voluntary Social Services Organisations (Registration and Supervision) Act. It sought to introduce a system of registration and supervision of activities of NGOs. However, this Act was not strictly implemented and the registration of NGOs was not strictly followed.
Consequently, there have been concerns raised by the public and certain NGOs themselves as to the misuse of the flexibility and autonomy and the misappropriation of funds. This outcry forced the government to give serious consideration to introduce a system of strict registration of NGOs in the country.
In 1990, a Commission was appointed to go into the activities of NGOs and to make recommendations for their proper functioning. The Commission made some recommendations and accordingly, regulations were passed under the Public Security Ordinance obligating compulsory registration of NGOs which have a turnover of Rs.50,000 and above. However, with the lapse of the Emergency Regulations, this system too lapsed.
In 1995 the Government introduced certain draft amendments to the 1980 Act providing for the establishment of an NGO Advisory Council and appointment of Interim Boards of Management to administer the affairs of NGOs. There were vehement protests against these provisions and implementation got stalled. However, a Secretariat for NGOs was established in 1996. Finally, it was only in 1998 the Parliament approved the draft legislation (Act No.8 of 1998).
Around April this year, the Government again introduced a draft legislation to amend the Voluntary Social Service Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No 31 of 1980. The draft amendment was subjected to severe criticism by the NGOs. As a result, it was withdrawn.
As we can see from historical records, Sri Lanka has not been successful in their efforts to introduce regulations to supervise and scrutinise the NGOs in Sri Lanka. It is obvious that the extraordinary power behind the NGOs is a real force to reckon with.
In many occasions NGO clout had caused deep annoyance to the Sri Lankan Government. We can take comfort because such experiences are not confined to Sri Lanka only. It has happened to many other countries.
INGOs
This writer believes that the Government needs to be more concerned about the International NGOs (or INGOs). These INGOs have two in-built components. There is the foreign funding principal and the local NGO agent. The donor functions from overseas and provides the funds. The agent is engaged in the operations which could vary from building up a School for Blind to conducting seminars (mainly in English) at the five-star hotels.
One of the most important aspects about these foreign donors is that the donor NGOs are not always non-governmental. For example, in Europe, there are many INGOs who receive 100% of its funds from their governments. In Canada, the Government has increasingly taken over the funding of Canadian NGOs. In Germany there are the foundations linked with the political parties. Invariably, all of them thus have definite political agendas of their own.
Indian experience
Now we come to the point of finding a solution. Perhaps, its time we take a cue from India. The National Planning Commission (now renamed National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog) is the nodal agency in India for interface between the Government and the voluntary sector. The NITI Aayoghas put out a National Policy on the Voluntary Sector-as the beginning of a process to evolve a new working relationship between the Government and the voluntary sector, without affecting the autonomy and identity of voluntary organisations.
The policy has three main objectives: (1) to create an enabling environment for NGOs that stimulates their effectiveness, and safeguards their autonomy; (2) to enable NGOs to legitimately mobilise necessary financial resources from India and abroad; (3) to identify systems by which the Government may work together with NGOs, on the basis of the principles of mutual trust and respect, and with shared responsibility; and, (4) to encourage NGOs to adopt transparent and accountable systems of governance and management.
The policy recommends an alternate central law for registration of NGOs, the setting up of an independent, national level, self-regulatory agency for the NGO sector, expects the NGO sector to set its own benchmarks in good governance, and recommends to take steps to bolster public confidence in the NGO sector by opening it up to greater public scrutiny.
The NITI Aayoghas already initiated steps towards implementing the policy. The task forces/ committees, on the framing of an alternate law and on accreditation norms leading to the setting up of the self-regulatory agency, have been formed with representatives from NGOs and initial meetings have taken place. The NITI Aayoghas also launched the NGO Partnership System, an online platform for NGOs.
NGO responsibility
The effective involvement of NGOs in areas where they have comparative strengths and support, and capacity enhancement should form the basis for Government- NGO collaboration. However, it is important to realize that there are limitations of the NGOs in promoting such collaboration. Some of these limitations are the outcome of weak institutional capacity while others are conditioned by low management potential, e.g. good leadership.
Moreover, such limitations may be the outcome of differing perceptions, between the Government and NGOs. What is important in promoting Government-NGO collaboration is to address the issues in an integrated manner to create an environment of mutual trust and understanding to harness the potentialities and advantages.
In essence, NGOs are not expected to function in isolation from the mainstream of political, economic and social life in Sri Lanka.
They must conform to certain standards, adhere to Government regulations and have their work coordinated at the state level. NGOs can only complement the Governments planned activity.
Through State platform, NGOs will have the opportunity to legitimise themselves as a social force and expand their influence among sections to which they earlier had little access.
NGOs in Sri Lanka have been successful in bringing about several major reforms to make public officials and politicians accountable. NGOs played a key role in getting the landmark Right to Information (RTI) Act passed to make the government machinery accountable. It is time for NGOs in Sri Lanka to focus their energies at enhancing their own accountability.
==============================
## Title: Arosha of Creative  Software launches book
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Arosha of Creative  Software launches book
Arosha, an associate Tech Lead at Creative Software, with more than eight years experience in Mobile application development and Java, has authored the book Swift and Kotlin, an educational guide for Sri Lankas Android and iOS developers.
Swift is the native language for iOS (Apple products) development and Kotlin, mainly based on Java, is the language used by Android developers. At the last Google developer conference in 2018, it was announced that around 35% of Android developers are using Kotler. They are hoping to increase that number. The Android API will be on Kotlin hereafter.
The book, written in simple language and easy to understand, will enable developers to use both Swift and Kotlin in projects, thereby giving them better career prospects and opportunities. Each chapter of Swift and Kotlin demonstrates how to implement a program in both languages. While comparing the two, it is explained how syntax and theory compares. In every chapter there are code-based examples.
The book is not meant to be an A to Z for Swift and Kotlin development but provides valuable insights for any mobile developer wanting to work on both the iOS and Android platforms.
Swift and Kotlin are the languages of the future in the mobile industry. Currently, developers who know both platforms are quite rare and I wanted to give our local talented developers the chance to learn both of these languages, so that they in turn can uplift their careers through this knowledge. This was my main aim in writing this book stated Arosha.
Sushena Ranatunga, Director of Creative Software, commented Creative Software has been in existence for almost two decades. Today it employs over 200 of Sri Lankas finest software professionals. We have always believed in harnessing the talents of our employees and Arosha publishing this book, is a good example of this fact.
==============================
## Title: Asgiriya Chief Prelate praises Presidents decision
## Supertitle: Dissolution of Parliament:
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:05
Dissolution of Parliament:
Asgiriya Chief Prelate praises Presidents decision
President Maithripala Sirsiena has taken a wise decision in dissolving Parliament without allowing it to continue amidst a crisis situation, Most Ven.Warakagoda Gnanaratana Mahanayake Thera of the Asgiriya Chapter said.
A set of national policy guidelines was required for a country to achieve progress and such a policy was greatly required in respect of agriculture, he added.
The Asgiriya Chief Prelate expressed these sentiments delivering an Anusasana when Agriculture Minister and UPFA General Secretary Mahinda Amaraweera called at his temple and received his blessings before briefing the Prelate about the current political situation in the country on November 10 morning. Earlier, Minister Amaraweera called on the Malwatte Chief Prelate Most. Ven. Tibbotuwawe Sri Siddharatha Sumangala Mahanayake Thera at his temple and briefed him too after receiving his blessings.
Minister Amaraweera told the Chief Prelates that the President never entertained an idea about dissolving Parliament earlier.
However, the President was compelled to do so due to the arbitrary action and partisan attitude of the Speaker. If the crisis situation was allowed to continue, it would have even resulted in a bloodbath, the Minister said. Minister Mahinda Amaraweera called on the Malwatte and Asgiriya Prelates at their temples in Kandy and received their blessings on November 10.
==============================
## Title: Australia Awards recipients felicitated
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Australia Awards recipients felicitated
Australian High Commissioner Bryce Hutchesson hosted a reception in Colombo recently to congratulate 36 Sri Lankans who have been offered Australia Awards scholarships to study at Australian universities in 2019.
The recipients will undertake masters degrees at Australias top universities in the fields of economic development, gender equality and governance.
Australia has awarded over 1,000 Sri Lankans with scholarships for study in Australia, dating back to the Colombo Plan in the early 1950s said Hutchesson.
Australia is a highly popular destination for international students. Last year, around 753,000 international students, including over 11,000 Sri Lankans, were enrolled to study there. In offering Australia Awards, we strive to be inclusive. We seek out individuals with great attitudes and commitment. We want scholars who reflect Sri Lankas diversity because we know that diversity brings new ideas, innovation and a wider outlook. said Hutchesson.
Members of the Sri Lanka Association of Australia Awards Alumni (SLAAAA) were also present. The SLAAAA provides an opportunity for Awardees to network and interact after they return from studies in Australia.
The Australian Government offers Australia Awards to Sri Lankans on an annual basis. The next round of Australia Awards Scholarships will be open for applications from February 1, 2019 until April 30, 2019. Please visit the Australia Awards website www.australiaawards.gov.au or www.australiaawardssrilanka.org for further information.
==============================
## Title: Ayana Sea launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Ayana Sea launched
Set against breath-taking views of the Indian Ocean, and surrounded by lush coconut palms, Ayana Sea resort, Wadduwas newest luxury boutique villa recently celebrated its official unveiling amongst guests, well-wishers and friends in the media.
Only an hours drive away from Colombo, Ayana Sea is the epitome of relaxation, offering 5-star luxury accommodation and customized experiences for each guest, including modern luxuries such as private plunge pools and sun shower bathtubs. The villa caters to guests every need, from delectable cuisine whipped up by experienced chefs to the perfect ambience recreating the intimacy and comfort of home, all amidst the backdrop of a stunning location.
Weve brought together all the essentials of a perfect holiday with added luxuries. We believe that the perfect holiday is where you feel at home, and our goal was to recreate this feeling. Ayana Sea is a secluded, laidback paradise where you can relax in peace and indulge in a space that is a home away from home. said Sheromi Samaradiwakara, Founder of Ayana Sea.
Its stunning oceanfront location and calm, clean aesthetic makes Ayana Sea the perfect venue for small intimate weddings, honeymoons, family gatherings and special events. Ayana Sea delivers a truly perfect, private holiday where you feel at home with the comforts of delicious cuisine, luxurious accommodation and spectacular location.
The luxury boutique hotel consists of 16 beautiful villa-style rooms on the beachfront with private plunge pools, sun shower bathtubs, a bar, a spa, a restaurant and a spacious swimming pool overlooking the magnificent turquoise ocean.
Set within two acres, the villa is tucked away from the city and offers unparalleled views of the Indian Ocean. Hedged by lush coconut groves and bathed in the glorious shades of the setting sun, Ayana Sea is a retreat from reality and a perfect getaway destination for both couples and families. -CC
==============================
## Title: Best Dives to introduce semi-submarine at Crossroads
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Best Dives to introduce semi-submarine at Crossroads
As part of an initiative to acquaint visitors with the breath-taking underwater lives in the Maldives, Best Dives Pvt Ltd is to introduce a semi-submarine as part of the companys excursion activities at Crossroards.
Crossroads, the largest integrated destination in the Maldives, developed by premier property development and investment holding company Singha Estate Public Company Limited, is set to redefine the Maldives vacation experience and captivate the international family-leisure markets to the Maldives.
We are very keen on attracting holiday makers from Sri Lanka, both those residing in Sri Lanka as well as expatriate Sri Lankans. The proximity between the two countries is definitely an attraction, while there is no doubt that the Maldives is one of the worlds leading up market tourist destinations. Sri Lankans wishing to make the short trip to the Maldives could avail themselves of this exciting new holiday excursion opportunity, said Thiti Thongbenjamas, Chief Operating Officer of Crossroads. Thongbenjamas also went on to say that the Crossroads development would present exciting new career opportunities for Sri Lankans who are known for their proficiency in the hospitality industry.
The project is scheduled to open in Q1 of 2019 and has much to offer nearby visitors coming on day trips, including water excursion activities, international restaurants and cafs, and a very exclusive shopping experience featuring global brands.
The new semi-submarine is intended to provide an introductory experience to visitors who are keen to see the rich underwater lives in the Maldives. The semi-submarine will acquaint hesitant visitors to the joys of experiencing the diverse ecosystem that inhabits the oceans surrounding the islands. Best Dives expects the semi-submarine to be an excellent stepping stone to other water sports such as snorkelling and SCUBA diving.
Best Dives was appointed by Singha Estate to provide a wide-range of water activities and excursions for the CROSSROADS project. This includes SCUBA diving, motorized and non-motorized water sports activities and various excursions that will showcase the natural beauty of the Maldives both above and underwater, as well as the unique Maldivian cultures.
Best Dives is one of the leading and fastest growing diving and water sports companies in the Maldives. The Gold and Silver Awards winner for the Leading Activity/Water sports Centre by the South Asian Travel Awards 2018, Best Dives has had an established Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and emergency action plans for every recreational activity they offer. Best Dives maintains a special focus on the security and safety of all aspects of the companys operations.
At this point, things are starting to take shape. This submersible submarine is a key addition to the experience that CROSSROADS is offering. Lots of key aspects are starting to come into play to be ready for next years opening. Seeing partners come together to make this happen is a wonderful feeling, said Thongbenjamas.
==============================
## Title: Better way to diagnose depression
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Better way to diagnose depression
Scientists can now see anxiety and depression by monitoring electrical signals in the brain, which could allow them to better diagnose and treat the mood disorders. Both conditions are thought to be vastly under-diagnosed, and our methods of detecting them are highly subjective.
Without exact diagnostics, patients are left at the mercy of their doctors interpretations of symptoms and may find themselves over-medicated or on a seemingly endless search for the right drug.
Scientists at the University of California, San Francisco think their new method of using electrodes to constantly track brain signals could someday change that, after it successfully identified anxiety in a small study of 21 epilepsy patients.
And the new method may someday allow doctors to use deep brain stimulation to treat mood disorders in a similar way that we can now care for Parkinsons patients. If you are feeling under the weather, a doctor might chemically test a saliva culture for sign of the flu. If your care provider thinks you could be diabetic, they can test your blood for insulin.
But if you think you might be depressed or suffer from chronic anxiety, you might be handed a survey to fill out about how youve been feeling, or your doctor might simply talk to you more. In other words, long before you get answers, you have to answer more questions that are themselves rather ambiguous before getting diagnosed with either of the two most common mood disorders in the world.
More accurate and consistent screening has long been needed, and thought there are a few experimental techniques, nothing has been widely implemented. Now, researchers at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), are throwing their hat in the proverbial ring.
In a small study, they decided to monitor the brains of 21 epilepsy patients for activity that might be connected to anxiety and depression. Other studies have used functional MRI (fMRI) scans to monitor brain activity for a couple of hours at a time while the patient lies in the scanner.
But fMRIs dont measure brain signals directly, and establishing both a baseline and changes in activity and mood in such a short time is unlikely to give scientists the whole picture. EEG electrodes, on the other hand, directly measure electrical activity in the brain.
The primary drawback to the EEG is simply inconvenience. Patients have to have electrodes placed on their heads, and these have to be monitored. For the most precise measures, however, electrodes are placed between the skull and the brain.
For the new study, the UCSF researchers had a sample of people who were going to be at the hospital - and would have to have open brain surgery regardless. So the team recruited 21 epilepsy patients who were soon to have brain surgery to locate and diffuse the causes of their seizures.
We were surprised to find such a clear and consistent signal, made up of interactions between the amygdala and hippocampus at a specific frequency, which matched changes in the mood seen in these 13 patients, said co-senior study author Dr Vikaas Sohal.
However much larger studies will be needed to confirm the method and it is - so far - quite invasive. But if it can be verified and simplified, the EEG system may tell patients once and for all whether their brains are behaving as they should, or not.
-Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: BJP leader Dr. Swamy expresses displeasure at U.S.
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
BJP leader Dr. Swamy expresses displeasure at U.S.
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Dr. Subramanian Swamy yesterday expressed his displeasure at the US as theyve condemned Sri Lanka for dissolving Parliament and ordering elections ahead of schedule.
In a tweet, he said that the US has come a long way from approving military dictators for putting a lock on Parliament to condemning early elections by a duly elected President.
Swamy hit out at the US adding that a duly elected President such as Maithripala Sirisena has the liberty under the Constitution to call for elections.
==============================
## Title: British automobile extravaganza
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
British automobile extravaganza
Classic Car Club of Ceylon together with Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) celebrated the fourth edition of British Car Day in partnership with HNB the banking partner.This year, the event began with a display of over 70 classical British cars manufactured from 1930s to 1970s at the JLR showroom on Flower Road. Guests were able to enjoy carnival atmosphere with games and other carnival treats.
A special display featuring the new and old was set up inside the JLR showroom with a classicalJaguar E-Type and the all-new Jaguar F Type along with a Land Rover Series 1 and thedistinctive Range Rover.
A vast collection of rare, beautiful and extremely valuable vehicles shown at the British Car Day were then paraded around the streets of Colombo and on lookers were able to have a good, close look at the wonderful pieces of British machinery. The latestrange of Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles were also shown on the day, depicting the grand Jaguar and Land Roverbrand journey through the years.
Jaguar Land Rover, UKs largest automotive manufacturing business is built around two iconic British car brands: Land Rover, the worlds leading manufacturer of premium all-terrain vehicles and Jaguar, one of the worlds premier luxury sports saloon and sports car marques.
==============================
## Title: Broader alliance under common symbol
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:08
Broader alliance under common symbol
Leaders of the leftists parties have decided to form a broader alliance to vie for the upcoming Parliamentary election under a common symbol.
According to Skills Development and Vocational Training Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera, discussions will get underway within the next few days to contest the upcoming Parliamentary election under a common symbol with the blessings of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa.
Minister Jayasekera added that this broader alliance will comprise progressive parties, minority parties and parties representing the plantation community.
Minister Jayasekera said that he will never leave Sri Lanka Freedom Party. Meanwhile, SLFP General Secretary Professor Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa added that all parties will get together to defeat the common enemy at the upcoming election
Housing and Social Welfare Minister Wimal Weerawansa added that they are ready to face the upcoming election under a symbol which is known to all Sri Lankans.
Our alliance will defeat the common enemy  the United National Party at the election, he said
==============================
## Title: Cannabis cultivation raided, two suspects arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Cannabis cultivation raided, two suspects arrested
Bakamuna police raided a cultivation of cannabis in a forest in Elahera, Kirioya yesterday morning.
Two suspects were arrested while they were working in the 8-acre land.
They have been growing cannabis in the guise of a chena cultivation.
Police said the plants were grown up about 7 feet.
The suspects are to be produced before the Bakamuna Magistrates court today.
==============================
## Title: Cinnamons city hotels reduce usage of plastic straws
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Cinnamons city hotels reduce usage of plastic straws
In an effort to reduce harm to marine life and the overall usage of single-use plastic, Cinnamons city hotels have implemented their Last Straw campaign beginning in the month of November. The City properties aim to change attitudes toward the plastic tool that is largely a convenience for most people.
All restaurants and bars at Cinnamon Grand, Cinnamon Lakeside and Cinnamon Red will display awareness posters and tent cards accordingly, informing guests that plastic straws will be provided only on request. By doing so, the hotels hope to encourage guests to refrain from asking for straws and help in the long-term goals of reducing single-use plastics. Not only will the campaign reduce the hotels usage of single-use plastic, but will create awareness of the destruction caused to the environment and threats to marine life, both through guest awareness, as well as that of hotel staff. -TG
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (12-11-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (12-11-2018)]
Parliament stands dissolved!
So, the Parliament stands dissolved whether it is legal or not as some claim. The decision of President Maithripala Sirisena to dissolve parliament could be hailed as an end to the present crisis.
It could also be the beginning of another crisis depending on the nomination of candidates who have alleged accusations of various crimes. Some of our foolish voters may cast their votes on personal affiliations, and some on political party, whether the nomination of the candidate is worthy or not, which is not going to stop the present trend.
What we as voters should judiciously consider are the integrity and past records, if he had been a parliamentarian. Certainly not Cross Overs.
On the other hand, leaders of political parties should see to it that they nominate candidates on their past records of efficiency, honesty and not those self-seekers for favours. I remember former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa once saying what we need are those who love the country and its people and be honest in whatever they do or speak.
It is hoped this golden advice will prevail when nominating candidates by the party leader whom he supports and belong to and also other party leaders which will show how sincere they are.
It is hoped voters are politically educated enough to elect a candidate who will stand by the voter and the country for prosperity.
Let us hope and pray for sanity to prevail over political fanatics and self-seekers.
G. A. D. Sirimal Boralesgamuwa
==============================
## Title: Climate change pushing the world into hunger
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Climate change pushing the world into hunger
South-east Asia is the worlds rice bowl. But climate change, with its unpredictable rainfall and warming seas, is causing harvests to dwindle.
Rising sea levels are threatening rice fields. Meanwhile, the regions growing population is placing greater stress on existing farms.
While the region has managed to rapidly reduce the number of its people who go to bed hungry, around 60.5 million of the worlds undernourished still live in South-east Asia, according to a 2015 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation.
The regions food supply will come under more pressure, with its population tipped to grow from around 600 million today to almost 750 million in 2035.
In the past, the region could rely on increasing rice yields to make up the shortfall, growing more food on the area it farmed.
But yields seem to have plateaued in recent decades, not just for rice but for other main crops such as wheat and maize.
In the early 1980s, the average growth of rice yields was 3.68 per cent yearly. However, by the late 1990s, the rates had significantly decreased to 0.74 per cent per year, according to a study published in 2006.
Climate change only worsens the pressures placed upon South-east Asia. With rising average global temperatures come more extreme weather phenomena such as floods and drought, which make it hard for farmers to plant their harvests properly and protect their crops.
And for a part of the world with coastlines as extensive as in South-east Asia, the rising sea levels caused by climate change will bring even more misery.
Dr Jauhar Ali, a hybrid rice breeder from the International Rice Research Institute (Irri), said that the low-lying Mekong River Delta is being gradually inundated by seawater, which poisons crops.
Even a few centimetres of seawater in rice fields is destructive because once a land is salinised you cant grow anything, said Dr Ali.
In 2014, saltwater intrusion destroyed more than 6,000ha of rice fields, according to the Southern Irrigation Research Institute. And multiple sea dykes in Vietnam's lower Mekong region have collapsed as sea levels rise.
Dr Ali said: With rising sea levels, where will the population go To decreasing space. There will be less land and more pressure on that land.
The major countries that will witness the effects of climate change are Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia and Laos. They are rain-fed areas and will see either more drought or lesser rains, and these disasters dont come knocking at the door to let you know in advance if it will be a drought year or not.
Examples of this are recent and stark. Also, climate change does not even have to hit South-east Asia directly to affect it.
Sri Lanka, for instance, is considered a fully rice self-sufficient country. But last year, they had a severe drought. Sri Lanka then began exploring rice importation from South-east Asian countries, said Irri water management scientist Sudhir Yadav. Dr Yadav added: Even if climate change hits other parts of the world, that will affect global markets and food supply chains, and that can impact South-east Asia, increasing the price of rice here if there is demand elsewhere.
In a similar vein, global warming threatens Singapores food supply, most of which comes from overseas.
Although the Republic is the worlds most food-secure country, according to the Global Food Security Index published last month by the Economist Intelligence Unit, the fact that it imports more than 90 per cent of its food makes it especially vulnerable to climate change, depending on how badly other food-producing countries are hit.
And whatever food Singapore produces can also be affected by climate change. For example, recurring plankton blooms have killed hundreds of tonnes of fish in Singapore's fish farms. In 2015, then Environment and Water Resources Minister Vivian Balakrishnan said the blooms are likely to be a recurrent problem with global warming.
Climate change does not discriminate against specific crops like rice either, and threatens all the main grains that the world depends on.
Nobel Prize winner Richard J. Roberts told The Sunday Times that farmers will need to start planting crops that are resistant to both floods and drought.
Pests are also likely to become a problem, such as the fall armyworm, a devastating caterpillar that attacks maize - a crop whose global production crossed more than 1 billion tonnes in 2013 according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
Sir Roberts, who was in Singapore last month for a public talk organised by Wildtype Group, said that genetic modification was crucial to combat pest outbreaks.
Big agri-business made Bt maize. Bt is this toxin produced by a bacteria that is a very good pesticide, and so instead of spraying it on plants you can put the gene for Bt toxin into maize. At that point, it will then be resistant to the insect, he said.
He said that while critics of genetically modified foods were halting the progress that could be made on that front, he felt that the tide was slowly turning in their favour.
(Straits Times)
==============================
## Title: Conductor crushed to death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Conductor crushed to death
A bus conductor died and a passenger was injured after they were sandwiched between their bus and a lorry.
Police said they were crushed between a lorry that rammed into the bus from behind on the Udawalawa-Thanamalwila main road on Saturday.
The conductor was at the back of the bus storing luggages when the accident took place at around 2 am near the 10th milepost, the police said. The victims were rushed to the Udawalawa Hospital. The conductor was pronounced dead on admission to hospital.
The deceased was identified as Lekamlage Priyantha Kumara, 36, a resident of Ekgal Oya in Dammana. The post mortem was to be performed at the hospital. The lorry driver who sustained minor injuries is at Danduma Hospital under police protection.
Sevanagala Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Create a container vegetable garden
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Create a container vegetable garden
A container vegetable garden that gives you a bountiful harvest of fresh homegrown vegetables and herbs in limited space and also looks appealing and aesthetic!
1. Grow climbers and vines
Support climbing vegetables and vines and direct them upward with the help of a trellis or a cage or by any other way. Such plants use vertical space and are abundant in production. Bitter melon (a unique tropical gourd known for its health benefits), gourds, cucumber, pole beans and other beans, Malabar spinach, vine tomatoes, squashes, peas, if you want to try pumpkin and melons.
2. Choose colorful containers
You can brighten up your container vegetable garden by choosing colorful containers to grow your favourite vegetable and herbs.
3. Use hanging baskets
Dont cast out the idea of growing herbs and vegetables in hanging baskets. Tomatoes, strawberries, many other vegetables, and herbs can be grown in hanging baskets successfully. It also creates space!
4. Start one pot vegetable garden
This one pot vegetable garden idea is perfect if you dont have space to set up a container garden. For those who have a small balcony or open window that receives full sun.
Growing a lemon tree in a pot is not difficult and probably an intelligent addition to your container vegetable garden.8. Give Space to Herbs Your container vegetable garden may look incomplete if you dont grow some herbs. Fresh herbs can enhance the taste of your meal always, so its a great idea. You dont need to grow all the herbs, consider adding 2-3 plants that you like most and suits your location. A window box, a few small containers, hanging baskets, etc. can be used. balconygardenweb
==============================
## Title: Cyclonic storm brewing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Cyclonic storm brewing
The Meteorology Department yesterday warned that the deep depression over the southeast and adjoining central Bay of Bengal will intensify into cyclonic storm Gaja during the next 24 hours.
The Natural Hazards Early Warning Centre of the Department requested the naval and fishing community to be aware of the cyclonic storm and take precautions.
The forecast issued by the centre said the deep depression over the southeast and adjoining central Bay of Bengal moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 12 kmph during the past six hours, intensifying into cyclonic storm Gaja about 1,040 km northeast of Kankasanturai.
It is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards during the next 36 hours and then west-southwestwards towards the north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts during the subsequent 48 hours, the Meteorology Department said.
==============================
## Title: Dialog felicitates Herath
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Dialog felicitates Herath
Champion left-arm spinner, Rangana who retired from all forms of international cricket at the end of the first test at the Galle International Cricket Stadium against England, receiving a plaque of appreciation for his untiring services for Sri Lanka Cricket from Amali Nanayakkara - Group Chief Marketing Officer, Dialog Axiata PLC. Ashley De Silva - CEO, Sri Lanka Cricket, H.T. Kamal Padmasiri - Secretary to the Ministry of Provincial Councils, Local Government and Sports and Harsha Samaranayake - General Manager, Brand and Media, Dialog Axiata PLC are also present.
==============================
## Title: Eggs-actly what were craving for!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Eggs-actly what were craving for!
Located just a ten minute walk from the Museum Of Contemporary Art, downtown Los Angeless very own Grand Central Market gives the ambiance of a small European haunt. First opened in 1917, the market ranges from concept gourmet foods to authentic American classics to ethnic cuisines, satisfying any craving.
At the Broadway street entrance lies Eggslut, a gourmet food concept with a particular love for eggs. Eggslut is known for its delicious food, all of which is inspired by eggs. The gourmet concept venture started as a Los Angeles food truck in 2011. However, in early 2014 co-owners Alvin Cailan and Jeff Vales closed their food truck, expanded their menu and opened up a small shop in the Grand Central Market. No longer tailoring just to breakfast fanatics, Eggslut serves lunch, (with an egg of course!) from 11:30 until closing, for those who may not want a breakfast sandwich for lunch.
Their menu ranges from simple meals, such as the bacon, egg and cheese, to something a bit more sophisticated for foodies, such as the Gaucho (tri-tip steak, chimichurri, red onions, seasoned arugula and an over-medium egg).
Each sandwich is served on their homemade brioche, which is made fresh and warmed before serving. An especially unique dish that Eggslut offers is The Slut. This is potato pure topped with an egg, seasoned to perfection and boiled in a glass jar in order to poach the egg. The dish is served in the jar with a demi-baguette on the side.
With all of their dishes, Eggslut embraces the gourmet food concept by emphasizing the importance of quality and innovation, while also embracing simplicity. Each dish is simple, yet holds a very unique flavor.
The bacon, egg and cheese features house-made chipotle ketchup, while the sausage, egg and cheese is served with a flavour twist of honey mustard aioli. The food also highlights the value of fresh and organic ingredients.
All ingredients are of high quality, and the food is made to order. The menu explains where all the meat is from, informing visitors of their value of quality. Also, conscious of environmental issues, Eggslut serves Box Water is Better, a sustainable water company.
The Culture Trip
==============================
## Title: Eight-try Scotland thrash Fiji 54-17
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Eight-try Scotland thrash Fiji 54-17
EDINBURGH, Saturday: Tommy Seymour scored a hat-trick as Scotland ran in eight tries to beat Fiji 54-17 at Murrayfield on Saturday and claim their first win of the Autumn internationals.
Allan Dell, Fraser Brown, Sean Maitland, Jamie Ritchie and Adam Hastings also scored tries as the Scots survived an early scare when scores from Viliame Mata and Semi Radradra gave Fiji a 17-14 lead.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Expolanka records Rs 4.4bn PBT in 2Q
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Expolanka records Rs 4.4bn PBT in 2Q
A focus on its fundamental logistics business has enabled Expolanka Holdings PLC to post promising growth for the second quarter of 2018, with a Year on Year (YOY) revenue growth of 15%.
This quarter saw Expolanka record an impressive 617% YoY growth in Profit After Tax as a result of expanding business and improving efficiency during the period.
In a message to shareholders, Executive Director and Group CEO Hanif Yusoof noted that the groups financial stabilization was a result of continued efforts to improve margin efficiency coupled with growth in revenue. During this quarter the company recorded a revenue of Rs 25 bn, and a gross profit of Rs 4.4 bn. The logistics sector generated Rs 23.9 bn of the revenue.
Expolanka marked this robust growth streak by focusing on growing volume and market share in its key business sectors of logistics and leisure. This growth strategy aligned well with a global upturn in the logistics sector; the Trans-Pacific trade lane in particular saw strong growth during the period contributing to the sectors overall performance. Expolankas core air export product remained strong, and the ocean product was able to sustain the growth momentum it has recorded over the last several quarters.
The operating environment for the business overall remains competitive and challenging, noted Yusoof. However, bringing in focus and implementing pre-emptive strategies has enabled the group to deliver this good performance. We will endeavour to continue focusing on key business drivers such as volume, procurement, and operational efficiencies with a view to mitigating challenges from the external environment.
In leisure, consolidation and sustainable earnings was the key growth focus that paid off with a 56% YoY Profit After Tax growth for the quarter. This figure was in line with expectations, noted Mr Yusoof. We are seeing a tremendous growth in our core corporate travel business, which is driving growth in the leisure sector. This is complemented by the management teams continued implementation of plans to optimize the performance within these businesses, he said.
In Investments, export operations continued to remain stable, delivering projected results. IT operations (that primarily provide internal services) maintained its cost structures from the previous year with a focus on creating strategic value to the group. The sectors overall contribution to the topline was Rs 774 mn.
Yusoof reiterated the groups commitment to the fundamentals. This year we have focused on growing key business lines, and that strategy is delivering results, he added
About Expolanka Holdings:
Expolanka Holdings PLC has been in operation since 1978 and has a workforce of over 2300 employees. Headquartered in Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Groups network spans 18 countries in Asia, Africa, USA and the Middle East.
==============================
## Title: Fairway Colombo wins Haute Grandeur Global Excellence Awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Fairway Colombo wins Haute Grandeur Global Excellence Awards
One of Colombos most favoured city hotels, Fairway Colombo was awarded the prestigious Haute Grandeur Global Excellence Awards under three categories; the Best Business Hotel in Sri Lanka, the Best New Hotel (less than 3 years) in Sri Lanka and the Best Activity Hotel in Sri Lanka. The gala award ceremony was held on November 1 at the Palazzo Versace, Dubai, UAE.
Over the past two years since inception, Fairway Colombo has evolved into being one of the most sought after business hotels, located in the center of Colombo.
The ultra-high tech facilities, and reliable and efficient service have attracted business and leisure travelers alike. The hotel has also built a vibrant atmosphere in the Hospital Street, with its numerous events that are attracting large crowds of foreigners and locals alike.
Being awarded the Haute Grandeur Global Hotel Awards, which rewards outstanding hotel experiences, is truly a great achievement for us. From inception, we have focused on giving our guests the best of modern facilities combined with Sri Lankan hospitality so that they have a unique and memorable experience staying with us and visiting Sri Lanka. This accolade validates the fact that we are in the right path, commented Saman Perera, General Manager of Fairway Colombo.
Recognized as one of the most prestigious events on the luxury hospitality calendar, the Haute Grandeur Global Awards is an independent and unbiased initiative to honour excellent achievements in the hotel industry from a global perspective.
Initiated in 2014, it recognizes exceptional contributions by outstanding hotels. The results are based on quality feedback from guests, rather than the quantity of vote. Each year, top luxury hospitality brands vie for the ultimate accolade in overall excellence. Only the best of the best is recognized for exceptional achievements and greatest contribution to the industry.
The hospitality industry is highly competitive. Only those who constantly exceed attain prestige, says Haute Grandeur Founder and President, Marinique de Wet. Healthy competition is essential to inspire excellence because it ensures sustainability in the most prosperous industries  those that create jobs globally. Association with Haute Grandeur guarantees participating establishments status and distinction. We are proud to contribute to raising the standards of excellence in hospitality worldwide.
Haute Grandeur Global Awards are recognized as a guaranteed golden stamp of excellence, with associated establishments perceived as the benchmark in the industry. By awarding only the most remarkable, Haute Grandeur inspires exceptional hotels, spas and restaurants to achieve even greater heights.
==============================
## Title: Former PM, police officer behind coup - Minister Chamal
## Supertitle: Conspiracy to kill President, Former Defence Secretary
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Conspiracy to kill President, Former Defence Secretary
Former PM, police officer behind coup - Minister Chamal
Health, Nutrition and Media Minister Chamal Rajapaksa said a conspiracy was made to assassinate President Maithripala Sirisena and former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and a high ranking police officer and former Prime Minister were allegedly in the coup.
He said the Speaker of Parliament had issued statements regarding the proroguing of Parliament and other matters unconstitutionally.
The Minister said that if the President had acted contrary to the Constitution, any one can seek Supreme Court clarification on the issue.
The previous government safeguarded the honour and integrity of State posts without attempting to cling on to power. When war heroes and priests were jailed without valid reasons, the people urged the President to protect them. He appointed Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister to save the country, he said.
The Minister said he held the speaker post once but he never acted unconstitutionally but impartially. - RW
==============================
## Title: Global call for dignity and respect for all
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Global call for dignity and respect for all
UNESCO observes the International Day for Tolerance on Friday, November 16. All over the world it will be a time for people to learn about respecting and recognising the rights and beliefs of others. It will also be a time of reflection and debate on the negative effects of intolerance. Live discussions and debates will take place across diverse borders on this day, focusing on how various forms of injustice, oppression, racism and unfair discrimination have a negative impact on society.
We are all aware that the human family is extremely varied with many different beliefs, cultures and ways of life. Several conflicts in our world are caused when people are intolerant of the ways that others see the world. Learning tolerance is an important cornerstone to creating a better world. If a person is intolerant of other ideas, races, or religions, we call that person a bigot. The intolerance expressed by that bigot is called bigotry. Bigotry is ugly.
There are different types of bigotry  such as religious bigotry or racist bigotry. Although bigotry can mean any form of intolerance or prejudice, when the word is used alone, it is most often understood to mean racial bigotry.
What actually is tolerance Tolerance is the most necessary quality of man. It is one of the conditions of good manners. Intolerance often leads to the worst type of calamities. So, that is why we must place so much importance on tolerance. When we don't know about other cultures, religions or nations we sometimes fear them. Education is the most important way to promote tolerance. Teaching people what our shared rights and freedoms are is the first step in tolerance education. Learning about other cultures is also important to help us see the similarities between all cultures and to respect and celebrate our differences.
Laws are necessary but not sufficient for countering intolerance in individual attitudes. Intolerance is very often rooted in ignorance and fear.
It is unfounded fear of the unknown, of other cultures, nations and religions. Intolerance is also closely linked to an exaggerated sense of self-worth and pride, whether personal, national or religious. These notions are taught and learned at an early age. As such, greater emphasis needs to be placed to teach children about tolerance and human rights and about other ways of life. Children should be encouraged at home and in school to be open-minded and curious.
Education is a life-long experience and does not begin or end in school. Endeavours to build tolerance through education will not succeed unless they reach all age groups and take place everywhere. Yes, this means at home, in school, in the workplace, in law-enforcement and legal training and not least in entertainment and on the information highways.
Fighting intolerance basically requires access to information. Intolerance is most dangerous when it is exploited to fulfil the political and territorial ambitions of an individual or groups of individuals. Hate-mongers often begin by identifying the public's tolerance threshold. They then develop fallacious arguments, lie with statistics and manipulate public opinion with misinformation and prejudice.
The most efficient way to limit the influence of hate-mongers is to develop policies that generate and promote media freedom and pluralism in order to allow the public to differentiate between facts and bigoted opinions.
Still, fighting intolerance requires individual awareness. Intolerance in a society is the sum-total of the intolerance of its individual members. Bigotry, stereotyping, stigmatising, insults and racial jokes are examples of individual expressions of intolerance to which some people are subjected to daily. Intolerance breeds intolerance. It leaves its victims in pursuit of revenge. In order to fight intolerance individuals should become aware of the link between their behaviour and the vicious cycle of mistrust and violence in society. Each one of us should do some soul-searching in this sphere and begin by asking ourselves: Am I a tolerant person Do I stereotype people Do I reject those who are different from me Do I blame my problems on them
Yet, fighting intolerance requires local solutions. Many people know that tomorrow's problems will be increasingly global but few realise that solutions to global problems are mainly local, even individual. When confronted with an escalation of intolerance around us, we must not wait for governments and institutions to act alone.
We are all part of the solution. We should not feel powerless for we actually possess an enormous capacity to wield power. Nonviolent action is a way of using that power - the power of people. Among the tools of nonviolent action are putting a group together to confront a problem, to organise a grassroots network, to demonstrate solidarity with victims of intolerance. Also ways to discredit hateful propaganda are available to all those who want to put an end to intolerance, violence, bigotry and hatred.
UNESCO's Declaration of Principles on Tolerance defines tolerance as respect, acceptance and appreciation of the rich diversity of our world's cultures, our forms of expression and ways of being humane. It is fostered by knowledge, openness, communication, and freedom of thought, conscience and belief. Tolerance, in other words could be called harmony in difference. That is not to say that fighting intolerance would be a cakewalk for even the most devoted towards this task. Building tolerance and trust in diverse communities takes time and commitment. Tolerance Day is an opportunity to see what progress has been made throughout the year and rededicate our commitment to promoting acceptance, respect, cooperation and dialogue between different cultures in our communities and between nations.
It leads us to respect cultural diversity, ways of life and expressions of our own humanity. It is a necessary condition for peace and progress for all people in a diversified and ever-more connected world. In a globalized world, home to people from many cultures and backgrounds and flooded with pictures and information about other peoples, tolerance is the cornerstone of sustainable citizenship. In addition, it teaches that a persons racial or religious background is inconsequential to the potential for tolerance and friendship between them.
Along with outright injustice and violence, discrimination and marginalisation are common forms of intolerance. Education for tolerance should aim at countering influences that lead to fear and exclusion of others and should help young people develop capacities for independent judgement, critical thinking and ethical reasoning. The diversity of our world's many religions, languages, cultures and ethnicities is not a pretext for conflict, but is a treasure that enriches us all.
History reminds us of the massive human toll taken when hatred and bigotry rear their ugly heads and go unchallenged or infect and persist within society. The same history, however, also gives us many examples of heroic and principled efforts to build and sustain human progress  achieved through the inspiring bravery and resolve of many in generations before.
Embracing diversity and having no tolerance for bigotry just needs to happen in all sectors of the world for racism to ever be a thing of the past.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Heroin queen arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Heroin queen arrested
A woman known as heroin queen was arrested at Dodampahala in Dikwella by Dikwella police with a stock of heroin worth Rs.30 lakhs.
Police said she lives in luxury and four cases are heard against her for drug dealing.
She is a mother of two. She was to be produced before the Matara Magistrates Courts. Dikwella police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Hilton's annual Thrive Sabbatical 2019 winners announced
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Hilton's annual Thrive Sabbatical 2019 winners announced
Hilton has announced the ten global winners selected for its annual Thrive Sabbatical 2019. The program awards each winner an all-expenses paid four-week sabbatical to pursue a cause that is closest to their hearts; a stipend of US$ 5,000 and a travel camera to document their memories.
This year, Hilton announces two winners from the Asia Pacific region, both hailing from South East Asia: Hilton Garden Inn Singapore Serangoons Angel Hu and Hilton Colombo Residences Minoli Senanayake.
Paul Hutton, vice president, operations for Hilton in South East Asia said, In 2018, Hilton was recognized as the Best Multinational Workplace in Asia, and a Great Place to Work in nine countries including India, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and the United States. We are constantly looking for the best ways to provide our Team Members with meaningful opportunities that will allow them to live their best every day and the Thrive Sabbatical program enables 10 of them each year to grow and flourish as individuals as we provide the resources and time they need to fulfil what might be a lifelong dream.
==============================
## Title: Hotel owner in Mawathagama fined
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Hotel owner in Mawathagama fined
A hotel owner was fined Rs. 40,000 by Peelessa Magistrate Champika Rjapakse for running it without a licence.
Mawathagama MOH Lanka Amarasinghe prosecuted.
A senior police officer told Daily News that 56 PHIs were deployed to inspect the regional hotels and about 267 errant hoteliers were nabbed in the past seven months.
==============================
## Title: IFS South Asia operations reports  double-digit growth in 3Q
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
IFS South Asia operations reports  double-digit growth in 3Q
IFScompanys South Asia operations were impressive and had a fantastic double-digit growth for the third quarter 2018, recording an impressive 44% overall revenue growth with license up by 53% compared to last year.
Maintenance revenue grew 13%, indicating more and more of our customers are on boarding the Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) plan, said Shiraz Lye, Managing Director and Vice President Sales, IFS South Asia at a media briefing at Galle Face Hotel, Colombo.
Our growth rates are very impressive compared to similar companies in the country and some of our peers within the group.
IFS, the global enterprise applications company, is proud to be celebrating 21 years of operations in Sri Lanka. Having initially established its presence in Sri Lanka in 1997, IFS now employs more than 1,100 employees who work from the companys offices in Colombo and Kandy.
IFS counts over 120 of Sri Lankas top companies as customers of its enterprise software. These customers use IFS solutions to manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations.
Stephen Keys, IFS Regional President, Asia-Pacific and Japan, Middle East and Africa, commenting on IFS from a global and regional perspective, said, We recognize the importance of Sri Lanka as a vital source of skills and knowledge to support our regional and global businesses. We are committed to a number of corporate social responsibility programs in Sri Lanka, so we can give back to the community in which we operate. This has helped create a mutually beneficial partnership between our staff, our company, our customers and the community.
Thomas Sld, IFS Senior Vice President Research and Development, speaking about IFS R&D and new product initiatives, said, We develop, sell, implement and support world-leading solutions for customers who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations. We would not be able to do that without our operations here in Sri Lanka.
This is our largest site with more than 1,000 people where we do around 60% of the development and 80% of the support of our products. As an example, IFS Applications 10, which was launched earlier this year, has, to a large extent, been developed here in Sri Lanka.
IFS Labs, which is the unit within IFS that investigates new technology and trends, does almost all developments here in Sri Lanka as well. Right now, one focus for them are different aspects of artificial intelligence. So Sri Lanka is of vital importance to IFS and we are looking forward to increasing our investment in Sri Lanka even further over the coming years.
Ranil Rajapakse, Senior Vice President and Head of IFS World Operations in Sri Lanka, said, Apart from being the largest product research and development center for IFS, we have grown to become the hub for providing consulting and support services to our customers around the world.
With 1,100 of IFSs global staff of 3,500 based in Sri Lanka, the Sri Lankan business is an integral part of the global IFS group, which is a testament to the great pool of talent we have.
==============================
## Title: Innovative Heli-stage
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Innovative Heli-stage
In eastern Chinas city of Shaoxing, a cylindrical tube with a spiraling staircase cut into the middle is the centerpiece of a new commercial center. Designed by Shanghai-based architecture firm ATAH, the Heli-stage is a masterful showcase of their vision for a continuous exhibition space.
The Heli-stage seamlessly blends indoor and outdoor space and is located at the main entrance of the China Textile Center (CTC-also designed by ATAH. The CTC, which sits at the heart of the Keqiao Science City, mixes artistic and commercial areas that highlight Keqiaos status as an important hub for the production and trade of textiles. Nothing emphasizes that union of ideas more than the Heli-stage, with its functional spiral staircase doubling as a stage. The glazed cylinder is composed of interlocking geometric shapes, which seem woven together into an exoskeleton that wraps around the buildings steel inner-core. Sleek, yet dramatic, its easy to imagine the emotional impact of a performer slowly descending the spiral onto center stage.
To celebrate the concept, the studio launched a joint venture with jewelry designer iRiffle. The resulting limited edition pendant pays homage to the shape and form of this dynamic piece of contemporary architecture.
Metro
==============================
## Title: Jaffna flood affected receive relief
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Jaffna flood affected receive relief
President Maithripala Sirisena instructed regional authorities and State institutions to provide relief immediately for the flood affected, Eastern Province Governor Rohitha Bogolgamma said.
He was addressing officials of the Batticaloa Disaster Management Committee at the district secretariat on Saturday.
Providing transport, education, medicines, drinking water, relocation and nature of the disasters were discussed and the Governor directed the relevant officials to provide relief.
The Vakarai, Kiran, Eravur Pattu, Vellaveli, Paddipalai and Vavunativu Secretarial Divisions were the most affected.
Jaffna received heavy rains for six days and 16,632 families were affected.
The Governor said fund will be given to renovate State institutions. Over 2,945 persons of 853 families were displaced and they received cooked food.
Batticaloa Government Agent M.Uthayakumar, Mayor T. Saravanapavan, Former Agriculture Minister Eastern Province K.Thurairajasingam, Secretary to the Governor U.L.A.Azzez, Former Health Minister Eastern Province M.S.Subair, Heads of the Tri Forces, Divisional Secretaries and Chairman of the Local Government Bodies participated.
==============================
## Title: Japan to enhance defence cooperation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Japan to enhance defence cooperation
Japan plans to further expand defence cooperation and exchanges with Sri Lanka which will benefit both nations in the future, a spokesman for the Japanese Defence Ministry said.
The Ministry spokesman said Japans defence corporation and exchanges with Sri Lanka which are largely confined to maritime related matters will expand to other sectors such as the Army and Air Force in the future.
Sri Lanka is a maritime country located at a strategic point in the middle of the Indian Ocean sea lane. Therefore Sri Lanka is so important for Japan to maintain and promote our foreign policy Open and Stable Seas, he added.
The Spokesman also said that Sri Lanka is also important for smooth operations of the Japan  Self-Defence Forces (JSDF) since ships and aircraft of JSDF make frequent port calls in Sri Lanka.
Highlighting some of the recent defence related exchanges the spokesman said, JSDF ships and aircraft conduct passage exercises at port of calls since 2011 and JMODSDF has been providing capacity building programmes with Sri Lanka since 2018.
Among more recent exchanges he highlighted the visits of Japanese ships Kaga and Inazuma to Colombo port and said they were mutually beneficial.
He said Sri Lanka has participated in the Tokyo Defence forum since 2007 and has participated in the annual Multinational Corporation programme in the Asia Pacific (MCAP) since 2010 and Western Pacific Naval Symposium Short Term Exchange programme for Officers of the Next Generation (WPNS STEP) every year since 2013. He also said Japan has taken part in the Galle Dialogue organized by the Sri Lanka Navy every year and for the first time had taken part in the Air Symposium organized by Sri Lanka Air Force in 2016. The Spokesman also highlighted then Japanese Defense Minister Onoderas official visit to Sri Lanka in August 2018.
The Japanese Ministers visit to Sri Lanka further enhanced the defense cooperation between the two countries he added.
Recalling Minister Onoderas visit to the strategically located Hambantota port, operated jointly by Sri Lanka and a Chinese firm, the spokesman said the Sri Lankan Government had assured that the operations of the port will be transparent and it will only be used for commercial purposes.
==============================
## Title: JKH makes highest contribution  to turnover with Rs 5.20 bn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
JKH makes highest contribution  to turnover with Rs 5.20 bn
The Bourse ended the week on a negative note as the ASPI decreased by 113.58 points (or -1.86%) to close at 5,978.63 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also decreased by 114.22 points (or -3.56%) to close at 3,094.21 points.
Turnover and market capitalization 
JKH was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 5.20Bn or 66.60% of total turnover value. NDB followed suit, accounting for 10.36% of turnover (value of LKR 0.81Bn) while Sampath Bank contributed LKR 0.51Bn to account for 6.55% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 7.80Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 9.92Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 1.95Bn (-1.66% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 1.98Bn. 
Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 1.86% W-o-W (or LKR 53.29Bn) to LKR 2,804.85Bn cf. LKR 2,858.14Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms) 
The Diversified sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 67.83% (or LKR 5.29Bn) of market turnover. Sector turnover was driven primarily by JKH & Melstacorp which accounted for 99.34% of the sectors total turnover.
The Banks, Finance & Insurance sector meanwhile accounted for 21.38% (or LKR 1.67Bn) of the total turnover value, with turnover driven primarily by NDB, Sampath Bank, HNB,LB Finance & Vallibel Finance which accounted for 89.27% of the sector turnover.
The Manufacturing sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 6.68% (or LKR 0.52Bn) to the market driven by Chevron & Teejay Lanka which accounted for 84.63% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms) 
The Diversified sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 42.36% (or 40.56Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 5.29Bn. The Banks, Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 21.77% to total turnover volume as 20.84Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR 1.67Bn of total market turnover value. The Manufacturing sector meanwhile, contributed 12.24Mn shares (or 12.79%), amounting to LKR 0.52Bn.
Top gainers and losers 
Adam Investments was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 100.0% W-o-W from LKR0.10 to LKR0.20 while SMB Leasing (+25.0% W-o-W), Softlogic Life (+11.2% W-o-W) and Udapussellawa (+11.1% W-o-W) were also amongst the top gainers.
Eden Hotel was the weeks highest price loser; declining 16.6% W-o-W to close at LKR12.10 while Softlogic Finance (-16.4% W-o-W), Lanka Aluminium (-13.2% W-o-W) and Lighthouse Hotel (-12.7% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net selling position with total net outflow amounting to LKR 3.92Bn relative to last weeks total net outflow of LKR 3.86Bn (-1.47% W-o-W). Total foreign purchases decreased by 45.40% W-o-W to LKR 1.45Bn from last weeks value of LKR 2.66Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 5.37Bn relative to LKR 6.52Bn recorded last week (-17.63% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Anilana Hotels & NDB led foreign purchases while JKH & Access Engineering led foreign sales. In terms of value, NDB & Anilana Hotels led foreign purchases while JKH & Access Engineering led foreign sales.
Point of view 
Domestic political uncertainty continued to dominate market movement this week with the broadshare Index falling ~2% from its 2-month high last week. Equity markets in most Emerging and Frontier market peers by contrast, hit one-month highs as investors perceived the outcome from the US mid-term elections (ie: a divided Congress) positively.
Sri Lankas benchmark Index however, recorded consecutive losses between Mon-Thur, falling ~162 points as last weeks heavy local retail and institutional buying eased-off amid some profit-taking from last weeks market rally and as the countrys political stalemate worsened over the week. On Friday however, the ASPI rebounded, gaining ~48 points to pare down the weeks earlier losses. Activity levels too remained robust despite the holiday-shortened trading week, and average weekly turnover remained in line with that of last weeks average of Rs.2.0Bn.
Foreign investors on the Colombo Bourse meanwhile continued to remain net sellers over the week, maintaing their pace of selling amid the ongoing political fallout. Foreigners sales amounted to Rs5.4Bn during the week cf. Rs.6.5Bn last week, and the majority of selling was in Sri Lankas main blue-chip JKH which was collected by key local HNIs. Foreign selling on JKH totaled Rs.4.4Bn, but foreign buying in NDB (Rs.0.4Bn) and Anilana Hotels (Rs.0.2Bn) helped pare down the net selling on the market to Rs. 3.9Bn.
Net outflows from domestic equities in Q418 so far has risen to Rs.11.4Bn cf. just Rs.6.2Bn recorded between Jan-Sep18. Political developments surrounding the reconvening of parliament next week is likely to influence market movement in the week ahead.
The foreign sell-off on Sri Lankan capital markets continued this week, with net outflows of Rs. 10Bn from Govt. Bond markets and net outflows of Rs.3.9Bn from Sri Lankan equities pushing the LKR 0.5% lower against the USD this week.
The LKR has lost 1.3% of its value since the start of the political crisis on Oct26, adding to the 11% loss on the LKR up till then and taking the cumulative YTD loss on the LKR to 12% to make the LKR one of the worst performing EM/FM currencies so far this year.

==============================
## Title: Komarika Ela farmers ask for water
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Komarika Ela farmers ask for water
The Komarika Ela Amuna farmer community has not received water for their cultivation since many places of the Komarika Canal have sunk and were damaged.
The community was to be provided with water on October 20 but the issue of the Komarika Canal delayed the supply.
Farmers of the area urge the Irrigation Department to repair the canal as soon as possible and supply water for their livelihoods. Even though they received rain water now, it is not enough to carry out cultivation unabated, they said.
Irrigation Department sources said the canal will be repaired very soon and the water supply will commence thereafter.
Komarika Ela is under the Kandaketiya Regional Engineering Office and the canal supplies water for over 1,420 acres of paddy fields.
==============================
## Title: Kottawa Ananda win by 18 runs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Kottawa Ananda win by 18 runs
Ananda Vidyalaya Kottawa beat St. Benedicts College Kotahena by 18 runs on first innings in their inter-school under 13 division three tournament cricket match played at Muthuwella. Taking the first lease Bens were all out for 152 runs with Deshaka Dias scoring 50 runs and Chatuka Rashmika claimed 4 for 50 runs and in reply at the close Kottawa Ananda were 170 for 7 with Adesh Rashmika scoring 69 runs.
Chief Scores
St. Benedicts  152 in 53.1 overs  (Deshaka Dias 50, Haren Olagama 22, Chatuka Rashmika 4/50, Charith Devnath 3/19.
Ananda Vidyalaya  170/7 in 44 overs  (Adesh Rashmika 69, Kaveen Madushka 20, Akalanka Lakmal 25, Haren Olagama 2/40, Deshaka Dias 3/34.
==============================
## Title: Lanka suffer double blow ahead of Pallekele Test
## Supertitle: Injured Chandimal out of series, Dananjaya reported for suspect bowling action
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Injured Chandimal out of series, Dananjaya reported for suspect bowling action
Lanka suffer double blow ahead of Pallekele Test
Sri Lanka who lost the first cricket Test to England at Galle by 211 runs suffered a double blow ahead of the second Test commencing at Pallekele International Stadium on Wednesday when captain Dinesh Chandimal was ruled out for the rest of the series and to compound matters spinner Akila Dananjaya has been reported with a suspected bowling action.
Chandimal who suffered a grade one tear in the groin while fielding during the first Test at Galle has been ruled out for two weeks which affectively reduces his chances of playing in the third Test starting at the SSC on November 23 as well.
Sri Lanka will be captained by senior fast bowler Suranga Lakmal for the second and third Tests.
Lakmal captained Sri Lanka in the third Test against West Indies at Barbados and also in the two Tests against South Africa at home when Chandimal was serving a ban.
Remarkably Sri Lanka won all three Tests under his leadership  the win over West Indies enabling them to share the three-Test series one-all and the wins over South Africa giving them a clean 2-0 sweep of the series.
Sri Lanka find themselves 0-1 down in the three Test series against England and Lakmal will need to draw up all his resources to uplift the team if they are to stop England from taking a winning 2-0 lead at Pallekele.
Uncapped Charith Asalanka has been called up to the squad as Chandimals replacement. Asalanka scored a forceful half-century (68) against England in the second warm-up game played at the CCC.
DANANJAYA REPORTED
Akila Dananjaya reported for suspect bowling action.
The reporting of Dananjayas suspect bowling action by the ICC will be of great concern for Sri Lanka.
The ICC media release states: The match officials report, which was handed over to the Sri Lanka team management, cited concerns about the legality of the 25-year-olds bowling action.
Dananjayas bowling action will now be scrutinised further under the ICC process relating to suspected illegal bowling actions reported in Tests, ODIs and T20Is. He is required to undergo testing within 14 days and, during this period, Dananjaya is permitted to continue bowling in international cricket until the results of the testing are known.
At the end of the Galle Test Sri Lankas long-standing left-arm spinner Rangana Herath quit international cricket and as they were looking for a replacement spinner for him comes the news of the legality of Dananjayas bowling action. Dananjaya will still be eligible to play, but what effect it will have on his bowling remains to be seen. He took two wickets in the Galle Test for 183 runs.
Malinda Pushpakumara, a left-arm spinner is the likely replacement for Herath while Sri Lanka still have the services of off-spinner Dilruwan Perera who will now becomes the senior spinner in the side and also Lakshan Sandakan who bowls left-arm chinaman.
SENANAYAKE QUITS AS MANAGER
Meanwhile in another development Charith Senanayake as resigned as manager of the Sri Lanka team at the end of the first Test at Galle citing personal reasons according to an SLC media release.
The Daily News reported on Friday that there were moves to oust Senanayake from the team as manager and in his resignation letter to SLC he has stated that if his presence is detrimental to the teams performances he should not be there. Jerry Woutersz has been appointed to take his place with immediate effect.
The Sri Lanka team will now have two national selectors serving them. Woutersz in addition to his managerial duties is also a national selector and Chandika Hathurusingha who is the head coach also serves in the selection committee as a selector.
==============================
## Title: Leicester pay emotional tribute to Vichai, Foyth fires Spurs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Leicester pay emotional tribute to Vichai, Foyth fires Spurs
LONDON, Saturday - Leicester paid an emotional tribute to late owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha before their goalless draw against Burnley, while Juan Foyths first goal for Tottenham earned a 1-0 victory at Crystal Palace on Saturday.
Thai billionaire Vichai was among five people killed when his helicopter crashed outside the King Power Stadium on October 27.
Ahead of their first home game since the tragic accident, around 10,000 Leicester fans were joined by Foxes players including Harry Maguire and James Maddison on a march towards the King Power in remembrance of Vichai.
Under Vichais ownership, Leicester won the Premier League in 2016, having started the season as 5,000-1 outsiders.
On Friday, Leicester announced plans to erect a statue of Vichai at the stadium and the club honoured the charismatic owner with a poignant tribute video and a two-minute silence prior to kick-off. Vichais son Aiyawatt laid a wreath and tears flowed around the King Power as fans held up scarves with the slogan Forever in our hearts.
There was also applause in the 60th minute to mark Vichais age when he died.
Leicester, who beat Cardiff 1-0 in their first game following Vichais death, had flown many of their squad to Thailand for part of the owners funeral.
Claude Puels side shrugged off any fatigue with a dominant display against Burnley, but they couldnt find what would have been a fitting winner.
It was difficult with a lot of emotion around the game. We were unlucky but I was proud of the players performance because they gave their best in this situation, Puel said.
It was a tough week to prepare this game without training sessions and a long journey to Bangkok.
I hope we can continue this response to honour our chairman.
At rain-lashed Selhurst Park, Foyth headed in from close range in the 66th minute to ensure the defenders second league start for Tottenham went better than the first.
The 20-year-old Argentine had given away two penalties as Tottenham nearly threw away a three-goal lead in last weekends 3-2 win at Wolves.
Tottenham stay in fourth place, moving level on points with second-placed Chelsea and third-placed Liverpool, who both play on Sunday.
Mauricio Pochettinos side, who lost Kieran Trippier and Erik Lamela to injuries at Selhurst, are also four points above fifth-placed Arsenal, who host Wolves on Sunday.
Im so pleased because the team fought well under difficult circumstances and got the three points, Pochettino said.
Its fantastic for Foyth. He played so well. He needs to learn and keep improving but he is a very good prospect for us.
Newcastle sealed a second successive league win for the first time in nine months, beating Bournemouth 2-1 at St James Park.
Salomon Rondon scored his first Premier League goal for Newcastle when the on-loan West Brom striker netted from close range in the seventh minute.
Rondon doubled Newcastles advantage five minutes before half-time, then Jefferson Lerma reduced the deficit with his first goal for Bournemouth in first half stoppage-time.
Southampton have gone eight league games without a win after Watford snatched a 1-1 draw at St Marys.
Mark Hughes team, thrashed 6-1 by Manchester City last weekend, took the lead in the 20th minute when Manolo Gabbiadini struck for his first goal of the season.
It was Southamptons first league goal in open play for 615 minutes.
Referee Simon Hooper was under fire when Southamptons Charlie Austin had a second-half goal controversially ruled out for offside against Maya Yoshida, who was stood near the ball but did not touch it.
Watfords Jose Holebas added to Southamptons frustration with an 82nd-minute equaliser that took a big deflection off Southamptons Cedric Soares.
Its ridiculous. We scored a perfectly good goal that was ruled out. The officials cost us two points, Austin fumed.
They said it was offside, that is a joke. People go on about VAR, if this is the best, most-watched league in the world then give them all the help they need.
Sol Bambas last-gasp goal gave struggling Cardiff a 2-1 win over 10-man Brighton.
Huddersfield remain in the bottom three after West Ham salvaged a 1-1 draw at the John Smiths Stadium.
 AFP
==============================
## Title: Life, Interrupted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Life, Interrupted
Be forewarned. If you are filled with the same kind of cynicism that courses through the veins of Mercutio, if you are allergic to sentimentality, and everything that comes with the tag called true love, this story is not for you. In all honesty, it would not be right to place Robert James Wallers Bridges of Madison County on the same pedestal with Anna Karenina, Madame Bovary, Pride and Prejudice or even Romeo and Juliet. Yet, The Bridges of Madison County which was on The New York Times bestseller list for three years, eventually outselling Gone With the Wind and inspiring a film adaptation starring Clint Eastwood and Meryl Streep, has a charm and sweetness that reaches places the classics fear to tread.
The story begins with Robert Kincaid, a lean, free-spirited 52-year-old photographer who packs a Nikon into his pickup and travels to Iowas Madison County, the location of seven covered bridges he is to photograph for National Geographic. There, he asks directions of Francesca Johnson, alone at home for four days while her husband and two children visit the Illinois State Fair. Initially, neither Robert nor Francesca expects their random encounter to lead to a deep connection, yet their mutual attraction is undeniable.
Francesca, an Italian war bride, 45 years old sees in Robert Kincaid a dream figure, tall and thin and hard, moving like the grass itself, without effort, gracefully. As she guides him to a nearby bridge and afterwards invites him for iced tea and then supper he talks of poetry, art, and how he writes, First you must have the images, then come the words. Francesca is thrilled:  People in Madison County didnt talk this way, about these things. The talk was about weather and farm prices and new babies and funerals and government programs. As they talk Francesca transforms from a bored farm wife to the girl in Italy she once was, dreaming of unknown adventures. She invites Richard back for supper the next night, and with the help of a moonlit walk and Yeats poetry, they find themselves on the way to reaching the ecstatic oneness that lovers are known to reach. It is a certainty, says Robert, that comes only once, and never again, no matter how many lifetimes you live.
At the end of the four days when he wants her to leave with him, Francesca finds the notion enormously attractive. She envies his life of travel, but deep down she knows she will never leave her husband. Whats he like Robert asks. Hes very clean, she replies. Hard-working . . . gentle . . . a good father.
And he is. The story never makes the mistake of portraying Richard Johnson as a bad husband. But he is a man of few words. With Robert Kincaid, there is much conversation; they talk of their ideals, their taste for vegetarian meals, of the amazing places Robert has seen in his travels.
In some ways, Robert and Francesca are avatars of Anna and Vronsky (Francesca too is married to a man she has little in common with), Darcy and Elizabeth Bennet (one completes the other), Romeo and Juliet (brief intense encounters). Yet, unlike Anna who breaks up her marriage, unlike Romeo and Juliet whose love paves the way for their deaths, Robert and Francesca act with caution and make decisions in the best interest of others even when this means there will no longer be any light in either of their lives from now on.
We are the choices that we have made, Robert, she reminds him. He accepts her decision to remain with her family, drives off and never sees her again. Yet, he confesses in a letter he sends her So here I am walking around with another person inside of me. Though I think I put it better the day we parted when I said there is a third person we have created from the two of us. And I am stalked now by that other entity.But, I am, after all, a man. And all the philosophic rationalizations I can conjure up do not keep me from wanting you, every day, every moment, the merciless wail of time, of time I can never spend with you, deep within my head.
Waller tells their story as though it were nonfiction, claiming to have heard about Francesca from her children after her death, read her journals, seen Roberts relics of those four days and interviewed a jazz musician who knew the photographer.
This adds such a sense of reality to the story that after the book was published the National Geographic was flooded with inquiries from readers wanting to know more about the life and times of their photographer, Robert Kincaid.
It is easy to reveal the mechanism behind Bridges, but more difficult to explain why this bittersweet tale of lingering memories and forsaken possibilities is so deeply moving. We know from page one that they will meet, and fall in love and until Robert leaves, we hope against hope that the ending would not be so sad. And yet the inevitable happens. Robert drives off, crying. When he turns back for one last look he sees her sitting, cross-legged in the dust where the lane began, her head in her hands.
Francesca and Robert are Darcy and Lizzy, grown old. They are Darcy and Lizzy with baggage. The flowering of their love will be forever deferred; they know they are right for each other, but they will not follow up on this knowledge. They trample their love, destroy their dreams because of the choices one of them had already made. Thus ends The Bridges of Madison County leaving a lucid, true to life message. Two people who find the promise of perfect personal happiness, must understand, and accept that the most important things in life are not always about making yourself happy.
To quote from the description of the on-line book, If you have ever experienced the one true love of your life, a love that for some reason could never be, you will understand what this book is all about. Let me add to this. If you have been lucky enough to find true love and keep it, then heres the chance to know what it feels like to say good bye to a love, so certain.
The best way to relish The Bridges of Madison County would be to read it with your heart and not your mind. As Robert tells Francesca, Analysis destroys wholes. Some things, magic things, are meant to stay whole. If you look at their pieces, they go away.
==============================
## Title: Lorry seized with 10 teak logs, suspect nabbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Lorry seized with 10 teak logs, suspect nabbed
A lorry transporting teak logs sans a permit was seized and one suspect was arrested on a tip off by Dummalasuriya police yesterday.
Police pursued the lorry a long distance before seizing it. The value of the 10 teak logs was about Rs. 1 lakh, police said.
The suspect was to be produced before the Kuliyapitiya Magistrates Court tomorrow.
==============================
## Title: Lotus Hydro and SIB launch  life plus insurance scheme
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Lotus Hydro and SIB launch  life plus insurance scheme
A transformative new life plus insurance scheme was launched recently by Lotus Hydro PLC, a specialist in clean energy, along with Strategic Insurance Brokers (SIB).
We discharged our social responsibility and paid the next of kin of employees when tragedy struck, said Menaka Athukorale, MD Lotus Hydro, and Rupika Tennakoon, Head of Sales and Operations at SIB.
SIB offered a variety of schemes and premium payment options to the management of Lotus for the latters employee insurance needs. Menaka Athukorale, director Lotus, decided to take the optimum scheme for a marginal additional premium.
SIBs risk advice to Lotus Hydro PLC is an elegant model to expand access to insurance, while prioritizing consumers needs. Administrative red tape has been cut to non-existent levels. The initial insurance scheme for Lotus Hydro PLC, which was a health cover only, was extended to a life plus health, and critical illness cover on the recommendation of SIB, said SIB director, Indrajith Fernando.
SIB has managed to penetrate a monolithic and dull industry standard where consumers trust has vanished due to administrative hurdles and questionable practices, he said.
Our driven team has come up with an excellent alternative in providing corporate employee cover. I am confident in their success and in setting new standards for insurance at scale, he added. Employee insurance payments under the scheme are facilitated by Sib and made by Allianz, Softlogic insurance.
For instance, SIB has for the third time in a row, been awarded the National Reinsurance program for the National Natural Disaster Cover (NNDIS), along with the other competitive bids which had already been submitted and awarded, for which business had been placed functionally by SIB.
Of all of the aforementioned covers it is difficult for Strategic Insurance to decide which is best in terms of importance, but the NNDIS, Combine Retrocession, Strikes Riots and Civil Commotions All Risk Cover, and the Terrorism top up cover are significant in terms of size and priority.
The sums insured become incrementally large, ending at 30 billion, including the one free restatement for the NNDIS 2018/19 cover.
SIB liaises with the largest insurance marketplaces in the world, including Lloyds of London. The business handled by the firm emanates from a majority of the countries offering reinsurance, via its Broker Network globally.
Your institution did everything to process the payment and did not put me in any kind of difficulty in this regard. I was only asked to come and collect the cheque, said one recent beneficiary of the Lotus-Sib scheme, deceased Lotus employee late, Liyanages wife.
==============================
## Title: Majestic Maine Coon cat
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Majestic Maine Coon cat
Due to their majestic size and sociable nature, Maine Coons are known as the gentle giants of the domestic cat world. With distinctive long fur that frames their expressive faces like a lions mane, these felines have a unique mythical quality that makes them a favourite among cat lovers all over the world.
One Maine Coon beauty to recently catch our attention is Lotus, a glamorous fluff ball whos full of personality. With huge fluffy paws, a cotton candy-esque tail, and lynx-like ears, its easy to see why Lotus has more than 75,000 adoring Instagram followers.
The blonde beauty is captured surveying his land and of course having lots of cat naps - he almost takes up the whole couch! Lotus is certainly regal, but like all cats, he also has his silly moments and is often pictured pulling funny faces. My Modern Met
==============================
## Title: Major drive to woo foreign investment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Major drive to woo foreign investment
Sri Lanka will launch a major campaign to woo foreign investments to Sri Lanka and also ensure that these investments would also move to villages as well, new Minister of International Trade and Investment Promotion, Bandula Gunawardena said.
The recently imposed taxes that discouraged people from sending remittances back to Sri Lanka would be taken off. Attractive tax holidays and other benefits would be offered for both local and foreign investors to woo FDI.
Speaking at his maiden press conference after assuming duties as the new Minister at the BOI auditorium last Friday he assured that a level playing field for both local and foreign investors too would be created. He also said that local entrepreneurs too had second thoughts to re-invest due to high and uncalled-for taxes and these too would be removed and a special incentive package would be spelled out at the next budget. In the very recent past famed local investors were asked to come to FCID and sit for hours on benches and this would be ended and due respect would be provided for local entrepreneurs.
We are now proposing an investment promotion package to private sector local and foreign investors to protect them and to provide them special incentives. This package would be available to those who invest in projects approved by the Finance Ministry.
He said this proposal would provide unprecedented incentives to local producers. We will also ensure that the dollars that are invested in Sri Lanka would move to the villages as well and their money flow would increase.
The new Minister said that there is huge gap between imports and exports and this is the main cause for depreciation of the Sri Lankan rupee. The quickest and most productive way to breach this gap is to get more FDI and also increase exports. This is a priority area that we are currently addressing.
We are not keen to turn villagers upside down (Gam Peraliya) but are keen to uplift the villages and would assist in this regard, he said.
Asked to comment on the muck talked about Sri Lanka and Singapore FTA, he said that this deal would be reviewed and corrected where both countries would end up as winners. Under the preset FTA regulations over 4,000 items can be imported to Sri Lanka sans duty.
He said that a country must sign bilateral agreements where both countries end up as winners and the new government too would work in this manner when it comes to future FTA and other foreign trade agreements. The best example in this regard is the Ceylon China Rubber Pact signed in 1952 and abolished in 1982. To date its the worlds longest trade pact.
My ministry will come up with the proposal to set up 5,000 export processing villages to boost exports within a short period. A similar scheme was also implemented by former President R. Premadasa when he promoted the setting up of garment factories all over Sri Lanka. Agriculture and industrial products with a permanent market would be processed in these villages. Thailand, Vietnam and Cambodia follow such a system and a similar effort was made by former Trade Minister Lalith Athulathmudali. We will follow this model, he said.
Gunawardena also said that some bodies like the Ministry of The Department of Export Agriculture (DEA), Sri Lanka Standards Institute, Trade Promotion Missions in Foreign Ministry and similar institutions that come under his purview should be gazetted under the Ministry of International Trade and Investment Promotion.
The Minister also said that they would not seek revenge from any investors and would not unfairly hold up development. The UNP government put on hold the Port City Development project signed by two heads of state for over one year and this had a major negative impact on foreign investments, he said.

==============================
## Title: McLarens Group opens 3M office in Colombo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
McLarens Group opens 3M office in Colombo
Following the announcement of their collaboration with 3M Global Channel Services (GCS) as the Master Distributor of 3Ms full line of non-healthcare products, McLarens Group opened their brand-new office dedicated to 3M, in Colombo.
The opening of the office located at Union Place, Colombo 02 - was graced by Rohan De Silva - Group Chairman, Shehara and Dinesh Jayawardana - Group Joint Managing Directors, along with management and staff.
The opening of the 3M Sri Lanka Headquarters is the first step in re-introducing Sri Lankan consumers to the vast range of 3M products.
In the planning stages is a new customer experiential store that is set to open towards the end of November.
The collaboration between McLarens Group and the American conglomerate renowned for applying Science to Life, enshrines the groups subsidiary, McLarens Lubricants Limited (who is also the authorized distributor for Mobil Lubricants in Sri Lanka), as the Master Distributor for 3Ms product range, which includes the Industrial Business Group (IBG), Safety and Graphics Business Group (SGBG), Electronics and Energy Business Group (EEBG), and Consumer Business Group (CBG).
The move also underlines McLarens Groups strategy and belief that the Sri Lankan consumer deserves premium quality products made by the best manufacturers in the world.
3Ms IBG range of products work in bonding and protecting surfaces in construction, improving the design and maintenance of land, air and water transportation, and purifying air and water for residential to industrial uses. SGBG includes personal protective equipment (PPE) that safeguard people at home and work, as well as traffic signs and pavement markings that improve road safety, and exterior signage and interior graphics.
The EEBG part of 3M includes high-growth electronics market segments like datacenters, grid modernization and automotive electrification. The CBG is home to some of 3Ms most iconic brands: Post-it Brand, Scotch.
This desire to always provide the very best to the Sri Lankan market is well-founded in our companys long history. With diversified interests in shipping, marine and logistics, we at McLarens find ourselves the partner-of-choice for several multinational organizations with a stake in Sri Lanka, said Dinesh Jayawardana - Group Joint Managing Director, McLarens Group.
Shehara Jayawardana - Group Joint Managing Director, McLarens Group, while alluding to the aggressive growth plans underway at her organization, added, 3M produces thousands of innovative products for dozens of diverse markets, and is a recognized market leader.

==============================
## Title: Mexicos Marxist Prophet
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Mexicos Marxist Prophet
The Hole begins with the description of what an eye sees through a confined space: the small hatch of a punishment cell that opens onto the corridors of Lecumberri Prison in Mexico City. The Hole is at once a piece of fiction and a deposition: Jose Revueltas wrote it between February and March of 1969, while in jail for participating in the 1968 student movement.
Revueltas was not a student in the late sixties. He was then fifty-four years old and, in fact, had never attended university: in 1932, when he was seventeen and should have been thinking about college, he was already serving his second term in prison, as a result of his militancy in the then illegal Communist Party of Mexico.
Socialist advocacy
By the late sixties Revueltas was a well-known leftist writer and activist with views that suited the student movements demands for a less vertical government, having maintained his vocal socialist advocacy and strong links to the trade-union movement, while at the same time vigorously denouncing both the Institutional Revolutionary Partys government (which had ruled the country with absolute authority for more than forty years) and the Mexican totalitarian Stalinist organizations that opposed it. The students considered him a natural ally: the weight of his reputation offered credible ideological shelter for a movement demanding respect for civil liberties and fresh attention to the perennial problem of inequality in Mexico.
The place of The Holes creation is important. Lecumberri Prison, where the manuscript is dated, is an outsize symbol in the Mexican imagination. It was inaugurated in 1900 as a triumphant demonstration of the progressive rationalist ideology that dominated the governments discourse at the turn of the twentieth century. Porfirio Diaz, the liberal dictator who ruled the country with an iron fist from 1884 to 1911, built the prison to keep all opposition to his regime locked up and under close scrutiny in more or less humanitarian conditions; designed by the architect Miguel Macedo, it adopted Jeremy Benthams model of the panopticonas set out in his letters from Russia in 1797.
According to Benthamwhose works Revueltas, well versed in political philosophy, had no doubt readthe panopticon is simultaneously a jail and a theater. The greater the visibility of its inmates, the greater the benefit a society obtains from their punishment, which keeps the prisoners out of circulation while transforming them into an example and a spectacle. At the center of Lecumberri Prison was a watchtower from which seven wings radiated outward, every one constantly visible from its hub.
Stable government
When the long and bloody Revolution against Porfirio Diazs regime finally succeeded in installing a stable government (if in the form of a party dictatorship), the prison continued fulfilling its primary purpose as a space of atonement for political opponentsnow of the nationalist revolutionary government. By 1929, Lecumberris architect, Miguel Macedo, was occupying a cell in his own building, having been deemed a collaborator of the previous, ousted regime: getting locked up in Lecumberri implied being a victim of a political purge, but also, above all, playing a leading role in the spectacle of public punishment.
As the twentieth century advanced, the prison became more crowdedand over-crowdedwith petty criminals, even though it also continued to host the opponents of every successive political regime until it was finally closed in 1976. Its looming shadow over Mexico is such that even today people still refer to the building as the Black Palaceas if the mere mention of its real name might bring misfortunedespite the fact that its not black at all and, since 1980, has been the seat of the National Archives.
Such is the general context of The Hole as it opens with an eye peering at a piece of this panopticon. The authors intentions are clear right from the start: Revueltass fable is a meditation on the way contemporary societies make a performance out of punishment. He portrays prison life as an avant-garde production, where Antonin Artauds Theater of Cruelty and Jean Genets Theater of Hatred intersect.
Common criminals
What the prisoners eye sees in the first pages of The Hole is a glimpse of two floors of cells in the jails wing hosting common criminals. The eye belongs to Polonio, the tales main character, who is busily calculating how long it takes the guards to make their rounds through the corridors as he waits for a package of drugs to be delivered from the outside.
Revueltas, it should be said, was a special case: he was never in the hole, and unlike many of those detained after the 1968 student uprising, he was never disappeared or tortured, presumably because he was an intellectual celebrity. On top of that, Revueltas was a name with public resonance, well known to artistic circles in Mexico and around the world. Joses older brother, Silvestre, an important composer during the first half of the twentieth century, had a close, collaborative friendship with Aaron Copland and Leonard Bernstein; Fermin, the second brother, a prominent muralist, had his work displayed in many government buildings. Rosaura Revueltas, Joses sister, had her Hollywood career as an actress cut short in 1954 when her name appeared on Senator McCarthys blacklist during the filming of The Salt of the Earth. Despite the relatively good treatment the novelist received in Lecumberri, hed been placed in the common criminals wing at the start of his sentence, maybe because the prison governor regarded him as an ideologue and preferred to keep him separate from the rest of the political prisoners, mainly the students who revered him.
Theres a photograph of Revueltas, a half smile on his face, right next to a punishment cell, which offers useful information about the storys setting. A Lecumberri hole was a long and narrow passageway, with cement floors and walls, blocked at one end by a metal door with a hatch in its middle, more or less chest-high. The holes looked like containers to transport cattle. A barred window, far up in one wall, was the only source of light. The hatch, just large enough for a soup plate and a cup to be passed through, had a little door that opened outward and could be propped halfway up to serve as a tray for handing in the prisoners dishes. Anyone inside the hole wanting to look out needed to stick whatever would fit of his head through the open hatch: this is Polonios position when the story begins, and what he is seeing are the monos.
- Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Miller, du Plessis plunder tons as South Africa win series
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Miller, du Plessis plunder tons as South Africa win series
HOBART, Sunday: David Miller and Faf du Plessis plundered big-hitting centuries in a batting masterclass as South Africa beat Australia by 40 runs to win their one-day series and inflict another defeat on Justin Langer's misfiring side.
The pair shared in a 252-run stand to power the Proteas to 320-5 in the third and final match in Hobart -- a record fourth wicket partnership by South Africa against the hosts in Australia.
They came together at 55-3 in the 16th over with Miller swatting 139 for his fifth limited-overs century and skipper du Plessis smashing 125 -- his 10th one-day ton.
A composed Shaun Marsh cracked a fighting 106 in the run chase, ably supported by Marcus Stoinis (63) and Alex Carey (42) -- an improvement on recent batting displays but still not good enough.  AFP
==============================
## Title: MoC Expects GIT-NGTC Collaboration to Boost  Thailands Gems Export to China
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
MoC Expects GIT-NGTC Collaboration to Boost  Thailands Gems Export to China
The Gem and Jewelry Institute of Thailand (Public Organization) or GIT, under the supervision of the Ministry of Commerce, and Chinas National Gemstone Testing Center (NGTC) jointly promote the collaboration on colored gemstones testing standard for ruby and sapphire through GIT certificate to strengthen the confidence of Thai and Chinese entrepreneurs.
According to GIT, China is one of the worlds largest gems and jewelry markets with increasing annual growth.
In the first nine months of 2018, Thailand exported USD 243.67 million of gems and jewelry products to China, a 17.99% increase from the same period of 2017.
The export value of top three export products including silver jewelry, gold and polished precious stone increased 32.69%, 15.07%and 4.07%, respectively.
These three products accounted for more than 89% of the total gems and jewelry export value to China.
To boost the export of Thailands gems to China, GIT has signed the collaboration agreement with NGTC to set the colored gemstones standard used for gem and jewelry examination and certification, said Duangkamol Jiambutr, Director of GIT.
Gems and jewelry certificate by GIT will help increase the confidence of importers and exporters of Thailands colored gemstones and ease the rejection problem for colored gemstones substandard in color.
GIT and NGTC has completed the comparison of their standards and will extensively promote the standard of ruby and sapphire including Pigeon Blood Red, Royal Blue and Cornflower Blue, which is the first joint project of the two organizations, in order to strengthen the confidence of importers of Thailands colored gemstones.
Moreover, researchers and academics from GIT and NGTC will work together in other projects including the standard comparison study of other colored gemstones (Peridot, Emerald and Padparadscha) in order to set new standards, which will be later promoted as the universal standard, and set standard guidelines for identifying ruby and sapphire origins.
==============================
## Title: Mominul, Mushfiqur put Bangladesh in command over Zimbabwe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Mominul, Mushfiqur put Bangladesh in command over Zimbabwe
DHAKA, Sunday: Mominul Haque and Mushfiqur Rahim shared a record partnership with centuries apiece to put Bangladesh in a strong position in the second Test against Zimbabwe in Dhaka on Sunday.
Mominul made 161 while Mushfiqur added an unbeaten 111 as Bangladesh reached 303-5 at stumps on the opening day at Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium. Mominul and Mushfiqur shared 266 runs in their fourth wicket stand, helping Bangladesh bounce back from 26-3 to cross the 200-run mark for the first time in their last nine Test innings.
Mominul faced 242 balls and hit 19 fours in his seventh Test century, while Mushfiqur smashed nine fours for his sixth Test hundred. They surpassed Bangladesh's previous record-high for a fourth wicket stand of 180 runs, shared by Mominul and Liton Das against Sri Lanka earlier this year.
After some early success, Zimbabwe had to wait for the second new ball to break the partnership, when Tendai Chatara forced Mominul to give a catch at gully to Brian Chari.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Nadeesh highest run getter for Sebs in under 13 tournament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Nadeesh highest run getter for Sebs in under 13 tournament
Al round cricketer Nadeesh Fernando of St. Sebastians College Moratuwa is the highest run getter for his alma-mater in the recently concluded under 13 division one cricket tournament conducted by Sri Lanka Schools Cricket Association for the Singer Trophy.
Nadeesh who bats left hand and bowls right arm off spin helped his school immensely with his performances with the bat and the ball to be the leaders of their group. Sebs participated in seven matches and they won five and two were drawn.
He bats at number four and in Seven matches and in eight innings he has scored 376 runs and he was unbeaten on four occasions with a fine average of 94.0.
He scored 110- runs against Seethawaka Vidyalaya and had two unbeaten half centuries. 92 runs and 76 versus De Mazenod College and Royal College Panadura respectively. Also he claimed 19 wickets for 90 runs with his off spin at an average of 4.73. He is a safe fielder in any position.
==============================
## Title: Navy assists Kalmunai flood victims
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Navy assists Kalmunai flood victims
Personnel of the Southeastern Naval Command reached out to assist flood victims in Thirawanthiyanmadu, Kalmunai, who were stranded following the heavy downpour during the last few days.
Due to heavy rains, the road leading to the village of Thirawanthiyanmadu had been inundated on November 9.
Under the directives of Southeastern Naval Area Commander Rear Admiral Ruwan Perera, relief teams attached to the Southeastern Naval Command were pressed into action and they transferred people from Kittanki to the Naval Deployment, Kalmunai, using dinghies.
==============================
## Title: New applicants for BOC Ran Kekulu Scholarships Awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
New applicants for BOC Ran Kekulu Scholarships Awards
Continuation with its endeavor to encourage students who excelled in Grade 5 Scholarship examination 2018 the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) calling applications for its annual Ran Kekulu Scholarships Awards from students who sat for the said examination in 2018.
The Program began in 2002 as a part of the banks Corporate Social Sustainability programs to uplift the status of the countrys education. Maintaining a minimum balance of Rs.5000/- in the Ran Kekulu account a day prior to the day the examination results are released and who obtained the highest marks at the grade 05 scholarship examination will be considered as eligible to be among the 2000 students of the 2018 Ran Kekulu scholarship grant which is Rs. 15000/-. All other BOC Ran Kekulu account holders who have passed the 2018 Scholarship examination will be awarded a valuable gift provided they too have maintained a Ran Kekulu account which was remained active a day before the release of examination results. The Bank has already rewarded the top most performers-those students who achieved island 1st, 2nd and 3rd place from the 2018 Grade 5 Scholarship examination with Rs.150,000/-, Rs.100,000/- and Rs.75,000/- respectively.
A special feature added last year to the Strategic CSR initiatives will also be continued the bank will show its appreciation of the courage and dedication shown by differently abled students this year too. BOC Ran Kekulu Grade 5 Schoalarships will be awarded to selected differently abled students who have scored above the district cut-off mark based on the confirmation given by the Department of Examination.
One hundred PFCA Minor (Personal Foreign Currency Accounts for Minors) account holders with BOC will be chosen from those who have fulfilled the eligibility requirement of passing the cut-off mark at the 2018 grade 5 scholarships examination and have maintained a minimum balance of USD 250/- or equivalent in other foreign currency for a period of six months prior to the day of the examination that fell on August 5th 2018 will receive a scholarship worth Rs. 25,000/- each.
A specimen application and the eligibility criteria of the said scholarship scheme will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English newspapers.
The application can also be downloaded from the Banks website www.boc.lk and facebook page.
The Bank request all eligible Ran Kekulu account holders to submit their applications before November 27 to the nearest branch.
BOC Ran Kekulu, childrens savings account offers the widest range of benefits among childrens savings accounts. Out of an array of banking products and services, Bank of Ceylon offers its Ran Kekulu account with an additional interest rate of 1%.
==============================
## Title: Nine persons, 12 jumbos dead in human-elephant conflict this year
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Nine persons, 12 jumbos dead in human-elephant conflict this year
Twelve wild elephants and nine people die in the human-elephant conflict in the past nine months in the Kurunegala district.
The conflict has intensified in Galgamuwa, Giribawa, Ehetuwewa, Yapahuwa, Ambanpola and Polpithigma.
A senior Wildlife Officer in Kurunegala confirmed the figures.
==============================
## Title: Nishan Madushka pilots Moratu Vidyalaya to innings win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Nishan Madushka pilots Moratu Vidyalaya to innings win
A splendid 121 runs by captain and Sri Lanka Under 19 Cricketer of Moratu Vidyalaya Nishan Madushka and two fine bowling spells by Viraj Kavishka 6 for 2 and Eran Hansamal 7 for 48 helped them to beat formidable Maris Stella College, Negombo by an innings and 41 runs in their inter-school first eleven cricket match played at Katuneriya. This is the first ever instance that these two schools met each other in a first eleven game.
Nishan hit 11 fours and 6 sixes and occupied the crease for 156 minutes and faced 113 balls. Also he had a third wicket stand of 131 runs with Chamalka Pushpakumara who contributed 22 runs.
Batting first Vidyalians scored 221 and Nadith Nishendra too contributed an unbeaten 39 runs and Ravindu Fernando was the pick of the bowlers for the homsters with 4 for 64.
In reply at one stage Maris Stella was in deep trouble with 9 wickets for 8 runs and their last pair put on 16 runs to bring their total for 25 runs and following on Maris Stella did much better to score 159 runs with Chathura Anuradha and Kevin Perera scoring 37 runs each.
Vidyalians are coached by one of their former cricketers Prasanna Dissanayake.
Chief Scores
Moratu Vidyalaya  225 in 52.1 overs  (Nishan Madushka 121, Nadith Nishendra 39 n/o, Chamara Pushpakumara 22, Ravindu Fernando 4/64, Pramod Fernando 2/22, Pasindu Ushetti 2/67).
Maris Stella  25 in 11.1 overs  (Viraj Kavishka 6/2, Nadith Mishendra 3/21 and 159, (Chathura Anuradha 37, Kevin Perera 37, Ashan Fernando 33, Eran Hansamal 7/48, Rashan Kavishka 2/26)
==============================
## Title: Norwich stage thrilling late show, West Brom crush Leeds
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Norwich stage thrilling late show, West Brom crush Leeds
LONDON, Saturday - Norwich staged a stunning escape act as the Championship leaders scored twice in stoppage time to beat Millwall 4-3, while West Bromwich Albion demolished promotion rivals Leeds 4-1 on Saturday.
Daniel Farkes side recorded their fifth successive victory in incredible fashion as Jordan Rhodes and Teemu Pukki turned the game on its head in the final minutes. Pukki had cancelled out Tom Elliotts first-half opener and then saw his penalty saved by Millwall goalkeeper Ben Amos before Moritz Leitner edged the Canaries in front.
But in an astonishing final 11 minutes, Ryan Leonard and Jed Wallace thought they had pinched the points for struggling Millwall, only for Rhodes to level in the 92nd minute and Pukki to pounce in the seventh minute of stoppage time.
It is important after a game like this for everyone to enjoy the moment, to feel the joy, said Farke, whose side are two points clear at the top.
I want them all to make the most of it because sometimes players can wonder why they are doing all this hard work and this is the reason.
Albions challenge had stalled after collecting a solitary point from their previous four games.
But Hal Robson-Kanu, who was making his first Championship start since the opening day of the season, set them on the way to victory in the 51st minute before Matt Phillips doubled their advantage.
Harvey Barnes grabbed their third in the 82nd minute with substitute Dwight Gayle on target three minutes later with a cheeky back-heel. Third-placed Leeds, who had only lost once in seven games before facing Albion, would have gone back to the top of the table with a win.
But they were outplayed from the first whistle and all they had to show for their effort was a stoppage-time consolation from Pablo Hernandez.
Aston Villa manager Dean Smith reckons his players delivered a statement with their 3-0 win at promotion-chasing Derby.
Villas second-half performance overpowered a Derby side who were beaten at home for the first time since August 11. John McGinn headed in a Yannick Bolasie cross in the 74th minute and Tammy Abraham converted McGinns cross four minutes later.
Conor Hourihane curled in a free-kick to seal the points in the closing moments.
It was Villas first away win under Smith, who said: I think theres still a lot more to come from this squad. Today was an opportunity to draw a line in the sand about where were at.
Jordan Hugill rediscovered his scoring touch as second-placed Middlesbrough beat Wigan 2-0.
Hugill slotted home from the penalty spot to net his first league goal since his pre-season loan move from West Ham and the forward was on target again five minutes later as he lashed a half-volley into the roof of the net. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Obituaries
HULANGAMUWA - MALKANTHI (ex Staff,<U+200B> St. Anthonys Convent,<U+200B> Kollupitiya). Beloved wife of Sarath ( Ex Air Lanka),<U+200B> mother of Ruwangani,<U+200B> Manula and Erangani,<U+200B> mother-in-law of Nuwan Nagahawatte (London) and Samitha Perera (Fonterra Brands Lanka),<U+200B> expired. Remains lie at Jayaratne Respect Parlour from Sunday 11th November,<U+200B> 08.30 a.m. - 9 p.m. and Monday 12th November from 08.30 a.m. until cortege leaves parlour for cremation at 5 p.m. at General Cemetery,<U+200B> Kanatte,<U+200B> Borella.130136
JEEVARATNAM - MARINA NIRANJALA (NIRI) - Much loved and most loving mother and mother-in-law of Sherran & Monika Rajaratnam (UK),<U+200B> cherished daughter of the late Charles & Nancy Jeevaratnam,<U+200B> loved and loving sister and sister-in-law of Emil & Lellani Jeevaratnam (UK),<U+200B> Cherry & Shiranee Jeevaratnam (Canada),<U+200B> and also of Rowena Russell (UK),<U+200B> former wife of Loges Rajaratnam (UK) and daughter-in-law of the late Rasa & Muriel Chelvathy Rajaratnam,<U+200B> granddaughter of the late Emily & Charles Gnanapragasam of manipay,<U+200B> Jaffna and the late Victoria & Thomas Kandiah of Kalmunai,<U+200B> Batticaloa. Called Home on 31st October 2018. The funeral service will be held at 1:45 pm (GMT) on 15th November 2018 at Trinity Baptist Church,<U+200B> Bexleyheath,<U+200B> Kent (UK),<U+200B> followed by a cremation service at the Eltham Crematorium,<U+200B> Kent (UK). No flowers,<U+200B> by request,<U+200B> butif desired,<U+200B> donations can be made to Footsteps Sri Lanka. Telephone: 011-2817391.129556
Rev. Dr. COLTON S. WICKRAMARATNE. Founder,<U+200B> Pastor Peoples Church,<U+200B> Former Chairman,<U+200B> Assemblies of God,<U+200B> called to glory. Beloved husband of late Susanne,<U+200B> loving father of Chrysantha and Menaka,<U+200B> Eran and Kushlani,<U+200B> Dishan and Jayani and Roshie and Nimendra James,<U+200B> grandfather of Sasha and Presantha Jayamaha,<U+200B> Dhishan and Shehara,<U+200B> Sohanya and Michael Waters,<U+200B> Shyara and Sash Raymond,<U+200B> Rajeev and Dilani,<U+200B> great-grandfather of Dharan,<U+200B> Akel and Rhaya,<U+200B> brother of Raynald and Sriyantha. Remains lie at 16/<U+200B>9,<U+200B> Averihena Road,<U+200B> Colombo 5,<U+200B> and will be at Peoples Church,<U+200B> Narahenpita on Sunday 11 from 3.00 p.m. Funeral Service on Monday 12th November at 2.30 p.m. Cortege leaves church at 4.00 p.m. for General Cemetery,<U+200B> Borella. No flowers by request.130146

WIJESINHA - PLACIDA - Loving wife of late Edward Wijesinha,<U+200B> Attorney-at-Law,<U+200B> much loved and adored mother of Sunil,<U+200B> Dhara,<U+200B> Roshini,<U+200B> Ranel and Hiranthi,<U+200B> affectionate and loved mother-in-law of Kshama,<U+200B> Lakshman Wijayatilake,<U+200B> Nivard Cabraal,<U+200B> Nirmala and Aruna Abeygoonesekera,<U+200B> sister of late Eddie Amerasekera and late Prof. Chandra Amerasekera,<U+200B> a grandmother greatly loved by Hashanthi & Nat,<U+200B> Aravinda,<U+200B> Charith & Laura,<U+200B> Anushka & Aarthi,<U+200B> Chatura & Rukshala,<U+200B> Raveen & Roshi,<U+200B> Rasanga and Anita & Humphrey and great-grandmother of Janak & Anik. Cremation on Wednesday,<U+200B> 14th November at 3.30 p.m. at Wattahena Walawwa,<U+200B> Getamanne,<U+200B> Beliatte.130152

==============================
## Title: Observer - Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer contest launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Observer - Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer contest launched
Nalin Perera (third from left-CEO of Mobitel) handing over the sponsorship to the Acting Chairman of ANCL Wasanthapriya Ramanayaka while looking on are (from left) Dinesh Weerawansa, Chief Editor Daily News and Sunday Observer, Jude Silva, Senior Manager-Channel Communication -Mobitel, Rasanga Harischandra, Director Legal of ANCL and Abhaya Amaradasa, General Manager of ANCL
The 41st Mobitel Sunday Observer Schoolboy Cricketer contest was launched on Friday with the participation of the chairman of Lake House Wasanthapriya Ramanayake and Mobitel Telecoms operational head Nalin Perera.
This year the event reaches a new phase with the entry of schoolgirls to vie for awards along with the boys for awards ranging from best bowler, batter and fielder to the most outstanding players in addition to group and team awards as in past years. The usual coupon where readers can vote for the Most Popular players will be run in due course in the Daily News, Sunday Observer, Thinakaran, Dinamina and Tharuni newspapers.
Schoolgirls received some awards last year but this year there will be more awards on offer.
The Sri Lanka Schools Cricket Association and the Association of Cricket Umpires and Scorers will also be involved in the event.
==============================
## Title: Paradise lost in raging California fires
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Paradise lost in raging California fires
US: Rescue workers recovered multiple bodies on Saturday from the charred remains of residences in a California town ravaged by the most destructive fire to hit the US state.
Firefighters are battling raging blazes at both ends of California, but there is little hope of containing the flames anytime soon.
More than 250,000 people have been ordered to evacuate a wide area near the state capital Sacramento and, in southern California, the Hollywood resort town of Malibu.
In the town of Paradise, in Butte County, rescuers removed remains over a period of several hours and placed them in a black hearse. Pieces of bodies were transported by bucket, while intact remains were carried in body bags.
So far, all the dead have been reported in Paradise, where more than 6,700 buildings -- most of them residences -- have been consumed by the late-season inferno.
US President Donald Trump put the death toll at 25 on Saturday evening -- a count that seemed set to rise with bodies being recovered in Paradise.
Our hearts are with those fighting the fires, the 52,000 who have evacuated, and the families of the 11 who have died, Trump tweeted.
From miles around, acrid smoke could be seen in the sky around Paradise, the sun barely visible. On the ground, cars were reduced to metal carcasses, while power lines were also gnawed by the flames.
Locals fled the danger, but police told AFP some farmers returned to check on their cattle.
The magnitude of destruction we have seen is really unbelievable and heartbreaking, and our hearts go to everybody who has been affected by this, said Mark Ghilarducci, the director of the California Office of Emergency Services.
Governor-elect Gavin Newsom declared a state of emergency to provide assistance to the hardest-hit areas in the fire-prone state.
The fast-moving blaze in the north, which authorities have named the Camp Fire, broke out early Thursday.
Fanned by strong winds, it has so far scorched 100,000 acres (40,500 hectares) and is 20 percent contained, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire) said Saturday. So far, three of the more than 3,200 firefighters deployed have been injured.
They estimate they will need three weeks to fully contain the blaze.
Local power authorities have told state officials an outage occurred near the spot where the fire erupted, The Sacramento Bee reported, but there is still no official cause of the Camp blaze.
Trump, who was in France for World War I commemorations, drew criticism online for his somewhat unsympathetic reaction to the devastation earlier on Saturday.
There is no reason for these massive, deadly and costly forest fires in California except that forest management is so poor, Trump tweeted.
Billions of dollars are given each year, with so many lives lost, all because of gross mismanagement of the forests. Remedy now, or no more Fed payments!
In southern California, more wildfires burned, including one just north of Los Angeles and another in Ventura County near Thousand Oaks, where a Marine Corps veteran shot dead 12 people in a country music bar on Wednesday.
Authorities said some 200,000 people are under mandatory evacuation orders, including the entire city of Malibu.
The Woolsey Fire had consumed around 69,000 acres, destroyed at least 150 homes and was so far not contained, the Ventura County Fire Department said, adding that evacuation orders were issued for some 88,000 homes in the county and neighboring Los Angeles County.
We heard this was coming so we set up the sprinklers and we hosed the whole house down, said Malibu resident Patrick Henry. We pretty much had enough time to get the dogs in the trunk.
Malibu is one of the most in-demand locations in California for stars seeking privacy and luxury.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian West, who lives just north of coastal Malibu, revealed she was forced to flee her home.
I heard the flames have hit our property at our home in Hidden Hills but now are more contained and have stopped at the moment, she said on Twitter. I just pray the winds are in our favor.
Actor Martin Sheen, briefly reported missing by his actor son Charlie, was also forced to evacuate.
Were fine, were at Zuma Beach and were probably going to sleep in the car tonight, Martin Sheen told Fox News 11, adding that it was the worst fire he had seen in 48 years of living in Malibu.
The wildfire reached Paramount Ranch, destroying the Western Town sets used for hundreds of productions including HBOS sci-fi western Westworld, officials and the network said.
Director Guillermo del Toro tweeted that Bleak House, his museum of horror movie memorabilia, was also in the path of the flames.
In Paradise, the flames destroyed hundreds of homes, a hospital, a gas station, several restaurants and numerous vehicles, officials said.
Mandatory evacuation orders were issued for more than 52,000 people in the scenic area in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountains.
The whole lower side of Paradise is totally engulfed in flames right now, Kevin Winstead, a resident of nearby Magalia, told KIEM TV.
Not one home will be left standing, he said. Im devastated.
The National Weather Service said Saturday strong winds and dry conditions were to continue through the weekend.- AFP
Firefighters monitor a backfire near Middletown, California. The fast-moving fire has consumed 50,000 acres aftergrowing 40,000 acres in twelve hours.
==============================
## Title: Parayil George Priya new President, K and J  Champions  Toastmasters Club
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Parayil George Priya new President, K and J  Champions  Toastmasters Club
K and J Champions Toastmasters Club a brainchild of Distinguish Toastmaster Anura Nishantha Perera entered its second year after completing a very successful first year.
At the second installation ceremony for 2018-19 held on Saturday in Seeduwa Parayil George Priya was appointed as the new President. She was also selected as the best Toastmaster of the K and J Champions Toastmasters Club in 2017-2018
The new K and J Champions Toastmasters Club Executive Committee 2018-2019 consist of Parayil George Priya, President, Rushika Shenali Wickramathilaka, Vice President Education, Allen Mark Taylor, Vice President Membership, Thilina Chamara Andradi, Vice President, Public Relations, M D N De Moraes, Secretary, Gihan Sudeera, Treasurer and Russel Ekarathnam, Sergeant of Arms.
Event Chair Anura Nishantha Perera, DTM receiving the Distinguish Toastmaster Award presented by Toastmaster International in recognition for creating K and J Champions Toastmasters Club from Ajantha Jayawardena DTM-Past District Director(2017-18)
President Priya addressing the gathering said her vision was to become a President Distinguished club for the year 2018/2019.  When I first heard the words Toastmasters, I wondered what it means. Now in 2018, I discovered the true meaning of my existence through it, finding my voice and inspiring others to find theirs. Toastmasters is a great change agent; allowing me to make positives steps, coaching me to be a confident speaker not only in my club but also where there is a need for an effective speech, elevating my self confidence and self-esteem and enhancing my communication and
Parayil George Priya, President, K and J Champions Toastmasters for2018-2019
leadership skills.As the Leader of K and J Champions, I communicate my members worth and crate opportunities to develop and use it, building a solid foundation, to achieve my own vision, creating passionate toastmasters like me. For instance, I choose them be to in charge of contests and special events of our club, train them, and also give the assurance that they can find their true potential. When they understand that I have confidence in them, they too keep up my expectations.
Anura Perera, DTM, the founder and only sponsor of K and J Champions Toastmasters Club received special accolades at the ceremony when he was presented with a Distinguish Toastmaster Award by Toastmaster International for the yeoman service rendered by him in creating the K and J Champions Toastmasters Club.
The installation of new officers was done by H5 Area Director Gayanika Gunasekera, while Sharma Mahalingam TM participated as the chief guest.
==============================
## Title: Parliamentary polls under old system - Elections Commission Chairman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:07
Parliamentary polls under old system - Elections Commission Chairman
The Parliamentary polls billed for January 5 will be held under the old system, Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya told the Daily News last night.
He was responding to a question as to whether the January 2019 polls would be held under the old system which also had the system for the Preferential Voting system as well or whether it would be conducted under the new system without the Preferential voting system but had the mixed features of both the First Past the Post System and the Proportional Representation system.
We will have to conduct the Parliamentary polls under the old system as we do not have the new system in place as of yet, he stressed.
When asked about the preparations for the elections, and whether the Commission was preparing itself for it, then the EC Chairman said that he had delegated the function and the responsibility to the Commissioner- General of Elections MAPC (Chandrawansa) Perera.
Responding to a question as to whether there was a likelihood that the January 5 Parliamentary Polls would be postponed in the light of the UNP and the JVP billed to go to the Supreme Court today claiming that the decision of the President Maithripala Sirisena was in contravention of the Constitution, Deshapriya said that the Elections Commission would allow the Supreme Court to decide that.
Meanwhile, Deshapriya, in an interview given to the BBC Sinhala Service also yesterday, Deshapriya said that the Elections Commission would not be seeking the opinion of the Supreme Court on the dissolution. He added that the Elections Commission was on the dissolution of Parliament and whether it was legal or illegal, Deshapriya has said that the Commission and the Chairman will not venture out to comment on the controversial issue.
He emphasised that the UPFA and one of its coalition partners- the EPDP, were of the opinion that the dissolution was legal but the UNP,JVP and the TNA (which contests under ITAK) were of the opinion that it was illegal.
The Chairman and the Commission would not venture to comment either way as it would be advantageous to one party and of disadvantage to the other, if we said it was illegal or legal, he explained.
Asked by BBC Sinhala Service whether there was sufficient time for the preparation for the January 5 polls, he said that there were 53 days this time in contrast to the 51 days last time.
Asked about the holding of the Provincial Elections was also there in the interim, he said that they were getting ready for the preparation of the PC Polls, but now that the Parliamentary polls have come ahead of the PC polls, the Commission was getting ready for the Parliamentary polls.
However, Deshapriya had told BBC that if the UNP, JVP and ITAK were successful in getting an Enjoining Order to hold the Parliamentary elections, they would abruptly halt all the preparations which were hitherto made.
==============================
## Title: PM joins SLPP to form common alliance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:06
PM joins SLPP to form common alliance
Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa formally joined the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) by obtaining its membership at his official residence at Wijerama Mawatha, Colombo yesterday, the SLPP said in a statement.
Along with the Prime Minister, a group of Parliamentarians belonging to the Joint Opposition also joined the SLPP at this simple ceremony.
Sri Lanka Podu Jana Peramuna Chairman Prof. G.L. Peiris was also present on the occasion.
Mahinda Rajapaksa first entered Parliament in 1970 at the age of 24 as the youngest MP by winning the Beliatta seat represented earlier by his father late D.A. Rajapaksa from 1947 to 1965.
Although Rajapaksa lost his seat in 1977 during the convincing victory of the UNP he re-entered Parliament in 1989 representing the Hambantota District under the Proportional Representation system.
Mahinda Rajapaksa who selected a left and centrist political orientation from the beginning of his political career earned a name as a champion of labour and human rights. Rajapaksa earned a name as an exemplary character and a leader among Parliamentarians. He worked closely with Manorani Saravanamuttu who represented the Mothers Front launched by mothers of missing persons during the 1988-1990 period.
The Vishwa Bharathi University of Calcutta India awarded him an honorary doctorate in recognition of his services towards safeguarding human rights.
Mahinda Rajapaksa who has functioned as the Chairman of the Palestine Sri Lanka Joint Committee for the last 25 years has rendered unqualified support to Palestine in its search for a settlement to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Mahinda Rajapaksa who held the portfolio of labour relations and fisheries in the Chandrika Bandaranaike government from 1994 to 2001 was instrumental in launching the Ocean University and a Coast Protection Unit.
Although he presented a Labour Charter Draft Bill for the first time in Sri Lanka as Labour Minister, it did not get approved during the Kumaratunga government. Apart from this Mahinda Rajapaksa functioned as Ports and Shipping Minister for a period of three months and took steps towards building a port in Hambantota.
In March 2002, Mahinda Rajapaksa was elected as the Leader of the Opposition. After the UPFA victory at the April 2004 General Elections, President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga appointed Mahinda Rajapaksa as the 13th Prime Minister of Sri Lanka on April 6, 2004.
At the Presidential Election held on November 2005 the SLFP fielded Mahinda Rajapaksa as its Presidential candidate and his appointment was endorsed by 25 political parties and civil organisations. Mahinda Rajapaksa who won the Presidential election with the approval of the vast majority of people took oaths as the 5th Executive President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on November 19, 2005. Mahinda Rajapaksa is credited with ending the war in May 2009. He was elected President for the second time in January 2010. He remained as an MP after 2015 and President Maithripala Sirisena appointed him as the Prime Minister on October 26, 2018.
==============================
## Title: PM will emerge victorious on January 5 - Keheliya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
PM will emerge victorious on January 5 - Keheliya
The UNP clique led by Ranil Wickremesinghe took domestic political divisions by taking the international factor into consideration during the last three years. A peoples Government was required to save the country from that quagmire and transform it in accordance with indigenous norms, former state Minister Keheliya Rambukwella said.
Addressing a press conference held at his Kandy Aniwatta residence, Rambukwella said Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa will certainly form a new Government on January 6.
He said when Ranil Wickremesinghe lost his post as Prime Minister, his group sought the help of the international community by holdings meetings with Diplomats and other international representatives.
When the public was overjoyed by the change of Government, the international world wept over the fall of their puppets. This was quite natural, Rambukwella said.
Rambukwella said that at last the people could realise the expectations they entertained for the last three and a half years and it would be further augmented on January 5.
The Joint Opposition had carried out a straggle to achieve this end for the past several years and they had now established the strongest political party in the country within a period of only 10 months, he added.
He said the President has taken an important decision to cry halt to the countrys march towards disaster and he hoped the people would take this opportunity to profit from it.
==============================
## Title: PORTS AUTHORITY: JCT TRANSSHIPMENT  VOLUMES UP BY 23.3%
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
PORTS AUTHORITY: JCT TRANSSHIPMENT  VOLUMES UP BY 23.3%
The state owned Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) of Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA), witnessed the highest growth of 23.3% in transshipment container throughput for the first nine months (from January to September) in 2018 as against the corresponding period in 2017.
During the first nine months of 2018, the transshipment volume handled by Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) reached 1,445,424 TEUs compared to 1,172,542 TEUs handled for the same period in 2017.
Meanwhile, the Port of Colombo has witnessed the highest growth of 19.4% in transshipment container throughput for the first nine months in 2018 as against the corresponding period in 2017.
During the first nine months of 2018, the Port of Colombo handled 4,206,630 TEUs of transshipment containers as against 3,522,521 TEUs handled in the corresponding period in 2017.
The Port of Colombo expects to reach the 7 million TEU target by the end this year. In a statement, Minister of Ports and Shipping Mahinda Samarasinghe added that the port would take new initiatives forward to promote the Port of Colombo internationally, together with all stake holders and to attract more new shipping lines that work in alliances.
Under the leadership of Minister of Ports and Shipping Mahinda Samarasinghe, and advice by the Chairman of Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake the positive increase at SLPA controlled terminal, Jaya Container Terminal (JCT), and Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT), and South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT) collectively resulted in this increase.
The recognition of credibility towards the management has encouraged the employees of SLPA to dedicatedly contribute towards efficient service along with collaborative support by all parties and stakeholders engaged in the port operations to keep SLPAs productivity at a steadily and sustainably increasing rate.
Creating history, the Port of Colombo for the first time has recorded 6.2 million container operations in year 2017.
Following Minister Samarasinghe assuming office as the Minister of Ports and Shipping, an exclusive three year plan was introduced to develop the entire port sector to establish Sri Lanka as the most preferred maritime gateway to South Asia.
The Port of Colombo is ranked as worlds No.1 container growth port among the top 30 container ports for the 1st half of 2018.
In container handling, Port of Colombo has recorded a 15.6% growth for the first half of 2018 over same period last year according to Alphaliner Monthly 2018.
It is also a very significant achievement as it is the first time in history the Port of Colombo had reached the top of a global maritime ranking.
With this growth, Port of Colombo has leaped ahead many other Asian ports, major European ports and Dubai as well.
==============================
## Title: President sets the record straight
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
President sets the record straight
President Maithripala Sirisena in a special statement, said people of the country must take justifiable democratic decisions to rectify the current political impasse.
In his statement yesterday, the President said the political situation had created a scenario where MPs were traded from Rs.100 million to Rs.150 million and increased to Rs 500 million in the latter stages.
The President said it was really a regrettable situation where a representative of the people elected by voters had to be traded in this manner.
That situation was the main reason to dissolve Parliament. In addition, the strange behaviour of former Speaker Karu Jayasuriya was the second reason to dissolve Parliament, he added.
The President said he deeply regretted the behaviour of former Speaker Karu Jayasuriya since he violated parliamentary norms and regulations. He violated Parliaments Standing Orders and acted beyond Parliamentary customs which had been safeguarded by all Speakers since 1947.
Besides, he acted without considering the powers vested in the President to appoint a Prime Minister, the President said.
Excerpts of the statement: This is the third time I am addressing you (the people) within the span of 14 days on the current political situation in the country. The first time was when I appointed Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister, I explained what led me to that decision on October 28 and the second time was on November 5, at a Jana Hamuwa (peoples meeting) held in Battaramulla. On this occasion, I have to explain to you the reasons behind the dissolution of Parliament. Firstly, I have to explain to you in summary, the incidents which led to the dissolution of Parliament.
Our countrys Parliamentary system since its beginning in 1947, has seen elections being held, governments changed and new ones appointed. This is the supreme place, entrusted with building a disciplined and moral society, it is here that the peoples sovereignty is exercised, but by last week MPs were being auctioned from Rs 100-150 million, going up to Rs 500 million.
Parliaments have been dissolved before, but never before have we seen such a corrupt Parliament. In the exercise to show a majority after Rajapaksa had been appointed as PM, the political situation created a situation where MPs started to be priced as above; it was disappointing to see your valuable mandate thus being bought by the highest bidder.
The second reason was the surprising actions of former Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. I am very disappointed by his actions. It is Parliamentary tradition to have the Speaker act impartially and independent of party politics. However, Jayasuriya chose to disregard Parliamentary Standing Orders, procedures and norms and not accept the Prime Minister appointed by the Executive, releasing statements to that effect, which left me no choice, but to dissolve Parliament.
I would like to bring to your attention here that after the Presidential elections on January 8, 2015, I assumed office and moments later swore in Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister, having removed PM D. M. Jayaratne, who had a majority of 162 MPs in a Parliament of 225. Wickremesinghe only had the support of 41 MPs. At that time, none spoke of the majority that is spoken of today.
It is customary for the President to appoint in his opinion who he believes can garner the majority support in Parliament, as mentioned in the Constitution. Having appointed thus, he would act in accordance with Standing orders and the laws under the Constitution which show he has the majority. But it has never been Parliamentary tradition for a vote of confidence on the Prime Minister to be taken on the first day Parliament was convened and it not permitted within the Standing Orders.
The former Speaker issuing a notice first said he would assign Mahinda Rajapaksa the relevant seating assigned to the PM in Parliament and accord the office of the PM in Parliament. But later, issuing another notice, he changed his earlier stance completely to state that he would only recognise Ranil Wickremesinghe as the PM, this was worrying me.
Similarly, both sides released various statements to the media. Through various media briefings, they stressed that there could be a violent situation when Parliament reconvened on November 14, even resulting in the death of some. If I had allowed that when Parliament met on November 14, it would not only be bloodshed in Parliament, but was likely to spread to your towns, villages and every street in the country.
Thus the best solution at hand was not to allow violence and chaos to take place around the country, but to respect democracy and let the 15 million voters decide who should be sent to Parliament. Given the current circumstances, the best decision was to let the people decide what should happen and who they want running the country, keeping with democratic tradition. The General election will provide all with a clear mandate to move forward.
In this situation, it is the Election Commission and its officers who are vested with all powers to take necessary action. We have to give our full support to the Election Commission. I ask that you give your fullest support to the officers of the Election Commission, police and tri-forces to conduct a free and fair election. It is also up to you now to reject corrupt politicians and send clean members to Parliament to govern the country. The decision to hold elections by having the people decide through an election, I see as being welcome by many.
Your decision, the government you appoint will decide on what kind of solutions are found to the burning economic issues of the country, to promote domestic industries, to get clean investments void of corruption into the country and to build a disciplined and moral society.
We completely support the gazette notice released on the elections and the decision of the Elections Commission. Here it is also important to understand the need to not violate election laws.
Firstly, for election campaigns, candidates misuse public property and they have to move away from it. The previous government and current caretaker government had all ministers, State and deputy ministers given vehicles to function. According to the 19A, from the time of nomination to the point of a new Parliament is appointed, only the Cabinet, Prime Minister and President can function as a caretaker government.
Thus former state ministers, deputy ministers and MPs are prohibited from using public property under election laws. Thus I request that all former state, deputy and ministers hand over your vehicles to the relevant Ministry Secretary. If there is a delay, I would be forced to take legal action and bring in the Police to recover such property, and regardless of party, strict legal action will be taken against anyone who violates election laws. I would like to remind you that it is illegal to use government property for election purposes.
I further ask all political officers, parties and party leaders to support the election officers and law and order officers to carry out a peaceful and fair election. Let us move forward to build a prosperous, peaceful and disciplined society and country we all desire.
==============================
## Title: President visits Sri Dalada Maligawa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:04
President visits Sri Dalada Maligawa
President Maithripala Sirisena visited the Sri Dalada Maligawa in Kandy on November 10 and paid homage to the Sacred Tooth Relic. The President was received on arrival by the Diyawadana Nilame Pradeep Nilanga Dela and conducted to the inner chamber of the Maligawa to worship the Sacred Tooth Relic and receive its blessings. Thereafter, the President visited the Natha, Vishnu, Kataragama and Pattini Devalayas and participated in religious observances. Ministers S.B. Dissanyake and Mahinda Amaraweera and former Central Province Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake were also present on the occasion. Picture by Nissanka de Silva
==============================
## Title: Ranil forms intl opinion against govt.
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Ranil forms intl opinion against govt.
Ranil Wickremesinghe attempts to rouse internationl opinion against the government even though the new Prime Minister was appointed by the President as per the Constitution, Chief Incumbent of the Sinhagiri Vihraya Ven.Wagirawansa Thera said. The Thera said Prime Minister Mahnda Rajapaka's name will be written in gold in the history of Sri Lanka for ending the war.
The Thera said the Sri Lankans now have a courageous leadership.
The government will strengthen democracy, he said.
==============================
## Title: Renowned speaker-trainer Tim Wade to inspire local marketers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Renowned speaker-trainer Tim Wade to inspire local marketers
Following its unprecedented success of organising two colossal events this year, SLIM will host yet another major event, in collaboration with international motivational coach, Tim Wade. SLIM will present Tim Wade for the first time in Sri Lanka for an workshop titled, Enhancing Performance through paradigm shift on December 6 and 7.
Australian born Tim Wade is a science graduate of the University of Queensland having majored in Psychology. He is a past President of Singapores National Professional Speaking Association where he created and developed their Speakers Academy curriculum to teach people to become professional presenters.
He is known for delivering entertainingly dynamic, energetic, engaging and interactive presentations, with relevance couched in humor that connects with audiences and delivers results. Tim is a business speaker who has worked in corporate fields and has faced, and solved many issues prevalent in the business and marketing sectors. He has managed corporate departments and divisions of between three and 400 staff in different organizations in Asia and Australia, and has experienced many of the changes most organizations experience during their various business cycles whether in junior roles as a front-line service staff member, team leader, or when he was in senior roles such as National Manager for Operations, or Vice President of the International Group of a $2.2 billion revenue company evaluating suitable mergers and acquisitions.
His claim to fame has been his success in helping business leaders and their staff to motivate change to create positive business results.
He has also designed, managed, coached and implemented the changes, as he has been there in the thick of it and speaks from actual experience, which is the reason so many clients have engaged him to design programs that successfully reach out to people and help them embrace positive changes while being inspired to deliver positive results.
SLIM is committed to impart global knowledge and experience and therefore we continue the process of featuring exceptional global personalities for the benefit of the business fraternity of Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Robber nabbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Robber nabbed
A man who robbed houses in Kurunegala was arrested by Kurunegala police while he was stealing goods from the City Shop in Minhettiya.
He had entered houses at night and robbed the residents of their money and valuable items at gun point.
The suspect is a resident of Nikadalupotha.
He had stolen gold chains, goods and money to the value of Rs. three million.
The suspect was on a warrant arrest at the time of his arrest for stealing goods.
He is to be produced before the Kurunegala chief Magistrate tomorrow.
==============================
## Title: Rooted in Nature
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Rooted in Nature
The theme set for the 2018 commemoration was to highlight the importance of adopting sustainable lifestyles, working with sustainable partners, and sharing knowledge with the view of changing the world  for the better.
The panel consisted of catalysts in sustainable food production, food security, food management, and international food organizations, who added value to the rooted in nature event.
Further, to focus on the mission of this learning event, the discussions explored global and local trends, as well as macro and micro strategies adoptable to ensure minimization of food waste in the hospitality industry. As an outcome of same, it was requested that BSL facilitates the sharing of best practices that are already in existence; in order to promote the industry working in collaboration to fight the challenge of food waste, and thereby the degradation of biodiversity and ecosystems.
The ethos behind Shangri-las interest in hosting this event, provided an introduction to the Rooted in Nature cuisine of the Shangri-la chain, which is based on local, healthy, organic ingredients, sourced from fishermen and farmers who operate sustainable businesses. The goal of the Shangri-la chain of hotels and resorts is to have 75% of its food and beverage products to be sustainably sourced, organic and chemical free, by the year 2020, stated Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo General Manager Timothy Wright.
The panel discussion was moderated by renowned journalist, reading enthusiast, entrepreneur and aesthete Savithri Rodrigo and the panellists were: Dr. Amanda Kiessel  Catalyst, Good Market spoke on Sustainable Food Production and Management, Dr. Renuka Jayatissa  Medical Research Institute, Ministry of Health Sri Lanka spoke on Healthy and Sustainable Diets ,Dr. Shanthi Wilson  Independent Consultant and Former Additional Director, Industrial Technology Institute spoke on Climate Change and Food Security and Prof. Siri Hettige - Emeritus Professor, Department of Sociology, University of Colombo spoke on sustainable development goals
The evening ended with Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo requesting all to partake in refreshments which were in line with its Rooted in Nature cuisine concept.
==============================
## Title: Sajith should be new UNP leader  Southern PC member
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Sajith should be new UNP leader  Southern PC member
Ranil Wickremesinghe should hand over the leadership of the United National Party to Sajith Premadasa, Southern Provincial Council UNP member Sujith Muthukumarana said.
He said UNP supporters will take a decision if Wickremesinghe remains as leader. Muthukumarana held Wickremesinghe responsible for the instability in the country. Muthukumarana made these observations at a press conference held in Hambantota.
Grassroots level UNP supporters are crestfallen. They brought this government into power dedicating their lives. But it has failed. UNP leadership must take responsibility for this failure. UNP supporters across the country are demanding a change in the party leadership. We are firm that the UNP leadership should change, Muthukumarana pointed out.
Muthukumarana recalled that this is not the first time the UNP leadership has failed. He observed that Wickremesinghe was unable to stay in power in 2001 for more than two years. He said it is the same case in 2015.
It shows that there is a problem with the leadership, he added.
Muthukumarana said the present UNP leadership does not listen to the heartbeat of the grassroots level UNP supporters and is not interested in bringing development to the village. If we want to strengthen UNP, a change in leadership is a must, he stressed.
In the coming election, legal matters aside, we should give UNP leadership to Sajith Premadasa. If we want to establish a UNP led government, we must change the party leader. All the UNP supporters will rise against Wickremesinghe. He is a man who did not allow even his close supporters to communicate with him, so what is there to talk about the village level UNP supporters. We will fight for this change, if not given, Muthukumarana said.
==============================
## Title: Selfie attempt at Worlds End proves fatal for tourist
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Selfie attempt at Worlds End proves fatal for tourist
A selfie-photo attempt claimed the life of a foreign woman tourist at Worlds End in Nuwara Eliya yesterday morning.
Thirty-five-year-old Julia Elga, a German national, died after she fell from Worlds-End while she was attempting to take a selfie with one of her friends. The accident took place around 7.50 am yesterday, police said.
Her body was found later at Nonpareil Estate in the Samanala Wewa area in the Balangoda Police area around 1.15 p.m. yesterday.
The search operation was conducted by the Pattipola Police with the support of other police stations, the Police Special Task Force, Army, and Wildlife officers.
The deceased and her friend are said to have identified each other at the Katunayake airport when they arrived in the island.
==============================
## Title: Seven decades and still impoverished
## Supertitle: Land and the peasant
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Land and the peasant
Seven decades and still impoverished
Land is a very controversial and emotion issue. It can change governments. Water even more so, said Nanda Abeywickrama, former Secretary to the Ministry of Lands and Land Development, and one of the founding directors of the International Water Management Institute (IWMI).
NandaAbeywickrama
In his retirement at his home in Borella, Abeywickrama looks back at the various land and water policies which were brought in to manage the natural resources of this island of 65,610 square kilometres. In his book Natural Resources and Environment Management Policy: Sri Lanka Experience and Future Directions, he traces his own journey from government officer to advocate for sound environmental policies.
A public servant who cut his teeth during the time of the Accelerated Mahaweli Programme (AMP), he served as Secretary to the Land and Land Development Ministry under the late Minister Gamini Dissanayake for 10 years and irrigation has left a strong mark in his work. From then on, his book moves on to his later work in policy formulation and advocacy in water and environmental resource management at IWMI. But key in every chapter is the failure of government institutions and governments to get policy right.
If the mantra of the 1970s was state control of all land, from the 1980s, it was all about economic liberalisation and privatisation of land. Neither ideology has thus far benefited the landless poor. The question the book poses to ask is, why not
Party politics based tensions for over two decades as undercurrents, with successive governments experimenting with pro-poor remedies while the basic structure of the regime of policy, legal systems and the approaches that ought to reach out to and empower the stakeholders at the ground level, remained unchanged, writes Abeywickrama.
The beginning
The rut, he shows, started with two key policy decisions of the British; one, the abolition of the tradition of rajakariya (compulsory labour) which had ensured that all small irrigation systems were maintained by the peasant farmers and, two, the promulgation of the Crown Land Encroachment Ordinance (CLEO) in 1840 which took over all land under the Crown  effectively creating generations of landless poor to come.
The British who had wrongly transcribed rajakariya - a set of customs and traditions which disciplined agriculture and water management to slavery - abolished it and since then no administration, British or otherwise has been able to institute a successful programme to maintain the small irrigation systems of the country. Programmes like participatory farmer management programmes instituted by governments later soon fell into disrepute as corruption and bureaucracy crept in, making it ineffective to this day, points out Abeywickrama in his book.
Governments since Independence have also used the British system of owning all land as a political tool to buy over voters and to solve the problem of unemployment. Creating employment this way does not cost anything, they just take over forest land and give it to people with a bit of assistance. The farmer with his small block of land remains poor, and it is good for the politicians to keep the people poor, because they become dependent, remarked Abeywickrama.
This, however, did not stop governments since the 1930s investing a large amount of money in reviving our irrigation systems and creating farmer settlements around the country, especially in the Dry Zone. According to Abeywickramas book, a total of Rs 12.242 billion has been spent on irrigation works from 1950-1982  the largest proportion was during the Accelerated Mahaweli Development Programme.
It was hoped that land and a few acres of paddy would make the settler families self-sufficient and perhaps even rich, but 40 years later, 25 percent of the poor live in rural areas of the country.
The Mahaweli allotment of 2.5 acres to each family was profitable at that time; it is no longer profitable now. They cant make a living out of that compared to an urban person, he said.
Further, the land that was given came with strings attached. Under the Land Development Ordinance, peasants received land on a permit and were required to fulfill a programme of cultivation and development before the permit is turned into a grant, but there has been no adequate monitoring system of these lands and a huge backlog of applications continues to pile up at the divisional secretaries, from people asking that their permits, several generations old, be turned into freeholding title deeds.
Abeywickrama observed that land permits schemes like Swarnabhoomi come with a lot of restrictions to the farmer. The holder cannot sell it or lease it. In addition, he can only transfer it to the next of kin, making the market price of his or her land low.
If he wants to move out, he needs to illegally lease it out to another. A lot of politicians do not want that to happen, they think rich people will grab the land. There is some truth in that. On the other hand, you are keeping the farmer bonded to the land.
Further, he spoke of a middle path where farmers can be given title deeds to their lands and to limit the danger of them being bought over by large companies and multinationals, a provision would be included to only allow the farmer to lease out the land for any use of his choice, if he is not going to utilise it for his own farming purposes. This would give him the right to choose the most profitable way of utilising the land.
Policies are not five-year plans
The late M. Rajendra, former Land Commissioner whose paper has been incorporated in the book, observed in 1985 that by the 1950s, they realised that they had no proper system to monitor or alienate state land to peasants in a way in which it would truly help them. But the report of the second Land Commission appointed to study this generated very little interest among policymakers or the public. My impression is that it was years before anyone in a policy-making position read it. Thus, from the beginning, policymakers have not paid much attention to getting the fundamental systems and policy right when it comes to managing resources in the country.
There is actually no policy because governments cannot agree on a single policy. When there is one, it does not work. Why Because decisions are made top-down, they lack consistency; when a minister changes, policy changes. You have to look 30 years ahead, not five, and decide this is the policy, said Abeywickrama.
When it came to the AMP, he observed that they circumvented many of these issues by not formulating any national policies. We did the job and the policies came out of it. You do something right, if it works, that becomes policy. In this so-called democracy, you cant do otherwise.
It was the same with the institutions. The Mahaweli Authority was not set upfront; it became a need to implement the Mahaweli programme. Forestry and environment policy arose out of the Mahaweli Programme to accommodate the needs of the project. Because the moment you come up with a policy, there are other ministers trying to come in and they dont cooperate and at times, professionals draw it up and the ministers dont understand it.
Abeywickrama, who traces his career in environmental resource management in the book, shows a shift in thinking, as he moved from the need to practically implement policies as a government servant to a researcher and director at IWMI. Natural resources can be easily destroyed but take longer to recover, he observed, and thus call for a more long-term perspective and the need to harmonise sectoral policies on an intersectoral basis.
However, at present this thinking has been quagmired by sectoral policy formulation largely being project or donor driven, using a sectoral or single agency approach, activities not being synchronised, institutional mechanisms for intersectoral consultations being weak, competition for scarce financial resources discouraging collaboration between sectors, and inadequate arrangement for information sharing. Further, he also advocates for the need to bring in the private sector and NGOs in the consultative process of natural resources management.
Water, water
Another major issue the book touches on throughout is the need for systemised and fair water management. We need a basin approach rather than sectoral management of water resources, said Abeywickrama.
At present, water is a contentious issue and many a struggle is launched over its allocation and distribution. Establishing clear water rights and allocation principles, Abeywickrama noted would resolve this. For this, the country needs a strong institutional framework which would act impartially and regulate and evaluate water allocation over competing demands.
Valuation, costing, pricing and cost-sharing backed by an incentive regime will promote conservation, investments and cost-effective management. Each basin has to be looked at separately to see how it can be best managed.
Setting up with these institutions and policies however has proven to be harder than necessary. M. Samad in his paper in the book describes the time the government in 1996 and in 2000 tried to set up water management institutions and bring in a national water policy. In 1996, it was proposed that a national water policy would be formulated. It came under the President and thus had the highest commitment, but it then also prevented key stakeholder agencies from claiming ownership of the proposed policy. The draft was ready by 2000 and a key feature was to set up three bodies - the National Water Resources Authority, Water Resources Council, and the Water Resources Tribunal. These would jointly deal with the sensitive issue of water entitlements and inter-sectoral management of the whole system and decentralised management on the basis of river basins.
It was not to be. The policy however came under severe criticism for being top-down, as having insufficient consultations with all stakeholders, being too secretive, having the failure to draft policy in the local language, being donor-driven and insensitive to cultural aspects of water.
Eventually, the government abandoned the policy and distanced itself from it. The problem however still persists.
Looking to the future
For 70 years the country had trudged along without an overall plan for managing its natural resources, but with climate change, Sri Lanka has been listed on the critical list along with the danger of being caught unprepared.
Abeywickrama in his most important takeaway calls for the restructuring of the entire government system and institutions which currently manage all natural resources. Most of these institutions are 150 years old and continue to function in the same way. We need to restructure them. Further, they seem to exist only to provide employment and not to work, he said.
Finally, the government would eventually need to look at making agriculture more profitable and productive, in addition to creating industries which would remove people from the land, reducing the pressure on it. Numbers living off the land have to be reduced; otherwise, they would continue to exploit the natural environment.
A great admirer of the late Minister Gamini Dissanayake, Abeywickrama in his book quotes the Minister on his aim for taming the great Mahaweli as a struggle centered on the poor man, to give him the economic freedom to live his life on his terms, but 40 years later, whether that has been achieved, remains a question.
(Nanda Abeywickramas book is to be launched tomorrow (13) at 4.15 pm at the Central Banks Centre for Banking Studies in Rajagiriya)
==============================
## Title: Shared love for art
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Shared love for art
The second annual exhibition of the Piyawara Artists Group will be held on November 17 and 18 at the Lionel Wendt Art Gallery. Following the success of their first exhibition held last year, where a group of art lovers from different walks of life and ages got together to paint under the guidance of their teacher, Ruwan Prasanga at the Artway Institute will hold their second exhibition.
These artists paint as a hobby and have different interests and styles of painting ranging from impressionism to realism, abstract, still life and wildlife. This enthusiastic group is looking forward to exhibiting their creations at the Lionel Wendt for all art lovers.
==============================
## Title: Simplest ways to go green!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Simplest ways to go green!
1. Refuse excess
You know the phrase reduce, reuse, recycle There should be an additional R  refuse  and its the best way to cut down on environmental harm. Could you put your produce in reusable nylon bags instead of the plastic bags at the store Do you accept freebie items you never use, like pens, flyers or plastic utensils Start saying no instead and skip the need to reuse or recycle altogether.
2. Walk, bike, carpool anduse public transportation
Cutting back on your car use could save you money and help reduce the environmental impacts of cars, like fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
3. Commit to reusable containers
That means foregoing bottled water because youve got your own water bottle handy, happily schlepping your coffee mug to Starbucks and  if you can get past the awkwardness  bringing your own food containers in when youre getting takeout or think youll have leftovers. Hopefully, food containers will get easier.
4. Use less water
Take shorter showers, try low-flow showerheads and use your energy-efficient dishwasher (which uses less water than traditional dishwashing) or switch up your dishwashing practice to leave the faucet running for less time. Only run your laundry if its a full load, dont use heated water unless its absolutely necessary and only wash truly dirty clothing.
5. Use less electricity
Did you know that many electronics consume energy even when theyre not actively on Its called phantom energy, and besides being a waste of electricity, it can add as much as 10 percent to your electricity bill. Try to unplug things like chargers, microwaves and computers when not in use, or invest in smart surge protectors that disable power when items are not in use.
6. Responsibly recycle e-waste
E-waste can contain all kinds of pollutants, including lead, mercury, beryllium, polyvinyl chloride and flame-retardants. Recycling your e-waste through a verified recycler allows the item to be broken down into reusable or recyclable pieces and have toxic materials appropriately handled.
==============================
## Title: SLs Gem and Jewellery industry receives fresh  boost with new Executive Committee
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SLs Gem and Jewellery industry receives fresh  boost with new Executive Committee
The apex body of the gem and jewellery industry of Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Association (SLGJA), recently appointed the new governing body consisting of many stalwarts from the industry. The committee to handle the industrys symbolic event, FACETS, was also announced simultaneously.
The newly appointed Chairman of the Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Association, Ahsan Refai, said the main focus this year would be to further develop international links the association has had with other similar groups. We plan to foster the international relationships we have with the other gem buying and gem sourcing countries. The key countries we would like to focus on are Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Korea, the UK, USA, Germany and some of the other European countries. At present we are having discussions at various fora.
As the intermediary between the industry and the government, SLGJA will also be instrumental in intervening on behalf of, and representing, the industry. The close relationship with the government is another area that the association will continue to foster, with a view to promote the gem and jewellery business.
Altaf Iqbal has been handed the responsibility of leading the main event in the industrys calendar, the FACETS International Gem and Jewellery Exhibition for 2019, having been appointed as the Chairman as well as being appointed as the Vice-Chairman, Promotions and Trade Fairs.
The following were elected to the Executive Committee for 2018-19: Chairman, Ahsan Refai, Immediate Past Chairman, A. H. M. Imtizam, Chairman, FACETS & Vice Chairman, Promotions and Trade Fairs, Altaf Iqbal, Vice Chairman, Gem Segment, Punsiri Tennakoon, Vice-Chairman, Jewellery Segment, Akram Cassim, Vice Chairman, Lapidary Segment, Ahamed Shareek, Secretary, Sheriff Abdul Rahuman, Treasurer, Ismath Majeed, Asst Secretary, Ruzwan Kamil, Asst Treasurer, Liyakath Rasvi.
==============================
## Title: SL assures IOM of continued cooperation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SL assures IOM of continued cooperation
Calling on the International Organization for Migrations (IOM) new Director-General (DG) Antonio Vitorino, in Geneva, Sri Lankas Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador A.L.A. Azeez said Sri Lankas long-standing ties with IOM pre-dated its membership in that organization.
Ambassador Azeez assured the DG of the countrys continued cooperation and active support both in the bilateral context as well as within multilateral fora, particularly at a time when the IOM was preparing to assume new responsibilities as the coordinator of the Global Migration Network with secretarial function for the Global Compact for Migration (GCM).
Director-General Vitorino, welcoming Sri Lankas active contribution to the common cause of global migration governance, particularly through leadership to the Colombo Process, and now as the Chair-in-Office of the Abu Dhabi Dialogue (ADD), said as vibrant Regional Consultative Processes (RCPs), the Colombo Process and ADD had enriched the content of the final outcome of the GCM.
He expressed hope that Sri Lanka would continue this role, building upon the achievements made, to be a strong advocate for effective implementation of the GCM, during the Marrakesh High Level Meeting in December 2018, and also invited Sri Lanka to announce joint projects and proposals that could be supported by donor funding. He emphasised the importance of high-level participation at the Marrakesh Meeting.
Ambassador Azeez said the IOM enjoyed wide recognition in Sri Lanka as a UN-related agency and that the IOM country office has been closely working with the relevant Sri Lankan agencies. He requested the IOMs support for enhancing Sri Lankas labour mobility options, particularly through capacity and skills development, noting the need for economic and social empowerment of youth and women.
The new IOM country representativedesignate for Sri Lanka, Sarat Dash, and the IOM Advisor for Asia and the Pacific, Wen Li were associated with the DG IOM, while Deputy Permanent Representative Samantha Jayasuriya joined Ambassador Azeez at the meeting.
==============================
## Title: SLPP seeks fresh mandate to build economy - Prasanna
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SLPP seeks fresh mandate to build economy - Prasanna
Only a stable government under a practical leader can bring the country back from the present economic crisis, Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) Gampaha District leader Prasanna Ranatunga said. Therefore, he requested a mandate from the people at the forthcoming general election to create a good future under such a leader.
He was speaking at a meeting at the Reggie Ranatunga Memorial Conference Hall in Udugampola on Saturday. Ranatunga said the rule of the United National Party is now over and the time has come to get the approval from the people of the country for a new programme to be launched under the leadership of Mahinda Rajapaksa.
He said they had fulfilled the promises given to the country in 2005 and now they have come before the people seeking a fresh mandate to build the economy of the country.
The decision taken by President Maithripala Sirisena at this moment was a very difficult one. They should respect it as it was taken for the betterment of the country.
He challenged former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to contest with them at the coming election.
Ranatunga also added that the people of the country only want Mahinda Rajapaksa as their leader, and therefore, they would dedicate themselves to creating a better future for the country under his leadership.
==============================
## Title: SLT rewards winners of Dial & Win 1298 IVR Competition
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SLT rewards winners of Dial & Win 1298 IVR Competition
Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT), the leading ICT solutions provider in Sri Lanka organized an awards ceremony to reward the winners of the companys latest Interactive Voice Response (IVR) competition, Dial & Win. The award ceremony was successfully held at the companys head office premises recently.
The Dial & Win competition was held between 1st August 2018 and 30th September 2018 and comprised of customers dialing the short code 1298 and accessing the companys IVR competition portal. Thereafter, customers were required to guess the price of several equipment within the given price range in the IVR. The lucky winner, Mr.P H Liyanage, from Nugegoda, walked away with a valuable 43 HD LED Smart TV from LG. Apart from the grand prize TV there were TABs, Cordless phones , LED Smart watches, Power banks, Sterio Headsets, Portable Blue tooth Speakers, and many more items were gifted SLT regularly conducts IVR competitions with a view of rewarding the companys customers and this years competition was conducted in a novel concept.
Over 20,000 customers across the country participated in this competition. Over 100 winners were selected, out of which the top 10 winners were invited to the awards ceremony.
==============================
## Title: SLTB should not be dragged into politics - Transport Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SLTB should not be dragged into politics - Transport Minister
Sri Lanka Transport Board which made financial progress during the past three years should not be brought back to the abyss due to politics, Transport and Civil Aviation Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva said.
The Minister said that every employee has a right to bear any political opinion and therefore, it is the responsibility of the SLTB trade unions to get their support in a democratic manner. The Minister was speaking at a ceremony to symbolically hand over the salary increments to the employees, which were made after six years, at Sethsiripaya on Saturday.
He requested all political parties not to use any public property for political activities. He said he has advised the SLTB Chairman and the Secretary to his Ministry not to issue SLTB buses free of charge for any political activity as well. But, anyone or political party can hire a bus by making the due payments, which in return will increase the income of the Board. With the increments made after six years, the basic salary of the drivers, conductors, mechanics, labourers and security officers has been increased from Rs. 14, 250 to Rs. 25, 550. Under the second phase, the basic salary of the executive grade will be increased.
==============================
## Title: Sony Xperia Z5  Premium  phone  boasts a 4K display
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Sony Xperia Z5  Premium  phone  boasts a 4K display
Sony has announced a new phone, which it says is the first to feature a 4K screen.
It means the handset can display videos at four times the quality of 1080p high definition.
The Xperia Z5 Premium can also upscale existing video clips from Netflix, YouTube and elsewhere to take advantage of the innovation, but analysts warn that doing so will have an impact on its battery life.
Sonys smartphone unit is currently run at a loss, but the firm hopes to turn its fortunes around by the end of its next financial year. BBC News
==============================
## Title: South Africa snatch dramatic late victory over France
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
South Africa snatch dramatic late victory over France
PARIS, Saturday - South Africa beat France 29-26 thanks to a dramatic last-minute try in torrential rain at the Stade de France on Saturday.
Replacement hooker Mbongeni Mbonambis touchdown after 85 minutes allowed the Springboks to celebrate a win which followed narrow losses to New Zealand and England.
The result also extended South Africas nine-year unbeaten run against France and restored some confidence for coach Rassie Erasmus with less than a year to go until the start of the World Cup in Japan where his team face world number one side the All Blacks in the group stages.
We were rewarded for our work. Clearly it wasnt a perfect match but we learnt to manage the pressure, Erasmus said.
French scrum-half Baptiste Serin scored the first points of the game with a penalty goal and he added a second on 12 minutes.
Fly-half Handre Pollard opened the visitors account with his own effort on 13 minutes to cross the 300-points barrier in Test rugby. The Springboks drew level with a quarter of the match played with the outside halfs second penalty goal. Pollard put the visitors into the lead for first time after 28 minutes with an effort from 45 metres. Camille Lopez pulled the teams level once again with a well-struck drop goal, his first in 16 Tests.
France captain and hooker Guilhem Guirado crossed for his teams first try after breaking away from a maul to dive over the Boks line for the final points of the first half. Centre Mathieu Bastareaud grabbed Frances second try and Serin added the extras to extend their sides advantage to 23-9 after two minutes of the second period.
The score came when Erasmus back-three couldnt deal with a Lopez up-and-under and Bastareaud swept up the loose ball to slide over.
Seconds later lock Sebastien Vahaamahina dropped Pollards restart and it was the visitors who made the most of the greasy ball as winger Sibusiso Nkosi crossed in the corner.
 AFP
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka to get bullet-like train from India
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lanka to get bullet-like train from India
Indias Integral Coach Factory (ICF), its premier coach manufacturing unit, has rolled out a special rake of diesel electric multiple unit (DEMU) with an aerodynamic nose and rotatable seats akin to Train-18 for Sri Lanka.
The unit is ready to be shipped to Sri Lanka, the Times of India cited sources as saying, in a Chennai datelined report.
The train can travel at a maximum speed of 100kmph and can accommodate around 800 passengers.
Considering the highly corrosive environment in Sri Lanka, the DEMU trains have been designed with anticorrosive features using a special paint and a greater amount of stainless steel in the body, an ICF official said. Six such rakes will roll out.
The DEMU is powered with an 1800HP onboard engine with a three-phase AC transmission system that requires less maintenance.
Each DEMU rake will consist of 13 cars in a combination of two driving power cars with economy class seating (DPC), two driving trailer cars with economy class seating (DTC), two air-conditioned chair cars, two business class chair cars, and five economy class coaches.
(Times of India)
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka PARTICIPATES AT GLOBAL FRANCHISE, SME EXPOSITION AND FORUM IN BAHRAIN
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lanka PARTICIPATES AT GLOBAL FRANCHISE, SME EXPOSITION AND FORUM IN BAHRAIN
The high profile 2nd Global Franchise & SME Exposition and Forum in Bahrain was conducted and organized by Middle East & North Africa Franchise Association (MENAFA), which is the membership organization of franchisors, franchisees, SMEs and services providers in the region of MENA.
This Association, which is global in nature, consists of industry association serving USD 30 billion franchise sector growing at an unprecedented rate of over 25% annually in the MENA region.
The Global Franchise and SME Exposition and Forum promotes economic, business and commercial growth, advancement and expansion, with particular focus on SMEs and franchises, regionally and globally.
Sheikh Hisham bin Abdul Al-Khalifa, Governor of Capital Governorate of the Kingdom of Bahrain and the Chairman of Middle East & North Africa Franchise Association (MENAFA) presenting a token of appreciation to Dr. Mendis
The forum selects, each year, a couple of personalities with extensive and expansive experience and exposure in the realm of SMEs, Franchises, Entrepreneurship Development and geo-economic issues to deliver the key-note addresses at the Opening Ceremony of the Global Franchise and SME Exposition and Forum.
The forum organizers have invited Dr. A. Saj U. Mendis, Ambassador of Sri Lanka to the Kingdom of Bahrain and Dr. Ahmed Al Saloom, Chairman of Bahrain Development of Small and Medium Enterprises Society, respectively. A large number of select invitees were present including secretaries and senior officials of ministries, senior bureaucrats and technocrats, Ambassadors and diplomats based in Bahrain, corporate executives and captains, leading franchises, presidents and board members of SME and entrepreneur associations in the region and academia, among others. The chief guest of this prestigious forum was the Governor of Capital Governorate of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
The Chairman of Middle East & North Africa Franchise Association (MENAFA), in his opening remarks, underscored and underlined that the Bahrain Franchise and Exposition presents a unique market place for the growing Franchise and Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (SMEs) to become mid-level to large corporates and entities and then to transcend to regional and global players on the economic and commercial landscape of the region as well as the world.
The Chairman further added that this Forum would extend exhibitors with the opportunities to showcase and profile their brands, products and services in a professionally organized and structured environment with a highly targeted audience of potential buyers, investors, franchisees, entrepreneurs and industry professionals to establish and to forge partnerships and generate new business and commercial ventures.
Both the Key-note speakers i.e. Dr. Saj Mendis and Dr. Ahmed Al Saloom, highlighted the vitality and seminality of the SME and entrepreneurial sector to any country, be it a developed nation or a developing nation. Ambassador Dr. Mendis, in his address, stated that the Government of Sri Lanka is extending increasing degree of importance and conspicuity to the SME and entrepreneurship sector as well as to entrepreneurship development.
This is particularly because a vibrant and strong SME sector coupled with entrepreneurship development could fuel economic, business, investment and commercial advancement and augmentation. Further, both the speakers added that the SME sector is often referred and defined as the pillar of any given economy. However, the critical role played by the SME sector has not been extended due distinction and significance opposed to Fortune 500 companies and other large multi-national corporates. Dr. Mendis stressed that the development of SME sector could reduce unemployment and inequality and engender innovative ideas, creativity, innovation, economic dynamism and entrepreneurship, thus unleashing the entrepreneurial capabilities and unlocking the dormant potential. He also stated that the Government Policy Framework fosters and nurtures micro-enterprises to become small enterprises to become mid-size enterprises to large enterprises to national players and regional players respectively.
In the context of Franchises, both the key-note speakers impressed and accentuate the fact that any given SME can become a large corporate or global entity by growing organically, through acquisitions, placing Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) or extending franchises or a combination of any of the above. Dr. Mendis said that some of the iconic brands such as Hilton, McDonalds, Body Shop, Taco Bell, Hard Rock Caf, Pizza Hut and Marriot Hotels, to name a few,have all begun in a humble and modest manner and today they have evolved as corporate behemoths and household names. One of their telling alchemies of success was the strategy of franchising, he added. Both the speakers punctuated that one of the distinct advantages of franchising is that the respective companies would be known not only nationally or regionally but globally as well. In this regard, it is critical for the respective company to have a stellar and highly marketable and demanded line of products and services to transcend to the sphere of franchising. Further, the officials of Global Franchise and SME Exposition and Forum expressed keenness and eagerness to foster and to nurture the concept of franchising and development of SMEs, particularly, with developing nations such as Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Supreme Court cannot block polls - Lakshman Yapa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Supreme Court cannot block polls - Lakshman Yapa
The Supreme Court cannot impede holding an election as the election is a right of the people, former State Minister Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena said.
Speaking to the Daily News, he said therefore, declaring and holding an election would not be a violation of fundamental rights of the public, at this juncture. However, Abeywardena said he was not aware what the opinion of the Supreme Court regarding this matter would be. When asked whether there is any obstacle in the Constitution to dissolving Parliament and holding a general election, he replied that the President has the authority to take such a decision.
==============================
## Title: Tackling diabetes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Tackling diabetes
World Diabetes Day (WDD) was created in 1991 by International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) in response to growing concerns about the escalating health threat posed by diabetes. World Diabetes Day became an official United Nations Day in 2006 with the passage of United Nation Resolution 61/225. It is marked every year on 14 November, the birthday of Sir Frederick Banting, who co-discovered insulin along with Charles Best in 1922. World Diabetes Day is the worlds largest diabetes awareness campaign reaching a global audience of over 1 billion people in more than 160 countries. The campaign draws attention to issues of paramount importance to the diabetes world and keeps diabetes firmly in the public and political spotlight.
Key facts
 The number of people with diabetes has risen from 108 million in 1980 to 422 million in 2014.
 The global prevalence of diabetes among adults over 18 years of age has risen from 4.7 percent in 1980 to 8.5 percent in 2014.
 Diabetes prevalence has been rising more rapidly in middle- and low-income countries.
 Diabetes is a major cause of blindness, kidney failure, heart attacks, stroke and lower limb amputation.
 In 2016, an estimated 1.6 million deaths were directly caused by diabetes. Another 2.2 million deaths were attributable to high blood glucose in 2012.
 Almost half of all deaths attributable to high blood glucose occur before the age of 70 years. WHO estimates that diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death in 2016.
 Healthy diet, regular physical activity, maintaining a normal body weight and avoiding tobacco use are ways to prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes.
 Diabetes can be treated and its consequences avoided or delayed with diet, physical activity, medication and regular screening and treatment for complications.
What is diabetes
Diabetes is a chronic disease that occurs either when the pancreas does not produce enough insulin or when the body cannot effectively use the insulin it produces. Insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar. Hyperglycaemia, or raised blood sugar, is a common effect of uncontrolled diabetes and over time leads to serious damage to many of the bodys systems, especially the nerves and blood vessels.
In 2014, 8.5 percent of adults aged 18 years and older had diabetes. In 2016, diabetes was the direct cause of 1.6 million deaths and in 2012 high blood glucose was the cause of another 2.2 million deaths.
Type 1 diabetes
Type 1 diabetes (previously known as insulin-dependent, juvenile or childhood-onset) is characterized by deficient insulin production and requires daily administration of insulin. The cause of type 1 diabetes is not known and it is not preventable with current knowledge.
Symptoms include excessive excretion of urine (polyuria), thirst (polydipsia), constant hunger, weight loss, vision changes, and fatigue. These symptoms may occur suddenly.
Type 2 diabetes
Type 2 diabetes (formerly called non-insulin-dependent, or adult-onset) results from the bodys ineffective use of insulin. Type 2 diabetes comprises the majority of people with diabetes around the world, and is largely the result of excess body weight and physical inactivity.
Symptoms may be similar to those of type 1 diabetes, but are often less marked. As a result, the disease may be diagnosed several years after onset, once complications have already arisen.
Until recently, this type of diabetes was seen only in adults but it is now also occurring increasingly frequently in children.
Gestational diabetes
Gestational diabetes is hyperglycaemia with blood glucose values above normal but below those diagnostic of diabetes, occurring during pregnancy.
Women with gestational diabetes are at an increased risk of complications during pregnancy and at delivery. They and their children are also at increased risk of type 2 diabetes in the future.
Gestational diabetes is diagnosed through prenatal screening, rather than through reported symptoms.
Impaired glucose tolerance and impaired fasting glycaemia
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and impaired fasting glycaemia (IFG) are intermediate conditions in the transition between normality and diabetes. People with IGT or IFG are at high risk of progressing to type 2 diabetes, although this is not inevitable.
Common consequences of diabetes
Over time, diabetes can damage the heart, blood vessels, eyes, kidneys, and nerves.
 Adults with diabetes have a two- to three-fold increased risk of heart attacks and strokes
 Combined with reduced blood flow, neuropathy (nerve damage) in the feet increases the chance of foot ulcers, infection and eventual need for limb amputation.
 Diabetic retinopathy is an important cause of blindness, and occurs as a result of long-term accumulated damage to the small blood vessels in the retina. 2.6 percent of global blindness can be attributed to diabetes.
 Diabetes is among the leading causes of kidney failure.
****
How can the burden of diabetes be reduced
Prevention
Simple lifestyle measures have been shown to be effective in preventing or delaying the onset of type 2 diabetes. To help prevent type 2 diabetes and its complications, people should:
 achieve and maintain healthy body weight;
 be physically active  at least 30 minutes of regular, moderate-intensity activity on most days. More activity is required for weight control;
 eat a healthy diet, avoiding sugar and saturated fats intake; and
 avoid tobacco use  smoking increases the risk of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
Diagnosis and treatment
Early diagnosis can be accomplished through relatively inexpensive testing of blood sugar.
Treatment of diabetes involves diet and physical activity along with lowering blood glucose and the levels of other known risk factors that damage blood vessels. Tobacco use cessation is also important to avoid complications.
Interventions that are both cost-saving and feasible in developing countries include:
 blood glucose control, particularly in type 1 diabetes. People with type 1 diabetes require insulin, people with type 2 diabetes can be treated with oral medication, but may also require insulin;
 blood pressure control; and
 foot care.
Other cost saving interventions include:
 screening and treatment for retinopathy (which causes blindness)
 blood lipid control (to regulate cholesterol levels)
 screening for early signs of diabetes-related kidney disease and treatment.
-WHO
==============================
## Title: Tharindu Athnayake captures 8/22
## Supertitle: SLC Major Emerging League
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
SLC Major Emerging League
Tharindu Athnayake captures 8/22
Tharindu Athnayake, spinner of SSC took 8 wickets for 22 runs against Sri Lanka Under 19s Red in the second inning of the SLC Major Emerging League 2018/19 tournament at SSC yesterday.
SSC beat Sri Lanka Under 19s Red by innings and 5 runs and CCC beat Sri Lanka Under 19s Blue by 2 wickets.
Madhawa Warnapura of steered CCC to win over Sri Lanka Under 19s Blue at CCC.
* At SSC: SSC won by inns & 35 runs.
Under 19s Red: 226 and 55 in 18.5 overs (Tharindu Ratnayake 8/22)
SSC: 316/9 (132/6 o/n) in 34 overs (Pasindu Sooriyabandara 99, Himesh Ramanayake 65, Sammu Ashan 30, Charith Asalanka 29, Navod Paranaithana 3/19, Dilum Sudeera 3/128, Chamindu Wijesinghe 2/42)
* At CCC: CCC won by 2 wickets.
U19s Blue: 106 and101 in 37.4 overs (Ravindu Rashanatha 34, Ashan Piyumal 4/23, Madhawa Warnapura 3/24, Wanindu Hasaranga 3/43)
CCC: 158 (84/2 o/n) in 39.2 overs (Ron Chandraguptha 44, Madhawa Warnapura 35, Wanindu Hasaranga 40, Madhawa Warnapura 35, Rohan Sanjaya 6/49, Dilshan Madushanka 3/50) and 50/8 in 18.5 overs (Dilshan Madushanka 4/19, Rohan Sanjaya 3/12)
* At Welisara: Match drawn.
Navy SC: 111 and 235/9 decl. in 51.1 overs (Dilan Chandima 43, Revan Kelly 36, Kavika Dilshan 36, Asiri De Silva 29, Shalith Fernando 25, Nuwan Sampath 22 n.o., Madushan Ravichandrakumar 4/86, Shaluka Silva 3/33)
Bloomfield: 170 (38/0 o/n) in 36.3 overs (Kasun Ekanayake 44, Sachin Jayawardane 38, Imran Khan 36, Kavika Dilshan 4/41, Malinga De Silva 2/42) and 40/5 in 9 overs (Madhushan Ravichandrakumar 28 n.o., Kavika Dilshan 3/10, Ameen Mifnal 2/14)
* At RPICS: Match drawn.
Galle CC: 268 (182/7 o/n) in 73.3 overs (Chanka Bandara 79, Ashan Madusanka 30, Akalanka Ganegama 45, Ashen Warnakulasooriya 28, Gayan Sirisoma 24, Chathura Randunu 6/88, Chathuranga Dilshan 2/61) and 99/5 in 30.5 overs (Chanaka Bandara 54 n.o., Harsha Vithana 22, Chathuranga Dilshan 2/28, Imesh Vimukthi 2/34)
Chilaw Marians CC: 200 in 40.1 overs (Nimesh Vimukthi 68 n.o., Yashoda Lanka 54, Kavindu Irosh 20, Dasun Seneviratne 23, Gayan Sirisoma 5/75, Ashen Warnakulasooriya 2/36, Rajitha Priyan 2/38) - YK
==============================
## Title: Three nabbed with heroin
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Three nabbed with heroin
Peliyagoda Police arrested three suspects including two women with heroin on Saturday.
A police decoy had given a tip to the Divisional Crime Investigation Unit of the Peliyagoda Police.
They were transporting a consignment of heroin in a three-wheeler when the arrests were made.
The police also seized Rs. 20,000 from their possession.
The 23-year-old and 47-year-old suspects have been identified as residents of Orugodawatta in Wellampitiya and Kelaniya.
The 23-year-old three wheeler driver was identified as a resident of Meethotamulla in Wellampitiya.
The suspects were to be produced before the Colombo Hulftsdorp Magistrate.
The police was to obtain a detention order for 7 more days to continue investigations.
==============================
## Title: Three persons arrested with 1.126 kg of cannabis
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Three persons arrested with 1.126 kg of cannabis
Three suspects were arrested while they were transporting cannabis from Jaffna to Samanthurei along the A-9 road in a luxury car.
Omanthei Police Traffic Unit officials found the cannabis in a travelling bag.
They seized the car used by the suspects. The Vavunia Magistrate remanded the suspect when they were produced before him on Friday.
==============================
## Title: Timeless landscaping
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Timeless landscaping
Man as always had a symbiotic relationship with nature. Green Thumbs speaks to Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture Office Ratmalana, District Agriculture Instructor, K. N. K. Jayathilake on landscaping  the amalgamation of the natural environment with the artificial.
Jayathilake points out that landscaping is an ancient practice from the time of the kings which has a very long history. In Sri Lanka two perfect examples of landscaping would be Sigiriya and Mahamevna Uyana. Landscaping brings together nature and urbanization.
People grow various plants and introduce various amazing schemes to enhance the beauty of the garden. Here we take into consideration the climatic conditions and geographic features. We cannot live in a stifling concrete jungle. We need some mental satisfaction provided by the presence of plants that are soothing. This is why people create beautiful gardens. Of course plants have so many other benefits other than making a garden beautiful.
They make the environment cool and refreshing. Carbon Dioxide is absorbed and oxygen is released, said Jayathilake. Jayathilake also mentioned the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. There is debate whether this creation theorized to be one of the seven wonders of the ancient world was mythical or if it actually existed. Either way it portrays mans fascination to join nature with his own works.
The Hanging Gardens of Babylon was a creation of great architecture, containing a wide variety of splendid and attractive trees, shrubs, and vines. There is more evidence to show that our ancestors had a close relationship with nature. In Europe much attention was given to creating gardens of different shapes according to geometry. In Japanese times, their concept of landscaping involved creating small plants with small leaves of different shapes.
In very small spaces they had arrangements of stones, stated Jayathilake. The Chinese System saw sprawling lawns with plenty of colour in the forms of flowers.
In addition to health and beauty, landscaping also provides people with an income. There is a demand for enterprising young people. Lets say you want a fountain or a waterfall. Then there are businessmen who can build that for you, pointed out Jayathilake. When you take landscaping there are four main eras in Sri Lanka  Anuradhapura Era, Sigiriya Era, Pollonnaruwa Era and Mahanuwara Era.
Ranmasu Uyana during the Anuradhapura featured beautiful water gardens and different types of flowering plants. Some of these were sweet scented flowers. Sigiriya today is a UNESCO listed World Heritage Site. It is well known for its beautiful water gardens and terraced gardens - unique harmony between nature and human ingenuity. The gardens of Sigiriya are proof of the astonishing technologies which was available centuries ago in Sri Lanka. Because of its unique landscaping, some hold the belief that it is the eighth wonder of the world, he explained.
King ParakramabahuI was an outstanding King who ruled Polonnaruwa which was a great city in Sri Lanka and some say that it is second only to the ancient city of Anuradhapura.
Parakramabahu I built Nandana Uyana and it is well known for its beautiful ponds and gardens. The gardens had sweet scented flowers such as Jasmine/Samanpichcha (Jasminum Grandiflorum), Na (Mesua Ferrea) and Sapu (Michelia Champaca), said Jayathilaka.
When it comes to landscaping the Mahanuwara Era was another important period. The gardens in the vicinity of the Dalada Maligawa consisted of plants that provided shade and coolness to the environment.
In more modern times modern landscaping in Sri Lanka can be seen in the Peradeniya Royal Botanical Gardens, Haggala Gardens and Henarathgoda Udyanaya. In 1821, with the Royal Botanical Gardens a new age in landscaping in Sri Lanka began. The Gardens consists of indigenous plants and conserving these indigenous plants of Sri Lanka is the main role of the Peradeniya Botanical Gardens.
In 1861, the Hakgala Gardens saw the introduction of plants for the up country regions. Here waterfall features, rock gardens and ponds were introduced. In 1876, plants suitable for low country were seen in the Henarathgoda Botanical Garden featuring orchids and other plants.
****
BENEFITS OF GROWING TREES
* While providing us with fruits to eat, trees absorb Carbon Dioxide and release oxygen back into the air - an acre of mature trees can provide enough oxygen for 18 people.
* Trees/ plants clean the air absorbing odors and pollutant gases. Cool the streets and the cities and trees absorb dust and wind and reduce glare
* Save water. Shade from trees slows water evaporation.
* As trees transpire, they increase atmospheric moisture.
* Trees prevent soil erosion
* Trees provide us with wood
* They create income as you can sell the fruits
* Trees/ plants create the sense of tranquility, calmness, freshness and comfort actually helping one heal faster from some medical conditions
* Trees shield children from Ultra Violet Rays
* Trees give a home for wildlife
* They add beauty to a concrete jungle
==============================
## Title: Towards a peaceful poll
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Towards a peaceful poll
Now that the long drawn out sense of suspense over the fate of Parliament has abated, the House dissolved and the date of elections announced it behoves on all parties in the present drama to act with responsibility until polling day and also thereafter. Needless to say, the political imbroglio had caused a paralysis of the nation with little or no work done in State institutions and Government offices, what with top officials waiting with bated breath for the final outcome. The stalemate also, no doubt, would have frightened away would be investors since no foreign entrepreneur would want to invest in a country going through a volatile political transition.
Hence, the Government should act fast in calming fears while clearing all hurdles that stand in the way of the economy moving forward. Above all, order should be restored in all spheres of activity in the administration so that the Government machinery would function smoothly. In this respect President Maithripala Sirisena did right when he told Government Officials at a meeting in Polonnaruwa last week to execute their duties and functions without being distracted by the current developments. He also told the SLFP/SLPP affiliated trade union representatives to desist from any unruly behaviour and misconduct in their places of work.
Now that all the Ministers in the caretaker Government have been sworn in, no time should be lost in getting down to business since all activities in the ministries, no doubt, would have ceased to function with the previous incumbents having to vacate their posts. Since all Government ministers represent a single political entity there is bound to be consensus and agreement on all the decisions taken, unlike in the past where the two sides were at variance on policy matters.
The President, no doubt, would now be at ease that his orders and decisions to ministers for the benefit of the people will not be countermanded as in the past. This resulted in the people turning against the Yahapalanaya Government as shown by the February 10 LG poll results. President Sirisena should also lose no time in getting all stalled work on the development front activated. Whatever positive work that was commenced by the previous Government should not be abandoned, wholesale, but an evaluation made and where necessary the work continued with.
Also the President, who is now in charge of law enforcement, should ensure that peace prevails in the days leading up the election. This is because this poll will be a heated affair, with both sides going all out to secure a majority in Parliament judging by the rhetoric since October 26. There is also the need to ensure the present political climate will not be used by unruly elements to break the law and engage in acts of destruction. We say this because there is no dearth of subjects in this country who seek to fish in troubled waters and wreak havoc.
The UNP which, no doubt, is still smarting from the double whammy of the sacking of Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and the dissolution of Parliament- should now stop complaining and get ready to face the hustings. After all, the 19th Amendment was the sole brainchild of the UNP and the President was kept out of the loop. If they (UNP) left any lacuna in it that gave the President a way out, then it has only itself to blame.
The President has acted well within the Constitution in replacing Wickremesinghe and terminating Parliament. Independent legal experts have confirmed this fact. The 19th Amendment is clear on the course of action the Executive could take in the event of a constitutional gridlock. It is pointless for the UNP to cry foul now.
The Greens are set to challenge the Presidents action in the Supreme Court. We are not speculating on the outcome, but should the ruling go against the UNP its leader Ranil Wickremesinghe should gracefully accept it and vacate Temple Trees. The official residence that was graced by leaders such as D.S. Senanayake, Dudley Senanayake, Sir John Kothalawela, S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike et al. has been desecrated enough by the riffraff who had lain siege on it since October 26.
Wickremesinghe, who is spoken of as a gentlemanly politician even by his opponents, should not allow this honourific sullied by permitting this rather childish drama. He is not only doing a disservice to himself but also bringing the country to ridicule in the eyes of the international community by his conduct. Here is a four time Prime Minister of Sri Lanka refusing to budge from his official residence after being constitutionally deposed. Can anything be more bizarre
Elections have been called and Wickremesinghe has the opportunity to return to Temple Trees, if that indeed is the peoples wish and also if he indeed will be the choice of the party to lead it. If so, he would rather be best advised to get started on his election campaign right away, since he has a lot of catching up to do.
==============================
## Title: Two youth held in Jalthara murder case
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Two youth held in Jalthara murder case
Two youths were nabbed by police in Ratnapura on Saturday night in connection with a murder in Jalthara.
The suspects were held in connection with the murder of Seelawansa Mudalige Tharaka Madushanka, allegedly over a dispute relating to the sand business in Kelani River. The suspects were arrested on a tip-off while hiding in a thick jungle known as Pompakale.
Three swords and a three-wheeler in the possession of the suspects at the time of their arrest were also being taken into police custody.
The suspects were handed over to the Mirihana Police for legal proceedings in connection with the murder.
According to police, the suspects are 19 and 25.
Police had also arrested other suspects in connection with the same incident previously.
The murder was planned by an underworld criminal Melan Maabulage, alias Uooru Juwa who had been arrested on an earlier occasion in connection with the incident.
Mirihana Police were scheduled to produce all the suspects before the Homagama Magistrate yesterday.
Police investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Underhill denied late try as All Blacks hit back to beat England
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Underhill denied late try as All Blacks hit back to beat England
TWICKENHAM, Saturday - England's Sam Underhill was denied a late and potentially match-winning try as world champions New Zealand came from 15-0 down to win 16-15 at a rainswept Twickenham on Saturday.
Just four minutes remained when England thought they were about to record just an eighth win in 41 Tests against the All Blacks when replacement Courtney Lawes charged down reserve scrum-half TJ Perenara's kick and Underhill, weaving his way past Beauden Barrett, crossed.
But French referee Jerome Garces, after consulting South African television match official Marius Jonker, decided Lawes had been offside and disallowed the score to the dismay of a capacity Twickenham crowd of over 82,000.
Garces's decision came just days after a new World Rugby edict declaring that try scoring should be an on-field decision with the referee being responsible, but the team of four (the referee, two touch judges and the TMO) can all contribute.
New Zealand had earlier recovered from the shock of England's impressive start to be just five points down at half-time thanks to fullback Damian McKenzie's converted try and a Barrett penalty.
Fly-half Barrett's second-half drop-goal and penalty then proved the decisive scores in what was the first England-New Zealand clash for four years -- and one that took place fewer than 12 months out from the 2019 World Cup in Japan. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Unilever receives Gold at Presidential Environment Awards 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Unilever receives Gold at Presidential Environment Awards 2018
Unilever Sri Lankas Ceytea Factory was recognized for its contribution towards environmental conservation with a Gold Trophy in the Food and Beverages Industries category at the Presidential Environment Awards 2018.
Located in Agarapathana, the Ceytea Factory is globally the largest supplier of iced tea to the Unilever business.It is a strong proponent of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan which sets out to decouple the companys growth from its environmental footprint, while increasing its positive social impact.
Embedding sustainability into its day to day supply chain operations, the factory has managed to minimize its impact on the environment over the past 10 years.Bringing its energy and water consumption levels down by 46% and 55% respectively during this period, Ceytea has also cut down on its CO2 emissions by 82%.It has also begun an innovative waste management program in 2018 under which about 70% of the waste generated through the manufacturing process is being used as fuel for its bio-mass boiler and the remaining 30% is being sent to manufacture fertilizers for tea gardens.
Furthermore, the Ceytea team works closely with the Nuwaraeliya Pradeshiya Sabha, the Agarapathana and Dayagama Police and members of the local community on promoting sustainable waste disposal in the neighboring towns of Dayagama, Agarapathana, Gleinline, Holbrook and Nagasena. The Arunella Waste Management project spearheaded by the factory has achieved the complete elimination of waste being dumped in and around the Kothmala Oya, allowing 20,000 people in the area to begin using the river water again.
Commenting on this, Carl Cruz, Chairman, Unilever Sri Lanka, said, We are honored to receive gold at the Presidential Environment Awards. As laid out in the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, we seek to make sustainable living more commonplace. Championing this cause, our Ceytea Factory has had a positive impact on the local communities and ecosystem. We are delighted to see these efforts being recognized at this prestigious forum.
Organized by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), the Presidential Environment Awards seek to reward the individuals, institutions, Organizations, Environmental Journalists and Industrial activities which have made unique contribution to the field of environmental conservation and protection. The forums main objective is to appreciate the enthusiasm of individuals and organizations towards environmental conservation and protection while sustaining their active involvement in the long run for clean and green production and services.
==============================
## Title: Union Assurance posts Rs 2.24 bn PAT in 3Q
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Union Assurance posts Rs 2.24 bn PAT in 3Q
Union Assurance (UA) reported steady progress in the life insurance business, reporting 9% growth in gross written premium compared with the previous year.
Income generated from investments has increased significantly by 13% to Rs. 3,036 million for the reporting period. Expenses though high compared to corresponding previous year was spent in line with a business plan to strengthen the long-term prospects of the business.
Profit after tax amounted to Rs. 2,242 million compared with 267 million in 2017. With the introduction of the new tax base in terms of Section 67 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017, UA will have taxable income from the year ending 31 December 2018, enabling the company to claim its brought forward tax losses against its taxable income within a period of 6 years.
Accordingly, during the quarter under review a deferred tax asset amounting to Rs. 1,532 million arising from brought forward tax losses as at December 31,2017 has been recognized.
Profit up to the third quarter does not include a surplus from the life business which is actuarial valued at year end.
As at September 30, 2018, UAs life fund stood at Rs 31 billion with a healthy solvency ratio indicating the financial strength of the business.
==============================
## Title: War veterans remembered at cenotaph
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
War veterans remembered at cenotaph
The annual Tri-Service Remembrance Day at the cenotaph in Vihara Mahadevi Park, Colombo, organised by the Sri Lanka Ex-Servicemens Association (SLESA) took place yesterday, to remember all servicemen who had laid down their lives for the country from colonial times.
Defence Secretary Hemasiri Fernando attended the event as the chief guest, together with Tri-Service chiefs and seniors. Floral tributes were paid at the cenotaph during the memorial ceremony. The commemorative event also saw several SLESA members being decorated with special medals in recognition of their volunteer service towards promotion of the welfare of local veterans, some of who are almost confined to bed or housed in elders homes.
Religious dignitaries of all major faiths, Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Ravindra C. Wijegunaratne, Army Commander Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake, Navy Commander, Vice Admiral Sirimevan Ranasinghe, Chief of staff of the Sri Lanka Air Force representing the Air Force Commander, foreign diplomats, Chief of staff of the Sri Lanka Army, Deputy Chief of Staff, Commandant, Sri Lanka Army Volunteer Force, senior military officers, state officials and Tri-Service officers, military veterans and a large number of service personnel attended the solemn ceremony.
Brigadier K.A. Gnanaweera (retd), President, SLESA, together with SLESA executive members welcomed the attendees. Sounding of the last post and other military traditions brought the ceremony to an end.
The cenotaph in Colombo was initially erected in November 7, 1921, at Galle Face, but was later dismantled and reassembled at its present location during the Second World War, as it was thought to be a prominent landmark for approaching enemy reconnaissance aircraft.
==============================
## Title: We want Ranil - Akila
## Supertitle: UNP LEADERSHIP CRISIS
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:01
UNP LEADERSHIP CRISIS
We want Ranil - Akila
UNP General Secretary and former Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam yesterday said that UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe will continue as UNP leader.
He said that the party leadership will not change at this movment. Meanwhile, UNP Chairman Kabir Hshim said that no discussion has taken place to change the party leader.
The Working Committee of the party has to take this decision and no one else, he said.
However, the UNP members representing the Sajith Premadasas faction strongly demand that UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe should step down paving the way for Sajith to take over the baton.
==============================
## Title: We want Sajith - Marikkar
## Supertitle: UNP LEADERSHIP CRISIS
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:02
UNP LEADERSHIP CRISIS
We want Sajith - Marikkar
Former Colombo District Parliamentarian S.M.Marikkar yesterday said that majority of UNP party members are of the view that UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe should step down paving the way for Sajith Premadasa to become the party leader.
The Party should give an ear to the voice of party members, if it wants to win at future elections,he said.
Speaking at a press conference held at Temple Trees yesterday, Marikkar added that former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe led the party for more than 24 years and the people are now crying for a change in the leadership.
He said that the United National Party will form a broader alliance to vie for the upcoming election.
We have two options. Either we have to go before court and solve this issue or contest the forthcoming election, he said.
==============================
## Title: What happens when you accidentally destroy a library book
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
What happens when you accidentally destroy a library book
Its happened to all of us. After a hellish week, you decided to take your book in the bathtub to relax and whoops! You reached for your beer and accidentally dipped the book in the bath water like you were dunking a biscotti in your morning coffee. Or maybe you left it on the floor and like the much-fabled homework devourer, your dog ate it (please see below). Perhaps you left it on an airplane, in a rental car, or at that ex-girlfriends house that youre never ever speaking to again because youve faked your own death to avoid them at all costs. You might have eaten a hot dog over it and dripped ketchup and mustard all down the spine. Maybe it got rained on! Cat peed on it! Someone ran it over with their car! Your kid drew all over it with Mr. Sketch scented markers!
Youre not the first person to ruin or lose a book and you definitely wont be the last. What Im saying is accidents happen and none of us are immune from the pitfalls of treating books worse than we should. Were all guilty!
But what happens next when the book isnt yours What happens when it comes to making library restitution
After destruction or loss of materials, it is, as they say, time to pay the piper. Youre gonna have to fork over the funds to replace what youve destroyed. Many times patrons have a lot of questions about how we go about pricing replacement materials. Why cant they just let us buy another copy, they wonder. Wouldnt it be far cheaper if we got a used copy off Amazon and handed it over Why are they trying to bankrupt us Its supposed to be a free service and our taxes pay their fines/salaries/grocery bills/vet fees
Article continues after advertisement
You might have eaten a hot dog over it and dripped ketchup and mustard all down the spine. But when it comes to actual replacement fees, theres more than just buying a new copy. I mean, hey, sometimes a library decides not to replace the thing thats been lost or destroyed. Maybe the item wasnt circulating all that well anyway or its a dead technology (i.e. VHS and microfilm and goddamn laser discs) that the library doesnt want to keep in stock. Perhaps the patron will just pay a set fee that the library has created a policy for in the event of loss/damage. Its all up to that particular branch, baby!
A lot goes in to replacing materials that has nothing to do with how the base-cost of the item. For instance, your money is working toward not just buying that particular copy of Horton Hears a Who, but also paying for the time and labor of the person who has to order it, receive it, catalog it, and prepare it for the shelves. Items dont magically appear in the collection because Grumpert the Wily Library Elf came in the night and placed out all the new books like Christmas gifts. - Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: Woman nabbed with heroin
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Woman nabbed with heroin
A woman with heroin in her possession was nabbed by a team of police officers attached to the Slave Island Police yesterday morning.
According to police, the 57-year-old suspect, Akuratiya Gamage Hemalatha was arrested by police on a tip-off, in Slave Island.
Slave Island Police were scheduled to produce the suspect before the Colombo Fort Magistrate yesterday morning.
Slave Island Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Women, be heart-friendly!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Women, be heart-friendly!
Unhealthy lifestyles increase the risk of a heart attack for women more than they do for men, researchers have warned.
For decades doctors and patients alike have considered heart disease as a problem that mainly affects middle-aged overweight men.
But while men remain more likely than women to suffer an attack, the incidence of heart attacks among women is on the rise.
A study by experts at Oxford University suggests women who have unhealthy lifestyles increase their risk more than men with the same habits.
Data from of 470,000 British people revealed women with high blood pressure or type 2 diabetes - both of which are linked to obesity, drinking and diet - see their heart attack risk rise more than men with the same conditions.
Women with type 2 diabetes, for example, are 96 per cent more likely to have a heart attack than women without. For men the risk rises 33 per cent.
For women with stage two hypertension - the medical term for severe high blood pressure - heart attack risk rises 152 per cent, compared to 71 per cent for men.
And women who smoke are 246 per cent more likely to have a heart attack, compared to 123 per cent for men.
The scientists, writing in the British Medical Journal, said that despite the increased risks, women receive worse care.
Women should, at least, receive the same access to guideline-based treatments for diabetes and hypertension, and to resources to help lose weight and stop smoking as do men, they wrote.
In the UK, women with diabetes are 15 per cent less likely than men with diabetes to receive all recommended care processes, and may be less likely to achieve target values when treated for cardiovascular risk factors.
Experts are also increasingly concerned that women do not take heart attacks among women are missed, with females in Britain 50 per cent more likely than men to have a heart attack initially misdiagnosed.
Some 69,000 women have a heart attack in Britain each year - nearly 20,000 more than are diagnosed with breast cancer. Yet women themselves view heart issues as a typically male disease, scientists think - so when they start noticing symptoms they often do not seek help.
Some 119,000 men have a heart attack annually, but women are also more likely to die as a result of the attack.
Professor Metin Avkiran, associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation, said: Regardless of your sex, risk factors such as high blood pressure, smoking and diabetes increase the risk of a heart attack.
These findings should not distract from a concerted effort to better detect and manage risk factors that can be changed.
Its absolutely vital that everyone has equal access to the best advice and treatment regardless of age, gender or socioeconomic status.
This is an important reminder that heart disease does not discriminate, so we must shift perceptions that it only affects men. -Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: World War Is depressing lessons for Asia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
World War Is depressing lessons for Asia
Lets start with the geopolitics. World War I is a font of insight into todays return to great-power competition, as U.S. Defence Department officials call this age of Russian and Chinese power and belligerence.
World War I is almost forgotten in America. And thats a shame. Mark Twain once wisecracked, History doesnt repeat itself, but it does rhyme. Americas greatest humourist didnt live to comment when the German Army barged into Belgium in August 1914 or to decry the bloodletting that followed. But Twains ghost must be hearing clear rhymes from the Great War a century after the guns of August fell silent on November 11, 1918.
Among them, new great powers unbalancing an established balance of geopolitical power and a running debate over whether globalization begets peace.
These both matter today, and nowhere more than in the rapidly accelerating strategic struggle between the United States and China.
The Great War punched a hole in Europes century of relative calm. A balance of power among five roughly equal powersFrance, Great Britain, Prussia, Austria, and Russiahad kept the peace (with a couple of exceptions fought mostly far from Europe, such as the Crimean War) for nearly a century since the overthrow of Napoleonic France at Waterloo in 1815.
Starting in the 1860s, though, one of those powersPrussiawaged a series of limited wars against Denmark, Austria, and France. Prussian armies wrested away the territory needed to constitute a united Germany. Unification followed after the German Army crushed its French counterpart in 1871.
Chinas rise
An ambitious great power arose and upset a long-standing balance of power. Sound familiar Chinas communist leadership thinks so. So sharp is the rhyme between Chinas rise and imperial Germanys that Beijing commissioned a team of writers and filmmakers to make a study of German history (along with other past empires). The team compiled a series of books and a companion China Central Television series titled The Rise of Great Powers.
This inquiry into imperial history commanded more than antiquarian interest. Its chief goal was to learn from the past, helping China emulate the great powers of yesteryear to aid the countrys rise while avoiding their foibles and miscues.
Yet the series also served messaging and branding purposes. Westerners commonly liken China to imperial Germany, but this comparison is too blunt. In reality, the late 19th and early 20th Centuries witnessed two Germanies. Founding Chancellor Otto von Bismarck presided over the first from 1871-1890 and Kaiser Wilhelm II over the second from 1890-1918. Berlin comported itself quite differently under different overseers.
Wars of unification
Chinas leadership is content for outsiders to associate China with the Bismarck years. Nicknamed the Iron Chancellor, Bismarck exercised restraint when masterminding German foreign policy and strategy. He expertly branded Germany as a sated power. Berlin had everything it wanted after the wars of unification. It entertained no further dreams of territorial conquest. The Reich was the brawny neighbour Europeans could live with, not an aggressor they needed to fear and ally against.
Wilhelm assumed direct stewardship of German policy after dismissing Bismarck in 1890. The erratic monarch alternately conciliated and blustered against Europeans rather than reassure them in Bismarckian style. Meanwhile, Wilhelm presided over the construction of a High Seas Fleet that appeared designed to sink Great Britains Royal Navy in the North Sea. The naval arms race was on and helped bring about the Great War. So theres a historical rhyme that supplies a way to chart Chinas trajectory. Is Chinas leadership conducting itself more like Bismarcks Germany or Wilhelms Up until recently, it certainly tried to portray itself as Bismarckian, canny and statesmanlike. But the growing jingoism in the mainland, and the disregard for the opinions of its neighbours, is worryingly Wilhelmine.
Some point to trade as the key factor that will help keep the peace between the United States and China. A few years ago, the historian Niall Ferguson tried to make Chimerica the new buzzword, based largely on the mutual dependence of the two powers. But the Great War sheds light on the weakness of economic interdependence as a peacekeeping tool. The European maelstrom collapsed the first age of globalization, an age when the world was more globalizedcertainly more borderlessin some ways than it is today.
In the years leading up to 1914, historians and diplomats debated the impact of economic interconnectedness on geopolitical competition and strife. Before the war, in a treatise titled War and Waste, Stanford University President David Starr Jordan proclaimed that Europe would never fight a great war. It would be foolhardy to fight a trading partner or resource supplieror to do anything else that would imperil safe use of the seas, railways, and other conveyances to carry on international trade and commerce. War, Jordan insisted, would shatter the global supply chain of production, distribution, and consumption. All mercantile peoples would suffer.
Use of force
More famously, the English intellectual Norman Angell published a treatise titled The Great Illusion. Angell trod much the same ground as Jordan, but his book was more an elegy and a warning than a prophecy of perpetual peace. Wrongly lampooned for prophesying an end to armed conflict, The Great Illusion maintained that everyone from fire-breathing militarists to ardent pacifists remained in thrall to a false consciousness concerning the use of force. That governments could advance strategic aims by force of arms was graven on their worldview and assumptions. Angell insisted that the logic of economic interdependence should have rendered war moot and would have if enlightened folk embraced peaceful trade and commerce. But few did. Governments and societies accepted frightful if not self-defeating costs in their quests for power, interest, and international standing.
So theres the second rhyme. The economic ties between the United States and China are stronger than ever, but is that actually a meaningful disincentive The folly of fin de sicle Europe suggests otherwise.
- Foreign Policy
==============================
## Title: Wurth Lanka, KFW Germany to groom Technipreneurs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Wurth Lanka, KFW Germany to groom Technipreneurs
While a significant demand for skilled craftsmen exists which stems from the construction boom the country is experiencing, shortage of skilled craftsmen and technical workforce has led to a serious issue of project delays and increasing costs in the sector said Wurth Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Managing Director Rohan Amirthiah.
He said this at the joint project launched by Wurth Lanka a fully owned subsidiary of Wurth Group, Germany and KFW, a member of the KfW banking group Germany to create skilled and economically independent craftsmen in Sri Lanka by empowering them as Technipreneurs.
The project seeks to fulfill multiple objectives of promoting entrepreneurship among existing low-skilled craftsmen via a carefully designed top-up curriculum aligned with relevant guidelines and establishing seamless access to qualified craftsmen for consumers via digital means. The Asia Society for Social Improvement and Sustainable Transformation (ASSIST) is the implementation partner for the project.
Construction sector has been a cornerstone of the countrys economy since 2009 growing by approximately 20 percent year-on-year and contributing over 10 percent of the GDP recently. Along with it, the facility maintenance as a sub-sector has also grown in importance and skilled and trained technicians are urgently needed to support the increasing demand, said ASSIST project manager Aru David.
Despite high unemployment rates there is a shortage of skilled technical workforce and craftsmen in areas such as plumbing, carpentry, welding, masonry, rigging, painting, he said.
German Ambassador Jorn Rohde gracing the occasion appreciated private-public partnerships and mentioned that German Tech was founded 50 years back for vocational training in Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka- German technical training center in Kilinochchi was commissioned three years back. Another one in Matara is in the offing, he said.
Sri Lanka to facilitate the construction boom hires Chinese workers because of lack of skilled people. That shouldnt be the case. Sri Lanka has enough talent. Initiatives like these to up-skill existing workers will bridge the gap between demand and supply. Hallmark of the German system is not merely training people but to train people to start their own businesses, he added.
Wrth Lanka established in Sri Lanka in 1998 operates with technical craftsmen and tradesmen who directly use tools, equipments, technical consumables to repair, service and build. The automotive aftermarket and construction sectors as well as builders, contractors, and maintenance workers in factories are its end customers.
==============================
## Title: Zahira beats Presidents
## Supertitle: Singer U-19 Cricket
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 12, 2018 - 01:00
Singer U-19 Cricket
Zahira beats Presidents
Zahira College Colombo beat Presidents College Kotte by 185 runs in their Singer Trophy Under 19 inter Schools Cricket tournament match at Maradana yesterday.
* At Maradana. Zahira Colombo won by 185 runs.
Zahira: 224/9 decl. in 73 overs (Yasith Nirmal 40, S. Aravind 35, Chathura Dilrukshan 33, Thashika Nirmal 4/50, Thevin Thewmika 3/37) and 145/7 decl. in 44 overs (Yasith Nirmal 35, Imthiyaz Slasa 33, Dinith Nelumdeniya 5/51)
Presidents Kotte: 162 in 46.1 overs (Akila Roshan 45, Sadassya Kalpa 22, Imthiyaz Slasa 5/61, Mohomaad Rifas 2/25) and 22 in 16.4 overs (Mohommad Kalif 5/7, Mohommad Rifagh 3/13, Imthiyaza Slasa 2/1)
* At Pannipitiya.
Dharmasoka Ambalangoda: 131 in 59.5 overs (Hasitha Rajapaksha 45, Lehan de Zoysa 40, Kavindu Nadeeshan 26, Chamindu Samarsinghe 4/20, Dilshan De Silva 4/46)
Dharmapala Pannipitiya: 89/7 in 33 overs (Dulaj Egodage 26, Vihanga Gunarathne 24 n.o., Lakshan Dhananjaya 3/23, Abheeth Chandraguptha 2/18). YK
==============================
