## Title: Don't tell me to cheer up'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Don't tell me to cheer up'
People who suffer with depression reveal the things you should NEVER say to someone battling the illness
Despite national efforts to tackle the stigma around the subject of mental health, many people are still unsure of how to broach the subject.
Now, in a frank discussion on Reddit, people who suffer with depression have given an insight into what not to say.
A user posed the question: 'Depressed People of Reddit what is the worst thing someone can say to you to try to cheer you up'
It prompted a flood of responses from frustrated people on the forum - many of whom said they resented being told simply to 'cheer up'.
The user wrote: 'Cheer up. I would always like to reply to this one with How It usually shut people up quick [sic].' Talk on the thread then turned to well-meaning people who advise those suffering with depression to 'stay positive'.
One person said: '"Just think happy thoughts and the sad ones will go away." Do you honestly think I would be depressed if getting rid of it was as simple as thinking of happy things '
'"Happiness is a choice." You think I made the conscious decision to be like this,' another agreed. Users on the thread said people would tell them to think positive thoughts to cure their illness
A lot of the people sharing their stories recalled being told they had no reason to be depressed - despite depression often not being caused by circumstances.
One said: 'Had a friend that told me I have no reason to be depressed because he'd been through more s*** than me. Decided to stop being friends straight away.'
While another user said they'd been told 'Depressed about what! You have a great life. Get over it.'
One respondent explained that people make poor judgements about depression because a lot of people don't understand the illness, saying: 'People simply don't understand what depression is, and what impact can it have on a person's life.
'This is something that should be taught in schools, including how to avoid it.
-Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: The Great Chronical enduring time
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
The Great Chronical enduring time
The text gives a date of 1,840 years prior to the death of the Buddha. So this is one example, but it is significant insofar as it shows us that even those monks who were in charge of preserving the Mahavamsa may themselves have had more of an expansive view of the early history of the island than were allowed to account for when we look at the Mahavamsa as a single text
The Mahavamsa, or Great Chronicle, is an ancient Pali text about the Buddhist kings of Sri Lanka that is foundational to Sinhala identity and Theravada Buddhism today. In a lecture last week, Dr. Justin W. Henry, an American scholar of Sri Lankan religious history, said that the Mahavamsa is one of the earliest texts in the world to define such a concrete idea of nationhood and national identity. But, he argued in a lecture at the Open University, it should not be read and interpreted by itself, as many do today. He said that historically, before the arrival of the British, the Mahavamsa was understood alongside other commentaries and histories written in Pali and Sinhala, which added to and complicated its story about Sinhala kings and Buddhist identity.
Henry is an American scholar of Sri Lankan religious history. He holds a PhD in the History of Religions from the University of Chicago Divinity School and currently teaches at Loyola University in Chicago. He was a visiting research fellow in the Department of Linguistics at Kelaniya University from 2008-09 and has spent several years in Sri Lanka studying Pali, Sinhala and Tamil religious literature.
Excerpts follow:
An English translation of the Mahavamsa
by Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.
Q: As an introduction, can you speak the significance of the Mahavamsa to Sinhala, Buddhism and to the study of world religions more generally
A. Its remarkable to have a document thats so old and that draws from a previous tradition. The prior chronicle to it, which is called the Dipavamsa, or the Chronicle of the Island, dates to either the late 3rd or early 4th century. So there was an even older tradition, and likely other chronicles that were circulating that the Mahavamsa first installment was derived from. It has a pretty clear normative vision of the duties of a king of the island, and it has a fairly orthodox perspective about what the obligations of Buddhist laypeople are, at least the Buddhist rulers of the island. And that stuff conjoined, political charter, religious orthodoxy, and a sense of national boundaries, is very unique to find in a document that early. The famous historian of Buddhism Heinz Bechert is right; it does contain an idea of the nation very early on. So the Mahvamsa is unique. We dont talk generally about nationalist consciousness until the very modern period, the modern national states of Europe.
But the Mahavamsa shows us that there is an idea of Sinhala identity, or at least an idea of Sinhala kingship, very early on. And so for that reason you cant in any way discount its immense significance for Sinhala Buddhist people, or as a cultural artifact attesting to this very early national consciousness.
Q: But, as you said in your talk, the text has been interpreted by historians in different ways over the years. Can you walk me through that
A. Today, I first made a point about the earliest impressions of the text by the British, who first retrieved it and committed it to print from the written manuscripts and there was an immense amount of excitement because in the early 1800s the actual history of India was just beginning to unravel. We have the Edicts of Ashoka being dated to Greek Seleucid Empire and we realized that it was possible to date the history of India in the same way that we feel confident dating, for instance, the Greeks and the Romans.
So that prospect of finding a chronicle that old, it was seen as a skeleton key to ancient dynastic chronology. It was very exciting. I mean, the Mahavamsa does give exact dates for the reigns of the kings of Sri Lanka, measured from the time of the Buddhas death. So we have at least an approximation of those things. Theres no other record, theres no record in India or anything like it at all.
Now, as I said today, the excitement on the part of some gave way to skepticism on the part of others who said that portions of the Mahavamsa that looked exaggerated or miraculous meant that the text as a whole was of little historical value. But I think a compromise between those two positions was reached. I mentioned Thomas Rhys Davids and Wilhelm Geiger, who are writing in the early 20th century, who said well, there are some interpolations in the text, but so what Its still a very helpful document. It will tell us not only about the history of Sri Lanka but of Southern Asia, too.
The second movement in Mahavamsa studies is the mid-20th century scholarship that looked at the text influenced by its political applications at the time of Sri Lanka emerging as a nation state. I mean it became a highly-charged political document; a source of identity for the Sinhala people, and it was presented as kind of a political charter, and sometimes as a justification for the reasons Buddhism should be given a special place in relation to other religions in Sri Lanka
Q: Which it has been given
A: Yes. And indeed, through successive new constitutions Buddhism has legally been given a special place in Sri Lanka. There were some historians that would either say that the very consolidated Sinhala identity, the idea that the Sinhala people are descended from Prince Vijaya, some scholars would make the case that this idea, we can trace back 1,500 years. There are others who are incredulous of this idea, saying that Sinhala, being the colocation of being descended from Vijaya, speaking Sinhala, and being a Buddhist, is a modern thing, a product of basically the colonial period, basically from the Portuguese period in the 16th century. I mentioned the Sri Lankan historian Evelyn Ludowyk today, and also the German historian Heinz Beichert, who were worried that the Mahavamsa would be used in an anachronistic way, in a way that it wasnt necessarily historically accurate.
Q: So you argue that theres an emerging third way of reading this text
A: Yes, I do. And its a new way that, kind of ironically, is more in keeping with what was likely the original way of reading the Mahavamsa before the root Pali text was isolated as an object of philological scrutiny by the British in the early 19th century. I mean, the first collectors of manuscripts and translators, like the Rev. Buckley Fox, Sir Alexander Johnson, George Turnour, were all told by their monastic contacts that the text itself was extremely difficult, if not impossible, to comprehend on its own, and that it required a commentary to read it.
Now for George Turnour, the commentary he was supplied was one text in Pali, which is called a tika, and this was the supplementary text he needed to unlock the origin of the document, the root text. And the other manuscript-hunters before him were told its not just the Pali commentary, you can use Sinhala texts too, a host of Sinhala texts. The Rev. Fox and Edward Upham seemed to have relied on two Sinhala chronicles, the Rajaratna-cariya and the Rajavaliya. They relied on those in their first attempt to make a translation of the Mahavamsa. It seems that the tradition of actually reading the Mahavamsa was one that began with the core text itself, but that relied on other commentary materials, other supplementary materials.
Q: And those other materials both sometimes add on, and maybe contradict, things that are in the Mahavamsa itself
A: Add, elucidate, and sometimes perhaps contradict. Im interested in my own research about when the history of the island as a civilized place begins. And in the Mahavamsa, a big to-do is made about the three visits of the Buddha to the island to expel the resident demons, and clearing the way for Prince Vijaya to arrive from India. He touches Sri Lankas shores, at that moment of the death of the Buddha, and I call this a singularity; the genesis of recorded time in Sri Lanka, according to the Mahavamsa.
Heinz Bechert has argued that the story of the Ramayana, which is the story of Rama retrieving his wife Sita from Ravana, the demon king of Lanka, was intentionally excluded in the Mahavamsa. He argues that the monks who wrote it knew about it, and intentionally left it out, so as not to give any precedent to a Hindu history of Sri Lanka. Later, that changes, even in the Rajavaliya, one of these Sinhala texts that we know was used as a supplement to the Mahavamsa. We get the mention of Ravana, the demon king of the Ramayana, having inhabited Sri Lanka prior to Vijaya. And I think the text gives a date of 1,840 years prior to the death of the Buddha. So this is one example, but it is significant insofar as it shows us that even those monks who were in charge of preserving the Mahavamsa may themselves have had more of an expansive view of the early history of the island than were allowed to account for when we look at the Mahavamsa as a single text.
Q: So in your research, can you tell me some of the histories that youve found in these more vernacular texts
A: We get in the Rajavaliya, in addition to other Sinhala texts and commentaries, the notion that Sri Lanka was at one point geographically much larger than it is now, that it was some 12 times its current size. And that great extent of Sri Lanka was washed away by the sea following the reign of Ravana. This notion of Sri Lanka having been much larger is interestingly resonant with the stories from South India concerning the ancient capitals where the great Tamil literary products, called the Sangam poetry, emerged from.
We have in South India this idea of three successive capitals that are periodically washed away by the sea.
And I think that its here, looking at some of these shared narratives and points of influence and synthesis, that we can see a conversation outside the boundaries of the Mahavamsa regarding the ancient history of Sri Lanka and the subcontinent going on. Its an interesting window into the religious interface that was happening, and most of this, I argue, begins in the 14th century and carries into the Portuguese period. It was really the 14th and 15th century that a lot of this expanded historical imagination was going on.
Q: And you argue that we lose these narratives because of the strong insistence on the printed text of the Mahavamsa.
A: I think theres a strong case to be made for that, yes.
Q: You said in your talk that British manuscript collectors and translators tricked people into misreading the islands history with their focus on the Mahavamsa. Is that a fair characterization
A: I think so; or at least mislead Sri Lankans into a narrower view of their own history than they perhaps had prior to the British period.
Q: And you believe that the work of scholarship now is to kind of re-open that history.
A: Hopefully, yes.
==============================
## Title: You Look Lovely
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
You Look Lovely
I confess I frequently talk to my plants. Wow, you look lovely today, I compliment the pink shoe flowers. Did you miss me I ask my marigolds when I return home after a visit to my publisher. You look pale, did the bugs attack you last night, I sigh, when I see the holes on the leaves of the begonias.
Do you think Im weird Well, Prince Charles too, talks to his plants. Yes, it would have been lovely if it was Ben Affleck or George Clooney who said they talk to their plants, but as they remain mum on the subject, I have only this one quote from the future monarch of Great Britain to support my theory  Im not weird. Heres what Prince Charles said, I just come and talk to the plants, really. Very important to talk to them; they respond.
And, he could be right. The idea, it seems, is a popular one after all. The theory that plants benefit from human conversation goes way back to 1848, when German professor Gustav Fechner published the book Nanna (Soul-life of Plants). The book paved the way for more books and even an albumrecorded in 1970 by an enterprising dentisttitled Music to Grow Plants By. But will crooning compliments to your roses really have any effect on their growth
Familiar to humans
Some plant scientists insist it does  since plants can sense, learn, remember and even react in ways that would be familiar to humans. According to Michael Pollan, author of such books as The Omnivores Dilemma and The Botany of Desire, for a long time, even mentioning the idea that plants could be intelligent was a quick way to being labeled a whacko. But not anymore. (This is surely comforting for people like me, who have long talked to their plants or played music for them). The new research, he says, is in a field called plant neurobiology  which is something of a misnomer, because even scientists in the field dont argue that plants have neurons or brains. They have analogous structures, Pollan explains. They have ways of taking all the sensory data they gather in their everyday lives ... integrate it and then behave in an appropriate way in response. And they do this without brains, which, in a way, is whats incredible about it, because we automatically assume you need a brain to process information. And we assume you need ears to hear. But researchers, says Pollan, have played a recording of a caterpillar munching on a leaf to plants  and the plants react. They begin to secrete defensive chemicals  even though the plant isnt really threatened, Pollan says.It is somehow hearing what is, to it, a terrifying sound of a caterpillar munching on its leaves.
Kind words
Does this mean plants react positively to positive sounds only To see whether kind words could really yield fertile results, the skeptical group of scientists called Myth Busters procured 60 pea plants and divided them into three greenhouse groups. Then, they recorded two soundtracks  one of loving praise and one of cruel insults  and played them on repeat in two separate greenhouses. A third greenhouse remained mum as an experimental control.
To give the myth a fighting chance of flourishing, the team charted the plants growth over 60 days. Afterward, the MythBusters determined the winning greenhouse by comparing plant masses from the three groups. To their surprise, the silent greenhouse performed poorest, producing lower biomass and smaller pea pods than the other two. Although there was no difference in plant quality between the nice greenhouse and the mean greenhouse, the soundtracks seemed to produce a positive effect in both. Based on the plausible myth, those of us who talk to plants can now do it more often, without worrying if what we have to say is friendly or not.
Provided you are a woman, that is. According to the Royal Horticultural Society talking to plants make them grow, especially if you are a woman. In an experiment run over a month, they found that tomato plants grew up to two inches taller if they were serenaded by the dulcet tones of a female rather than a male. The findings vindicate comments made by Prince Charles that he talks to his plants although they suggest that for maximum results he would be better off recruiting the Duchess of Cornwall.
Great fun
Not surprisingly, the most effective talk came from Sarah Darwin, whose great-great grandfather was legendary botanist Charles Darwin. She read a passage from the On the Origin of Species and helped her plant grow nearly two inches taller. Im not sure if its my dulcet tones or the text that I read from On the Origin of Species that made the plant sit up and listen, but either way I think it is great fun, said Sarah. The bottom line If you have always thought that showering seedlings with sunlight, water and healthy soil isnt enough - to really make their roots sing, you have to talk your plants into growing better, you might have been right all along.
So, if you feel like whispering sweet nothings to your begonias this morning, go ahead.
[emailprotected]
Tips on Talking with Plants
1. Observe plants. It doesnt matter if its one plant or dozens, whether its outdoors or indoors. If youre a beginner, start with one plant. Take a few moments and stand or sit near it and begin to familiarize yourself with its shape, texture, color, leaves. Each day when you observe, notice if it has changed at all from the day before.
2. After a week of doing this, even if you feel that this entire concept is a bit woo woo, say a few words to the plant, either silently or out loud. It can be as simple as: Hey, good morning, how are you today or Youre looking like youre having a tough timeare you OK or Arent you a little beauty Do this at least once a day. When it comes to talking to your plants, my philosophy is: more is better.
3. Touch the plant. Have you ever cradled rose petals in the palm of your hands Or shaken a poppy or dill flower to get seeds from them Theres something sensual about touching plants. We gardeners do it when dead-heading, cutting down plants, checking for bad insects, etc. Often, even while working at a clipped pace, I slow down, pause, and take a few minutes to touch the plants Im working with in a gentle way. Its not a big deal, really. It may feel funny at first: but like anything, when you practice, it becomes natural.
4. Think about how youre helping the plant grow when you talk to it. There has been a lot of research done in this area: Its stacking up to show the positive effects our talking and connecting
5. Give thanks to the plant for nurturing you. As most pet owners will share with you, their pets are part of the family: its a loving relationship. You can have a loving relationship with your plant, if youre open to the possibility. These living works of art that bring beauty, optimism, and a sense of well-being into our lives. 6. Try It Out: What better way to test out the hypothesis presented today, than testing it for yourself You will need two plants that are the same type and size. Put them in different areas, but make sure that they get the same amount of water and light. Only talk to one of the plants on a daily basis. Keep track of how the plants grow over the course of a few weeks. What differences do you notice What conclusions do you draw
==============================
## Title: 99X Technology powers Sri Lankas first-ever Serverless Meetup
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
99X Technology powers Sri Lankas first-ever Serverless Meetup
99X Technology held Sri Lankas first-ever technical meetup on the open source web framework Serverless earlier this month.
The event saw some awesome cutting-edge globally trending tech insights shared with an eager audience.
A new technological trend that has been changing the way developers think about writing web applications. Its a free and open source web framework that has been gaining popularity globally in recent times.
The meet up last week was to bring to the Sri Lankan IT community the new developments surrounding the Serverless framework, which is also gaining traction fast locally.
The speakers featured a mix of the local and global, with sessions by Serverless Inc. Lead Front-End Engineer Nik Graf and 99X Technology Associate Technical Architect Ashan Fernando, and the Meetup was seen as a great way of bringing together people with shared interests in open source technologies and frameworks.
Held at 99X Technology, the Meetup kicked off with Serverless Inc.s Nik Graf who conducted a remote session from Vienna, Austria, delivering an insightful introduction to Serverless Architecture, exploring the benefits and challenges associated with using it. In addition to being the perfect icebreaker for professionals who were new to the framework, the session gave other participants the vital opportunity to clarify issues they had faced while using Serverless in their work.
Ashan Fernando from 99X Technology reached out in his session to the participants who had already started using Serverless in their work, by relating his personal experiences with which the audience connected well. The session grew to an interactive forum with great takeaways for the Sri Lankan IT community.
Given the welcome by the local IT community and embracing of the concept of this gathering, it was decided by 99X Technology to proceed with more meetups of this nature with a view of powering knowledge sharing across the industry.
Being a thought leader in the local IT sphere, many more events are lined up by 99X Technology for the coming months with international speakers.
==============================
## Title: Abans hosts a rendezvous with HUGO BOSS
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Abans hosts a rendezvous with HUGO BOSS
HUGO BOSS recently held a relaxing evening of cheese, wine and conversation at the Arcade Independence Square. Partnering with Nations Trust Bank and high-end auto brands Land Rover and Jaguar, this event embodied HUGO BOSS goal of showing its appreciation towards its loyal customers by offering an elegant, sophisticated occasion where they could truly unwind, relax and socialize.
The event was set at a neo-classical open-air terrace within close proximity to the BOSS Store located at Arcade Independence Square.
At the event the guests got the chance to explore the stylish lavish assortment of BOSS fashion and accessories including a range dedicated to modern groom. They were also provided the opportunity to sample a variety of artisanal cheeses ranging from Swiss to Blue Cheese, which was accompanied by an exquisite collection of wines for further flavour enhancement.
A striking array of Jaguar cars were also placed on display, reinforcing the underlying themes of luxury and class running throughout the event.
The occasion was attended by over 40 VIP guests from diverse genres and sectors of society.
Founded in 1924 in Metzingen Germany, HUGO BOSS specializes in high end apparel manufactured with a passion and dedication of inculcating the highest quality and finest fabrics that leave individuals envied and admired in equal measures.
HUGO BOSS expanded its global presence by launching in Colombo on April 28 in collaboration with Abans PLC as the authorized distributor for the brand in Sri Lanka.
HUGO BOSS is a world renowned brand with a growing popularity amongst various age groups that successfully satisfies the upper parameters of premium to luxury fashion, in-turn becoming every mans desired fashion label. The brand encompasses a collection of all key fashion areas comprising of classic clothing, leisurewear, eveningwear, functional, sportswear and complementing accessories.
With a perfectly coordinated integration of all core brands, HUGO BOSS consistently establishes its position as a global market leader in the upscale industry of fashion. Furthermore, high profile celebrities such as Gerard Butler, George Clooney, Eddie Redmayne, Formula One racer Lewis Hamilton, Mats Hummels Germanys soccer star and Swedish professional golfer Henrik Stenson have worn the brand fondly over the years by signifying success, perfection and timeless style that transcends international borders.
The diversity and versatility in products offered by HUGO BOSS signifies an admirable adaptability to changing trends, tastes, seasonal demands, economic and technological advancements that collectively enhances the brand identity and protects its position as a global leader in the market of luxury fashion.
In keeping with the extraordinary scale of fashion diversity and popular fashion trends that are in demand HUGO BOSS in Sri Lanka features the best selling product range descending from two of its core prominent lines, namely, BOSS and BOSS Green.
BOSS encompasses a versatile range that is known to satisfy even the most demanding tastes in fashion, be it special occasions, business meetings, formal or smart-casual events.
Meticulous workmanship, well tailored silhouettes, superior quality fabrics, and precision fit together create this sophisticated line of modern classics for which HUGO BOSS is known universally.
BOSS Green boasts designs for men in search of leisurewear combined with fashion, lifestyle and a sportive edge. This category exhibits a youthful collection centered primarily on golf and sportswear merged with classic cuts and unique designs that promote sophistication with an innovative, dynamic and relaxed approach.
Comprising lightweight and active stretch fabrics the collection features t-shirts, shirts, denims and other casual attire that channel comfort in the form of hybrid fashionable styles. While BOSS follows a stately monochromatic colour palette, BOSS Green entails a more vibrant colour choice generating a fashion statement that is casual yet opulent.
Exquisite BOSS and BOSS Green collections can be accessed by visiting the BOSS Store at Arcade Independence Square, Colombo-07. For more details please e-mail [emailprotected].
==============================
## Title: AIA operating profit up 16 %, interim dividend up 17 %
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
AIA operating profit up 16 %, interim dividend up 17 %
AIA has delivered an excellent set of results in the first half of 2017 with record VONB growth of 42 per cent to US$1,753 million.
The Board has declared a 17 per cent increase in the interim dividend for 2017. This reflects AIAs excellent financial results in the first half as well as our confidence in the outlook for the Group.
AIA has significant competitive advantages created over our long history in Asia. We have a clear strategy that is working well and is fully aligned with the substantial opportunities presented by the extraordinary social changes and substantial economic growth taking place across the region. Our strong track record of value creation is the direct outcome of our many experienced teams working collectively to deliver our strategic priorities. We will continue to challenge ourselves and our strategy to ensure we capture the many significant opportunities that the region presents  well into the future.
Todays announcement is the first time I have reported our financial results since I assumed the role of Group Chief Executive at the beginning of June and I am delighted that we have delivered a very strong performance. AIA is an exceptional company with outstanding people and a unique franchise. I look to the future with great enthusiasm as we continue to realise AIAs full potential in Asia and generate sustainable value for our customers and shareholders, said Ng Keng Hooi, AIAs Group Chief Executive and President,

==============================
## Title: Amna Takaful relocates Akkaraipattu branch
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Amna Takaful relocates Akkaraipattu branch
Amna Takaful (ATL) relocated its Akkaraipattu branch with the intention of serving their customers better. The new branch is strategically located at Main Street, Akkaraipattu.
The new office was inaugurated recently by Gehan Rajapakse Chief Executive Officer, ATL Life, along with Asif Hameed, Head of National Distribution, ATL Life, in the presence of members of the local business community, customers and staff.
With the new relocation, ATL maintained its ever expanding presence in the North and the East provinces through their modernized branch network in the towns of Jaffna, Kaduruwela, Trincomalee, Kinniya, Batticoloa, Kattankudy and Kalmunai.
Gehan Rajapakse, Chief Executive Officer, opening the Akkaraipattu branch
ATL continues to be in the forefront of the insurance industry in the island and caters to all sectors of customers.
The Takaful way of insurance operates on the concept of bringing people together to be part of a system that gives them the opportunity to help each other.
As the pioneer Takaful provider, ATL operates 27 branches and is set to expand further to better serve customers across the country.
ATL continuously reaches out to customers from all segments of society and offers innovative and state-of-the-art insurance products that are convenient, affordable and reliable. As part of its commitment to remain open to all, ATL serves all communities and employs a multi-ethnic team across its network.

==============================
## Title: ANC Education launches MSc in Clinical and Health Psychology
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
ANC Education launches MSc in Clinical and Health Psychology
ANC School of Postgraduate Education announced the launch of its MSc in Clinical and Health Psychology and MBA with Hospitality Management programmes in Sri Lanka, at a ceremony held on July 27, at Taj Samudra, Colombo.
ANC Education in collaboration with the University of West London (UWL) now offers British postgraduate qualifications in Psychology and Hospitality that can be completed entirely in Sri Lanka within a period of 12  15 months.
For the first time, this enables local students to obtain foreign undergraduate to postgraduate qualifications in psychology and hospitality without the need to go abroad for studies - and for a much lower cost.
Being in the education industry for over 15 years, ANC Education understands the growing demand for high caliber professionals in the field of psychology and hospitality, both locally and internationally.
In Sri Lanka, theres a huge shortage of professionals in psychology, especially clinical psychologists  which creates more demand for qualified professionals in the industry. Massive scale infrastructure and other development projects in the country after the war, has also given room for the tourism and hospitality industry to boom in leaps and bounds, creating more lucrative jobs in the industry. Professionals in psychology and hospitality can also easily apply as skill migrants and secure attractive career opportunities abroad, owing to the existing high global demand.
Strengthening the years-old UWL-ANC partnership, Vice Chancellor of the UWL Prof. Peter John graced the launch ceremony as the Chief Guest.
Speaking at the event, he admired ANC Educations commitment to educating the future generation of leaders, in-line with the UWLs vision and mission. According to him, the UWL has made outstanding achievements in the recent years, jumping up 38 places to No. 58 in the Guardian University League Table 2018 - with similar successes in The Complete University Guide 2018 and The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017.

==============================
## Title: Appointment of Director to Dr. Neville Fernando Hospital : Health Minister responds
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Appointment of Director to Dr. Neville Fernando Hospital : Health Minister responds
Dr. Rajitha Senaratne responding to an accusation made at him that he had appointed a director of the Tobacco Company to the Director Board of the Dr. Neville Fernando Hospital, said the person the Minister appointed to the Director Board of the Dr. Neville Fernando Hospital is a Charted Accountant and an Advisor to the Prime Minister.
This person did the coordination between the Government Medical Officers Association and the Prime Minister during the recent discussion.
He did the coordination with the knowledge of the high officials of the Association. It is not ethical to criticise the person who once helped. It is not a sign of professionalism, the statement said.
Media did not highlight when the tax on tobacco increased up to 90 percent and it was not the headlines in newspapers. But media make headlines with what the association says. It is surprising the media did not admire the tax increase on tobacco. Even WHO highly admired it, the statement said.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (31-07-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (31-07-2017)]
Darshana Gurusinghe
A brilliant student
They say that the good die young. This saying couldn't have been more true, because death laid its hands on Prageeth Darshana Gurusinghe on June 30, 2005, at the very young age of 18. Eighteen is an exciting age in an individuals life. Darshana, at that age, was indeed more than an ordinary teenager. He was tall, good-looking and talented. It was a tragic death that he was subjected to. On that unfortunate day, he had gone with five classmates for a sea bath. They got into difficulties and he and his good friend Gayan drowned.
Prageeth Darshana was an A/L mathematics student at Holy Cross College, Kalutara. Because of his seniority and his brilliance in studies, he was appointed a prefect of the College. He was also a brilliant sportsman. He passed his G.C.E. O/L examination well. Darshana was also known for his excellent handwriting. He earned a good name for his punctuality and hospitality.
During his school life, he participated in all competitions and brought fame to the school. His sudden demise was a great loss to the school, in addition to his family. He still leaves a permanent void in our hearts. He had only a few more months to complete his studies and sit for his final school examination. He was eagerly looking forward to obtaining a degree.
Darshana was my nephew, whom we visited every Christmas. In 2004, we could not visit him due to unavoidable circumstances. We always visit their family because they are near and dear to us.
He was a calm and sober boy. His parents were very dutiful and devoted to their two sons. Life without him is very strange and difficult.
The funeral oration was delivered by his uncle Rev. Bro. Nimal Gurusinghe F. S. C., the former cricket coach and master-in-charge of St. Sebastians College, Moratuwa. He delivered an eloquent sermon in which he said, The Beautiful flower that God gave, he took back.
Finally, I say thank you to Darshana for the way he brightened the lives of all of us.
I convey my heartfelt sympathies to his grieving father Bernard, mother Irangani and brother Udara and pray to the Almighty to comfort and succour them in their hour of grief.
Prabath Perera
Maya Senanayake
She epitomized human kindness
Maya Senanayake, who passed away peacefully on July 12, in the tenth decade of an exemplary life, dedicated to the upliftment and happiness of her fellow beings was truly the personification of the milk of human kindness.
Maya was the daughter of Hilda and P. de S. Kularatne, reputed educationists who were in the vanguard of the National Revivalist movement in the early years of the twentieth century. Married to the late Stanley Senanayake, who as the Inspector General of Police brought about significant reforms and infused new thinking to police administration in the seventies, she was the mother of four boys; Sanjiya, Saiiya, Athula and Mihindu, all of whom reached commendable heights in their respective chosen fields of activity. My deepest condolences go out to all of them and their families in their hour of grief.
I came to know Maya Senanayake on the February 12, 1958. Stanley Senanayake, as a Superintendent of Police, was the Director of the Police Training School (PTS). My batchmates were the late P. (Brute) Mahendran and E.S.R. (Cosmo) David. We had passed the examination for the selection of Asst. Superintendents of Police conducted by the Public Service Commission and this was our second day at the PTS. And it was on this same memorable day that the Director and his wife Maya entertained us to dinner.
Maya, with an outstanding university and parental background, endeared herself to the three of us with her erudition, humour, conversational ability and social etiquette.
Leaving the Directors residence after dinner, I was convinced that life at the PTS would be filled with joy. In Maya, I had met a lady in every sense of the word.
My assessment of this gracious woman became a reality when a decade later, as the wife of the Inspector General of Police, her innovative role in providing leadership to the wives of other senior officers in the improvement of the quality of life of police families by forming the Police Families Welfare Association (PFWA) was to have a profound impact on the lives of the lower ranks struggling to survive under the severe conditions of austerity prevalent at the time.
The significance of this pioneering effort of Maya becomes greater and more admirable in the backdrop of the fact that the official participation of wives in the improvement of the lot of public servants commenced only over a decade later, in the late seventies as the brainchild of the first lady of the time Elina Jayawardene. My guess is that the latter conceived the Seva Vanitha Movement inspired by the PFWA of Maya Senanayake.
Under her leadership, the PFWA gathered rapid momentum and within a short period became a noteworthy adjunct of the welfare set up of the Police. Because she was well-known, respected and accepted in the highest of social, business and government circles, she was able to run the affairs of this organisation with funds raised by her, without burdening the Police Department.
In the furtherance of the well being of the lower ranks she was instrumental in opening a tailoring unit to be run by the wives of police officers for the tailoring of police uniforms and also of school children. She was successful in getting the required number of sewing machines from the Singer Company on lease at a concessionary rate.
Welfare co-operatives were started at Police Headquarters and several other places eg. Maradana, Wellawatta and Moratuwa police stations. With the shortage of bread that prevailed, she made arrangements with the Marketing Department for the supply of freshly baked bread to Police Headquartersand several other centres. The pre-school she started together with the paediatric clinics she was able to initiate with the assistance of the late A. S. P. Ponnambalam were a boon to the children of police families.
It is tragic, indeed, that her successors were unable to sustain these remarkable welfare projects. Most of them could not match the learning, charisma, charm, leadership qualities and the natural ability to inspire that Maya possessed in abundance.
Out of the numerous facets of Mayas illustrious life her pioneering role in the PFWA and the manner in which she cared for the refugees who sought protection in the PTS alone amply illustrate the sublime nature of the kindness and sympathetic understanding that she had been gifted with in abundance. Having been a direct witness to the above examples, I am happy that I have been able to recall and document these achievements of Maya with authority and feeling in appreciation of her life and work.
When the history of the Sri Lanka Police is updated some day, Maya Senanayake is bound to have a place of importance.
Edward Gunawardena
422/1, Robert Gunawardena Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
A. Wilton de Zoysa
He was a dedicated patriarch
Though it has been 16 years since you left us, I must confess that I am at a loss for words when it comes to pen my appreciation of you. Thaththa, even after 16 years of the absence of your physical presence, I miss you deeply than words can say. It is with deep sense of gratitude and grief that I pen these few words of what he meant to me since he was my best friend, my guru and my precious father.
I am certain that the sentiments I felt are that which are felt by any child or adult who has ever lost a parent. As I try to bring myself to write this to pay tribute to him, we are now without both parents (as we lost amma 19 months ago) who had given so much to us. As such, this is my humble attempt in capturing the essence of a man whose presence I could never limit to words on a page. Over the past, I have not felt his absence because I realized that every day I continue life as his daughter, being true to all that he taught me in life, he continues to live.
We, your children, have great memories of your relationship with amma. Your family life was based on mutual understanding, companionship, absolute transparency, caring for each other and mutual trust. You appreciated amma for her contributions to bringing up the family, cooperated with her in her initiatives and placed your confidence in her as your wife and the mother of your children.
You appreciated us for what we were and trusted us to the extent that unknowingly, you built moral-binding in us to be always uncompromisingly truthful to ourselves and thereby never to break the trust of others. You taught us many lessons in life and we picked up these lessons and it is written in our hearts. Your love, appreciation, trust, among many things, molded us to be the people we are today.
Thaththa, you said learning was the foundation which no one can take away. We are what we are because of you and amma. You always told me to do my duty with dedication, commitment and integrity. This was but just one lesson that we repeatedly say. We grew up with your values and we are glad we did as it has proved beyond doubt what life can give. We note with gratitude to you, the positive comments of others of our ability to go through life with zest, responsibility and honesty.
Thaththa, I wish you were alive to share my success in whatever I do. I know you would have been so proud to see what a content person I am today all because of your guidance and advice. I miss your voice, but most of all, I miss you just being there. I will always hold on to the last conversation we had and how you never failed to let me know how much you loved me. Your spirit and what you have given us will always remain and make us better people for having had you as a great father.
The bond thaththa and I had, was unique. We enjoyed being together and I took an interest in whatever he did. You were my hero and I am deeply indebted to you for all the good things in life that you gave us. You gave us confidence to see through things. You taught us right from wrong. We thank you for many things you have done for us. Thaththa, I need you to guide me, to protect me and to love me the way you always have.
Thanks a million, thaththa, for being my father. Although, your demise has created a big void in our lives, you left us with sweet memories that we will cherish right through until we meet. No one can fill the emptiness I feel in my heart without your physical presence, but I know your spirit is with me and pray that you will always be with me.
With all these thoughts, I could truly say I am blessed to have had you as my fatherthe best and the sweetest the world has ever had. Thaththa, my world will never be the same without you, but as you had told me, we all need to move on with our lives. With much love and gratitude, we honour your memory.
As practising Buddhists, we are well aware of the impermanence of life, but to this day, I cannot believe that my father is not alive as his voice, firm advice and imposing figure still haunts me. He did his duty to the utmost and made us comfortable in every way.
Though not in extremes, he lived, accordingly to the Buddhas preaching, with the least of wants and attachments. It is my sincere hope that his sansaric journey be shortened and he attains the supreme bliss of Nirvana with amma right by his side.
Daughter,
Damitha de Zoysa
Earle Samarasinghe
A principled man
My father Earle Samarasinghe passed away on 23rd July 2016, an year ago.
His demise was a great loss for my mother, my four sisters, their children and myself. He had a happy, healthy and accomplished life. He was also a principled man and always did what was right.
He also sought to inculcate these higher values to my sisters and myself and I think that we have lived by his high principles.
He was an International man, having worked for two and a half decades with UNESCO in Paris. He could mix and socialize with all types of people, regardless of nationality, culture or social class. His approach to life was rational and practical.
At a personal level, there could never be a better husband, a better father for my siblings, and a wonderful grandfather to his five grandchildren.
He enjoyed life very much and appreciated the good things in life.
My family, including my mother Charmaine, sisters Rapti, Gameela, Nira and Sumaya and their children and myself, miss him very much and will never forget him for all that he did for us and all those around him.
Dilip Susruta Samarasinghe
Sisira Fernando
A noble teacher
Dearest Sisira, today you are no more, although your priceless and yeoman mission of 25 years as a teacher will remain evergreen in every corner of St. Joseph's College, Colombo 10. Your smile bore no end.
Being a commerce special graduate, he imparted his knowledge to students frequently.
Not only that, he was a amicable father of two daughters and one son. He had a great and noble nature of connecting with every social status and every person.
I always admire how you practiced your religion.
He liked learning from different people, irrespective of their age, creed, nationality or caste. My memories of his halcyon days could never be forgotten.
By proving the saying 'every good thing comes to an end,' death's hand took him away from us so suddenly.
Life is mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand like stone.
Kindness in another's trouble,
Courage in your own.
May he rest in peace.
Malintha Bopearatchy
==============================
## Title: Army Commander addresses Jaffna troops, awards O/L achievers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Army Commander addresses Jaffna troops, awards O/L achievers
Army Commander Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake arrived in Jaffna on July 29 to address the troops in the peninsula at the invitation of Major General Darshana Hettiarachchi, Commander, Security Forces - Jaffna (SF-J).
The Commander on Saturday (29) delivered his first formal address to around 2000 members of the Army, assembled at the Security Force Headquarters - Jaffna (SFHQ-J) to listen to the new Commander who was making his first formal visit after assumption of his duties.
Commander, Security Forces Jaffna (SF-J) Major General Darshana Hettiarachchi warmly received the visiting Army Chief on arrival. The Commander reviewed the Guard Turnout at the entrance to the SFHQ-J and the Guard of Honour while receiving the salute.Planting of a sapling as a memory of the Commanders visit to the SFHQ-J followed afterwards, before he was invited to address all rankers.
The Commander, SF-J presented a memento to the new Commander as a symbol of goodwill and memory. Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake visited the Corporals Club in the SFHQ-J and joined all rankers for refreshments and took time to speak to soldiers and signed in the Visitors Book.
The Commander distributed school accessories and wrist watches to 193 Jaffna school students who achieved best results in the last G.C.E Ordinary Level (O/L) examination.Governor for the Northern Province Reginald Cooray attended the ceremony as the Chief Guest.
The ceremony to distribute the incentives organized by the SFHQ-J got underway at the Weerasingham Hall in the Jaffna town on July 29.The Governor, Army Commander and the SF-J Commander distributed the incentives to the O/L achievers.
The General Officers Commanding, Brigade Commanders, Commanding Officers, Senior Officers, Officers, other rankers, government officials, parents and students were present.
==============================
## Title: AUSTRALIA FOILS TERROR PLOT
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
AUSTRALIA FOILS TERROR PLOT
AUSTRALIA: Australia has foiled an Islamist-inspired terrorist plot to bring down an airplane with an improvised explosive, authorities said Sunday, after four people were arrested in raids across Sydney.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the plot appeared to be elaborate rather than planned by a lone wolf, as security was beefed up at major domestic and international airports across the nation.
I can report last night that there has been a major joint counter-terrorism operation to disrupt a terrorist plot to bring down an airplane, Turnbull told reporters.
The threat of terrorism is very real. The disruption operation, the efforts overnight have been very effective but theres more work to do. Officials did not specify if the alleged plot involved a domestic or international flight, but Sydneys Daily Telegraph reported that a local route had been the objective.
Australian Federal Police Commissioner Andrew Colvin described the plot as Islamic-inspired, saying four men had been arrested in a series of raids across Sydney on Saturday.
We do believe it is Islamic-inspired terrorism. Exactly what is behind this is something we need to investigate fully, he said.
Colvin added that local authorities had received credible information from partner agencies about the claims but would not elaborate further or state if the men were on any watch list.
In recent days, law enforcement has become aware of information that suggested some people in Sydney were planning to commit a terrorist attack using an IED (improvised explosive device), he told reporters.
He added that several items of great interest to police had been seized in the raids but police did not yet have a great deal of information on the specific attack, the location, date or time. He said the investigation was expected to be very long and protracted.
However, were investigating information indicating the aviation industry was potentially a target of that attack. Colvin would not provide further details, but the Australian Broadcasting Corporation said police found items that could be used to make a homemade bomb in one of the raided homes Saturday.
Authorities believed they planned to smuggle the device onto a plane to blow it up, the ABC added.
Four men were arrested Saturday after armed police stormed homes in at least four neighbourhoods, though their names and ages have not been released and they have not been charged by police.
The Seven Network reported 40 riot squad officers moved on a terraced house in the inner city suburb of Surry Hills, as TV footage showed a man with a bandage on his head being led away by authorities, draped in a blanket.
Sections of surrounding roads remained cordoned off on Sunday as forensic officers and investigators wrapped up and removed items from the house.
Airline passengers have meanwhile been asked to arrive at least two hours early for domestic flights and three hours for international routes, and to limit their baggage.
Australia has very strong safeguards in place at its airports; these changes are about making them even stronger, Australian carrier Qantas said.
Airline Virgin Australia stressed that the additional airport security measures were just precautionary and passengers should not be concerned.
Turnbull said the national terror alert level, which was raised on September 2014 amid rising concerns over attacks by individuals inspired by organisations such as Islamic State, would remain at probable.
Canberra has introduced new national security laws since then, while counter-terrorism police have also made a string of arrests.
A total of 12 attacks, before the latest announcement, have been prevented in the past few years, while 70 people have been charged, Justice Minister Michael Keenan said.- AFP
==============================
## Title: Bairstow stars as England set South Africa mammoth target
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Bairstow stars as England set South Africa mammoth target
London: Jonny Bairstow made a run-a-ball fifty on Sunday as England left South Africa needing to rewrite the record books if they were to pull off an astounding win in the third Test.
England set South Africa a colossal victory target of 492 in the 100th Test at The Oval when captain Joe Root declared his side's second innings on 313 for eight shortly before tea on the fourth day.
The most any side have made to win in the fourth innings of a Test is the West Indies' 418 for seven against Australia at St John's in 2002/03.
And the largest fourth innings total in a Test at The Oval is the 429 for eight posted by India against England in 1979, when Sunil Gavaskar struck a superb double century in a thrilling draw.
A draw now appeared to the only realistic aim for South Africa in this match, with the tourists needing to bat out a session plus Monday's last day to keep the four-match series all square at 1-1 heading into next week's finale at Old Trafford.
Keshav Maharaj took two wickets for no runs in four balls shortly after lunch to remove the well-set duo of debutant Tom Westley (59) and Root (50).
But Stokes, whose 112 in a first-innings total of 353 helped establish England's strong position in this match, kept the runs coming with a brisk 31.
Bairstow, whose fifty featured six fours, then scored rapidly.
Meanwhile Toby Roland-Jones, once more enjoyed himself with the bat on his Test debut by hitting two sixes in his 23 not out. England knew that if Middlesex seamer Roland-Jones produced anything like his stunning return of five for 57 -- which included all of the Proteas' top four -- in the tourists' meagre first-innings 175, they would be well on their way to victory.
Root's men resumed Sunday on 74 for one, already a lead of 252.
Keaton Jennings was 34 not out and Westley 28 not out. South Africa-born and raised Jennings was under pressure for his place after a run of low scores, including a duck in the first innings of this match.
But in sight of a morale-boosting fifty, the left-handed opener was caught in the gully for 48 off a sharply rising ball from fast bowler Kagiso Rabada.
Westley, meanwhile demonstrated many of the grafting qualities England's critics said they lacked during a massive 340-run defeat in the second Test at Trent Bridge.
The Essex right-hander added just nine runs in Sunday's first hour.
But when Vernon Philander, who had spent Friday night on a hospital drip, pitched short outside off stump, Westley eased him behind point for an elegant boundary.
The seamer did go past Westley's outside edge several times, however, as did Morne Morkel.
But the composed Westley clipped fast bowler Morkel off his pads for a boundary that saw him to a 119-ball fifty, including nine fours.
Shortly after lunch, left-arm spinner Maharaj had Westley stumped before Root holed out in the deep. AFP
==============================
## Title: In the battle against dengue
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
In the battle against dengue
A nationwide campaign involving tens of thousands of volunteers, students, teachers, parents, health and education ministry officials and security forces personnel was launched last Friday placing the battle against dengue on a war-footing to destroy mosquito breeding grounds in schools.
Education minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam speaking about the campaign said Protecting our children from the dengue epidemic is a responsibility of all of us. No other government has given such priority to tackle the dengue issue.
The government has given the highest priority to battling the spread of dengue which has claimed some 290 lives so far this year and infected over 100,000 people, according to official figures, he said.
The Health Ministry is assisting the unprecedented clean-up campaign in schools and asked principals to coordinate with local health authorities for arranging fumigation and other technical help.
Education Ministry officials said there was no teaching on Friday, but students had turned up in appropriate clothing to join the clean-up effort that was supervised and guided by health authorities.
According to the Health Ministry, there is a significant 20 percent rise in schoolchildren infected by the dengue epidemic.
The pictures show the latest campaign against dengue being carried out at Schools island-wide.
Pictures by Saman Sri Wedage, Chinthaka Kumarasinghe, I.L.M. Rizan, H.Kulatilake, Puttalam Thinakaran Special Corr., Gamini Bandara Ilangatilake, and M.W.R. Hassan.
==============================
## Title: Beginner gardening mistakes to avoid
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Beginner gardening mistakes to avoid
Theres a lot to learn about gardening, but its a fun adventure and well worth the time and energy. Make the most of your gardening with these experienced gardeners tips to prevent and fix some common gardening mistakes.
Gardening Mistake No. 1: Starting Out Too Big
Planting too large a garden is a mistake that can place too heavy a workload on a gardener and lead to frustration and burnout. A better gardening strategy is to start small in the first year and plant only a few of your favorite veggies. This will allow you more gardening success and a greater feeling of accomplishment. In succeeding years, as practice builds your gardening skills, you can increase the size of your garden each planting season.
Gardening Mistake No. 2: Not Properly Preparing the Soil
Without good soil, no vegetable garden can thrive. Any preparation that the soil needs must be done before planting. Once those seeds begin to establish a root system, the soil cannot be disturbed without endangering the tender, young plants. Prepare the soil as early in spring as you can work it without creating mud pies. Let the soil rest until the weather is warm enough to sprout seeds and support the growth of young plants. Then you can plant your vegetable garden and watch it spring to life.
Gardening Mistake No. 3: Ignoring Light Requirements
Vegetable plants need sunlight to grow properly and process soil and water nutrients. When choosing your garden spot, make sure that the area gets enough sun to grow the plants you want to put there. Some plants require more sun than others, and those light requirements must be honored when planting your garden. Check planting recommendations on seed packets before you decide where to plant each seed variety. Some plants need full sun; other plants do well in partial shade. The directions on seed packets will tell you. Plan your vegetable garden before you plant, giving full-sun spots to veggies with the greatest sunlight requirements.
Gardening Mistake No. 4: Over- or Under fertilizing
Too much, too little or the wrong type or timing of fertilizer will not allow your garden plants to produce healthy, vigorous growth. For example, all plants require nitrogen, and high-nitrogen fertilizer will produce vigorous top growthwhich is what you want for leafy green vegetables like chard, cabbage and lettuce. That same amount of nitrogen, however, will create such vigorous top growth that it can hold back ripening. Excess nitrogen can have a similar effect on root vegetables.
Gardening Mistake No. 5: Over- or Under watering
Too little water will cause plants to dry up and wilt. Once seriously wilted, most plants will not recover, even if watered, so do your best to keep your vegetable plants from wilting. Too much water can rot the root system, and only healthy roots can absorb nutrients from the soil and hold the plant upright. Once rot afflicts the root system, the plant is done for. Most vegetable plants prefer a good, deep watering one to three times each week. If you water too shallowly, the roots will grow near the surface instead of downward to seek water.
Gardening Mistake No. 6: Planting Too Deep or Too Shallow
In general, the larger the seed, the deeper it prefers to be planted. Seed packets offer information on the back about how deeply to plant the seeds. Pay attention to this information, because planting too deeply will cause seeds to fail to sprout or tire out the young seed sprout before its able to reach the surface and receive needed sunlight. On the other hand, planting seeds at a too-shallow depth can cause the seed to dry out quickly and fail to sproutor cause the young plant to dry out or fall over because of poor root growth. Some vegetable seeds, such as lettuce, actually need to be close enough to the soil surface that sunlight can touch them and trigger sprouting.
Gardening Mistake No. 7: Planting Bulbs Upside-down
Onions, garlic and other bulbs have a root-growing end and a stem-growing end. Make sure that you know which is which before you plant these seeds.
Planting bulbs wrong-end up will cause delayed growth as the root and top try to find the right direction to grow. This can use so much of the energy stored in the bulb that by the time the sprout reaches sunlight, the plant is weak and will fail to thrive. In most cases, the top of a bulb comes to more of a point than the bottom, so its not too difficult to tell which end should be up when planting.
Gardening Mistake No. 8: Letting Weeds Grow Too Large
The best time to pull a weed is when its tiny and its root system is small. Pulling weeds at that stage of growth wont disrupt the roots of your vegetable plants.
The longer you let a weed grow, the stronger a root system it will develop and the more nutrients it will steal from your vegetable plants. Keep weed growth to a minimum by mulching soil around your vegetable plants or disturbing the surface of the soil by regularly hoeing between your plants.
-hobbyfarms.com
==============================
## Title: Bizarre own goal steals show as Inter beat Chelsea
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Bizarre own goal steals show as Inter beat Chelsea
SINGAPORE, Saturday  Inter Milans Geoffrey Kondogbia entered the annals of sporting infamy with a remarkable own goal but the Italian side held on to win 2-1 and condemn Chelsea to a successive pre-season defeat on Saturday in Singapore.
Inter led by two goals from the impressive Ivan Perisic and Stevan Jovetic, before what was supposed to be a routine backpass from substitute Kondogbia looped over his own goalkeeper and nestled into the top corner from fully 40 yards, stunning the crowd of over 32,000. Inter goalkeeper Daniele Padelli, who had no chance and held out his hands in astonishment, shrugged off the embarrassing mishap, saying afterwards it was merely unlucky. Chelsea boss Antonio Conte was sympathetic: It can happen, can happen -- this is football.
But the French midfielder Kondogbia was soon trending on Twitter with many calling his unintentional long-distance lob the best own goal of all time. It overshadowed what had otherwise been an impressive performance by Inter, and in particular Manchester United target Perisic.
The Croatian winger played a central role and scored the Serie A sides second goal in the 53rd minute, latching on to a pass from Jovetic before applying a smart finish.
In contrast, Chelsea's big-money signing Alvaro Morata was quiet on his first start since moving from Real Madrid last week and made little impact before being substituted in the 64th minute.
Conte said that Morata, captured in a deal reported to be worth up to 80 million euros ($94 million), was working well but conceded he needed to do better.
Today he tried to do his best, for sure, but he has to improve, said Conte.
Inter dominated the early stages. In the first few minutes a defence-splitting Milan Skriniar pass found Antonio Candreva -- reportedly a Chelsea transfer target -- who forced Chelsea goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois into a fingertip save.
With the game going a bit flat, the English champions grew into their own. Willian had Chelsea's first real chance with a deflected effort in the 27th minute, before David Luiz fizzed a freekick over.
==============================
## Title: Cambrians win on first innings
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Cambrians win on first innings
Prince of Wales College beat Kalutara Vidyalaya on first innings in their inter school under is division one tournament cricket match played at Kalutara. Batting first Cambrians declared at 259 for 4 with Tharindu Amerasinghe and Dinura Fernando scoring 90 and 50 runs respectively in reply Kalutara lads were 161 for 6 in their allotted overs and at Stumps Cambrians were 141 for 5 with Dinrua Fernando scoring 52 runs.
Prince of Wales 259/4 in 36 overs Tharindu Amerasinghe 90, Dinura Fernando 50, Viuja Ranpul 34, Pasindu Pathum 42 n/o Ashan Fernando 25 n/o, Kavinshka Fernando 2/45 and 141/5 Tharindu Amerasinghe 39, Dinura Fernando 52, Vinuja Ranpul 23, Sandeep Costa 2/67.
Kalutara Vidyalaya 161/6 in 60 overs Kavishka Fernando 43, Sandeep Costa 41, Kanchana Perera 2/52, Dinura Fernando 2/20.
82 run win
In another game cambrians beat Sri Palee College Hornaa by 82 runs in their inter school under 15 division two match played at Horana. Batting first homesters were all out 102 runs with Mahinsa de Silva bagging 4 for 23 and cambrians declared at 184 for 7 with skipper Anupa Heshan making the top score of 84 runs and at stumps Sri Palee wee 130 for 7 with Thinuka Fernando and Aditha Imasha claiming 3 for 37 and 3 for 46 respectively.
Sri Palee 102 in 28 oves Chamath Chamupathi 31, Lahiru Mindana 21, Mahinsa de Silva 4/23, Aditha Imashan 2/20 and 130/7 Chamath Champupathi 34, lahiru Vindana 33, Kavinda Dulanga 21, Thinuka Fernando 3/37, Aditha Imasha 3/46.
Prince of Wales 184/7 dec in 41.1 overs Anupa Heshan 84, Omesh Mendis 27, Suyama Gunarathne 20, Brian Wanniarachchi 3/71, Chamath Chamupathy 2/50.
==============================
## Title: Canal blockage inundates 200 houses in Kandy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Canal blockage inundates 200 houses in Kandy
Two hundred houses were inundated due to a canal blockage in Kandy due to the heavy rains in Kandy on Saturday.
The rains resulted in the out flow of a water canal Meda Ela being blocked due to a project which has not been properly executed.
The project has built a bridge across Meda Ela but has not re-established a smooth flowing of the canal water. The project belongs to the National Water Supply and Drainage Board.
Close to 500 families live on the sides of Meda Ela, which has become a garbage dumping site. Two cars, two vans, three trishaws and a motor bicycle were caught in the flood. The victims of the water blockage said books and other study material of students sitting for Advanced Level examination and the Grade Five Scholarship examination have also been destroyed.
Kandy City Waste Water Management Project Director Abdul Rafeek said the victims would be compensated after a proper assessment of the damage was done.
==============================
## Title: Cases against Shashi Weerawansa fixed for trial
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 16:45
Cases against Shashi Weerawansa fixed for trial

Two cases filed againstShashiWeerawansa, National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader WimalWeerawansas wifefor fraudulently obtaining two passports including a diplomatic passport by submitting forged documents to the Department of Immigration and Emigration were fixed for further trial by Colombo Chief Magistrate, today.
Accordingly, the seventh, sixteenth and seventeenth witnesses of the case were notified to appear in Courts on May 25, 30 and 31 by Chief Magistrate Lal Ranasinghe Bandara.
At a previous occasion, in his evidence an Assistant Commissioner attached to the Department of Registration of Persons informed Court thatShashiWeerawansa applied for a National Identity Card (NIC) in the year of 2010 as a person who applying for the first time. He said the accused had submitted her application for a NIC at the age of 39 as a person who never obtained.
When the cases came up before Chief Magistrate Lal Ranasinghe Bandara, defence counsel appearing on behalf of the accused sought a further date for the trial citing that they are required to peruse a document.
The CID filed two charge sheets againstShashiWeerawansathat she had fraudulently obtained two passports including a diplomatic passport by submitting forged documents to the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
 The witness earlier informed Chief Magistrate Lal Ranasinghe Bandara that an article published on Ravaya newspaper revealed the accused had possessed two identity cards by two different numbers indicating that she born in 1967 and 1971.
The case was fixed for further trial on August 29.
The witness is to be cross-examined on next trial date.
 On a previous occasion, the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) filed a charge sheet againstShashiWeerawansaunder two counts.
 ShashiWeerawansawas arrested on February, 2015 over the charge of obtaining diplomatic and general passports illegally.
She had allegedly submitted birth certificate with forged names and dates of birth to obtain those passports.
She is currently out on bail.
 Deputy Solicitor General Dileepa Peiris, Chief Inspector Jayantha and Police Constable Ganegedara of CID prosecuted. Presidents Counsel Anil de Silva with Jayantha Weerasinghe PC appeared for the accused.
==============================
## Title: Ceylon Chamber and Customs to conduct seminar series on Export and Import Procedures
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Ceylon Chamber and Customs to conduct seminar series on Export and Import Procedures
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, in association with the Department of Sri Lanka Customs, will organize a series of half day seminars on Export and Import Procedures in order to help exporters maximize opportunities in the global market.
The seminar series will focus on areas such as Goods Valuation, Export Procedures, Goods Classification and Harmonised System, Import Procedures, Export facilitation, Bonding and Entrepot Trade. This seminar series will provide practical information to help protect a firms interests and maximize opportunities in the Global Market Place.
It has been noticed that often importers and exporters, even those with years of experience, encounter unexpected issues that could be easily avoided.
The seminars will be conducted by T Raviendrarajah, Deputy Director of Customs and T G A Arachchi Superintendent of Customs. The first session will take place on August 3, 2017 at the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.
More information could be obtained from [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Chandimal fit for second Test
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Chandimal fit for second Test
Test captain Dinesh Chandimal will return to the Sri Lanka team to lead them in the second Test against India beginning at the SSC grounds on August 3 while the injury to veteran spinner Rangana Herath is being closely monitored.
Dinesh should be fit he actually played this morning and he has batted the last couple of days, said Sri Lanka cricket manager and selector Asanka Gurusinha.
Chandimal missed the first Test due to a bout of pneumonia and was replaced by Danushka Gunathilaka who made his Test debut at Galle.
On Heraths injury Gurusinha said, We have to see how he is going to come up in the next couple of days because his finger is pretty sore. We will give him till the last minute to make sure that he is fit.
The day before the Test we will see whether he can drift the ball it will come down to that. If he can without pain he will play, otherwise we will have to look at different options. The finger is not swollen but its sore and painful.
With Chandimal returning to the team Gunathilaka will be the one to make room for him. In the absence of the Test skipper who bats at no. 4, Sri Lanka had to make a change to their batting by dropping Kusal Mendis who is being groomed for the no. 3 position to four.
Its for just one game we pushed Kusal to four. Danushka was in form and you cant bat him in the middle order. We couldnt get him to open either because the openers were already there, thats why we got Kusal to four for this Test. When Chandi comes back he will go back to no. 3 straight away. He is our no. 3 and we are grooming him for that position definitely, said Gurusinha.
Sri Lanka has another slot to fill with the injury to Asela Gunaratne who has been ruled out of the series with a broken thumb.
We have Dhananjaya (de Silva) in the squad and we have Danushka as well. We havent looked at whether this is the squad we are going to have for the second Test. We will have a chat later today and see whether we will need someone from outside or what combination we are going to play. It comes down to whether we are going to play 6 or 7 batsmen, we will have to decide on that after looking at the wicket, Gurusinha said.
The SSC pitch has been Gurusinhas home ground for a long time during his playing days.
I played long time ago but SSC is always a good track. It will help everyone the fast bowlers a little bit in the first session, and the spinners as well when we were playing Test cricket the ball turned a lot. It depends on the amount of grass you keep. If you take a lot of grass out it will turn and if you keep grass it will go on pretty well for 2-3 days. But I dont know how it plays now.
Gurusinha, a solid no. 3 batsman for his country said that the Lankan batsmen didnt execute their plans well in the first Test that led to their 304-run defeat.
Getting 600 runs it always affects which is a difficult thing but our batsmen on that track I dont think they handled it well because it wasnt a track for 291 to get in the first innings that was a 400-run track, said Gurusinha.
Even on the fourth day it wasnt doing much it wasnt difficult when you see the way everyone batted. When you are playing the number one side they are very patient theyll bowl a good line and length and wait. They tested our patience and they won. They were good in that and we took more risks. Batting overall when you look at it we didnt handle it well, he said.
More than patience its executing their plans, each batsman had a plan they knew what they were supposed to do and how to do it. The execution of the plan was the problem for us. That happens in cricket and its a very difficult one. Like England lost the second Test pretty badly against South Africa its upto us to come back now.
Gurusinha said the pace at which cricket is played today it is difficult to draw Test matches.
These days in Test cricket the game has changed a lot because of T20. They are playing it at a very fast rate getting 300-350 in a day is nothing new in Test cricket. I wouldnt say we should have put our heads down and batted. The batsmen had to play according to the situation sometimes if you try to bat long you can go into a negative frame of mind. You need to play positively but positively is not hitting every ball it is playing according to your plans. Our execution of plans was the main problem, said Gurusinha.
When questioned the way Niroshan Dickwella approaches his batting, Gurusinha said, It comes down to executing their plans and adjusting to match situations. He is very young still in this game and we just need be patient with him. He got a really good 60 and got out. But you cant blame one batsman when you have six others who didnt score runs consistently.
Nobody scored a hundred from our side in the last two Tests even against Zimbabwe. Thats what we need. We need one of the top four batsmen to get 150 or 160 and a couple of others to get 70s and 80s. As soon as that happens it will give us a 400 plus total. I am hoping our batmen will focus on that and do it in the second Test, he said.
==============================
## Title: CIMA students society organizes sports day 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
CIMA students society organizes sports day 2017
CIMA Sports Day 2017, a two-day sports extravaganza organised by the CIMA Students Society (CIMASS), was held recently for the 20th consecutive time, The Glamour. The Glory. The Game.
This years event offered a wide array of sports namely cricket, tag rugby, futsal and netball. The event highlight was the Urban Challenge, a combination of a scavenger hunt and a race, designed particularly to engage and stimulate the audience.
Moreover, CIMA Sports Day 2017 is aligned to the Education Beyond Ability (EBA) CSR initiative which refurbished a special needs centre of Dehigahalanda Maha Vidyalaya, with the help of Foundation of Goodness and Schools Relief Initiative last year.
The surplus generated from Sports Day will be channeled towards EBA, which aims to enable children with learning difficulties to be equipped with equal learning opportunities, and spread awareness about their requirements throughout Sri Lanka.
Under the Corporate Category, KPMG clinched the trophy for futsal, whereas UB Finance were the winners for cricket. The team from Sri Lankan Airlines won the trophy for tag rugby. As for the contenders under the Institute Category, Wisdom secured both the futsal and tag rugby trophies, while Achievers secured the netball trophy.
In Cricket, Achievers emerged as the winners after contending for the trophy against a team from Imperial College in an intense finale.
The Overall Champions Shield was awarded to Achievers Lanka Business School, thus making it the second consecutive year for which Achievers clinched the Shield. Sports Day 2017 featured a live performance segment showcased by the extraordinary band Hot Chocolate.
Kushil Gunasekara, Founder and Trustee of the Foundation of Goodness presided the event as the Chief Guest. One of Sri Lankas biggest and largest online fashion and lifestyle store Nolimit, was the Strategic Partner for the CIMA Sports Day 2017.
==============================
## Title: Cinnamon Lodge Habarana awarded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana awarded
Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, part of the renowned Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts chain,recently bagged the award for Sri Lankas Leading Family Resort at the World Travel Awards ceremony, which took place at Sun AquaVilu Reef Resort in the Maldives. The prestigious World Travel Awards programme is recognized globally, as the ultimate hallmark of excellence and eminence in the sphere of travel, tourism and hospitality.
Established in 1993, the World Travel Awards celebrates 24 years of acknowledging, rewarding and celebrating excellence across all key sectors of the travel, tourism and hospitality industries.
The annual programme which is renowned to be the most comprehensive and illustrious in the industry, traverses the globe with its grand tour  a series of regional ceremonies that recognize industrial excellence within each continent, culminating in a grand finale at the end of the year.
The Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts chain comprises 14 distinct hotels and resorts located in key areas of Sri Lanka and the Maldives. The brand embodies a passion for inspired living and promises holistic and enhanced experiences that are tailor-made to suit the specific interests of travellers. The Cinnamon brand focuses on delivering memorable holidays and getaways, that offer exceptional standards of service whilst showcasing the warmth and vibrancy of contemporary Sri Lankan hospitality.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (31-07-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (31-07-2017)]
Grateful tears to a dutiful servant
The Jaffna High Court Judge who bowed with tears to the wife of the police officer who was shot dead in Jaffna will certainly go down the history, firstly, how a citizen of Sri Lanka values the life of another citizen and secondly how deep the pain of a superior public servant towards another public servant who had served him for so many years so faithfully.
The grief of the judge was obvious as seen by us at the inquiring table, at the morgue and in the funeral house. Amongst the words he uttered in sorrow, It is like a funeral at my own house. He was my shadow for 15 years were very sad. The bravery of the dead police sergeant who attempted to save the life of his master deserves the salute of the whole nation. He had been with master for over15 years giving the latter the required protection even during the height of terrorism in the Northern Province.
A few are trying to create a smoke of suspicion where there is not a fire of truth at all. There belief is that it was a plan to kill the judge so as to prevent the ongoing case of the student Nithya who was raped and killed.
Judges act on evidence proved by the prosecution -- the police and the other relevant state institutions. So attempting to murder a judge thereby expecting some sort of relief or release for the case is a foolish action. If one judge is deprived another will be there to carry on justice.
The government by promoting the slain sergeant posthumously and enrolling his one time WPC wife back to the police service has offered the family a great consolation, though the loss of a husband and father cannot be compared to anything in this world.
NAZLY CASSIM
COLOMBO 13
==============================
## Title: Civil society members maintaining electric fences to receive monthly payment'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Civil society members maintaining electric fences to receive monthly payment'
"A monthly payment will be provided to members of agrarian societies and other social bodies appointed to maintain the electric fences, erected to prevent elephants from invading villages," Sustainable Development and Wildlife Deputy Minister Sumedha G. Jayasena said.
The minister was addressing Wildlife Department officials, and members of agrarian societies at a meeting held at the Monaragala District Secretariat Auditorium recently. She said electric fences about 3,861 Km long were erected and being maintained by over 850 Civil Defense Officers. The minister said civil officers alone could not maintain the fences and the Civil Defence Department was not able to employ more officials in this regard either. "As an alternative, the members of agrarian societies and other social bodies are to be employed under the direction of the Sustainable Development and Wildlife Minister Gamini Jayawickrama, she said.
Sustainable Development and Wildlife Ministry Secretary R.M.D.B. Meegasmulla, Wildlife Conservation Department Acting Director General M.G.C. Suriyabandara, Monaragala Additional District Secretary W.A. Dharmasiri, the Wildlife Conservation Department officials and the members of agrarian societies were present.
==============================
## Title: Colombo city hotels to add 1,500 star class rooms by end 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Colombo city hotels to add 1,500 star class rooms by end 2017
Colombo city including Mount Lavinia will see over 1,500 new star rooms being added by the end of the year, said President Colombo City Hotels Shanthi Kumara.
Colombos rooms strength was mainly boosted by Jetwing Colombo, Manderina in Kolluptiya, Movenpick also in Kolluptiya, Sunhill Hotel Mount Lavinia and also partly Chinese-owned ZMAX in Fort.
He said that the room strength would be swelled by the opening of Shangri La Hotel which would add over 400 rooms by the end of the year.
In addition, several unclassified hotels too have been built. Early next year Colombo Hyatt would be added.
Shanthi Kumar who is also a Director of Ramada Colombo said that the industry generated over 5,000 direct employment opportunities making the industry one of the thrust sectors for the country. He however said that while Colombo city hotels are responsible and pay taxes, the informal sector which is growing does not contribute to the government coffers and simply pays the annual business registrations and this is something the government should take note of.
The standards and safety of these hotels too should be checked especially in the Mount Lavinia area, he said.
He said that that there was an overall 10% increase of both revenue and arrivals as against the previous year in 2016. However this year there was a drop due to the airport closure and also due to the dengue epidemic and several adverse travel warnings. But the city hotels dont consider this a threat.
The hotels took extra precautions and no cases of dengue were reported from foreigners in Colombo.
Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka in June increased by 4.5% year-on-year (YoY) to reach 123,351 visitors, recording the third highest monthly growth so far this year, despite occurring during the usual quiet period for tourism in the country.
==============================
## Title: Countrywide programme to encourage schoolchildren in reading
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Countrywide programme to encourage schoolchildren in reading
The Education Ministry is to grant 3,200 schools countrywide Rs. 700 million to purchase library books this year.
Accordingly, special programme to motivate schoolchildren to read books would be launched simultaneously and about 5,000 reading camps and workshops would be held countrywide at school level in collaboration with university lecturers.
Steps would be taken to organise creative writing contests to encourage remote schoolchildren to read, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said at a meeting.
The directors of education in the NWP participated in the meeting held recently at the Wayamba National College of Education, Bingiriya in Kurunegala.
==============================
## Title: Court permits Mahindananda to go abroad
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 16:45
Court permits Mahindananda to go abroad

The Colombo High Court today ordered the temporary release of former Sports Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamages passport in order to obtain United States visa.

MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage sought Courts permission to travel to United States between August 8 and 23.

High Court Judge Sampath Wijeratne made this order following a request by defence counsel.

At a previous occasion, the Colombo High Court had served indictments on former Sports Minister and Kandy District MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage in connection with an indictment filed against him by Attorney General for alleged criminal breach of trust of Rs.3.9 million funds belonging to a trade union named Sri Lanka Nidahas Kamkaru Congress.

The Attorney General alleged that former Sports Minister Aluthgamage has committed a criminal breach of trust with regard to Rs.1,000,000, misappropriated Rs.1,900,000 and misappropriated another Rs.1,000,000 belonging to the Sri Lanka Nidahas Kamkaru Congress in October, 2012 till April 2013.

The Attorney General charged that the accused had committed punishable offences under Section 388 and 389 of the Penal Code.

The Attorney General has listed 13 persons as the witnesses in the case and named eight documents as production items of the case.

==============================
## Title: Croatia beat hosts Hungary to win mens water polo world title
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Croatia beat hosts Hungary to win mens water polo world title
BUDAPEST, Saturday - Croatia beat hosts Hungary 8-6 to win the men's world water polo title on Saturday, a decade after they last clinched gold in the competition.
Croatia, who won all six of their matches at the tournament and overcame powerhouses Italy and defending champions Serbia en route to the final, took an early 4-0 lead and then held off a Hungary fightback to take the title.
We showed character during these two weeks, Croatian forward Luka Loncar told reporters. I think our belief in victory the whole time is what made us this strong.
Hungarian goalkeeper Viktor Nagy said their poor start proved pivotal.
I was very upset at that first quarter, Nagy told reporters. It took a lot of energy to come back.
Croatia last won the world title in 2007. After claiming gold at the 2012 London Olympics, they endured a barren spell, falling victim on numerous occasions to Serbia, who they beat for the first time in seven years in the semi-finals.
 Agencies
==============================
## Title: CSE branch-wide educational drive gathers momentum
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
CSE branch-wide educational drive gathers momentum
The branch-wide investor education campaign conducted by the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) has been well received over the first half of the year, with over 350educational and awareness initiatives conducted in 2017.
The initiatives have reached out to over 14,300 current and prospective investors around the country.
Initiatives driven through the CSE branch network play a significant role in facilitating the CSEs investor education and awareness drive, which reaches out to a broad range of socio-economic and demographic segments.
A range of events including regional investor forums, educational workshops, seminars on market conditions, programmes for schools and universities and other awareness programmes deliver stock market and financial literacy focused content in English, Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
A vast majority of these initiatives are conducted free-of-charge and feature experienced stock market practitioners as resource personnel. Commenting on the initiative, the Head of Market Development at CSE, Niroshan Wijesundere said, Broadening the retail investor segment and attracting knowledgeable and long term investors is vital to increasing market liquidity and to the sustainable growth of the stock market. These initiatives offer the platform to achieve this and aim to offer prospective investors the awareness and perspective they require prior to entering the market as an investor.
The educational and awareness programs are delivered through CSE Branches in Matara, Kandy, Kurunegala, Negombo, Jaffna, Anuradhapura, Ratnapura, Ambalantota and the Head Office in Colombo.
Details of educational and awareness events are announced through the CSE website (www.cse.lk) and on official social media pages of the CSE.
==============================
## Title: Designing details
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Designing details
Playing with colours made her the iconic designer that she is today. With over 45 years of design experience, the name Yolanda Aluwihare Holm is synonymous with haute couture fashion in Sri Lanka. She has taken the Sri Lankan design label to the world by showcasing her designs on the runway on international platforms. Veinert Holm talks about what drives his elegant and stylish wife towards success.
First impression
Yolanda and I met for the first time at her sisters house in Negombo in 2001. It was the day before the New Year.
I am from Sweden and I migrated to Sri Lanka in 1994, employed as a Managing Director for an electronic scales company. Yolands sister and I were neighbours and we have known each other for a long time.
However I have never met Yolanda before that. She was already into designing and had made a name for herself by then. Though I knew about her family, I did not know much about Yolanda herself.
The first thought that ran through my mind when I set eyes on Yolanda was that she is a very beautiful lady. When we began chatting I realized that she is smart and witty as well.
I had planned to go to Bangkok with her sister and her husband to play golf. Yolanda joined us to go for a shopping spree. We were in Bangkok for two weeks and she too developed an interest towards golf. I taught her how to play the game.
Marriage
Yolanda and I shared the same interests. Both of us have travelled all over the world. We had a lot to talk about. We found common ground in many subjects. After a three year courtship we got engaged in 2004 in Singapore. Our wedding was on 2006 in Bangkok. We married under the Swedish law at the Swedish Embassy there. Our reception was held on a boat on the Chao Phraya river. Both our families were present at the event.
Success formula
Yolanda is very dedicated to her job. Whenever she takes up something she wants to give 100 percent of herself to it. She works hard to improve her designs and her brand. She does not laze around but is very eager and strives to do her best to make a better future for the fashion industry.
Her work is a combination of hand crafted batik and hand paintings. She also incorporates different techniques she has learnt from abroad into her work. All these features led her to success.
Most spectacular outfitYolanda had designed
Yolanda has designed countless outfits so it is difficult to choose one out of the lot. She normally wears her own outfits only for a competition or when she wants to promote the brand. The outfit she wore when she got the Best Selling Brand of the Year award at the Asian Fashion Awards held in China in 2012 was one of my favourites.
Daily schedules
Yolanda usually goes to work between 8 and 9 am. She comes home for lunch because the factory is in Pelawatte and within 10 minutes drive from our home. She goes back to work and is home by 6 pm. Then she cooks dinner.
She loves to go to the gym to work out during her free time. I am retired. I get up and start my day the same time Yolanda wakes up. We have breakfast together and then I read the local English newspapers and check the global news on the Internet. I also read the Swedish newspaper online. I love swimming so I usually go to the pool in the afternoon. Sometimes I help out when Yolanda needs help with the maintenance of the factory.
Fashion tips
I am not into fashion but I have been dragged into it! Yolanda advices me on my fashion sense. The most valuable tip she has given me is about matching colours. I have never considered this before because I usually grab what I have before going to work.
She has told me that black becomes me. I like blue but I do not have many blue outfits in my closet. There are mostly white and black outfits there.
Yolanda chooses what I should wear for a special occasion. Even when I go retail shopping, she joins me and chooses my clothes. She knows the best way to dress a man!
Life companions
Apart from me Yolanda is very close to her children and grandchildren. Her son, Major Tissa Aluwihare, owns a security firm which is working for a multinational company. Her daughter, Nisadevi Karunaratne, is a law degree holder. She works with her mother in her factory. She has three grandchildren: Casimira, Nela and Maya. Casimira is a graduate from Harvard and is working for a company in Australia.
Happiest moment in life
One of the happiest memories we have together is when Yolanda went to China to get her award. She did not know that she would win because there were 12 other countries competing for the Best Selling Brand of the Year title at the Asian Fashion Awards 2012.
Foodwise
We have similar tastes in food. That was one of the many reasons why we get along together. I love the crab curry that she makes. It is so delicious with rice. Like most Sri Lankans, Yolanda too cannot live without rice and curry. Dining out, we would go for Thai or Chinese food.
Travel time
We are mostly on the go traveling abroad. It is pretty much our hobby. We just came back from Switzerland after visiting my daughter. We usually visit my motherland, Sweden, once a year. We also travel to Thailand at least three times a year. Singapore too is one of our frequent holiday destinations. We have two favourite holiday hotspots: Spain and Switzerland.
Mostmemorabletravelingexperiences
We have only had one bad traveling experience and that was in Bali. It is not a country that people believe it to be. It was not quite up to our expectations. Yolanda became ill on that trip too.
We explored the Chu Chi Tunnels in Vietnam. I was feeling sweaty and uncomfortable because the tunnels were small and I am big made. It was a scary experience too.
An alternativeprofession for Yolanda
Apart from designing clothes Yolanda loves to build houses. So she would have made a great architect or interior designer. She has built five houses already and they have been featured in local and international magazines. The first two houses were renovated. They are in Kandy and Bagatale. The first house she built from scratch is in Sarasavi Lane, Borella.
Once she visited Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. It was a massive hotel and she was motivated to build a house like that. So she bought land in Pelawatte and built a house according to that structure. She took four years to build that house. She named it Shangri-La. The last house she built is in Negombo. It is titled El Paradiso.
One change
I dont want to change anything about Yolanda. She is not perfect but she is what I want.
a little known fact
Yolanda is passionate about playing golf. This is something others do not expect of her because, as a fashion designer, you do not think she would like to go out into the hot sun and become tanned. Almost everyone in the fashion scene wish to become fairer rather than browner!
==============================
## Title: Development modes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Development modes
That there are different development modes is undeniable. From country to country, culture to culture the interpretation of the concept varies. A road, a harbour, an airport may be built, but its meaning, efficacy, the larger impact, will vary; sometimes even becoming the very opposite of what it was meant to be. Only recently a newly built airport in our country ended up becoming a granary. Apparently no planes landed at this multi-million dollar airport. By itself, without the other numerous but essential and related factors, any of these, a road, a harbour, an airport will not deliver its promise, nor achieve its full potential.
There is an on-going development project to upgrade Kirula Road, an important and busy street in East Colombo. The scope of the work, started about a year back, is wide-ranging; the road surface, drainage, pavements and even the water lines are being upgraded. Although we the residents of the area have no information on the proposed end result, going by what is being done, the area will certainly end up with a face-lift, in a manner.
Regrettably, our city planners rarely show any originality or artist in their work.
You will not find any protected trees or greenery, shady or attractive street corners. Nor will we see resting areas for the tired pedestrian, recreational reserves, emphasis on zoning policy, reference to heritage or historical sites, convenient car parking, turning points for vehicles and so on in their planning. Kirula Road had a quaint little round-about (an island in the middle of the road) near the Asiri Hospital.
This gave the road a distinction and a character. There were some shady trees and even seats on it. Under the dictates of the development project the island has disappeared, instead a meaninglessly broad area, only on this stretch of the road.
Historically, Kirula Road has had a residential cum semi commercial character. Apart from hundreds of the residential properties, there are several government departments, hospitals, schools, places of worship and commercial institutions in the area. As if to complete the picture, about three years back a drinking joint- a common pub appeared half way down the road. It is believed that a powerful political family runs the hooch business. Most of their customers arrive there in three wheelers. In their haste to tipple, how they park the vehicle is irrelevant. The result is that three wheelers block the entrances to most of the residents/offices. In order to access their own houses, the residents have to confront drunkern hooligans.
Work ethics
With the road development project the pavements have been raised and even the little space where a small vehicle could have parked has disappeared. So now the problem is aggravated, with the road chock-a-block with three-wheelers and other vehicles parked in any old way.
This project is perhaps no different to several other similar developments happening in different parts of the city. There is a smallish board announcing, in a matter of fact way, that the development is funded by the Asian Development Bank. The money may come from far, but the work is all indigenous. Happening at my door steps as it were, I am able to observe the process of road development at close quarters.
Given the many aspects of the project, the work naturally is handled by different contractors and teams. In the morning, at about 9 a.m., large trucks discharge teams of workers. Whatever criticism one may level against our work ethics, it cannot be said that they are not cheerful at work. There is a lot of shouting, joking and walking about in the teams. Often we see one or two digging away while the rest of the team just gape vacantly. Even in the early hours of the morning several of the workers seem to be on a rest mode. Concepts such as accomplishment, competence or even working to a time table have no place here. Whatever they achieve is only because they are so numerous. I suspect that the Bar close by provides sustenance during the day.
There doesnt seem to be any kind of supervision of the work gangs although there are supervisors, distinguished by their inappropriately neat office clothes. From their dress it is clear they do not anticipate any physical exertion, even if it means setting an example. The supervisors have defined their work to be sitting in a shady spot while chatting on their mobile phones. In personality, there is no authority in them and I could not imagine any leadership from these supervisors. It may be that they are already compromised morally and commanded no respect. Whatever power they could claim comes only from rank; not from competence in the job or any higher personal qualities. It is most likely that they owe their position to political patronage or claimed relationships with their own superiors or politicians.
By noon, the work ends and the workers depart. As a result of the short work day the progress of the road is limited to only a few feet a day. I asked one of the workers why they do not work a normal day. You dont know the difficulties under which we work. We get summoned by the bosses to work in different places as politicians demand quick action at other places. But we observed that this pattern is repeated everyday. A security guard on duty nearby commented on the sickening levity of this approach to what is after all a serious exercise of nation building This is how the tax payers money is wasted. They only work an hour or two a day!
I was reminded of an experience several years before. I was in Frankfurt Germany. About two miles away from my hotel a section of the famed Autobahn was undergoing repairs. Curious to observe the laying of the much spoken of roads by a world class work force I walked in the cold to the site. In the section they were working on, there were no more than 10 workers. They were working individually and on different tasks.
There was no chatting about as they went on with their work, uninterruptedly and diligently. The impression was of men who knew their job and went about it professionally. Conscious of their capabilities, proud of their reputation they would not let anything come in the way of achieving the given targets. But that is another world.
Occasionally, I engage some of the workers (back at Kirula Road) in a conversation. It is prudent to keep good relations in unpredictable and irrational situations. Sometimes road workers heedlessly leave debris or other material in front of the gate-way and thus imprison you in your home for a day or two. This had happened to some neighbours and they were at a loss as to who they could turn to. Every work gang they approached claimed that the material left in front of their gate was the work of another gang whose responsibility it was to remove it!
Misusing government property
They are not without friendly gestures. One of the workers suggested that they could tar my driveway (inside the premises) for a small gratuity. Although tempted, I did not fancy a trip to the FCID to answer endless questions on misusing government property so declined their kind offer! The application of project material for private use did not seem to pose any ethical or even an operational problem to these workers.
One day, our conversation turned to foreign countries, mainly the developed world. They were interested; wondrous, but a world of which they had no firsthand experience. Even if they had a nodding acquaintance with the West, the cultural gap was too wide to bridge meaningfully. Out of reach due to practical difficulties of travel, the local media was their medium of interpretation of the occident. The patent limitations of that medium were reflected in the attitudes and opinions of these workers, dependent solely on the local press for their world view. But they were eager to express opinions, even criticism, based on value judgements.
I gathered from the ideas expressed, in a kind of confused and contradictory way, that they had misgivings about the West which was seen as covetous and politically hostile. These workers, so wanting in their own sphere, had no hesitation in venturing into so complex a subject as international affairs. The Western countries had their eyes on our harbours and wished to dominate the nearby sea-lanes they assured me. When I suggested that several of our leaders had sought refuge while many have become citizens of these countries they saw no moral difficulty there. By way of lessening the inconsistency, one of the workers confided that his nephew, a graduate of the Kattubedda University too had migrated to Australia recently. They want our brains he explained. In the course of the discussion I referred to the phenomenon of declining religious sentiment in the prosperous societies of the West. In Europe the percentage of those who attend church is very low.
This was something difficult to comprehend. A society with no religion What holds things together Where is the intellectual/spiritual dimension Then it dawned on them.
That is not surprising, considering the religions they have 
==============================
## Title: DFCC bank unveils Vardhana Junior Scholarship Seminars
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
DFCC bank unveils Vardhana Junior Scholarship Seminars
DFCC Bank unveiled the Vardhana Junior scholarship seminars at ten identified locations recently for the benefit of students sitting the Grade 5 scholarship examination.
==============================
## Title: Disrupt Asia 2017 ends helping SL establish startup ecosystem paradigms
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Disrupt Asia 2017 ends helping SL establish startup ecosystem paradigms
Sri Lankas premier startup conference and showcase, Disrupt Asia 2017 (DA17) concluded on a successful note recently helping the country establish new startup ecosystem paradigms.
Organised by the Information and Communication Technology Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA), the nations apex ICT Institution under the Ministry of Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure, the event included 52 star-studded foreign and local speakers,well-known resource persons and over 350 attendees.
This years conference was unparalleled and unique in that it united thought leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and avid community members for keynote talks, interactive workshops, speed mentoring and showcasing startups, all united in their mission to radically change our startup ecosystem.
Setting the tone for the conference, the morning keynote speaker Cheryl Edison, Serial Entrepreneur and Global Business Expert, observed, We are standing on the edge of one of most the important times in the history of Sri Lanka. We need to work together to make Sri Lanka the superpower startup ecosystem that it intends to be.
The American innovation guru and serial entrepreneur noted that local entrepreneurs were hemmed in due to a lack of an official payment gateway. She said, The entrepreneurs in Sri Lanka have one hurdle that they cannot overcome on their own: a payment gateway system that will empower every person in Sri Lanka to move money, make a business that works for them and their local communities.
She elaborated on the need to build makerpaces. We need to build places which serve the needs of our entrepreneurs  makerpaces, where entrepreneurs come and create a community and create links between their creativity and commerce.
Investor Forum
The keynote speaker for the evening session was Kevin Petrovic, Partner of Custom Space and President of Carbon70 Holdings. Taking the audience through his journey as an entrepreneur and founder of several startups, he said, The ideas came from improving the value for the customer. Make something people actually want. If you dont have a good idea copy one.
He advised the audience on getting help. Kevin noted, Everyone needs a lot of help when they start out so do not be afraid to go after help. Find people who know your industry, who have an interest and who want to help. It acts as a big driver in the success of startups.
On being entrepreneurial he said, Entrepreneurship means you dont have to come up with your own idea to be an entrepreneur and work on startups. You can help grow a company as well as be part of that. That too is very entrepreneurial.
In conclusion he said, Start now and make steps towards the goal. Only you can decide your success. If you dont try you definitely wont succeed.
The main conference included nine discussions on a range of topics with exceptional presentations sharing a wealth of knowledge with a captivated audience. The conference provided attendees opportunities to express, share, understand and explore insights into navigating through the transforming startup ecosystem.
Is Sri Lanka Ready for the Digital Age, Diversity in Tech - How well we are doing, Opportunities and Obstacles for Fast Scaling Startups were among some of the thought-provoking sessions.
Parallel to the Main Conference was Stage 2.0 which also provided many insightful discussions with attendees having the opportunity to learn firsthand how to drive innovation in their businesses.
Over 40 participants including high-net-worth individuals in the investment domain and investors looking to invest in tech startups attended. Both foreign and local resource personnel including Daniel Goldman, inspirational speaker, entrepreneur, futurist, investor and Managing Director of Ignition Angels held sessions and panel discussions engaging the audience on the significant opportunities that have emerged in early stage investing in startups.
While participants attended several stimulating workshops, a novel feature of DA17 was the academic workshop segment. Held in partnership with the University Grants Commission (UGC), this session included two foreign resource personnel: Dr. Neelam Saxena and Prof. Rehan Bhana and ICTA Senior Consultant Indika de Zoysa.
Over 20 universities representing both public and private academia participated in this workshop. The main discussion was focused on how to develop the student entrepreneurship ecosystem within universities.
Importantly, during the workshop a draft framework and action plan for building and developing the student entrepreneurship ecosystem in the country was also developed.
During DA17 Exhibition, 27 technology startups showcased their products. Visitors were able to meet vibrant local startups and entrepreneurs and observe new rise of Sri Lankas startup ecosystem. In turn these startups met and networked with potential clients and investors as a result of participating and showcasing their innovations.
With exponential growth of the local startup culture, the Disrupt Asia 2017 Hemas Slingshot Startup Battle was the ideal platform for startups to competitively pitch their business ideas. Olivescript was adjudged the winner and received a cash prize of Rs. 200,000 and six months co-working space by Business Hubs, sponsors of the event. The Runner-up, Direct Pay, received Rs. 100,000 and six months co-working space.
DA17 witnessed an overwhelming response not only from the participants but greater support from all the sponsors and supporters. The event was supported by the Ministry of Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure. Other supporters included Visa (Platinum partner) Sri Lanka Business Hubs (Workspace Partner) Edulink International Campus (Supporting partner) Edison International (Investor Forum partners) US Embassy in Sri Lank and GTZ (Community partners) Hemas Slingshot (Startup Battle Partner) and Gudppl (Volunteer partner).
==============================
## Title: Drawn match
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Drawn match
Royal College Colombo drew with Prince of Wales College in their under 15 division two tournament cricket match played at Moratuwa. Batting first Cambrians declared at 173 for 7 with Tharush Kavishan unbeaten on 45 runs and when rain interrupted play Royalists were 62 for 3.
Prince of Wales 173 /7 dec in 60 overs (Thamarush Kavishan, Mahinsa de Silva 34 n/o, Shama Shenuka 29, Shehan Rodrigo 20, Kesara Kappagoda 3/30, Ashen Gamage 3/37.
Royal College 62/3 19.5 overs Thevindu Nethsara 39 n/o, Mahinsa de Silva 2/30.
==============================
## Title: Dressel on verge of worlds magnificent seven
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Dressel on verge of worlds magnificent seven
BUDAPEST, Saturday  Caeleb Dressel can make history by matching Michael Phelps's feat in winning a seventh gold medal at a world aquatic championships.
The 20-year-old Dressel claimed three world golds within an hour and a half on Saturday.
Victories in the men's 50m freestyle and 100m butterfly, then with the USA team in the mixed 4x100m freestyle relay, leaves him with six golds in Budapest.
Dressel can match Phelps record of seven gold medals, from the 2007 world championships in Melbourne, with victory in the men's 4x100m medley relay on Sunday.
Despite the physical and mental toll of winning three world golds within 90 minutes, Dressel is relaxed before Sunday's final day.
I don't feel under pressure, he said.
I just want to keep doing my own thing and I'm looking forward to that one more fast one.
Elsewhere on Sunday, Russia's Yuliya Efimova and America's Lilly King will resume their battle in the 50m breaststroke final.
Honours are so far even in Budapest.
King won the 100m final in a new world record on Tuesday, when Efimova took bronze.
The Russian then gained revenge with a commanding display in Friday's 200m final when her rival faded to fourth.
The pair were the fastest qualifiers into Sunday's final as King clocked a new Americas record of 29.60 seconds, but Efimova was just 0.13 behind.
Ruta Meilutyte's 50m world-record of 29.48 seconds, set four years ago in Barcelona, could fall.
Sarah Sjostrom of Sweden set a new world-record for the women's 50m freestyle by clocking 23.67 secs in Saturday's semi-finals.
She will be bidding for her third individual gold of these world championships after victory in both the 50m and 100m butterfly.
The 23-year-old became the first woman to swim the 100m freestyle in under 52 seconds with a new world-record of 51.71 last Sunday.
Sjostorm also holds world-records in the 50m butterfly. I'm really happy I could erase one of those textile-suit records, said Sjostrom her 50m freestyle time broke Brita Stefan's previous record set in 2009. A lot of people thought those times from 2009 would be impossible to beat.
Home-crowd favourite Katinka Hosszu can win her second individual medley title of these championships in the women's 400m final. The 28-year-old won gold over 200m earlier in the week and can complete the IM double in the 400m final to defend the titles she won two years ago in Kazan. Hungary's Iron Lady took silver in the women's 200m breaststroke final on Saturday behind Australia's Emily Seebohm. Hosszu already has the full set of medals in Budapest after bronze in the women's 200m butterfly.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Dynamic blow needed to stop This horrific human traffic flow
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Dynamic blow needed to stop This horrific human traffic flow
Today is World Day against Trafficking in Persons. Established in 2013 by the United Nations General Assembly the event is marked globally on July 30. The observance focuses on raising awareness of human trafficking and the importance of stopping it.
Trafficking of persons is essentially the trade of humans. International conventions condemn it as a grave violation of human rights. The purposes of trafficking in humans include, but are not limited to, sexual slavery, commercial sexual exploitation, forced labour, servitude, forced marriage, removal of organs among others. Almost every country in the world is involved in trafficking, whether as a country of origin, destination or transit for human trade victims.
Ttrafficking for employment
Trafficking in persons involves an act of recruiting, transporting, transferring, harbouring or receiving a person through the use of force, coercion, fraud, deception or other devious means, for the purpose of exploiting them. A recent report commissioned by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) states that in Sri Lanka men, women and children are trafficked primarily for labour, commercial sexual exploitation, including domestic child sex tourism.
There are also growing concerns about trafficking for employment to the Middle East, Singapore and other countries for jobs in domestic work, construction and factory employment. The demand for cheap labour for 3D jobs  Dirty, Dangerous and Demeaning  fuels trafficking in countries such as ours.
Sri Lanka is primarily a source and, to a lesser extent, a destination country, for men, women, and children subjected to forced labour and sex trafficking. Certain Sri Lankan men, women, and children who migrate to the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Afghanistan to work in the construction, garment, and domestic service sectors are subjected to forced labour.
Before leaving Sri Lanka, many migrant workers fall into debt to pay high recruitment fees imposed by unscrupulous labour recruitment agencies  most of them members of Sri Lankas Association of Licensed Foreign Employment Agencies and their unlicensed sub-agents. Migrant labourers receive a monetary advance as an incentive to move abroad, only to be trapped in debt bondage upon arrival at their destination. Some recruitment agencies commit fraud by changing the agreed upon job, employer, conditions, or salary after the migrants arrival. Some Sri Lankan women are subjected to forced prostitution in Jordan, Maldives, Malaysia, Singapore and elsewhere.
Forced labour
Sri Lankas two million migrant work force has been a blessing for the economy of our war-torn nation. Indeed they are the heroic army battling on the economic frontlines providing significant support to the countrys balance of payments. Although our island nation receives a huge amount of foreign exchange from agricultural and industrial products, garments, tourism, gems and jewellery industries, the foreign exchange directly received from Sri Lankan migrant workers surpasses them all.
Last year alone, their remittances topped a staggering US$7.5 billion in foreign exchange to the countrys coffers. In essence, the government depends increasingly on resources that come directly and indirectly from migrant workers. But the cost in human terms seems horrific. Women represent roughly 60 per-cent of Sri Lankas growing migrant work force.
Most of them work in the Middle East as housemaids. Their problems are numerous and linked to their gender. In several host countries they face sexual and physical abuse as well as economic exploitation and in many instances with no access to judicial recourse or proper legal representation.
The International Labour Organization estimates that 21 million people are victims of forced labour globally. This estimate also includes victims of human trafficking for labour and sexual exploitation. While it is not known how many of these victims were trafficked, the estimate implies that currently, there are millions of trafficking in persons victims in the world.
Almost a third of all human trafficking victims worldwide are children, according to the Global Report on Trafficking in Persons released in December 2016 by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). Women and girls comprise 71 percent of human trafficking victims, the same report states. The UN plan calls for integrating the fight against human trafficking into the UNs broader programs to boost development and strengthen security worldwide.
Slavery
The UN resolution also states that trafficking in persons, especially women and children, constitutes an offence and a serious threat to human dignity and physical integrity, human rights and development. Despite sustained measures taken at the international, regional and national levels, trafficking in persons remains one of the grave challenges facing the international community, which also impairs the enjoyment of human rights and needs a more concerted international response.
According to the 2016 UN report, women and girls tend to be trafficked for marriages and sexual slavery, while men and boys are typically exploited for forced labour in the mining sector, as porters and as soldiers. It also states that refugees from war and persecution are particularly vulnerable to becoming victims of human trafficking.
Unlike the transatlantic slave trade, modern slavery is not the backbone of western civilization or in something easily recognized. But those who hold others captive and force them to work against their will are making profits off this crime. In fact, human trafficking is estimated to be a US$32 billion industry.
Although slavery has been outlawed in nearly every country, millions of men, women and children are working as slaves in brick kilns, rice mills, garment factories, fishing operations and many other industries. It is one of the darkest and most revolting realities in the world today.
The tremendous advances in human civilization, in the sciences and technologies tempt us to think that slavery is a thing of a distant past. But when we examine the facts, we are shocked at how much slavery in all its modern forms is with us more than ever, albeit in a more submerged way.
Far from being a historical footnote and far from of diminishing or going away, this phenomenon of trafficking in persons is growing, provoked by conflicts and extreme poverty, and exacerbated by the present migration and refugee crisis.
Its hard to believe that real slaves, people forced to work long hours through threats of violence or coercion, are living in our midst. We must devote ourselves to never again letting a generation go by without forward progress. Working toward a world without modern slavery is no doubt a bold proposition, but it is one that we must work toward.
Modern slavery is happening all around you and you can be part of the solution by raising your voice to end this shameful scourge. The threat is real, and needs combined efforts to stamp it out. Human trafficking is modern day slavery which deprives people of their human rights and dignity. Given the huge stakes in ruined lives, the ongoing fight against modern-day slavery should be unyielding.
==============================
## Title: Ebert Silva Holidays launches open deck city tours in Kandy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Ebert Silva Holidays launches open deck city tours in Kandy
Ebert Silva Holidays together with Central Province Tourism, Department of Tourism and Regional Economic Development Agency launched the Kandy City Tour, the open deck city sightseeing experience in the UNESCO declared World Heritage City and Sri Lankas last royal capital, Kandy.
The Kandy City tour was launched by the Central Province Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake in the presence of officials and other dignitaries and many school children opposite the Queens Hotel in Kandy, recently.
Open deck city tours are a distinct feature in every leading tourist destination around the world and will undoubtedly add colour and an enhanced touristic experience in Sri Lankas cultural capital, especially with the approaching Esala Perehera season.
The Kandy City Tour open deck coach is artistically branded with elements inherent to the city of Kandy and enables both Sri Lankans and foreign travelers to witness this scenic city with professional commentaries giving details of the citys history, heritage and highlighting its arts, crafts and architectural importance among others.
Ebert Silva Holidays Chairperson Rajini de Silva Mendis said that the company with a brand name synonymous in Sri Lankas travel and tourism industry is indeed proud to have introduced the open deck sightseeing concept and experience to Sri Lanka. Initially, it was introduced in Sri Lankas premier city, Colombo, by the introduction of the Colombo City Tour, a venture in collaboration with Sri Lanka Tourism.
She further added that the Kandy City Tour will showcase a leading tourist city not only in Sri Lanka, but in the world, and this service will give a unique opportunity to highlight the beauty and the heritage of a foremost World Heritage City to the world.
The Glimpse of Kandy, a four-hour tour will be operated daily showcasing the rich heritage and history of this picturesque city with professionally guided tours highlighting the heritage of the Temple of the Tooth Relic Complex including the Royal Palace, Museum and the Bathing Hall.
The tour will include a 20-minute boat ride on the Kandy Lake which will enable the guests to capture a unique scenic view of the city across the serene waters of this man-made lake.
A unique photo opportunity at Arthurs Seat, where a panoramic view of the city of Kandy can be seen is also included in the tour with views of the magnificent Buddha Statue on Bahirawakande, the Udawatte Kale and the Temple of the Tooth Complex with its gilded roof seen across the Kandy Lake.
The open deck drive through the Peradeniya University will be another delightful experience travelling through its beautiful landscapes and viewing the magnificent buildings depicting Sri Lankan architectural elements.
Finally, a shopping experience for traditional arts and crafts will complete the open deck tour experience.
The Heritage of Kandy tours operated on weekends in air-conditioned coaches will showcase the arts, crafts and architecture of the master craftsmen of the Gampola period.

==============================
## Title: EP provided with better medical facilities
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
EP provided with better medical facilities
Eastern Province Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation and Childcare, Social Welfare and Rural Electrification Minister A.L.M. Nazeer opened a range of new health sector development projects in Ampara recently. The Provincial Health Ministry funded over Rs.26.3 million for the projects.
An Ayurveda Central Dispensary and Primary Medical Care Units were opened and foundation stones were laid for many other development projects. The Medical Care Unit in Senarathpura (Rs.16 million), the dispensary in Maha Oya (Rs.5.3 million) and the Tempittiya Medical Care Unit (Rs.1 million) were opened. The people of the area were undergoing immense hardships without adequate facilities at hospitals in the district. The Ministry intervened and provided solution for their issues, Minister Nazeer said. Eastern Provincial Council Chairman Chandradasa Galapatthy, Councillors Manjula Fernando, and Meththananda De Silva, Health Director Dr. M.Murukananthan, Ayurveda Department Director Dr. R. Srithar, Ampara Regional Health Services Director Dr.Thilak Rajapaksa and others participated.
==============================
## Title: Esala festival
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Esala festival
At a special meeting of the Yahamulla Gambara Devala Esala Festival Committee held at the Yahamulla Bodhirukkarama Vihara premises, it was decided to hold annual Esala festival from August 2 to 8 for the 30th time.
According to this, a 'kap' planting ceremony is to be held on August 2, morning.
A 'mal perahera' shall commence on August 2 and end on August 6, evening.
The 'maha perahara' shall commence on August 7.
'Deva thovilaya' starts on August 7 night and ends on 8, morning, with a fire-walking ceremony.
The festival will conclude with 'devadana' on August 8, noon.
==============================
## Title: Fairfirst wins Medical Insurer  of the year
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Fairfirst wins Medical Insurer  of the year
For the second consecutive year, Fairfirst Insurance the market leader for health insurance, won the title of Excellence in Medical Insurance at the recently held Fintelekt Insurance Industry Awards held in Mumbai.
Supported by a strong underwriting team and leading customer servicing team, Fairfirst continues to deliver market beating growth and exceptional service standards.
Providing protection for employees of large corporates and individuals alike, Fairfirst is today among the top general insurance companies of Sri Lanka. This is further accentuated by the backing of one of the largest property and casualty insurers of the world  Fairfax, who have operations spread across geographies.
Driven by disciplined underwriting and streamlined claim operations, Fairfirst have displayed consistent and healthy growth in revenues, client base and segment profitability for the financial year 2016.
With an ageing population and a rise in non-communicable diseases we are seeing an increase in demand for inpatient and outpatient care services as well as laboratory services, said Thushara Edirisooriya  Head of Surgical Insurance. And now with medical costs on the rise, people are beginning to understand the value of having a medical coverage to counter their health contingencies
Fairfirst is continuously re-inventing themselves in terms of product offerings and strategic partnerships. This was confirmed, with their recent tie up with the Sri Lanka Pensions Department and the subsequent launch of Buhuman - a unique health insurance policy specifically aligned with the evolving insurance needs of pensioners. Also, the company has successfully secured partnerships with leading financial institutions and telecommunications partners as the insurer of choice in order to further their reach.
We are thrilled to win this award that recognizes the efforts of our sales, underwriting and claims teams who have been working tirelessly to service our customers saidd Dr. Sanjeev Jha, CEO and Managing Director of Fairfirst Insurance.
==============================
## Title: FCID seeks AGs advice on Namal Rajapaksa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 16:45
FCID seeks AGs advice on Namal Rajapaksa

The Financial Crimes Investigation Division (FCID) of the Police conducting investigations against Hambantota District MP Namal Rajapaksa concerning a misappropriation of Rs.70 million belonging to Krrish Company today informed Court that they have sought Attorney Generals advice regarding possible future legal action into the matter.

Accordingly, Colombo Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne sent a reminder to the Attorney General directing him to expedite his advice regarding the case. The case will be taken up again on December 15.

MP Namal Rajapaksa was arrested for allegedly misappropriating Rs.70 million granted by Indian Real Estate Company Krish Lanka Pvt. Ltd, for the development of rugby in Sri Lanka. He is currently out on bail.

The FCID alleged that Krish Lanka Pvt. Ltd had granted Rs. 70 million for the development of rugby in Sri Lanka and the amount was given to Ceylon Premium Sports President Nihal Hemasiri Perera.

The FCID said Krish Company had remitted the money to a HSBC bank account belonging to Nihal Hemasiri Perera and he had later given the money to Rajapaksa on two occasions.

The FCID alleged that the complaint by Voice Against Corruption Convenor Wasantha Samarasinghe had alleged that the money granted by Krish Company had been misappropriated by the suspect without utilising them for the real purpose of the company.

==============================
## Title: Five suspects arrested over Navy coastguard assault
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 12:30
Five suspects arrested over Navy coastguard assault

Police arrested five suspects in relation to the attack of the Navy coastguards in Point Pedro.

The raid was conducted according to a tip-off received by the police.

Police said that the suspects had four knives in their possession during the arrest.

Suspects were identified as residents of Karaweddi and Warani.

During the investigations it was revealed that the same suspects were behind the attack of the Police check point in Point Pedro-Ketay junction on July 9.

==============================
## Title: Gemunu threatens to take issue to President, Prime Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 14:45
Gemunu threatens to take issue to President, Prime Minister

Lanka Private Bus Owners Association (LPBOA) President Gemunu Wijeyratne has said he would take the issue of illegal tenders at the Southern Expressway to the President and the Prime Minister if the Bribery Commission took inadequate action in this regard.
Speaking to Daily News Online the LPBOA President said the issue was a longstanding one: This has been going on from the time of the previous government, he explained, adding that the loss incurred to the government from the issuing of illegal tenders was approximately Rs. 20 million.
Wijeyratne, who this morning said he would file against the National Transport Commission (NTC) at the Bribery Commission, said the LPBOA was willing to the take the issue right up to the President and the Prime Minister if the Bribery Commission failed to take action in this regard.
The LPBOA is alleging that there are irregularities taking place when issuing bus permits on the Southern Expressway: It said the NTC had issued permits to existing bus owners, without calling for tenders.
The Cabinet Ministers have granted approval to award tender permits but the NTC has decided to cancel it without any notification, Wijeyratne alleged.
He said that action had been taken against errant officers during the previous regime, but this incident is repeating itself.
==============================
## Title: Glow in the dark paths
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Glow in the dark paths
Singapore is well known for being innovative. In fact, the small city state has been ranked the most innovative country in Asia several times by the Global Innovation Index. And now the country is pushing new boundaries by testing out a track that glows in the dark in order to improve safety and visibility at night.
Located between Choa Chu Kang Road and Upper Bukit Timah Road, the 400m track, known as the Rail Corridor, is split up into four sections containing various different surface materials: fine gravel; grass and gravel; earth-colored porous concrete; and natural non-toxic light green strontium aluminate minerals.
The last of these absorbs UV light during the day, allowing the path to emit a soft glow at night. The different surface materials are currently being tested to determine which one is the most popular, and the public are being invited to try out the track and provide feedback about the project. Mirror
==============================
## Title: Htota agreement would reduce debt payment burden: Mahinda
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Htota agreement would reduce debt payment burden: Mahinda
Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe on Saturday said the concession agreement on the Hambantota Port signed with the China Merchant Port Holdings on Saturday has significantly reduced the burden of the government over the debt payments for the Hambantota Harbour.
Minister Samarasinghe, speaking at the agreement signing ceremony noted that the harbour construction was carried out after obtaining a commercial loan amounting to Rs.193 billion.
The Hambantota Port commenced its commercial operations from November 2011 and as end of 2016 the accumulated loss is over Rs. 46.7 billion.
The annual loan repayment commitment for SLPA is around Rs.09 billion, the minister added.
He said due to this 90 percent of the revenue of the SLPA had to be set aside for debt payment.
If we take off the car carriers which was forced to shift from the Port of Colombo to Hambantota, the number of ships handled in year 2015 was only 19 and in year 2016 it was 14 and from January to June 2017, the number was only 10, he added.
The Minister explaining the dividends of the new agreement further noted that in the earlier agreement the, Treasury was not entitled to receive any revenue from the investment but according to the new one the Treasury will directly receive a sum of US$ 1.12 billion. Minister Samarasinghe also said that as per a clause included under the instructions of the President Maithripala Sirisena any clause of the agreement can be changed at any stage with the consent of both the parties.
Meanwhile, Minister Mangala Samaraweera said that in addition to the US$ 1.12 billion further US$ 600 million will be spent to modernise the Hambantota harbour. He said the area surrounding the port will experience unprecedented development and the whole country in general will reap its benefits.
Samaraweera noted that 300,000-400,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities will be generated.
The Minister further said that investors, not only from China, but also from India, Europe, Japan and other countries will be provided opportunities to invest.
==============================
## Title: Hayleys Advantis invests in mega distribution centre
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Hayleys Advantis invests in mega distribution centre
Hayleys Advantis Limited broke ground for a Mega Distribution Centre (DC) in Kotugoda, on July 28, paving the way for the construction of the largest facility of this nature in the country with a footprint in excess of 500,000 sqft.
The move is part of the companys expansion strategy with emphasis on consolidating operations for greater efficiencies.
Hayleys Group Chairman Mohan Pandithage speaking at the event
Speaking at the ground breaking ceremony, Hayleys Group Chairman Mohan Pandithage said, We are proud to contribute towards the Governments vision of establishing Sri Lanka as a key logistics hub in the South Asian region by investing in projects of this nature. As the countrys largest integrated logistics solutions provider, we have always worked closely with all stakeholders in pushing this industry forward. Our new Mega Distribution Centre will enable us to further contribute to this endeavour.
The facility will be constructed on a 15-acre plot of land in Kotugoda, with the investment for the first phase alone being Rs. 3.2 billion. Once completed the facility will offer Ground+7 high racking to optimize space utilization.
Commenting on the new investment Hayleys Advantis Managing Director Ruwan Waidyaratne said, We are delighted to break ground on this new Mega Distribution Centre which will allow us to consolidate our operations at a single location bringing in added operational efficiencies and cost benefits. We hope to have the facility completed and ready for operations by August 2018. This investment goes in line with the expansion plans we have in mind for Advantis, and we hope to offer ultimate cost effective solutions for our clients in the near future.
Advantis has over a decade of experience in managing warehousing and distribution facilitates for both large and small clients through its brand Advantis 3PL Plus (former Logiwiz).
The company will be capitalizing on its experience in designing this new facility. The Mega DC will also consist of the latest in warehouse management technology complemented by world-class equipment which will further boost efficiencies.
With over six decades of experience in the transportation and logistics industry in Sri Lanka, Hayleys Advantis is on an aggressive drive to expand its presence in the Asian region, already covering 10 countries.
Backed by the diversified blue-chip conglomerate Hayleys PLC, the company provides integrated logistics services through its wide network of offices across the region.
3D drawing of the Mega Distribution Centre




==============================
## Title: Hoffman grabs one-shot lead at Canadian Open
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Hoffman grabs one-shot lead at Canadian Open
MONTREAL AFP July29, 2017 Charley Hoffman birdied the last on Saturday to cap a seven-under par 65 and take a one-stroke lead over Kevin Chappell after three rounds of the US PGA Tour Canadian Open.
Hoffman had eight birdies overall on the Glen Abbey course in Oakville, Ontario, building a 54-hole total of 17-under par 199.
Six of Hoffman's birdies came in a seven-hole stretch from nine through 15. He rebounded from his lone bogey at 17 with his two-putt birdie at the last.
The putter's been rolling good the second half of the season, said Hoffman, who captured his fourth career PGA Tour title at the Texas Open in April of last year.
When putts go in it's always easier to shoot a lower score. Chappell had nine birdies and three bogeys in his six-under 66 for 200. He bogeyed the par-five 18th, where he was in a fairway bunker, the rough and the water.
American Robert Garrigus matched the course record with a 10-under par 62 for a share of third place on 201 alongside Gary Woodland, who carded a 68.
Garrigus's three chip-ins included an eagle at the second -- one of two eagles to go with six birdies.
The 39-year-old became the fifth player to post a 62 at Glen Abbey, where Leonard Thompson first set the mark in 1981.
He said the key to his success was not over-thinking things.
My mind shuts off, he said. I might be kind of an idiot when it comes to that but that's fine. I'm almost so dumb I can play good golf.
That's a good quality to have out here, because you're not thinking about anything, he added. You're not thinking about missing a shot or hitting it close or whatever. Garrigus and Woodland were one stroke in front of a half-dozen players on 202. The group included 19-year-old Australian pro Ryan Ruffels, who signed for a 68, and defending champion Jhonattan Vegas of Venezuela who carded a 67.
American Martin Flores, who took a one-shot lead into the third round, carded an even par-72 for a total of 204 that left him five off the lead in a group that also included world number one Dustin Johnson and England's Ian Poulter, who both shot 68.
==============================
## Title: Honorary Fellowship for Dr. Ramya de Silva
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Honorary Fellowship for Dr. Ramya de Silva
Senior Consultant Paediatrician Dr. Ramya de Silva was elected to Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health in recognition of outstanding contribution to children at their 21st anniversary celebrations held at International Conference Centre in Birmingham, UK, recently.
Dr. de Silva has been working as a Consultant Paediatrician for the past 27 years, including 16 years at the Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children, Colombo.
She is the Immediate past President of the Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians (SLCP). During her tenure as the President SLCP, she contributed immensely for the wellbeing of the children in our country. The most outstanding contribution has been the establishment of the Neonatal Transport Service. Dr. de Silva initiated this as a pilot project in collaboration with John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, UK, in 2012, when she was the President of the Perinatal Society of Sri Lanka. The reason to establish this service is that almost 80 percent of the deaths under the age of one year occur during the first month of life. Out of these deaths one third die due to prematurity and low birth weight.
These babies need special care during transportation to a hospital where facilities are available for neonatal intensive care. Neonatal Transport Service provides the facilities of anneonatal intensive care unit during transportation.
She had worked tirelessly and with utmost dedication to bring the Neonatal Transport Service to the national level. Sri Lanka is the first country in South Asia to establish the Neonatal Transport Service as a national service.
The Ministry of Health is doing this as a new development to improve the quality of care provided to the newborn to end preventable neonatal morbidity and mortality. Dr. de Silva contributes her knowledge and expertise at national level and holds responsible positions at many Technical Advisory Committees of the Ministry of Health. She is a member of the National Council for Accreditation and also a member of the committee that developed the clinical indicators to monitor healthcare quality and patient safety. Dr. de Silva is the President of the Neonatal Transport Forum of Sri Lanka, Neonatal and Paediatric Simulation Council of Sri Lanka and Adolescent Healthcare Forum of the Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians.
She has contributed greatly to the undergraduate and postgraduate training, being a clinical teacher and an examiner.
She has also served as a member of the Board of Study in Paediatrics, Post Graduate Institute of Medicine. She pioneered the establishment of Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians - Oxford Fellowship programme, for the postgraduate trainees in paediatrics to get trained at the prestigious Oxford University Hospitals.
==============================
## Title: Huaweis H1 sales revenue up by 36.2%
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Huaweis H1 sales revenue up by 36.2%
Huawei Consumer Business Group recently announced its 2017 first half year financial results. Sales revenue for the first six months of 2017 increased by 36.2% year-on-year to CNY 105.4 billion. Smartphone shipments also rose to 73.01 million, a year-on-year increase of 20.6%.
Richard Yu, chief executive officer of Huaweis Consumer Business Group, said, Our Consumer Business Group continued to deliver extraordinary growth, beating the industry average and penetrating high-end markets around the globe. This ongoing growth is testament to the strength of the Huawei brand and the momentum weve built through delivering premium, market-redefining devices that resonate with todays discerning consumers.
In Q1 2017, Huaweis market share rose to 9.8 percent of the global smartphone market, according to industry analysts IDC.
This growth was driven by a significant increase in sales of mid-range and high-end smartphones in key geographies.
In Greater China, Huawei laid claim to 22.1 % of the market where shipments increased by 24 percent year-over-year.
Huawei also saw rapid growth in smartphone shipment across Europe, reporting 18 percent year-over-year growth with particularly robust performance in Central and Eastern and Nordic Europe.
The Huawei Consumer Business Group also experienced major breakthroughs in Asia-Pacific markets including Thailand, Malaysia, Japan and South Korea. Russia also grew strongly.
According to the research of GfK and Sino, Huaweis Honor brand consecutively topped both the Internet smartphone sales volume and sales revenue in China from January to May, 2017.
This year-on-year growth was reflected in Huaweis rise as a globally recognized premium brand.
In 2017, Huawei was named number 49 on BrandZs Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands, number 88 in Forbes Worlds Most Valuable Brands and number 40 on the Brand Finance Global 500 Most Valuable Brands lists.
Huawei devices have resonated with global audiences because of our clear commitment to quality, experience and innovation, continued Yu. With a robust consumer devices ecosystem that includes critically acclaimed smartphones, tablets, wearables and now PCs, consumers know that they can trust Huawei to deliver the kind of experience theyre looking for in a premium device.
As Huaweis brand presence grows, so too will its sales strategy. Huawei is set to grow its expansive retail network, reaching 56,000 retail stores worldwide by the end of 2017  an increase from 35,000 in May 2016. These stores reflect the high-end, premium image that Huawei has cultivated around the world.
Looking ahead, Huawei expects to spur continued growth as the company pushes its devices further through innovations in artificial intelligence and machine learning that will drive the new smart era forward. The Consumer Business Group is committing to delivering intelligent devices that anticipate users needs and fit more organically into the way people work and live.
Across its 15 global research centres and 36 joint innovation centers, Huawei is working on new technologies including sensors, data management and advances to its Kirin chipset that are designed to bring this type of functionality to the marketplace. Huawei is also complementing its own innovation by collaborating with industry-leading companies such as Leica, Dolby, Microsoft, Intel and Google.
Through these efforts, Huawei will continue to delight customers, challenge the industry, and build a Better Connected World.
==============================
## Title: ICBS - first institute in the country to use Touchcast video conferencing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
ICBS - first institute in the country to use Touchcast video conferencing
As technology has become an integral part of everyones life, the Sri Lankan education landscape needs to be quick to adopt Information and Communications Technology (ICT) into their teaching and learning process at universities and institutes.
Today, all over the world, technology-based tools are helping students to learn, communicate, collaborate and study better both on and off campus
Leading the way in smart video learning: Creating an environment of academic excellence, innovation and motivated learning by leveraging video conferencing technologies brought into the classroom to enhance learning, ICBS has taken the step towards being the first institute in the country to embed the futuristic Touchcast video conferencing methodology into their classrooms and is now providing more interactive and synchronous learning resulting in improved student performance.
TouchCast as the most advanced video conferencing platform currently available to experience, with Smart Video at its core, allows a person to collaborate on an endless, digital whiteboard, share files, documents and presentations with participants during each session by bringing in videos, photos, and web pages, give the ability to record and archive any session and to find and play back any part of a previous lecture with video transcription and smart search.Connecting their students with in this way and making it easier for lecturers to teach and students to learn, ICBS has smoothly integrated this technology into everyday classrooms using desktops, tablets, and a simple internet connection.
Taking the learning process to the next level: Thilina Ukwatta Head of Strategic Planning & Senior Lecture at ICBS said, Video in the classroom is a powerful tool because it has the abilityto make the classroom come alive, make meaningful learning experiences and connections and allows a student to never again miss a lesson with recorded lessons that students can watch as many times as they need to at their own pace.
Using the TouchCast technology, our lecturers easily produce interactive video lectures that engage students. It includes earning materials that students can explore, or a personalized grading that bridges the gap between professors and their students.Students learn actively, engage in hands-on projects in the classroom, and produce interactive videos to document and present their learning and work in teams and collaborate within and outside their classrooms.
He added, young people today are drawn to the world of online broadcasting and in communicating their ideas and thoughts through video. By supporting their natural communication habits, we are helping to create an environment in which they learn by doing.
Therefore by utilizing this methodology, we aim to help hurdle learning obstacles, offer opportunities to facilitate easy access to information, and enhance the teaching and learning processes through online collaboration, and self-paced learning, by utilizing the aid of these technological tools. Our objective through this initiative is in developing a digital environment which meets students expectations and help them to progress to better study, leading to better results and better employment.
This unique initiative of ICBSs ongoing smart transformation and shift to a smart learning environment, emphasizes and epitomizes that todays smart learning strategies provide building blocks for tomorrows Smart Societies which will rely on innovative solutions for 21st-century living.
ICBS will continue to leverage its Smart Learning elements to raise the bar in learning and reshaping their educational landscape and environment to complement evolving learning requirements.
==============================
## Title: Introducing, carrot vodka!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Introducing, carrot vodka!
In a bid to reduce wastage, two Australian women, Alice Gorman and Gen Windley, have come up with a vodka made using carrots. The duo behind the drink admit that the idea came to them after they realised that the carrots grown by their farmer husbands were going to waste if it didnt meet supermarket standards.
The two then collaborated with a winemaker Jason Hannary to create vodka from carrots. The carrot is reduced to a stock, and then added to a Shiraz base. Each bottle boasts of 20 per cent carrots. Alice told a publication, Every year we grow, pick and pack 350 million carrots and theyre the good-looking ones. But we have cracked, marked or wonky ones that wont travel well to chain stores.
The result is vodka with a subtle taste of carrot. Not having done anything with vegetables before was a bit daunting, but after a few experiments we got a great result, explains distiller Jason.
AP
==============================
## Title: Investment opportunities for locals in EP tourism sector: Prime Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Investment opportunities for locals in EP tourism sector: Prime Minister
"The government will take all measures to develop the tourism sector in the Eastern Province and provide investment opportunities to the local businessperson who are eager to promote the sector," Prime Minister Ranil Wicremesinghe said.
He was speaking at a meeting held in the Batticaloa district on the initiative of Eastern Province Chief Minister Habiz Nazeer Ahamed to discuss the development of the district.
The Prime Minister said the Eastern Province was a very popular tourist destination after the conflict. "The Government will support the Provincial Council to develop the tourism sector. We are developing the Eastern Province after the defeat of 30-year long terrorism and provide employment opportunities for unemployed youths," he said. A ready markets would be created for hand-loom and reef products once the tourism sector flourished.
"I discussed the plans in this regard with the officials.
The Eastern Province boasts several heritage sites and the Batticaloa town has many of them," he said. Eastern Province Governor Rohitha Bogollagama, Batticaloa Government Agent P.S.M. Charles, Eastern University Vice Chancellor S. Jeyasingam and government officials participated.
==============================
## Title: Isner streaks into Atlanta ATP final
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Isner streaks into Atlanta ATP final
WASHINGTON: Second-seeded John Isner powered past Wimbledon quarter-finalist Gilles Muller 6-4, 6-2 on Saturday to reach the final of the ATP's BB&T Open in Atlanta, Georgia.
Isner needed just 75 minutes to reach his seventh Atlanta final in eight years, where he'll be gunning for a fourth Atlanta crown.
The big-serving American saved all four break points he faced, and has now won seven straight ATP matches and held for 69 straight service games dating back to his title run last week in Newport.
On Sunday, he'll face either Isner will try to win his eighth consecutive match and his fourth Atlanta title on Sunday when he faces either fourth-seeded compatriot Ryan Harrison or fifth-seeded Briton Kyle Edmund. Edmund shocked top-seeded Jack Sock in straight sets to reach the semi-finals.
Luxembourg's Muller, who toppled Rafael Nadal in reaching the Wimbledon quarters, had also been dominant on serve in Atlanta.
Going into his clash with Isner the third-seeded left-hander had won all 24 of his service games.
But Isner broke him in the third game to take a 2-1, and broke him twice in the second set to gain the advantage.
Isner then saved three break points while serving for the match at 5-2.
He made it very tough for me today. I don't feel like I played a bad match. I maybe didn't serve well enough today but it's also because of him, he put a lot of pressure on me, Muller said.
==============================
## Title: IUSF protest march to Colombo begins today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
IUSF protest march to Colombo begins today
The five-day protest march organised by the Inter University Students Federation (IUSF) will commence today from Kandy.
The students are demanding the authorities to abolish the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe.
Inter University Students Federation acting Convener Sanath Bandara said the march will commence from the Peradeniya University premises at 10am today. It will end in Colombo with a protest rally on August 4 evening.University students, their parents, trade union representatives and workers will participate in the protest.
==============================
## Title: Jaffna: Dead or alive
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Jaffna: Dead or alive
Many things can be inferred in the title today! The intent is to say Jaffna can become an arid dessert if it runs out of water. The Jaffna Peninsula is unique in geology and aquifer conditions. The limestone is an important aquifer, and together with thin sand layers form an extensive cover providing a source of drinking water and irrigation across the Jaffna Peninsula. The suitability of water for any use is determined not only by the total amount of salt present in the water but also by the type of salt that is present.
The concept of recharging groundwater aquifers is based on scientific methods developed and used globally based on the Hydrologic Cycle and interactions of Ground Water and Surface Water. The need for recharge is indicated when springs start to go dry, pumping lifts in wells increase, or shallower wells go dry. Several types of structural measures for groundwater recharge may be planned either as multiple purpose structures or solely for recharge.
Water supply proposal
S. Ratnajeevan H. Hoole had interviewed  Dr. Kasilingam Vigneswaran, an acknowledged authority on water who delivered the first Eng. M. Rathinam Memorial Lecture last week. Here are some of his selected responses 
* Going back to the history of the Iranamadu Reservoir, Kanagarayan Aru has a total catchment of 350 square miles of which 227 square miles are intercepted by Iranamadu Reservoir. It was first constructed in 1922 to a capacity of 40,000 acre feet. Subsequently, it was raised in 1951, 1954 and finally in 1975 to a capacity of 106,500 acre feet. When the current raising to a capacity of 120,000 acre feet was contemplated in 2005, there was a tacit understanding that the additional capacity of 13,500 acre feet would be made available for supplying domestic water to the Jaffna Peninsula as well as to the Kilinochchi town and other townships of Kilinochchi district such as Pallai, Pooneryn, Elephant Pass, Paranthan and Ariviyalnagar where the Kilinochchi Campus is.
There was no intention whatsoever of denying the rights the farmers of Iranamadu which they already enjoyed. Kalapoham (Maha) cultivation of the 20,000 acres would never be affected. Only the Sirupoham (Yala) cultivation extent could be lower during a drought year. Ironically, some 60% of the owners of the paddy lands of Iranamadu are residents of Jaffna Peninsula and they are also objecting to the water supply proposal.
* There is a distinct possibility from Parangi Aru which has a catchment of 325 square miles. We could have Upper Parangi Aru Reservoir with a catchment area of 128 square miles and a capacity of 24,300 acre feet (30 mcm). This would be suited not only to supply water to the Jaffna Peninsula but also to Mankulam and other townships between Mankulam and Jaffna. The current irrigation engineer Jaffna has also offered very good advice.
Recommendations
* Recharge and water saving in households by rainwater harvesting, having infiltration wells, using water permeable paving and reducing water wastage.
* Recharge and water saving by farmers through Drip & Sprinkler Irrigation reduce sgro-chemical use, Organic farming and flood water harvesting.
* Sustainable solutions - Regain Groundwater Resources by Development of Lagoon Schemes, Development of SWE Schemes, Development of Valukkaiaru, Modified River for Jaffna, Development of Ponds, Preserve Limestone & Sand Dunes, Limit usage of Agrochemicals, Implement Sewage System, Rainwater Harvesting, use of infiltration wells, flood water harvesting and reduce water wastage through awareness.
==============================
## Title: Janashakthi recognized at Fintelekt Insurance Awards 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Janashakthi recognized at Fintelekt Insurance Awards 2017
Janashakthi Insurance PLC was recognized for its work as a responsible corporate citizen at the Fintelekt Insurance Awards 2017 held in Mumbai, India, recently.
The insurer received the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative award in recognition of the Janashakthi Full Option Appathon  the Next Gen Smart Tech Challenge (Janashakthi Appathon) initiative.
Launched in 2016 under the theme Solutions to Issues Caused by Traffic, the Janashakthi Appathon is a team-based challenge that encourages the nations youth to propose and develop apps that add value to the lives of the general public.
Speaking about the companys achievement, Chief Executive Officer of Janashakthi General Insurance Limited, Jude Fernando, stated, At Janashakthi, we are committed to engaging the youth of the nation to become active participants in the rapid digital transformation taking place around the world. As an entrepreneurial organization, we believe in empowering young Sri Lankan entrepreneurs and helping them develop their skills in technology and innovation. This award is a reflection of that belief and commitment, and we are humbled to be recognized at this prestigious forum, as we continue on our own digital transformation in how we deliver insurance solutions.
Widely respected within the insurance sector, the Fintelekt Insurance Awards recognize and honor the efforts of insurance companies across India and Sri Lanka for achieving significant business objectives. The events organizers commended the Janashakthi Appathon initiative for its emphasis on a pressing social issue and providing a platform for the younger generation to contribute to the resolution of the problem.
==============================
## Title: Jane Austen, on the money
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Jane Austen, on the money
Anyone, wrote Virginia Woolf in A Room of Ones Own, though of course she didnt mean anyone but me, who has the temerity to write about Jane Austen is aware of [two] facts: first, that of all great writers she is the most difficult to catch in the act of greatness; second, that there are twenty-five elderly gentlemen living in the neighbourhood of London who resent any slight upon her genius as if it were an insult to the chastity of their aunts.
Times have certainly changed: chaste aunts these days are about as rare as a Bobs your uncle and the twenty-five elderly gentlemen living in the neighbourhood of London who might resent you are now millions worldwide who will happily abuse you on Twitter. Were all Janeites now: and if youre not, look out. In a world  to use a phrase that might usefully serve as the introductory voice-over to the trailer for any recent Austen adaptation/biopic/retelling  in which the mute are always inglorious and fame is the only guarantee of value or quality, posterity has proved her worth. (Auden was right, as he was about most things, in Letter to Lord Byron: She wrote them for posterity, she said; / Twas rash, but by posterity shes read.)
Early writings
Which is why, like many writers before and since  obsessed with the mechanics and economics of reputation formation  Virginia Woolf was fascinated as much by Austens fame as with her work. In a review in 1922 of a collection of Austens early writing, Love and Freindship, Woolf opined that:
All over England for the past ten or twenty years the reputation of Jane Austen has been accumulating on top of us like . . . quilts and blankets. The voices of the elderly and distinguished, of the clergy and the squierarchy, have droned in unison praising and petting, capping quotations, telling little anecdotes, raking up little facts . . . . So they pile up the quilts and counterpanes until the comfort becomes oppressive. Something must be done about it.
The metaphorical quilts and blankets of the squierarchy and the clergy have now become the films, the television series, the fine uniform and collectors editions, the appalling paperback editions, the fan fiction, the mugs, the ornaments, and indeed the actual quilts, blankets, fleeces, snugglies, slippers, dressing gowns and pillow cases that are all part of the academic-entertainment complex devoted to the perpetuation of the memory of our dear Jane (or in Henry Jamess formulation, their dear, our dear, everybodys, dear Jane). There are in fact now so many books on the Austen phenomenon that they are themselves a phenomenon  from Eckart Voigts-Virchows perfectly serious Janespotting and Beyond: British heritage retrovisions since the mid-1990s (2004) and Beatrice Battaglia and Diego Saglias Re-Drawing Austen: Picturesque travels in Austenland (2004), to the truly epiphenomenal Among the Janeites: A journey through the world of Jane Austen fandom (2013) by Deborah Yaffe, and Maggie Lanes pitch-perfect Growing Older with Jane Austen (2014), a book with a title so brilliantly targeted at its intended audience that one might amend Alan Corens old joke about the only books guaranteed to sell being about golf, cats and Nazis, to golf, cats, Nazis and Jane Austen.
It is possible to say of Jane Austen, according to Lionel Trilling, writing back in the 1950s, as perhaps one can say of no other writer, that the opinions which are held of her work are almost as interesting, and almost as important to think about, as the work itself. Almost. These days it might be possible for someone to spend their entire time studying and thinking about the many blogs and social media posts devoted to Austen without ever having to study or think about Austen herself  indeed, some PhD student at Poppleton is doubtless doing so even now. So, tweet me. Jane Austen has become a signifier of such high semiotic intensity, possessing such incredible power both within and outside the academy that it has finally become the ultimate fiction: money. As if she werent already ubiquitous enough, you can now find Jane lurking in your pocket, on the 10 note, and also on commemorative 2 coins. When the new 5 notes were recently released, a small number were engraved with a special Austen micro-portrait, making each fiver, according to the Daily Mail, and my mother, worth approximately 50,000. Thus, men and women up and down the land were finally reduced to searching for Jane Austen with a magnifying glass.
Horrid vision
Something really must be done about it. The first thing to do, as always, is to return to the novels, in the hope that they might flush entirely from ones mind the horrid vision of an endless all-star omnibus Austen, in which Hugh Grant, Colin Firth, Michael Gambon, Anne Hathaway, Emma Thompson and Alison Steadman are for ever jumping in and out of chaises and dancing cotillions.
Like most other sane people, my copies of the works of Jane Austen last got an outing in the frantic few weeks before having to sit an exam and regurgitate gobbets sprackled with undigested bits of Tony Tanner, Lord David Cecil and Elaine Showalters A Literature of Their Own. Since then, I seem to have acquired two extra copies of Emma, my Mansfield Park has gone missing, and the tangerine spine of my Penguin Lady Susan/The Watsons/Sanditon  bought new for 50 pence, presumably as a distraction from the impending exams  remains as crisp and unbroken as an old Lucozade wrapper, destined now to remain a worthless mint condition heirloom and a reminder of the gassy, dimpled hopes and dreams of the late twentieth century. Plus I had never knowingly read Northanger Abbey.
So to begin with the entirely unknown: Northanger Abbey is the work of a young woman with an eye on the main chance. Barbara Benedict and Deirdre Le Faye note in their edition of the novel in the Cambridge University Press nine-volume edition of the complete works, that between 1784 and 1818 no fewer than thirty-two novels had been published containing Abbey in the title, not to mention many others using such related nouns as Convent, Monastery, or Priory, Abbot, Friar, or Nun: for Northanger Abbey, read Girl in a Gothic House. Written during 1789/9 but not published until after Austens death in 1817  and originally titled Susan by Austen, then changed to Catherine, and finally given its published title by Austens brother Henry and sister Cassandra, the first keepers of the flame, who clearly understood the importance of a contemporary-sounding and eye-catching title  the novel is a fair representation of what Austen could and couldnt do.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Jasmine House - overall champions of Kalmunai Office of the RDHS
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Jasmine House - overall champions of Kalmunai Office of the RDHS
Jasmine House accumulated 223 points to carry away the championship trophy at the annual Inter - House Sports Festival-2017 of the office of the Kalmunai Regional Director of Health Services held at the Kalmunai Carmel Fatima National School play grounds recently.
Rose House was second with 194 points and Lotus house third with 156 points.
The prize giving ceremony was presided over by Kalmunai Regional Director of Health Services Dr.A.Alawdeen.
The Judges selected each house, in accordance with the performances.
All of them were anxiously awaiting the final result of the inter house sports festival -2017.
At the end of the sports competitions, this attracted hundreds of viewers. The RDHS Dr.A.Alawdeen was felicitated for organized the sports festival by the staff..
House Positions.
1st place: Jasmine (Yellow) House  223 points.
2nd place: Rose (Green) House  194 points.
3rd place: Lotus (Blue) House  156 points.
==============================
## Title: From Kandy to Colombo: University students launch five-day protest march
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 16:00
From Kandy to Colombo: University students launch five-day protest march

The Inter-University Students Federation (IUSF) has launched a five-day protest march against the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM).
The march that began at the Peradeniya University in Kandy this morning, will end in Colombo onAugust 4.
Speaking to Daily News Online, Acting Convener of the Inter-University Students Federation Sanath Banadara said they would continue their protests until the government pays heed.
==============================
## Title: Kandy Perahera begins...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Kandy Perahera begins...
The first Kumbal Perahera of the Temple of the Tooth Kandy paraded the streets last Saturday with Diyawadana Nilame Nilanga Dela Bandara placing the Sacred Relic Casket on the elephant Indi Raja. Pictures by Gamini Ranasinghe.
==============================
## Title: Korea provides drought relief
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Korea provides drought relief
The Republic of Korea provided a humanitarian assistance package to Sri Lanka for drought relief. A Korean Parliamentary delegation handed over the relief material including eight lorry-mounted water bowsers to President Maithripala Sirisena at the Presidents Official Residence in Colombo last Friday.
The keys of the water bowsers were handed over by two leaders of the Korean Parliamentary Delegation, Hong Moon-jong and Yoo Ki-june, two senior members of the Korean National Assembly. Disaster Management Minister Anura Priyadharshana Yapa and Korean Ambassador Won-sam Chang were present.
President Sirisena thanked the Government and the people of South Korea for providing assistance to drought victims. Nearly 2/3rds of the country was badly affected by the drought and the people were in need of water. Therefore, the bowsers donated by Korea are quite useful, he said. Minister Yapa said the bowsers would be dispatched immediately to the drought affected districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Trincomalee.
Referring to close bilateral cooperation, the President thanked Korea for providing employment to nearly 30,000 Sri Lankans and looking after them properly.
Leader of the delegation, Hong Moon-jong thanked Sri Lanka for the support extended to Korea at the international forums. He said the Korean employers were quite satisfied about job performances and efficiency of Sri Lankan workers.
He said the delegation was visiting Sri Lanka to attend the events to mark the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
Former Korean Minister of Oceanic Affairs, Yoo Ki-june said an island nation like Sri Lanka could make maximum utilization of the vast sea resources and added that Koreas technical knowledge in the fisheries sector could be shared with Sri Lanka to develop fishing industry in the country. He said the cooperation in the fisheries sector could be established through the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA).
President Sirisena welcomed the proposal for cooperation in fisheries sector and said Sri Lanka could further increase fish exports to Europe and other countries with the Korean technical support.
KOICA Past director and current director were present.
==============================
## Title: Kulisha, Vinoli win Asian schools chess medals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Kulisha, Vinoli win Asian schools chess medals
AGM (Arena Grand Master) Kulisha Saranath Nanayakkara of Gateway International School Negombo won the under-15 boys gold medal in the 13th Asian Schools Chess Championship which was worked off in China recently.
Kulisha earned 7.5 points from 9 rounds. He beat Cheng  Chen Li Andrew (Taipe), Shih Lu-Chung (Taipe), Sashmitha Upananda (Sri Lanka), Denuwan Theekshana (Sri Lanka), Tarigam Gilbert Eiroy (Indonesia) and Hsu Hsuan-Ming (Taipe) in the event. His games with CM Tan Jung (Malaysia), Lin Yi (China) and Palasigue Gal Brien (Phillipine) were drawn.
Kulisha was the only AGM in Sri Lanka. (On line Games) Kulisha also won the title of FM (Fide Master) from Fide after this event.
Vinoli Onethma Witahanarachchi of Visakha Vidyalaya, Colombo won Bronza medal in the under 11 girls event.
Vinoli earned 6 points from 9 rounds with 5 wins, 2 losses and 2 draws. Vinoli beat Munkhsaikhan Gegeene (Mongolia), Zhou Peiqi (China), Cai Duoduo (China), Rui Yueyue (China) and Chong Kai Ni Agnes (China).
Vinoli had two drawn games against Max Xiu Ning Charlene (Singapore) and Herfesa Shafira Devi (Inoonesia) and was beaten by Omonova Umida (Uzbekistan) and Kriti Mayur Patel (India). YK
==============================
## Title: Lanka needs to further boost exports by 6 % - Dr. Coomaraswamy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Lanka needs to further boost exports by 6 % - Dr. Coomaraswamy
The country needs another six percent plus growth in the export sector to strengthen its economy further, Central Bank Governor Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy said.
Dr. Coomaraswamy made these remarks at the 20th AGM of the Exporters Association of Sri Lanka, held in Colombo. Internal Trade State Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe was also present.
Delivering the keynote address Dr. Coomaraswamy said the growth in the export sector is crucial for the future development and therefore the countrys exporters should achieve a significant improvement in this sector during the coming years.
He said even former President J.R. Jayewardene took measures to strengthen the export sector and Lankan exporters were able to achieve a 36.4 percent growth in 1977- and 72.2 percent growth in 1979.
He said Sri Lanka increased it exports 1.95 times in 2015, while Vietnam and Bangladesh increased exports by 11.2 times and 5.1 times respectively. South Korea and Thailand increased exports by 3.1 times.
Dr. Coomarawwamy also said that it is necessary for Sri Lankan exporters to focus attention towards value added products and more technologically advanced products, as such exports can create more jobs to Lankan youth.
He said 27 percent of the countrys work force have been leaving the country annually for employment in Korea, Middle East and Italy and if Sri Lanka can improve its export sector, youth can remain here to work for the country.
He said since Sri Lanka has a very close relationship with countries including Japan , china and Korea, the country could develop its export sector to the maximum.
As Sri Lankas per capita income continues to rise, we can also increase our productivity using our services like tourism, transport and IT,
Internal Trade State Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe said the policies of the Government has been admired by foreign countries and this situation has resulted in these countries investing in Sri Lanka and also commencing industrial zones and factories in many parts of the country .
He said many countries have already agreed to start factories and industrial zones at Hambantota, Moneragala, Galle, Maratra, Kalutara, Kandy, Kurunegala and also in the North and East.
The state minister also highlighted the setting up of a 20, 000 acre industrial park in Sri Lanka to start a Honda car factory and a wire factory.
We also worked with Harvard University and they granted a five miilion US dollar fund and the ITC gave a fund of eight million Euros to improve our trade and economic policies, he said.
The minister said he represented the exporters and investors forum and signed agreements with China, India, Pakistan, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore to start business ventures.
We also have planned to set up two cement factories, one oil refinery and one sugar refinery, 
Exporters Association of Sri Lanka , Chairman Harin de Silva highlighted the invaluable service rendered by Sri Lankan exporters and said the sector was neglected by authorities in the past.
He said due to this, the export sector declined year by year and need a strong political vision to drive it to reach its full potential.
 With the BREXIT unraveling itself in the European Union (EU), Sri Lanka face with a unique challenge that will have a negative impact on realizing the GSP + benefits for sectors like the apparel as the UK accounts for 40 percent of Sri Lankas apparel exports into the EU,.
Chairman de Silva further said the Government must now help to strengthen this sector to reap the benefits of GSP+.
He said the Export Development Board and the Foreign Ministry with the help of diplomatic missions overseas must help prospective exporters to find new markets and opportunities for Sri Lanka to re-enter the European Union (EU) based markets.

==============================
## Title: Lanka proposes to set up SAARC Medical College
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Lanka proposes to set up SAARC Medical College
The Sixth Meeting of the SAARC Ministers of Health held at Mount Lavinia Hotel on July 29 (last Saturday) under the patronage of Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne.
The meeting focused on important issues related to public health in the SAARC region including controlling Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in the region, upgrading nutrition, Tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/AIDS sources said.
During the meeting, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne had stated that Sri Lanka will give leadership for the proposal to set up a SAARC Medical College. A total of 1.5 billion people live in the South Asian countries.
The Colombo Declaration Calling for accelerated progress on key regional health issues was released after the event. It contains 16 key articles.
The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) was established with the signing of the SAARC Charter in Dhaka on December 8, 1985. SAARC comprises of eight Member States: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
The Secretariat of the Association was set up in Kathmandu on January 17, 1987, the sources added.
==============================
## Title: Laptops for Parliamentarians
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Laptops for Parliamentarians
All 225 Parliamentarians will receive a laptop with internet facility this week to use while they are in the main Chamber of Parliament. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday Finance Director of Parliament K.G.M. Jayashantha said laptops would be fixed to the Parliamentarians benches in the Main Chamber of Parliament this week.
He noted Internet WIFI connection would also be facilitated to them.
Parliament last Friday received 265 laptops as a grant from China. These will be fixed in the main chamber before the special parliamentary session scheduled for this Friday to felicitate the Prime Minister, he said.
He said the grant was received as an initiation of Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. He noted the move would help to get the MPs remain in the main chamber for longer periods during the Parliamentary sitting days.
The annual progress reports and documents are now presented in CDs. Once we fix the laptops they will be able to peruse them while they are in the main chamber. They can use this facility to be better prepared for the debates. It is up to the user to use them in a productive manner, he explained.
Asked about the value of the Chinese grant, the officer said each laptop would be about Rs 140,000. When calculated the total value would be over Rs.30 million.
==============================
## Title: Lets not ignore crimes impact
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Lets not ignore crimes impact
Yury Fedotov, Executive Director, UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Conflict remains the worlds greatest problem; conflict prevention our biggest hope, but if we do not face down crime and uphold justice, we simply risk swapping the challenges. Over the last century crime has been transformed. Mobsters are more likely to be board members of companies; safecrackers and getaway drivers have been replaced by worldly accountants and lawyers.
Billions are laundered in the 21st century through the worlds financial centres. UNODCs study of illicit flows showed that the combined proceeds of all crime amounted to some USD 2 trillion. If crime were a country, it would fall somewhere between Italy and India in the GDP league. Thats enough money not just to bribe and corrupt the odd customs or law enforcement officer, but to pocket ministers and ministries in fragile and vulnerable countries. And crime also adores a vacuum.
Human trafficking, migrant smuggling
Ignore crime, concentrate efforts elsewhere, and transnational organised crime is suddenly embedding, spreading and thriving in countries. The most disturbing feature of crime is not just the misery it causes, but its supreme ability to adapt. Lets also be clear. Just as the hyena trails the lion in the hope of food, crime shadows conflict. It is no coincidence that conflict in Iraq and Syria is helping to drive human trafficking, migrant smuggling and other crimes throughout the Middle East, North Africa and across the Mediterranean. But crime doesnt just feed off conflict, it fuels it.
UNODC estimates that the Taliban raised USD 150 million, some 50 percent of their total income, from taxes and involvement in the illicit opiate trade. Boko Haram is involved in smuggling heroin and cocaine, as well as trafficking people and natural resources across West Africa. Profits are being made in East Africa where the terrorist group Al-Shabaab cooperates with Somali pirates, and earns millions off the charcoal smuggling trade.
These groups are using funds flowing from crimes to spread havoc, death and destruction. Their activities undermine nations, weaken the rule of law and hamper development efforts. Ignoring them is perilous and to the detriment of work being done to sustain the lives of people facing poverty and hardship. If crime has changed, so have our views on how to confront it. The new transformative 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development acknowledges the importance of staring down crime as a means of improving lives. Central to these efforts is Goal 16 on peaceful and inclusive societies that contains specific targets on ending crimes catastrophic impact.
The search for coherence is central to dealing with the worlds woes and it broadly parallels recognition that no country can solve transnational organised crime in isolation. Old views that crime is primarily a national issue have given away to greater international cooperation, and a reliance on universal legal instruments such as the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the UN Convention against Corruption.
Building justice and ending crime
We, therefore, have the instruments, the alliances and the tools to tackle crime. What might be absent is the willingness to overcome the sequencing question. When should crime be challenged The time for tackling transnational crime is not a year, or a month or even a day after peace has been agreed. Dealing with crime, strengthening the rule of law and promoting justice cannot wait. All of these need to be delivered simultaneously; if not, problems will develop further down the road. Perhaps the most recent example of this interlinked approach is in Colombia where the peace treaty with FARC includes strategies for confronting the countrys cultivation and production of the coca plant. In Colombia, the search for peace, building justice and ending crime are all being dealt with as a single issue warranting holistic solutions. I would suggest this is the way forward everywhere.
Conflicts need to be ended to prevent the suffering of millions, and for the good of our shared humanity. But, in the desperate search for peace, lets not forget the hyena also has a savage bite.
==============================
## Title: Malaysian High Commissioner visits Maharagama Apeksha Hospital
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Malaysian High Commissioner visits Maharagama Apeksha Hospital
Malaysian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Wan Zaidi Wan Abdullah and spouse Zuhaila binti Abd Latif undertook a social welfare visit to the children's ward at Apeksha Hospital, Maharagama on Saturday.
The High Commissioner and spouse handed over gift hampers to children and a water cooler dispenser for the children's ward. He also inquired into their well-being and needs.
The High Commissioner was accompanied by First Secretary of the High Commission Azhar Mat and Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme (MTCPAASL) President Mahinda Karunakara and members.
The High Commissioner and delegation was warmly welcomed by the Apeksha Hospital Director and the staff. The director presented a memento to the High Commissioner to mark the occasion.
The Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme was officially launched on September 7, 1980 at the Commonwealth Heads of State Meeting in New Delhi, India to signify Malaysia's commitment to South-South Corporation.
The MTCP programme forms a part of the commitment of the Malaysian Government towards the promotion of technical cooperation, emphasises the development of human resources through the provision of training in various areas essential for a country's development such as public administration, good governance, health services education, sustainable development, agriculture, poverty alleviation, investment promotion, ICT and banking.
Over 80 short-term specialised courses are offered annually by 80 MTCP training institutions, many of which are centres of excellence for training. Since its launching, more than 32,000 participants from 143 countries including Sri Lanka have benefited from the various programmes offered under the MTCP.
==============================
## Title: Maldivians can get kidney transplants in Colombo: Not Indians
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 12:15
Maldivians can get kidney transplants in Colombo: Not Indians
Although kidney operations are banned for Indian nationals, Maldivian nationals can get kidney operations done in Sri Lanka without any problem, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne had stated.
Minister Senaratne had stated that although kidney operations were banned by the Sri Lankan Government for Indian nationals due to a racket, this ban does not apply to Maldivians.
Minister Senaratne had expressed those views during a recent meeting held with Maldivian Health Minister Abdulla Nazim Ibrahim.
Minister Senaratne had stated that kidney operations would be done for all Maldivian individuals under the recommendation of the Maldivian Government.
He had also made a request from Minister Ibrahim to do regular screening for HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis (TB) for Sri Lankan workers employed in Maldives.
The Ministers had agreed to discuss the topic again and sign the relevant agreements in September during the WHO sessions for South and South East Asian countries.




==============================
## Title: Man City beat Tottenham 3-0 in ICC friendly
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Man City beat Tottenham 3-0 in ICC friendly
WASHINGTON AFP July30, 2017 Manchester City posted a convincing 3-0 win over English Premiership rivals Tottenham on Saturday in an International Champions Cup friendly in Nashville, Tennessee.
John Stones, Raheem Sterling and Brahim Diaz scored for Manchester City, who were coming off a 4-1 win over Spain and European champions Real Madrid in the exhibition tournament in North America.
Jones opened the scoring at Nissan Stadium, home of the NFLs Tennessee Titans, with a glancing header in the 10th minute. City had plenty of chances to increase their lead before Sterling made it 2-0 in the 72nd minute, and Diaz came off the bench to complete the scoring in injury time.
Tottenham had the first real chance in the third minute, but Dele Allis attempt was smothered by goalkeeper Ederson.
From there Manchester City inexorably took control. They were rewarded in the 10th, when Kevin De Bruynes free kick from the right found Stones, who stooped to head the ball past Spurs keeper Hugo Lloris. Spurs had a chance to equalize late in the first half when Harry Kane appeared to have a clean look at goal against a hard-charging Ederson, but he fired over the crossbar.
==============================
## Title: Markets post flat returns over week
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Markets post flat returns over week
The Bourse closed on a mixed note as the ASPI decreased by 3.46 points (or 0.05%) to close at 6,666.05 points, while the S&P SL20 Index increased by 3.69 points (or 0.10%) to close at 3,822.92 points.
Turnover & market capitalization
Ceylon & Foreign Trades was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 0.43Bn or 16.56% of total turnover value.
JKH followed suit, accounting for 13.15% of turnover (value of LKR 0.34Bn) while Tokyo Cement contributed LKR 0.19Bn to account for 7.40% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 2.59Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 4.29Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 0.52Bn (-39.68% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.86Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.05% W-o-W (or LKR 1.37Bn) to LKR 3,023.15Bn cf. LKR 3,024.51Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 32.94% (or LKR 0.85Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by Commercial Bank, Sampath Bank & LB Finance which accounted for 38.38% of the sectors total turnover.
The Manufacturing Sector meanwhile accounted for 19.57% (or LKR 0.51Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by Tokyo Cement & Teejay Lanka which accounted for 73.16% of the sector turnover.
The Diversified Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 16.88% (or LKR 0.44Bn) to the market driven by JKH which accounted for 77.9% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Trading Sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 49.17% (or 85.97Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 0.43Bn.
The Banking, Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 11.24% to total turnover volume as 19.66Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR 0.85Bn of total market turnover value. The Diversified Sector meanwhile, contributed 17.85Mn shares (or 10.21%), amounting to LKR 0.44Bn.
Top Gainers & Losers
Colombo Trust was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 28.8% W-o-W from LKR 12.50 to LKR 16.10.
Lake House Printers gained 17.4% W-o-W to close at LKR 135.00 while Singhe Hospitals gained 11.8% W-o-W to close at LKR 1.90. Radiant Gems (+11.6% W-o-W) and Tea Smallholder (+11.1% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
CIFL was the weeks highest price loser, declining 25.0% W-o-W to close at LKR 0.90. Adam Capital (-16.7% W-o-W), Harischandra Mills (-16.2% W-o-W) & Ceylon Printers (-13.7% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net buying position with total net inflows amounting to LKR 0.89Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 1.28Bn (-30.64% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases decreased by 51.75% W-o-W to LKR 1.29Bn from last weeks value of LKR 2.67Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 0.40Bn relative to LKR 1.39Bn recorded last week (-71.16% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Teejay Lanka & Tokyo Cement led foreign purchases while Beruwala Resort and Union Bank led foreign sales. In terms of value, JKH and Tokyo Cement led foreign purchases while Chevron and Union Bank led foreign sales.
Point of view
Equity markets moved sideways this week, consolidating at 6660-levels as positive quarterly earnings from Index heavy-weight JKH and Cabinet approval of the Hambantota Port deal capped the W-o-W losses on the Index at ~4 points.
Market activity remained largely dull though with HNI and Institutional investors opting to remain on the sidelines over the week.
Crossings over the week consequently fell to 30% of total market turnover, in sharp contrast to the previous two weeks when crossings averaged ~45% of total market turnover.
Foreign inflows to the Colombo bourse also slowed over the week, declining ~31% W-o-W to LKR 0.9Bn. Net foreign inflows nevertheless, remained positive for the 26th consecutive week this year.
Net flows to equities have remained consistently positive since early February with weekly net inflows averaging LKR1.0Bn. YTD net inflows on the CSE have consequently totaled LKR 24.9Bn, with net inflows over July rising to LKR 3.5Bn cf. LKR 2.7Bn in June, but lower than the net inflow of LKR 5.1Bn in March and net inflow of LKR 10.8Bn in April.
Markets in the week ahead are likely to look for cues both from the CBSLs policy decision on Thursday and corporate earnings releases over the week.
SLA introduces new restructuring plan
Sri Lankan Airlines unveiled a fresh restructuring plan this week which is to run simultaneously with the GoSLs efforts find a strategic investor and which focuses on issues such as aviation fuel price, aircraft leases, debt servicing costs and, human resource realignment1.
The new plan is aimed at improving operational efficiency and reducing losses and should help ease interest rate pressure as credit to state owned business enterprises (SOBEs) eases.
Credit obtained by SOBEs rose 9% Y-o-Y in Apr17, amid losses over Q117 from the major non-bank SOBEs (CEB, CPC and SLA).
Sri Lankan Airline (SLA) meanwhile, recorded a 55% Y-o-Y increase in losses in the Jan-Apr 2017 period (to Rs. 9.5Bn cf. loss of Rs. 6.1BN in Jan-Apr 2016) while accumulated losses reached Rs.170Bn and its negative net worth totaled Rs.116Bn2.
Losses on Sri Lankas non-financial SOBEs accounted for ~2% of GDP in 2012 and although these losses have since reduced (0.6% of GDP by 2016), the recent increase in credit obtained by SOBEs poses some risk to the behavior of overall domestic credit and interest rates even amid the decline in net credit to the government and inflows to G-Secs.
==============================
## Title: Minimum standards on medical education in two weeks: Rajitha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 15:30
Minimum standards on medical education in two weeks: Rajitha

The minimum standards of medical education will be gazetted within the next two weeks, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said, adding that it was currently at the Legal Draftsman's Department.
Addressing an audience after laying the foundation stone for the proposed nurse training school in Galle, the Health Minister said the quality of medical education in Sri Lanka would not be lowered.
"The minimum standards of medical education were formulated after I took over the Health Ministry. When the Sri Lanka Medical Council started to talk about the standard of medical education, the world standards on medical education were already formulated and available but the SLMC did not know it, he alleged.
Before commencing the Dr. Neville Fernando Hospital, the relevant persons had checked the minimum standards of medical education with the SLMC but the (then) SLMC President had told them that there was no such standard, the minister said.
Then the culprit was the SLMC. But now some talk and shout about the quality of the medical education.
Private medical education is widespread and some of Sri Lankan doctors have been educated in foreign private medical colleges. Some are opposing private medical education. What they are having is a dialogue between idiots, the Minister said.
He added that the present Government was committed to protecting free health and free education.
==============================
## Title: Nestl Professional continues to uplift culinary industry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Nestl Professional continues to uplift culinary industry
Nestl Professional, Nestls out-of-home food and beverage solutions provider, has joined hands with the Chefs Guild of Lanka to become Diamond Sponsor for Culinary Art Food Expo 2017.
The partnership marks Nestl Professionals strong long-standing commitment to help develop local culinary professionals.
Thousands of Sri Lankan chefs participate in Culinary Art Food Expo, which is organised by the Chefs Guild of Lanka every other year.
The chefs compete across a range of categories including Nescaf Creative Coffee, Live Desserts, Hot Cooking, Plated Appetizers, Contemporary Sri Lankan Cuisine, Wedding Cake Structures and Artistic Chocolate Showpieces.
They are judged and awarded by an elite panel of chefs from WACS (World Association of Chefs Societies), who fly in to the event from all over the world. Culinary Art Food Expo has not just become an internationally modelled forum to showcase and promote the best of local culinary talent, but also one that uncovers the hottest trends in food and beverage, the latest product launches and the industrys vision for the future.
Nestl Lanka Managing Director Shivani Hegde said, We pride ourselves on a long-standing relationship with the Chefs Guild of Lanka. We have worked together over the years to uplift the local culinary industry, supporting local teams at global events such as the World Culinary Olympics, and creating local opportunities to develop talent. This year, I am proud to say that we have strengthened our association with Culinary Art, an ideal platform for chefs to showcase their talent and skills, and learn from world renowned culinary judges. Partnering events such as these, upholds our commitment to enhance lives and support the industry in its growth and development.
Nestl Professional has placed a strong focus on developing and recognising talent in the local chef community since its inception in 2008.
Its many initiatives include live competitions like New Sri Lankan Cuisine with Maggi and Nescaf Creative Coffee and holding felicitation events for culinary professionals with Nestl Professional Signature Night.
It also launched Nutripro, a nutrition awareness programme to help chefs make balanced meals that are both delicious and healthy.
Nestl Professional Assistant Vice President Roshan Perera said, With tourism on the rise, forums such as Culinary Art are the need of the hour. A memorable gastronomic experience is a huge part of the overall tourist experience today. By supporting events such as this, we are continuing to develop local culinary professionals and help them meet new trends. With the right kind of support and opportunities, we believe our culinary professionals can play a vital role in developing Sri Lankas economy.
Chefs Guild of Lanka Chairman Chef Gerard Mendis said, The growth and development of chefs is key to securing the future of the industry. Were thankful to Nestl for their strong and constant support in helping us equip chefs with the enhanced culinary skills and industry knowledge they need to excel in their profession, as well as for the opportunities to participate in international competitions.
==============================
## Title: New Inland Revenue chief calls on accountants to bridge gap between tax payers and department
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
New Inland Revenue chief calls on accountants to bridge gap between tax payers and department
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) felicitated the new Inland Revenue (IR) Commissioner General Ivan Dissanayake at a ceremony held recently.
Addressing the event, Dissanayake said that Chartered Accountants can play a more significant role by way of being intermediaries who support the Inland Revenue Departments efforts to raise government revenue required to provide public services like health care and education facilities which in turn ensure the well-being of the community as a whole.
As professionals who assist the tax payers understand and comply with their tax obligation, you are the professionals who can bridge the gap between tax payers and Inland Revenue and we rely upon you as chartered accountants, because it is you who can encourage voluntary compliance so the leakage of the revenue in the form of tax evasion can be minimized, he said during his speech at the ceremony.
Dissanayake also unveiled a plan where he hoped to collect Rs. 1 trillion by 2019/2020 through the expansion of the tax payer base in the country, while also taking steps to adjust indirect and direct tax ratios.
The ongoing RAMIS project will be an immense strength in achieving this target as the RAMIS project enables the IR information system to be integrated with more than 30 interface agencies through which IR can get required information to bring new tax payers in to the system, he said.
Congratulating Dissanayake on his appointed, President of CA Sri Lanka Lasantha Wickremasinghe said that the mutual assistance both organisations can extend to each other is vast and diverse which in turn will help strengthen the countrys position while also enhancing its economy. He recalled how both CA Sri Lanka and the Inland Revenue have worked together in collaboration to enhance and improve the taxation structure of Sri Lanka.
Any organisations true success always relies on the leadership and the hard work of its staff and with your vast experience, including foreign training, I am most certain you will be the visionary leadership who will possess the ability to drive the Inland Revenue to greater heights, while ensuring a more proactive tax system in the country, Wickremasinghe added.
Chairman of the CA Sri Lanka Faculty of Taxation Duminda Hulangamuwa said that the relationship between CA Sri Lanka and the IR has been very strong over years, and continues to strengthen on a daily basis. Mr. Dissanayake who I have personally associated for a period of 20 years or more has been one of the few offices at the department who have taken decisions fearlessly, and he has been decisive in whatever he does and also independent, he said. Hulangamuwa added that under Dissanayakes leadership, the relationship shared between both organisations will continue to become stronger.
During the felicitation ceremony, CA Sri Lanka also launched the Transfer Pricing Guideline publication for the benefit of its members. The guide will help maintain uniformity and the professional outlook when issuing the relevant certificates.

==============================
## Title: New Justice of Peace appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
New Justice of Peace appointed
Gayan Mallimarachchi was appointed a Justice of Peace for the whole island by Buddhasasana and Justice Minister Dr. Wijayadasa Rajapakse.
He took his oaths before the Additional District Judge and Additional Magistrate W.K.D. Wijerathne at District/Magistrate Court in Moratuwa, on July 21. Currently, he is working at Foreign Construction Company as a Senior Executive Officer  HR and Admin and he has a BSc. (Business Administration), C.I.M. (U.K.), I.A.B. (U.K.), M.A.A.T. (S.L.), Dip. Business (Mgt.), Dip.HR (Mgt.), Dip. (Banking & Finance) from several institutions.
==============================
## Title: #NewsMatters: Military to ensure fuel distribution: what led to the unprecedented development
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Shows
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 07:15
#NewsMatters: Military to ensure fuel distribution: what led to the unprecedented development

==============================
## Title: North Korea: US says 'no value' in UN security council meeting
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 06:45
North Korea: US says 'no value' in UN security council meeting

The US says it will not call for a UN Security Council meeting over North Korea's missile tests because it would produce "nothing of consequence".
Such a meeting would send a message to North Korea that the international community was unwilling to challenge it, US Ambassador Nikki Haley said.
Pyongyang said its tests proved that the entire US was within range.
The US has responded by testing an anti-missile system and flying bombers over the Korean peninsula.
Haleysaidin a statement that North Korea was already subject to numerous security council resolutions that they "flout with impunity".
"An additional Security Council resolution that does not significantly increase the international pressure on North Korea is of no value," she said.
"In fact it is worse than nothing because it sends the message to the North Korean dictator that the international community is unwilling to seriously challenge him."
She urged China to rein in North Korea.
"China must decide whether it is finally willing to take this vital step. The time for talk is over," she added.
On Friday, North Korea test-fired a second intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM).
The launch came three weeks after the state's first ICBM test.
Responding, the US military said a projectile fired by the US Air Force had been intercepted over the Pacific by a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (Thaad) unit in Alaska.
Despite fierce objections from China, the US military has begun installing the Thaad system in South Korea with the aim of shooting down any North Korean missiles fired at the South.
US B-1 bombers conducted exercises over the Korean peninsula with South Korean and Japanese planes on Saturday.
'Spoiled child'
Following the most recent test, US President Donald Trump criticised China for not doing enough to stop Pyongyang's weapons programme while making "billions of dollars" in trade with North Korea.
Trump wrote on Twitter that he was "very disappointed" with China, adding that he would not allow the country to "do nothing" about the isolated state.
But Victor Gao, a former diplomat and Chinese government adviser, said that Trump's comments were unhelpful, adding that the US was acting like a "spoiled child".
China, which shares a land border with North Korea and is its closest economic ally, earlier condemned the North's test launch and urged restraint on all sides.
Trump and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping discussed North Korea during talks earlier this year, after which US officials said the two countries were working on "a range of options".
But Friday's ICBM launch demonstrates a defiance from the North, which is showcasing "a significant advancement in technology", South Korea said.
What is Thaad
Shoots down short- and medium-range ballistic missiles in the terminal phase of their flight
Uses hit-to-kill technology - where kinetic energy destroys the incoming warhead
Has a range of 200km and can reach an altitude of 150km
US has previously deployed it in Guam and Hawaii as a measure against potential attacks from North Korea
1.The enemy launches a missile
2.The Thaad radar system detects the launch, which is relayed to command and control
3.Thaad command and control instructs the launch of an interceptor missile
4.The interceptor missile is fired at the enemy projectile
5.The enemy projectile is destroyed in the terminal phase of flight
The launcher trucks can hold up to eight interceptor missiles.

==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Obituaries
ABEYGOONAWARDENA - NIHAL - Beloved son of late Edmund & Constance Abeygoonawardena, husband of Rosable, precious father of Nalin & Roshane, father-in-law of Jeniffer, loving grandfather of Christian, brother of Ajith, (late) Anoja & Indika, passed away on 29th Saturday July 2017. May his soul rest in peace with Jesus. Cortege leaves residence at 4.00 p.m. on Monday, 31st of July 2017 for burial at Madampitiya Cemetery, Colombo 15.094064
EKANAYAKE - BRIAN - Rtd. Director - John Keells. Beloved husband of Malkanthi (nee Jayawardene), loving Appachchi of Sonali (Australia), father-in-law of Kanishka Pathirana, loving Aththa of Dushika and Dinuk, brother of late Kusala, Upatissa, Leela, George, Sujatha, Chandra, Percy, Lionel, Tissa and of Kusuma and Seetha, brother-in-law of Ciyanthi, Ajith, Palitha and Lalantha, passed away peacefully on 30th July 2017 at his residence. Cortege leaves residence 145/5, Fife Road, Colombo 5 at 3.30 p.m. for cremation at 4.30 p.m. Borella Kanatte.094068
FERNANDO - DEESHANA GERALDEEN (Student of Holy Family Convent, Bambalapitiya), precious daughter of Gerald Fernando (Chairman / Managing Director of GF Services (Pvt) Ltd.,) and Roshanthi Fernando, much loved sister of Nikitha Fernando, beloved grand daughter of Mr & Mrs. Leonard Jayakody & Mr & Mrs. Norton Fernando. Cortege leaves residence No. 1325/24, 7th Lane, Bogahawatte Road, Pannipitiya at 4 p.m. on Monday the 31st of July for burial at Christ the King Church Cemetery, Pannipitiya.094063
GNANESWARAN - RAJINI. Beloved wife of late Major Gnaneswaran of 5 Ceylon Light Infantry. Beloved mother of Gajendra, mother-in-law of Shanthy, grandmother of Krishna, Ashwini and Shiwani, loving sister of Sivajini, Jegatheeswaran, Ganeshwaran and Skanthan, beloved daughter of late Colonel Kandiah Rajayogam and Muthuranee Rajayogam. Cortege leaves A F Raymond Funeral Parlour at 2.00 p.m. on Monday 31st July 2017. 391/6A, Galle Road, Colombo 06.094071
KAPUKOTUWA - SENERATH L.B. (Group Director, The Capital Maharaja Organization Ltd., and former General Secretary - UNP). Precious husband of Kshama, beloved father of Sashendra (APIIT) and Arnila (AIS), loving son of late Tissa Kapukotuwa and Therese Abey, loving son-in-law of Brightie Kahatapitiya, much loved brother of Trikanthi (Julius & Creasy), Dinesh (UK), Rehana (Australia), Romesh (Aust.), Srinath, Roshni, Shalini and Eraj (Aust.), much loved brother-in-law of Ananda, Tony, Deshika, Maurice and Sandamalee. Cortege leaves residence at 3.00 p.m. on Monday, 31st July, 2017, No. 4/4, Welikadawatte, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya for cremation at 4.00 p.m. at General Cemetery, Borella.094069
MOSES - CARL - Consultant Valuer and Licensed Auctioneer. Dearly beloved husband of Ranjini Pillai, loving father of Yvonne (Australia), Sherwin, Jennifer (Australia), loving son of late S.B. Moses (Ex-Army) and late Dorothy Moses, loving brother of Shelton (Rtd CGR), late Esme, Neville (Rtd. SP Police), Rexy (Business), father-in-law of Ravi Hemakumara (Australia), brother-in-law of Brian, Bernard, Felix (Cambodia), Chrisanthiya (India), Pillay, late Kumari, Christy Anthony, Alohoma and Chithra Moses, passed away peacefully. Cortege leaves residence 1/488, Moses Avenue, Esmerland Estate, Kandy Rd, Kalagedihena on Monday 31st July 2017 at 3 p.m. for burial at Borella Kanatte (Christian Section) at 5 p.m.094066
MOSES - CARL - Consultant Valuer. Dearly beloved husband of Ranjini, loving father of Yvonne, Sherwin and Jennifer, loving son of late S.B. Moses Ex-Army and Dorothy, loving brother of Shelton Ex-CGR, late Esme, Neville S.P. (Rtd.), Rexy (Business), father-in-law of Ravi (Australia), and Lakmali, passed away peacefully. Cortege leaves residence 1/488, Moses Avenue, Esmerland Estate, Kalagedihena on Monday 31.07.2017 at 3 p.m. for burial at Borella Kanatta at 5 p.m.094051
NADARASA - NAGESWARY (Native Nallur, Jaffna, resident of Colombo), passed away on July 29th 2017 in Colombo. She was the wife of late Kathiripillai Nadarasa (Nallur Jaffna), daughter of Appaiah and Parameswary, sister of Warnakulasingham, Manoharan (London), Meera (Toronto), mother of Prazath (Germany), Shakti (Singapore), sister-in-law of late Thavamini, Thangarajah, Sinnarasa, Siriskandarajah, Ranjithamalar (Germany), Jeyarajah (Chennai), mother-in-law of Artika & Ravi and grandmother of Akzara, Yash, Shruti and Aarush. Funeral is on Monday 31st July from Mahinda Florist at Mt. Lavinia. Cortege leaves parlour at 11.30 a.m. Cremation at Mt. Lavinia cemerety at 12.00 noon. This information is furnished by family members. Contact number 076 8358174.094067



==============================
## Title: Ocean Breeze luxury resort launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Ocean Breeze luxury resort launched
Global Housing & Real Estate (Pvt) Ltd.,officially launched their 14th luxury apartment project, the Ocean Breeze Negombo at a gala launch cocktail ceremony held at the Kingsbury hotel recently. The first 10 customers who had bought Ocean Breeze apartment units received their agreements ceremoniously at the event while DasunWickramarathne, Chairman of Global Housing & Real Estate (Pvt) Ltd., introduced the project Ocean Breeze to those present, highlighting project details, security as well as the guaranteed income generating nature of the residential complex. Located in one of the most sought-after coastal belts of Sri Lanka with convenient access to the Bandaranaike International Airport, Ocean Breeze will serve the dual purpose of being the ideal beach getaway which affords significant financial gains throughout the year to investors and property owners. Part of four concurrent projects carried out by Global Housing & Real Estate (Pvt) Ltd., the Ocean Breeze is the largest of these projects and takes the form of a hotel residency with 196 units. The resort-like units at the Ocean Breeze is priced from 8.6 million rupees upwards.
Global Housing & Real Estate (Pvt) Ltd., is a property development company which has been in operation for the last 14 years with more than 100 real-estate projects and 14 apartment projects in Colombo suburbs.
==============================
## Title: Old grenade defused in Horagolla Walauwa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Old grenade defused in Horagolla Walauwa
A hand grenade was found in a flower bed at the Horagolla Walauwa at Attangalle by workers cleaning the garden yesterday, Nittambuwa Police said.
The workers had found the grenade inside a polythene bag. Its pin was covered with rust which meant it was an old one, the Police said.
The police defused the grenade.
The Walauwa is under the care of the Anura Bandaranaike Foundation.
==============================
## Title: One-man book industry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
One-man book industry
If somebody asked you who is Orenthal James Simpson and why does he matter, where would you start With the Heisman Trophy With the Hertz commercials Would you go back to the Watts Riots in 1965 or head straight into the courtroom for the jurys verdict
Another option would be the Palace Station, the Las Vegas hotel and casino where, in 2007, OJ and a group of wedding guests confronted a pair of memorabilia dealers believed to be selling a stash of Simpson family souvenirs. Guns were brandished, threats made. Oddly enough, this was the incident that finally caught up with Simpson and landed him in Lovelock Correction, a medium-security prison in northwest Nevada. Thats where hes spent the last nine years, residing in a two-man cell and refereeing rec yard games in his spare timeby all accounts the model prisoner, which is why, last week, a parole board decided to send the Juice back into society.
Issues and figures
Its been just over 23 years since the deaths of Nicole Brown and Ron Goldman; a little under 22 since the jury found Simpson not guilty of their murders. In that time, nearly everyone involved and several who werent have had a chance to tell their version of the OJ story. Most recently, weve had Ryan Murphys pop-inflected FX mini-series, The People versus OJ, and Ezra Edelmans Oscar-winning documentary OJ: Made in America, which together put the trial back in the public consciousness and reminded us just how complicated the issues and figures were. But before those TV events, there were booksmany, many books. A formidable cottage industry grew out of the trial.
Faye Resnick was the first out of the gates with a dishy diary about Nicole that hit stores shortly before the jury was sworn in. In the years following the verdict, there were book deals all around, with the attorneysJohnnie Cochran, Robert Shapiro, Alan Dershowitz, and Christopher Darden, among otherscompeting for shelf space with jurors, media members, and even the trials black sheep, Mark Fuhrman.
Chilling disclaimer
Jeffrey Toobin, the New Yorker writer who was first to report the defense teams explosive accusations against the LAPD, has a strong claim to having penned the definitive portrait of the trial, though some readers (more all the time, it seems) find themselves drawn to Marcia Clark, the lead prosecutor who released her vitriolic and altogether convincing account of events in Without a Doubt and is lately enjoying a second act as a bestselling mystery novelist.
But by far the strangest book in the scrum is the orphaned volume, If I Did It. Some time around 2006, OJ sat down with Pablo Fenjves, a part-time ghostwriter who also happened to be one of Nicoles neighbors called to testify during the 1995 trial. Based on those conversations, Fenjves wrote a tell-all from OJs perspective, set to run under OJs byline. The story is full of accusations and explanations for OJ and Nicoles troubled relationship. And then, of course, theres the chapter everyone was waiting for: The Night in Question. With a chilling disclaimer (Now picture thisand keep in mind, this is hypothetical), the book goes on to describe an encounter between OJ, Nicole, Goldman, whom OJ suspects of being a lover or possibly a drug connection, and a mystery man named Charlie who tries to calm things down but then hands a jealous, irate OJ a knife, after which time OJ blacks out and only remembers coming around to find Nicole and Goldman amid great pools of blood:
I had never seen so much blood in my life. It didnt seem real, and none of it computed. What the fuck happened here Who had done this And why And where the fuck was I when this shit went down It was like part of my life was missing
When If I Did It was first announced, in November 2006, the outcry was intense and, one might think, entirely predictable, but the books publisher, ReganBooks, a HarperCollins imprint, seemed to be caught off guard and eventually canceled the publication. Hundreds of thousands of finished books were reportedly destroyed.
Over the years, one or two advance copies of If I Did It made their way into the public realm, but by and large the book was a specter until 2007, when a Florida bankruptcy court granted rights in the text to Fred Goldman, Ron Goldmans father, who had won a $33.5 million civil suit against Simpson and held a claim against his earnings, including book proceeds.
The Goldman family decided to release the story under the new title If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer, with the word If obscured on the cover and, in case there was any lingering confusion as to where the rights holders stood, a new chapter titled He Did It. In the annals of American publishing, its one of the more ambivalent crime stories ever told and leaves the reader wondering, exactly what is OJs story What does he really think of himself
Criminal cases
So far, OJs official story been reserved for sentencing judges and parole boards like the one convened last week in Nevada. During the trials, he mostly stayed mum, opting not to testify in either of the criminal cases. In the Goldmans civil suit, Simpson took the stand for four hours, but his testimony was largely a string of flat denials; the tight confines of a hostile witness examination rarely bring out a storys nuances. Sentencing and parole hearings, on the other hand, offer more expansive forums.
In 2008, following his Nevada conviction, Simpson spoke to a Clark County judge for five minutes, without interruption or prompting, about himselfabout his summer jobs, his affection for Nevada, his resentment of the people who had tried to hustle and exploit him since his famous run-in with the law a decade earlier. And finally, he offered his version of what happened in Las Vegas the year before. It must have been something of a relief, hearing his own voice in open court. Simpson was poised and engaging throughout, right up to the moment the floor was turned over to the judge for her final decision: concurrent sentences running upward of 30 years. - Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: OSMO Fitness expands with CrossFIt Colombo and luxury leisure pool
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
OSMO Fitness expands with CrossFIt Colombo and luxury leisure pool
OSMO Fitness, state-of-the-art sports and wellness complex, located in the vivid environs of Pelawatte, Battaramulla, expanded its purview with latest value additions, CrossFit Colombo, along with a luxury pool complex.
OSMO Fitness attracts Colombos most elite VIPs, celebrities and athletes.
CrossFit introduced to Sri Lanka by OSMO Fitness is gaining immense popularity internationally and is widely recognized as a highly effective strength and conditioning training program that combines a variety of functional movements and features exercises such as pull-ups, squats, push-ups, weightlifting, gymnastics, running, rowing let alone martial arts.
OSMOs luxury leisure pool spans across 20 meters and offers swimmers the luxury of training and using the space for leisure and relaxation.
Spacious steam and sauna rooms, elegantly designed lockers and a plush VIP members lounge are other attributes. The complex also has its Kids Club.
This ultra-modern sports and wellness complex that offers members an exclusive health and fitness experience also provides access to world-class training equipment and facilities.
OSMO Fitness is the only complex in Sri Lanka that houses Technogym equipment. Technogym, the worlds leading brand of fitness equipment certified and endorsed by the Olympic Committee offers a range of cardio training programs, aqua fitness, aqua aerobics, Zumba, aerobics, intense ab-workouts and outdoor boot camps.
OSMO Fitness is a fully owned subsidiary of Blue Mountain Group, the trailblazer of the real estate and property development industry in Sri Lanka.
Blue Mountain Group Chairman Dr Hiran Hettiarachchi said the core object of OSMO Fitness is to encourage healthy living amongst Sri Lankans. He defined health as a combination of mental, physical, social and spiritual wellbeing.
Health is wealth. A multimillionaire without health doesnt mean anything. We encourage communities via OSMO Fitness to embrace healthier and more active lifestyles. In the process, we shed light on innovations to add value to the local fitness industry, said Dr Hettiarachchi.
Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera gracing the occasion emphasized the importance of engaging in regular exercises to lead a healthy lifestyle.
A person who does regular exercises knows the value of it. There are no shortcuts to gain a well-shaped body. Thirty four percent of Sri Lankans advocate inactivity. We must change this attitude and build passion amongst people to do regular exercises with commitment. Sports for All program will be unveiled next year, said the Minister.

==============================
## Title: Palaniswami thanks Modi for release of Indian fishermen
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 12:00
Palaniswami thanks Modi for release of Indian fishermen
Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modis intervention to secure the release of 75 fishermen and 42 fishing boats in Sri Lankan custody.
He urged the Prime Minister however to ensure the release of 107 more fishing boats still in Sri Lanka.
On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, I thank you for your personal intervention and sincere efforts which have enabled the release of the fishermen and the boats, the CM said in his letter to Modi on Saturday.
The State received communication from the External Affairs Ministry about the release of 42 boats even before Prime Minister returned after inaugurating former president APJ Abdul Kalams memorial on July 27, said Palaniswami.
A court in Sri Lanka had ordered the release of 75 men, he added.
Palaniswami urged Modi to instruct Sri Lanka to secure the release of the remaining 107 boats, which are languishing in Lankan custody to ensure there was adequate reciprocity to various measures taken by the Centre and State governments to resolve the vexatious issue.









==============================
## Title: Pay squabble 'horrible' for game, Clarke says
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Pay squabble 'horrible' for game, Clarke says
SYDNEY July30, 2017 Former captain Michael Clarke said Sunday a bitter pay dispute between players and Cricket Australia was horrible for the game and their relationship was likely to be in tatters even after a resolution.
After months of negotiations, the players and CA have failed to reach agreement on a new pay deal, leaving 230 cricketers unemployed since the end of June when their contracts expired.
CA chief executive James Sutherland said last week that unless intensive negotiations over a revenue-sharing deal produced a compromise by early this week, his organisation would seek the intervention of an industrial umpire to resolve the impasse.
Clarke feared things would not be the same between the governing body and the players if and when the disagreement was finally resolved.
I think it's been horrible for the game, to be honest, Clarke said told commercial broadcaster Channel Nine.
There is no doubt what has happened will affect the relationship even more than it already was affected between players and Cricket Australia.
The problem we have got now is that it is not just the Australian players that are affected, he added, saying the fans and the public were also involved in the number one story in Australian sport.
Negotiations between the two warring parties continued over the weekend, with the key issue a new revenue model.
The players were paid from gross revenue for the past two decades, but CA now wants payments to come from a set pool, with players to share only in surplus revenue. Clarke said he could understand the arguments of both parties but added: Whatever has been going on, it should have been done in private.
The Test squad is due to go into camp on August 11 ahead of a Test tour of Bangladesh, which is in danger of being scrapped following the boycott of Australia A's tour to South Africa earlier this month. The long-running dispute also threatens Australia's one-day tour to India in September and October ahead of the showpiece home Ashes series, beginning in November. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Peoples Bank opens  Digital Center at York Street
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Peoples Bank opens  Digital Center at York Street
Peoples Bank achieves a unique milestone in its digitalisation drive with the opening of its fully fledged Digital Center by Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe and other senior Ministers at York Street, Colombo 1.
Incidentally it becomes the first fully Digitalized Branch thus creating history in Sri Lankas banking industry. The Bank is proudly launching Express Banking simultaneously to allow customers to experience how its digitalisation initiatives will streamline and simplify their financial affairs by offering speed and convenience.
Initially, customers visiting the Digital Center will have Bank staff on hand to assist them to navigate Express Banking on electronic devices provided by the Bank until they feel comfortable to conduct transactions without assistance. The launch of this Digital Center marks a quantum leap for the Bank in its dynamic leadership to become the most digitalised bank by the year 2020, to unlock the benefits of digitalisation for its customers.
Hemasiri Frenando, Chairman of Peoples Bank says, Peoples Bank has been an integral pillar in the nations development by understanding and responding to customer needs and industry trends. As the bank with one of the largest customer bases in Sri Lankas banking industry, Peoples Bank has demonstrated its leadership status by initiating digitalisation in alignment with the latest consumer and market trends.
Peoples Bank Digital Center
Explaining the benefits of the new digitalized bank, N. Vasantha Kumar, CEO/ General Manager added: Customers stepping into this branch can enjoy the benefits of Express Banking to learn how they can conduct transactions in real time right from the moment of opening an account Instant access to e-statements, SMS alerts, debit cards, cash deposit and withdraw, Fund transfers, bill payment via Mobile, Internet banking and Kiosk machines and a variety of other beneficial services to enhance convenience.
We are proud to announce that staff will now be taking digital banking to the doorstep of rural consumers so that they conduct their transactions on our mobile devices. We expect to roll our more fully digitalised branches over the coming months, thus fulfilling our sustainability pledge to reduce our carbon footprint and benefitting the environment by promoting paperless banking.
The Digital Center at York Street will also reflect a plush ambience with luxurious seating and professional staff to assist customers through the various benefits of digital banking. Peoples Bank has always led the banking industry towards a more robust future.
==============================
## Title: Permanent Cure for Leucoderma
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Permanent Cure for Leucoderma
Beauty produced by the pleasing appearance does matter. It is just not the way you think, your intellect or what you say is going to make an impact on your personal and professional life. Your physical appearance is important enough to make significant changes in your life.
Leucoderma, also known as vitiligo, is a distressing skin condition that has affected many lives not only in Sri Lanka but also all around the world. Often affected individuals are discriminated against especially in marriages and their families face social stigmatization leading to low self-esteem, anxiety, embarrassment, anger and even serious depression. In some parts of the world it is also considered as a curse of god. Hence it is life-changing even though it is neither contagious nor life-threatening. How consoling would it be to hear that this condition can be completely cured The Daily News came across an Ayurvedic Doctor who claims to have brought a few lives around the country back to normalcy. H. M. Jayatilake, Former District Community Medical Officer and a lecturer at Siddayurveda Nikethana Vidyalaya treats the patients who sought his aid at Madugahawatta weda Nivasa, Bemmulla. Jayatilake who has been keen in Ayurvedic medicine since his childhood, graduated from Yakkala Wickramarachchi Ayurveda Vidayalaya and has since been in government service until his recent retirement.
The word leucoderma literally means white skin. A gradual loss of the pigment melanin from the skin layers results in these white patches. These patches look ugly, especially on persons with a dark complexion. The condition does not cause any organic harm. It is caused neither by any germs, nor is it due to bad blood. It is considered to be neither infectious nor contagious, he said.
Dr. Jayatilake said it was a popular belief that rat bites were the primary cause of this disorder while a despairing few even believe it to be a curse of god. Some believe that this condition occurs when you insult your parents and teachers and that it cannot be cured. Although this disorder does not produce any physical impairment, it significantly influences the psychological well-being of the patients. They are subjected to isolation, whispered comments, antagonism and insult. This sometimes makes the patient and their family to go behind rituals rather than seeking a medical help. Thus the delay in treatment further complicates the condition. Patients get depressed and it further triggers their condition, he added.
According to western medical science, the actual cause of leucoderma is the gradual erosion of melanin in cells  the pigment that gives the skin its natural color. The problem usually starts with a small white spot which later develops into patches. These patches are pale in the beginning, but become whiter and whiter as time passes by, due to loss of pigment. As the spots enlarge, they merge into each other and form a very broad patch. In some cases, most of the skin of the body may be covered with white patches, Dr. Jayatilake pointed out.
Reasons
At present I find that there are many reasons for this condition. Mostly the condition is triggered by food that we take which include artificial flavours especially monosodiumglutamate (MSG) commonly known as ajinomoto. It is widespread and is a silent killer. It is a flavour enhancer that is added to thousands of the foods you and your family regularly eat, especially if the majority of your food is processed, he said.
Dr. Jayatilake said MSG is one of the worst food additives in the market and is used in canned soups, crackers, meats, salad dressings, frozen dinners and much more. It's found in the food you eat at the restaurants and cafeteriasas it enhances the flavour of foods, making processed meats and frozen dinners taste fresher and smell better, he said.
Ayurvedic doctor says at present leucoderma patients have increased because they use more artificial food. They dont add green leaves to their diet which boost the production of melanin. In the past the villagers used to make salads with several green leaves found in their gardens called `Kalawam Pala. This includes sweet potato leaves, cassava leaves, Gotukola, Mukunuwenna and several other dark leafy greens. In Sri Lanka we have medicine for all illnesses, but people are unaware of it. Manioc or Cassava can cure cancer. Thebu leaves are good for pressure and lotus yams are very beneficial and can increase the production of melanin. Illnesses such as high blood pressure, diabetes and even leucoderma were there in our bodies, but they were controlled by the food the people consumed, he said.
Humans who are at the top of the food chain are generally not exposed to a single toxin at a time, but to a complex mixture of toxins. This includes pesticides and other chemicals that enter our body from multiple sources such as animal products and fruits and vegetables that are exposed to the harmful toxins.
When preparing a soup most commonly people use carrots, beans and cabbage. Those vegetables are abundant in toxins that come from pesticides use on them. If you can make a pumpkin soup with dhal and potatoes, that gives more nutrition than other vegetables. Pumpkin is the best food for fatigue that is why after several days of breaking rest at a funeral you are given a meal inclusive of pumpkin. Nowadays people replace it with other vegetables, which is not correct, he said.
Some of Sri Lankan women employees who go for foreign employment consume excessive amounts of tomatoes which can result in developing leucoderma many years later. Especially women from areas like Anuradhapura get used to fast food and forget cucumbers, water melons that grow in the area that help balance the immunity in the body, he added.
When you consume fruits and vegetables eaten by rats, monkeys and squirrels you may develop this condition. Apart from that when the snake bites are not completely treated and those who work in factories might develop this condition after a long period of being exposed to chemicals used. Excessive use of antibiotics also results in leucoderma, he said.
Treatment
Reasons for this condition vary, so it has to be treated according to the history of the condition of each patient, Dr. Jayatilake said.
The prognosis of the condition is very slow and depends on each patient's skin condition and the triggering factors like the food they consume and the materials they work with. Some patients, as they are not aware the facts that cause the condition prematurely discontinue the treatment or switch on to another doctor which again leads to noncompliance. Patient compliance is an important aspect in achieving the desired outcomes, he said. The more the body area is covered with white patches, longer the treatment will take for a complete cure. Hence it is advisable to consult a competent ayurvedic physician on the first appearance of such white spots, he added.
Dr. Jayatilake said his treatments for the condition consist of application of ointments and medicinal oil on the skin and administering of herbal tablets and powders into the body.
My medicine is aimed at regarding the lost balance of the immunity system so that the body can function normally and restore its productions of melanin. As usual with ayurvedic medicine, there are no side effects or after effects and the cure stays permanent.
The medicine can be complimented with the food one takes. Green leaves like kathurumurunga (Coronilla grandiflora) and mukunuwenna (Illecebrum sessile) benefits and expedite the healing process.
The same way, big fish, meat and fowl as well as pickles and sour fruits are to be strictly avoided especially mangoes, tomatoes and pineapple. Excessive drinking of lime juice will also have adverse effects on the healing process, he said. Patients from all over the country including Trincomalee, Galle and Matara reach out for this ayurvedic doctor who is concerned in providing a service which brings him merits rather than financial benefits or recognition.
==============================
## Title: Pique lifts Barcelona as El Clasico lives up to hype
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Pique lifts Barcelona as El Clasico lives up to hype
MIAMI AFP July30, 2017 Gerard Pique delivered Barcelona's match winner over Real Madrid on Saturday as El Clasico Miami lived up to the hype.
The Spanish international steered in a Neymar free-kick in the 50th minute to seal a 3-2 win for the Catalan giants in front of 66,014 at the Hard Rock Stadium.
Lionel Messi, who put in a superb 64-minute performance, opened the scoring after just three minutes and when Ivan Rakitic doubled the lead soon after, the writing appeared to be on the wall for a sluggish Real Madrid side.
Yet Zinedine Zidane's side quickly woke from their slumber and by theend of the first half, goals from Mateo Kovacic and Marco Asensio had pulled them level.
What followed was entertaining, often breathless friendly fare before Pique struck that decisive goal.
This was nothing more than a pre-season match and obviously wasn't going to affect the overall record between these two old rivals, which stands at 93 wins for Real, 91 for Barcelona -- who had won their most recent meeting with Messi's last-gasp winner -- his 500th for the club.
Madrid had the last laugh in May, winning La Liga and the Champions League, but actually arrived in Miami off the back of two exhibition defeats - a penalty shoot-out defeat to Manchester United before Manchester City also did a number on them in Los Angeles, running out 4-1 winners.
Barca, meanwhile, had beaten United and Juventus in International Champions Cup friendly competition, but the ongoing uncertainty surrounding Neymar and Paris Saint-Germain's reported readiness to make a 218 million-euro move for him -- has cast a serious cloud over their two-week stay in North America. The Brazilian started for Ernesto Valverde's side and while the rest of his team-mates head home he will fly to China to perform commercial obligations on behalf of the club. Valverde put off post-match questions about Neymar.
I always try to talk about things that happen rather than things that might happen, he said.
We are going to wait. From my perspective, we have Neymar in our team, we count on him and we have to see. On Saturday it was Neymar starting alongside Messi and Luis Suarez while Gareth Bale, Luka Modric and Karim Benzema were all unleashed by Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane.
Neymar's first involvement was to fall to the ground and clutch his ankle.
For a moment it looked like his evening would be over before it began, though he was back on the pitch in time to see Messi open the scoring with just three minutes on the clock.
The Argentine ace waltzed into the box and lifted a shot past Keylor Navas via a deflection off Raphael Varane.
And it wasn't long before Navas was picking the ball out of the back of the net once again.
On six minutes, Neymar, gradually moving more freely, squared the ball and it found Rakitic, whose finish was clinically struck in the seventh minute.
Real had barely escaped their own half and were lucky not to fall further behind on 13 minutes when Suarez fired over from close range.
Yet with Madrid's first effort on goal, Zidane's side pulled one back.
Croatian Kovacic evaded a challenge just outside the box before arrowing the ball past the outstretched hand of Jasper Cillessen.
Suddenly, the game was on. Benzema, who'd barely had a sniff, dragged just wide on 19 minutes with Cillessen beaten.
Navas remained the busier keeper, however, and was on hand to repel Messi once again on 31 minutes.
It was a key save because in the 36th Asensio levelled for Madrid.
Los Blancos were counter-attacking dangerously and it was left to Modric who squared for the Spaniard who took full advantage of Jordi Alba missing the ball to rifle past a horribly exposed Cillessen.
Although they came back from the early goals, Zidane was downbeat about his team's performance. But he said there was plenty of time to get things right before Madrid take on Manchester United in the UEFA Super Cup on August 8.
Today was a game of two faces for us, one bad, one better, he said. Ultimately we are preparing for the eighth -- we will be ready. Both teams retained their star men after the restart and it was Neymar whose pinpoint free-kick was steered home by Pique in the 50th.
We made a good start, generated some good opportunities, Valverde said. Overall, we did well trying to dominate the match.
I expect the best from Messi and all the players but he is extraordinary and we are aiming to win all the titles this season. While the clash of the Spanish rivals was supposedly a friendly, Rakitic was lucky to escape a red card just after the hour mark when he appeared to push referee Jair Marrufo.
Neymar departed on 72 minutes in what could have been his final performance in Barcelona colors.
I don't want to speculate about Neymar, Valverde said. I see him in the same place I have seen him recently: on the pitch with us. 
==============================
## Title: Police can prosecute in liquor related cases
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Police can prosecute in liquor related cases
Galgamuwa Magistrate L.T. Warusawithana made ruling yesterday (28) confirming legal empowerment of the police to prosecute offenders of liquor related cases.
The Magistrate made the affirmation yesterday when he delivered an order regarding objections against the legal authority of the police to initiate legal actions against the suspects in liquor related cases.
Defense lawyers raised objections to cases 12,502, 8,956 and 13,168 filed at the Galgamuwa Magistrate by Galgamuwa police.
SSP K. Ajith Rohana - Acting DIG Legal, Discipline and Conduct Range, Attorney at Law, Superintendent of Police Ruwan Gunasekara, Attorney at Law ASP Darshana Gallage represented the police.
==============================
## Title: PPP development model for Mattala airport
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
PPP development model for Mattala airport
On the heels of inking a successful joint venture agreement on the development of the Hambantota International Port, the Government is now seeking to develop the Mattala International Airport under a Public-Private Partnership in a bid to make it a fully functional and busy airport in the region.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, on Friday, announced that the government would arrange an investor for the Mattala International Airport, by year end.
Speaking to the Daily News, Transport and Civil Aviation Deputy Minister Ashok Abeysinghe said discussions are on with 3-4 international investors to find the possibility of initiating a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) with the Airport and Aviation Services Ltd to develop the Mattala International Airport.
He said the government was keen on having a development model similar to that of the Hambantota Port to revive the Mattala Airport.
He revealed that investors from India and China have expressed interest to negotiate a deal on the Mattala airport. USD 252 million (approximately Rs. 38.5 billion) has been spent to construct the Mattala airport. Currently its monthly income is about Rs. 3 to 4 million, while the monthly expenditure is about Rs. 25 million. Monthly we have to pay Rs 300 million for loan installments and interests. That is to say we have to find Rs.3.6 billion annually to service the debts obtained to construct this airport for another eight years.
At present we are repaying the loans from the revenue we get from the Bandaranaike International Airport. We need to find a solution before long, Abeysinghe explained.
The Deputy Minister said the Government, once a private sector investor is selected, would start negotiations on the stakes and other conditions. We are still at an early stage to define anything on the deal. Our commitment is to get the best for the country, he noted.
Mattala International Airport, since its opening in 2013, has not been commercially viable despite the large sums of money spent on its construction. Currently, it only sees 2-3 flights per day, and some international media have dubbed it to be the worlds emptiest international airport. The Governments attempt is to change this plight and make it fully functional round the clock, Abeysinghe said.
==============================
## Title: Prasad Kariyawasam appointed Foreign Secretary
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Prasad Kariyawasam appointed Foreign Secretary
Sri Lankas Ambassador to the USA Prasad Kariyawasam has been appointed as the new Secretary to the Foreign Affairs Ministry.
He will take over the post vacated by Esala Weerakoon.
Weerakoon has been appointed as Secretary to the Tourism Development Ministry.
==============================
## Title: Premier to open Swimming Pool Complex of Prince Of Wales College on August 1
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Premier to open Swimming Pool Complex of Prince Of Wales College on August 1
Prime Minister Ranil Wickemesinghe will open the swimming pool complex of the Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa on August 1. A proposal to construct a swimming pool complex for the school was first mooted by former Principal of the College L B Gomes in 1996. The construction came to a halt later after he received a transfer to another school.
Former Principal J. P. Wijesinghe gave the green light to proceed the project. Again it was halted when he was transferred to another school. His successor J. W. Siriwardena obtained Rs. 44 million from then Colombo District Parliamentarian Jeewan Kumaratunga to make the project a success.
The Prince and Princess Colleges of Moratuwa founded in 1876 was a gift of philanthropist the late Charles Henry De Soysa.
To commemorate the arrival of the Prince of Wales , the eldest son of Queen Victoria and the Princess of Wales on December 1, 1875, the late Charles Henry Soysa decided to name the two colleges he was building in Moratuwa as Prince and Princess of Colleges of Moratuwa on a land of 16 acres. The foundation stone for the two colleges were laid by then Governor of Ceylon Sir William Gregory and Bishop of Colombo Rt. Rev. R. S Copleston along with philanthropist Charles Henry Soysa. Sir Charles Henry Soysa had his preliminary education at the Palliyagodella Vicar of the Presbyterian Church, Dehiwala and was a border at St Thomas College, Mutwal. His family had strong belief in indigenous medicine.
Charles Henry De Soysa gained indepth knowledge in Pali, Sanskrit and Sinhala languages from the Palliyagodella Purna Rajamaha Viharaya.
During the reign of 1896 to 1917, a Cricket Society was formed at the school. The debating team, cadet corps, library, laboratory, commerce section, tennis and succor teams, a children park were added to the college during this era.
The college has excelled in many fields including sports and produced famous cricketers and experts in many areas. The Old Boys' Association has been a formidable strength to the college since its inception. It has supported the school to develop the students' sports and academic activities. The two colleges mark their 141 anniversary this year. Over the years, the Prince of Wales College has produced thousands of men with great calbre representing many fields. Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam, and Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera will be present at the opening on August 1.
==============================
## Title: President instructs immediate distribution of dry rations to drought affected
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
President instructs immediate distribution of dry rations to drought affected
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday instructed the relevant authorities to distribute dry rations to the people affected by the prevailing drought in the country.
President Sirisena had also instructed to provide drinking and other water requirements to the people in those affected areas.
Meanwhile, President Maithripala Sirisena visited several drought hit areas in Anuradhapura yesterday and inquired about the problems and discomfort faced by the drought hit people.
Anuradhapura Government Agent RM Wanninayake said the relevant Divisional Secretaries and PC (NCP) Minister Susil Gunaratne along with several divisional politicians accomapined the President during the visit. Former Minister Tissa Karalliyadda was also was present on the occasion.
After listening to the villagers grievances, President Sirisena instructed the Anuradhapura Government Agent to launch an emergency programme to dig temporally wells in the tank beds and other suitable areas to get adequate underground water for the people.
The President informed the Government Agent to take measures action to get the required manpower and technical assistance for the programme of digging wells from the Security forces and the Civil Security Department through the Presidential Secretariat in addition to the manpower contribution of the villagers and Non-Governmental Organizations.
President Sirisena advised the GA to apply for the additional funds from the relevant authorities and he would sanction the releasing of extra funds for the drought relief measures in Anuradhapura district.
After coming to know about the issues faced by villagers in Kebithigollewa, the President instructed the authorities to accelerate the proposed electrified fences without further delay in these affected villages.
Meanwhile, according to a situation report issued by the Disaster Management Center as at July 30, 2017, the Sabaragamuwa, Uva, Central, North Western, North Central, Eastern, Trincomalee Provinces, including the Trincomalee, Ampara, Batticaloa, Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Jaffna, Mulativ, Mannar, Vavuniya, Kilinochchi, Kurunegala, Puttalam, Kandy, Matale, Badulla, Ratnapura districts have been affected by the drought condition.
Accordingly, 314,049 families (1,093,717 people) have been affected by the drought.
The DMC has so far spent Rs.40 million to provide clean drinking water for the people in affected areas.
==============================
## Title: President at Pichcha Mal Pooja
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
President at Pichcha Mal Pooja
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday took part in the Pichcha Mal Pooja (offering of Jasmine flowers) at the Ruwanweli Maha Seya and Sri Maha Bodhi premises in Anuradhapura. The Pichcha Mal Pooja is an annual pinkama organised by the Shanthi Foundation with the assistance of the Presidential Secretariat, the Tri Forces, Sri Lanka Police and other public authorities. The President also spoke with the large number of devotees present.
Pictures by Sudath Silva
==============================
## Title: President visits drought stricken Kebithigollewa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
President visits drought stricken Kebithigollewa
President Maithripala Sirisena visited Kahatagollewa area and later visited the Kudapuliyankulama tank,which has dried up due to the drought yesterday. He requested authorities to take necessary measures to supply drinking water by the affected people in the area. The President directed authorities to take prompt action to ease the burdens of drought affected people. (Presidents Media Division)
==============================
## Title: Prison bus attacked
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Prison bus attacked
A prison bus was attacked in the Wennappuwa-Waikkala area yesterday around 3.30 a.m.
The bus from the Welikada Prison was transporting 14 inmates who participated in the Pichcha Mal Pooja ceremony held in Anuradhapura.
The bus was heading towards Colombo along the Colombo-Puttalam road when the incident took place.
The Police Media Unit said the bus was attacked by two unidentified persons who came on a motorcycle.
They had thrown a 2.5 litre water carrier at the bus. The front glass of the bus was damaged. The inmates in the bus belong to the Welikda Prison dancing troupe.
The police said no passenger was harmed. Wennappuwa police is investigating.
==============================
## Title: RDB relocates Medagama branch
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
RDB relocates Medagama branch
Regional Development Bank (RDB(, the premier and the fastest growing state owned development bank in the island relocated its Medagama branch to a more spacious and a conveniently accessible location at Kendavinna Road, Medagama in a bid to provide a better and modern service experience to customers in the area.
With the relocation of its branch, RDB renewed its genuine banking relationship with the individuals and the businessmen in the area, opening its doors to the aspiring entrepreneurs to benefit from the banks many customized financial facilities and advisory services.
RDB Chairman Prasanna Premaratne, General Manager and CEO T.A. Ariyapala, Uva Province Regional General Manger B.H.M.S.Basnayake, District Manager Sunila Ranathuge, Branch manager K.M. Gunathilake and staff of the RDB together with customers participated at the opening ceremony.
==============================
## Title: Rich should pay 20% tax, but Govt to settle for 11% - Senasinghe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Rich should pay 20% tax, but Govt to settle for 11% - Senasinghe
Very soon the rich would have to pay more taxes and they would be slightly hit. The rich should really pay 20% tax but the government is only asking to pay 11%, said Minister of State for Enterprise Development Sujeeva Senasinghe. This may be an unpopular decision but has to be taken, he said.
Speaking at the Exports Association AGM last Friday at Ramada Hotel he said that though some sections of the public are disappointed with the government for not delivering their promises, things were now moving in the right direction and promises were now been fulfilled. One must remember that the unity government was only one and a half years old and now the right people were finally been appointed to key positions enabling the execution process of the government policy being more efficient. The state minister however said that his execution powers were every limited and he was only a state minister with virtually no subjects assigned to him.
Senasinghe said that Sri Lanka exports have to be more innovative and take advantage of thew GSP+ and other benefits. Sri Lanka is yet to see an entrepreneur like Upali Wijewardene who introduced Upali Fiat and Mazda. Today investors are now coming and one of the biggest developments would be the proposed Katutura investment zone where a leading Thailand investor is planning to set up. This investor, Chai Vinichbutr, already has seven special economic zones in Thailand and Hong Kong. Since there were political issues in both those countries he wanted to shirt his business in Sri Lanka and was keen to start it in Katutura.
There would be over 250 industries including a Honda cars assembly plant. He also said with the commencement of industrial zones, it would provide the opportunity to make high tec, high end products right here in Sri Lanka.
The state minister said that in 1984 annual export value of Bangladesh Apparels were US$ 3.5 billion and it has now reached US$ 27 billion while in Sri Lanka it has increased form US$ 3 to 5 billion in the same period. However today we see MAS and Brandix moving to the next step in appeal which is the designing stage and exports should look at diversifying to the electoral and industrial component manufacturing sector, he said.
==============================
## Title: Royal Bookland on Monday and Tuesday
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Royal Bookland on Monday and Tuesday
Royal Bookland, an interschool book exhibition and fair organised by the Library Readers Association of Royal College Colombo, will be held on July 31 and August 1 at the school premises. The event will consist an exhibition, a quiz competition (centring on world literature) and a short story competition.
The quiz will be held on July 31 at the Royal College Union Skills Centre from 3 pm to 6 pm. The awards ceremony for the winners of the short story competition too will be held during that time. The exhibition will be unveiled on July 31 from 9.30 am to 6.30 pm and will continue till August 1 from 8 am to 12 pm.
==============================
## Title: Sampanthan hopes Govts efforts would find a lasting solution to ethnic issue
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Sampanthan hopes Govts efforts would find a lasting solution to ethnic issue
Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan hopes the governments efforts to rewrite the Constitution would find a permanent solution to the ethnic issue.
An effective substantial devolution will give people a sense of self rule, a sense of belonging to the country, and that the country belongs to them, he had said in an interview with the Hindu.
In the interview Sampanthan says he feels if the late Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had not been killed, the matter (ethnic conflict) would have been resolved.
Sampanthan goes on to say, the historic Indo-Sri Lanka Peace Accord that mooted a permanent solution to the decades-long-ethnic conflict in the island nation was signed on July 29, thirty years ago.
Sampanthan recalls how the then government and TULF, the main Tamil party, had marathon negotiations for 20 days during 1986 that brought about the 13th Amendment of Constitution.
The Tamils struggle for self rule had been in the political arena shortly after Independence. When the accord was signed in 1987, it was almost 40 years. The accord itself was preceded by various rounds of negotiations between the Sri Lankan government and Tamil side under the auspices of the Indian government after the riots that took place in 1983, says Sampanthan who was involved in the negotiations.
Though the agreement acknowledged the unity and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka, it also emphasised that the autonomy of various cultural groups should be preserved. There were Sinhalese, Tamils, Muslims and Burghers living in Lanka, each having a distinct culture and linguistic identity, says Sampanthan.
The accord paved way for the 13th Amendment of the Sri Lankan Constitution which is considered the first significant step towards devolution of powers between the Sinhalese and Tamils.
The accord also favoured holding a referendum, which the Tamil parties opposed.
Sampanthan also says that Indias interest in Sri Lanka is not limited to economy or strategy and strongly feels that his neighbour remains committed to in resolving the Tamil issue.
- The Hindu
==============================
## Title: SEC investigation team completes three investigations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
SEC investigation team completes three investigations
The new investigation team of Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) was able to complete three investigations and four others are at different stages of completion during last year, said Thilak Karunaratne Chairman SEC in their annual report 2016.
The ultimate aim of a capital market is to ensure that investors and issuers alike have confidence to trade in the market.
Given that market abuse poses a threat to confidence and integrity, we continued to upgrade our investigative skills in order to effectively detect and investigate potential securities law violations. Being a signatory to the IOSCO Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU), the SEC successfully sought assistance from several jurisdictions to conduct these investigations, he said.
Greater international cooperation among regulators is vital to deal with challenges faced by capital markets and enhance overall market regulation of Securities Fraud and Abuse, he said. The present negative market sentiments underscore the importance of the SEC remaining vigilant to address growing risks and vulnerabilities.
Subsequent to obtaining Board approval and broker consultations, the CSE made recommendations to the SEC to approve the introduction of risk based capital adequacy requirement based on international best practices to instill better financial discipline and ensure that stockbrokers are prudent in their business conduct.
Although a few stockbrokers criticised this move due perhaps to ignorance and misconception, this framework is expected to strengthen the stock broking industry and enhance the protection of client assets. Unless all stakeholders work in unison we will not be able to achieve the expected regulatory outcomes.
He said meanwhile in a bid to ensure the general public gets a greater opportunity to invest in the capital market and to increase market liquidity the SEC directed all Public Listed Companies to comply with the Rules on Minimum Public Float on a continuous basis
As a result of a high incidence of non-compliance among listed entities and taking into consideration the views of the market, we decided to revise the Minimum Public Float requirements to provide listed companies with a wider range of options to comply with the Rules effective from January 2017. We expect the revised criteria will encourage more listings on the CSE.
In 2016 the SEC successfully facilitated the implementation of an integrated Broker Back Office and Order Management System (OMS) for stock broking firms which is jointly financed by the SEC and CSE.
The OMS will not only be a pre-requisite for the market to move to a Central Counterparty (CCP) - DvP system but also enable seamless trading, clearing and settlement of securities.
The SEC was only the third in the world to have an International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Country Review which started in July 2016.

==============================
## Title: Showers expected after 2 PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 13:45
Showers expected after 2 PM

The Meteorological Department has said showers or thundershowers may occur in the Eastern and Uva provinces and in the Mullaitivu and Vauniya districts after 2.00 PM, today.
Several spells of showers will occur at times in the Western, Central, Southern, Sabaragamuwa and Northwestern province, the Meteorological Department further said.
It also said that fairly strong winds about 40-50 kmph can be expected in the Southern province.



==============================
## Title: Significant progress in new governing legislation for SEC
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Significant progress in new governing legislation for SEC
Significant progress has been made with respect to the promulgation of a new governing legislation for the SEC in the form of the Securities Exchange Act, said Vajira Wijegunawardane Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka(SEC).
A preliminary draft of the proposed Act which was finalised after extensive deliberation among members of the high-level advisory committee appointed for the purpose was later approved by the members of the commission for public consultation and the policy underlying the same received Cabinet approval.
The passage in 2017 of the proposed Act would not only complete a longstanding initiative of the SEC, but also decisively define its ability to engage in effective and holistic regulation of the capital market. Extensive public consultation was conducted with respect to the draft Securities Exchange Act in early 2017 both in the interest of maintaining transparency throughout the legislative process and that of ensuring the enduring relevance of the legislation promulgated today to market participants. Having received the insights and feedback of a cross-section of regulatees and other market participants over the course of several weeks, the Director General was confident that the present draft has greatly benefited from the consideration and incorporation of multiple perspectives during its formative stages.
 We were one of several jurisdictions to have made representations to the IOSCO Assessment Committee for the conduct of a Country Review of Securities Regulation.
We became only the third member jurisdiction to secure the opportunity to be subject to such review by the global standard-setter for securities regulation, and were assessed in 2016 against 37 of the 38 IOSCO Principles, in the Assessment Committees most comprehensive Country Review to date. Our regulatory framework is critical to attracting the interest of investors; especially international portfolio investors .
True to these efforts and to our pledge last year, the SEC in 2016 strove to ensure that our role as the capital market regulator is coherent and that policy and regulatory certainty are preserved through responsive regulation . We formulated a comprehensive Capital Market Strategy integrating regulatory and developmental initiatives to be undertaken during the 2016-2020 period, which obtained the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in October 2016 and was made accessible to the public in March 2017.

==============================
## Title: Silent Film Stars memoir
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Silent Film Stars memoir
Once a famous beauty, by the late 1950s Dagmar Godowsky found herself subsisting on caviar, cake, and tales of the past. Typecast as a vamp in the silent-screen era of the early 1920s, she had hissed her way through a thousand scenes. She had died by blade, bullet, poison, or strangulation. Yet the demise of silent cinema ended her own film career. Now she performed at the dinner tables of New Yorks beau monde. Dagmar Godowsky knew how to busy herself. She always had.
Born in 1897 as the daughter of the pianist and composer Leopold Godowskyknown better for his paraphrases of Liszts or Schuberts pieces than his ownDagmar grew up in Berlin, Paris, Vienna, Los Angeles, and New York. Wherever they made their home, her fathera near-maniacal hostcollected celebrities. On an ordinary day, Dagmar claimed, she might return home from school to encounter Jakob Wassermann, Gerhart Hauptmann, Hermann Sudermann. Thomas Mann. Every Mann. She inherited, not only her fathers seductive charmher conquests numbered, if not every man, plenty of men and women, toobut his wit and skill as a raconteur.
Remarkable error
It was her storytelling that lured Sandford Dody. A struggling playwright, Dody became witness to Dagmars spiel one night at a party. In a remarkable error of judgment that launched an entire, regrettable career, Dody offered to ghostwrite Dagmars autobiographyan endeavor that, he was sure, would be both profitable and easy. It was neither.
Published as First Person Plural in 1958, the memoir takes us from the present day into her childhood, and then back, replete with cameos from the Fitzgeralds, Dorothy Parker, Adolf Hitler, Emperor Franz Josef, and just about all of golden-era Hollywood. Yet even those chapters devoted entirely to her time as an actress, her codependent relationship with her father or her dalliances with Charlie Chaplin, Arthur Rubinstein, and Igor Stravinsky pale in comparison to the madness of the first, which takes us right into the mayhem that is the life of the aging Dagmar Godowsky.
The phones are ringing; the miserable old dog bites the handyman; her dress fitter comes in, leaving her draped in yards of fabric from India, looking like the Taj Mahal camouflaged for an air raid. She flutters and stumbles about, dropping names and food all over the place while making dinner appointments and musing on her former glory, her past lovers, and her long-lost figure:
It is my tragedy that the years have deprived me of my bad reputation. At one time, my notoriety assured me of a marvelous evening. NowEuclid would be fascinated to knowmy circle has been squared.
I love life anyway. I enjoy it even when Im unhappy. I have a million friends from years ago but it is difficult to compete with their grandchildrenand so I see less of them. Of course, there are always admirers and parties and theater.
The phones dont stop ringing all day. I just loathe them. I have three.
One for incoming, one for outgoing, and one for my bedside. I wouldnt have a moments rest if I didnt have a telephone near my bed. Now I can hold court, read Dostoyevsky and eat sturgeon sandwiches while I watch terrible old movies on television. I am devoted to terrible old movies, and sit like the Empress Carlota in catatonic awe of them. Why shouldnt I like terrible old movies Some night I might materialize in one of the monstrosities I made in those dear dead days when I was a vampire, dedicated to the destruction of all men. Now things are different.- Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Sinhaputhra records post tax profit of Rs 154 mn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Sinhaputhra records post tax profit of Rs 154 mn
Sinhaputra Finance has reported an increase of 84% in pre tax profit compared to the previous year, despite allowing for a provision of Rs. 329 mn. The effect of this provision was a reduction in capital funds which now stands at Rs 1.1 bn.
During the last 39 years, there have been no less than six economic busts, some stretching for long periods. Sinhaputhras responses have been modulated during these ups and downs and safeguarding depositors assets have always been the centre of concern during these periods.
Managing Director Ravana Wijeyeratne said, whilst this cautious growth pattern of the company has been reflected in its mature asset quality and a realistic consideration of the nations debt repayment capacity, it has also allowed the company to build its human capital and core competencies in response to these real issues rather than being seduced by risky opportunities during periods of dizzying growth periods that would mask such underlying issues with glossy ratios, but may result in future problems.
==============================
## Title: SLIM Speech Idol  Season 3 finale concludes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
SLIM Speech Idol  Season 3 finale concludes
The SLIM Speech Idol Season 3 Finale was held, from 6.00 pm onward at the auditorium of the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute. Featuring eight finalists, namely AmaKalpani, Dulshi Dodangoda, Minidu Thisara Ekanayake, Shehani Natalie Rajendra, Tharindu Senanayake ,Subani Perera, Kasun Udara Ranasinghe and Yasoda Gamage who will be competing for the top honour of becoming Season 3 Champion, the competition will be graced by the presence of SLIM President and Chief Guest Karthik Elangovan.
Kaishika Rodrigo will also attend the event as Guest of Honour.
SLIM Vice President Pradeep Edwards, Toast Masters Club President Jacintha Mani, SLIM Speech Idol Season 3 Project Chairman FarhanImuddeen and the competitions Chief Judge Niroshan Nadaraja.
SLIM Speech Idol Season 3 is partnered by Platinum Sponsor, Vision Care.
SLIM President Karthik Elangovan, SLIM Vice President Pradeep Edwards, Toast Masters Club President Jacintha Mani, Project Chairman FarhanImudeen, Chief Judge of the competition Niroshan Nadaraja and Guest of Honour Kaishika Rodrigo.
==============================
## Title: SLRCS conducts medical clinic
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
SLRCS conducts medical clinic
Sri Lanka Red Cross Society Gampaha District Branch conducted a medical clinic for flood victims in Yabaraluwa and surrounding areas. It was held at the Yabaraluwa Sri Nandarama temple recently.
Kitchen equipment and baby sanitary items were also donated to 450 displaced families. It was sponsored by the Singapore Red Cross Society.
Biyagama Assistant Divisional Secretary Shasika Liyanage, Singapore Red Cross Society Member Charis Chan, Sri Lanka Red Cross Society Gampaha District Secretary H. M. N. Kumara Perera and Executive Officer Ruwan Abeywardhana, were also present.
==============================
## Title: Speaker must act
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Speaker must act
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya should seriously consider a proposal by Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne to consider drastic measures against members of parliament who misbehave and create chaos in the August Assembly which has now become common place . Dr. Senaratne, in the wake of Friday's unprecedented conduct of Joint Opposition members in the well of parliament where some JOs MPs went berserk after the House was adjourned, one of them occupying the Speaker's chair and another ringing the quorum bell, called upon the Speaker to consider even extreme action such as expelling members for indecorous conduct. Dr. Senaratne told journalists that it was time that drastic punitive action be taken against the un-parliamentary, indecent and outrageous behaviour by Joint Opposition members, including expulsion from parliament.
It was not long ago that Speaker Karu Jayasuriya revealed that the public have to fork out Rs. 4.6 million for each sitting day of parliament and asked members to make productive use of parliament sessions for the benefit of the people. But what the public have been witnessing right along is parliament being reduced to a farce, with even ministers not present in the House to answer questions relating to the subjects coming under their ministries. The quorum bell is rung ad nauseam, at other times, to gather the required numbers, as members are least interested in the proceedings. Debates often deteriorate into slanging matches with members hurling invective and obscenities against each other across the floor of the House. Worse, sittings are often marred by free for alls where on one occasion two MPs were seen grappling with each other on the floor, prompting the Speaker to come out with some telling observations.
For the first time ever in parliament history in this country, or, anywhere, for that matter, a group of Opposition members held a nocturnal vigil in the House of parliament with some even inebriated, and others in fancy attire, sacrileging the hallowed precinct of the August Assembly.
Things are deteriorating fast, reducing parliament proceedings to a meaningless exercise and unless some determined steps are taken to arrest the trend the day would not be far when parliament debate will be reduced to the level of a blood sport. In fact, there was an instance when a MP, a member of Buddhist clergy no less, had to be hospitalized after been manhandled by a fellow MP during a violent session, not many moons ago.
True, parliament should be a vibrant forum where MPs should express their views forcefully and with conviction. At such times heated exchanges could not be avoided. This is seen even in the House of Commons, where debates are lively. Even in the good old days there had been instances where MPs were evicted from the House for defying the Chair. Parliament should not be a dull affair and members have the right to air the grievances of their constituents forcefully and in the melee verbal clashes cannot be avoided.
But what we are seeing today in the present parliament is outright thuggery and hooliganism, which again raises the question of the quality the peoples representatives in our midst. Political party leaders should be squarely blamed for the deteriorating standards currently being witnessed by virtue of their nomination of unsavoury elements to occupy seats in the hallowed precincts of parliament. But the leaders themselves are in a conundrum since it is such elements that bring in the votes. Not only that, a majority of Provincial Councillors too are the progeny or siblings of current members of parliament and things can only go from bad to worse with these members waiting in the wings to occupy parliament seats in the future.
Be that as it may, the Speaker should consider the suggestion of the Minister to explore avenues for extreme measures against errant members of parliament, including their expulsion, if they persist in conduct unbecoming of an MP in the House. Certain members, it is observed, are wont to deliberately scuttle proceedings in order to get the House adjourned. Perhaps Live coverage of parliament sittings have encouraged certain members to act the way they do in order to attract attention to themselves for cheap popularity. Steps should be taken to blackout such members so that their antics would go unnoticed. Uncouth behaviour of some of our MPs certainly spring from a lack of education. The recent revelation that more than one third of our people's representatives have not passed their GCE O/Ls is a telling indictment indeed of the quality of the material adorning parliament seats. This is in contrast to the past where parliament was home to some of the best brains produced in this country where wit, humour and parry and thrust were the hallmark of parliament debate. One hopes that sometime soon parliament will revert to those glory days where parliament galleries were held spell bound by the pearls of wisdom of those stalwarts, now long gone, replacing the billingsgate now being witnessed that passes off as parliament debates.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka condemns North Koreas hostile acts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka condemns North Koreas hostile acts
The Government of Sri Lanka condemns the firing of a ballistic missile of intercontinental range by the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK) on July 28, and the series of recent similar hostile acts by the DPRK in violation of the UN Security Council Resolutions, the Foreign Affairs Ministry said.
Issuing a statement, the ministry said, DPRKs continued pursuit of nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and proliferation related activity pose a significant threat to international peace and security.
In the interest of peace and security of all concerned, we urge the DPRK to refrain from such hostile acts and programmes in violation of UN Security Council Resolutions, which impact adversely on the stability of the region and beyond.
The international community must unite in words and deeds to seek solutions to this grave situation which is an ever increasing threat to international peace and security, the statement said.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka vehicle population tops 6.8 million in 2016
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 13:00
Sri Lanka vehicle population tops 6.8 million in 2016
Sri Lanka has reached a 6.8 million motor vehicle population in 2016, an 8 percent increase from 6.3 million registered in 2015 according to the latest edition of an annual report on the countrys vehicle market.
The report, compiled by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce shows that during 2016, the countrys expenditure on motor vehicle imports declined by 32 percent to Rs.194 billion compared to 2015 where Sri Lanka spent the highest ever expenditure for motor vehicle imports of Rs.288 billion.
This sharp drop was mainly driven by motorcars, the report revealed.
The report further reveals that with this significant decline of motor vehicle imports vehicle registrations declined by 26 per ent compared to 2015. More than half (54%) of the current vehicle population consists of motorcycles followed by three-wheelers (16%) and motor cars (11%).
The report, prepared by the Economic Intelligence Unit of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, provides a detailed statistical analysis and industry overview of Sri Lankas Vehicle Market, featuring the latest information on registration; vehicle population; imports of vehicles by vehicle category and an overview on the global vehicle market and Global Hybrid and Electric Vehicle market.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan crew averts crisis onboard UL166
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 15:15
SriLankan crew averts crisis onboard UL166
Cabin crew members aboard Sri Lankan Airlines flight UL 166 managed to avert a major incident that is believed to have been caused by the ignition of a lithium battery pack or mobile phones in a passengers hand luggage, the Sri Lankan Airlines said.
The incident had taken place last Sunday when the flight was en route to Colombo from Kochi.
None of the 202 passengers or any of the crew had suffered any injuries and the Airbus A330-200 aircraft had landed safely at Colombos Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) at the scheduled time.
A spokesman for the airline said as soon as the flight landed, passengers broke out in applause at the decisive manner in which the crew handled the situation.
Explaining about the incident he said, shortly after the meal service on the 70-minute flight was concluded, alert cabin crew members in the aft area of the aircraft noticed smoke appearing from an overhead luggage bin.
The cabin manager and the captain were immediately informed. The aft cabin crew members rapidly armed themselves with fire extinguishers and opened the bin.
Upon finding a bag emitting smoke, they sprayed it with an extinguisher. The crew then removed the bag from the overhead bin and carried it quickly away from the passengers to the aft galley, at which time it began to emit smoke once again at a faster rate.
Suspecting a lithium fire, they adopted the lithium fire extinguishing procedure by immersing the bag in a container of water. The situation was successfully contained and the bag ceased to emit smoke. Upon investigation, the crew found a lithium battery pack and two mobile phones in the bag.
The flight crew immediately informed air traffic controllers at BIA and the aircraft was met on arrival by dangerous goods experts, firefighters and other safety related personnel. Since the situation was under control, passengers did not require emergency evacuation and disembarked in the usual manner.
SriLankan Airlines has launched an investigation into the incident, as have the relevant authorities in Sri Lanka.
The spokesman further said, with its prime priority being the safety and well-being of its passengers, Sri Lankan Airlines provides all its cabin crew with rigorous training in the handling of all types of emergency situations, including possible fires on board.
Also, the Airline has been actively involved in global safety measures with regard to spontaneous ignition of Lithium batteries. In October 2016, SriLankan imposed a total ban on the carriage and usage of Samsung Note 7 on board its aircraft.
Sri Lankan Airlines commended the crew of flight UL 166 for their vigilance, timely action and calmness under pressure in adopting the proper procedures, which avoided a major incident, he added.





==============================
## Title: State hospitals to issue E-Health card for patients soon
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
State hospitals to issue E-Health card for patients soon
A card (E-Health card) which contains all health reports of the patient will be issued to patients soon now that the Accident Ward of the National Hospital included in the E-Health Project.
Addressing the gathering during the launching ceremony, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said that the E-Health Project has been implemented with the assistance of National Information and Communication Technology Agency. All state hospitals will be included in the e-health project. They hope to provide a doctor for every 5,000 people.
The Accident Ward of the National Hospital provided an excellent service during the war. The staff of the unit faced many obstacles during that time,the Minister added.
Over 200 state hospitals are to be added to the E-Health Programme this year (2017) while 40 state hospitals were added to the programme last year (2016). It is expected to include all state hospitals to the network under the programme. Under the E-Health Programme, patients admitted to state hospitals will be registered in a computerised system and all medical reports would also be computerised. The Health Ministry has set up a National eHealth Steering Committee supported by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for this purpose.

==============================
## Title: Surrogate rat mothers for orphan kittens
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Surrogate rat mothers for orphan kittens
Please, no one tell Emile that most people consider cats and rats to be natural enemies. The young brown rat appeared in an adorable, if surprising, Instagram video last week, tenderly bathing two kittens.
Emile and his friend, a gray and white rat named Remy, help out with kitten care at Brooklyn Cat Cafe, a feline-centric establishment in New York run by Brooklyn Bridge Animal Welfare Coalition. The cafe features adoptable cats and kittens from BBAWC, as well as a few from other local rescue groups.
So why is this nonprofit putting rats and kittens together It all started two years ago with Ebony, an orphaned 4-week-old kitten who tested positive for feline leukemia. Staff didnt want Ebony to infect other cats, but the little feline needed companionship, Anne Levin, BBAWC executive director, told HuffPost. The staff found a white rat who needed a home, and a beautiful friendship was born.
Of course we named him Ivory, Levin said. He and Ebony became great friends and would cuddle and romp in their crate. Sadly, Ebony died at only 4 months old, but her life was so much richer for having a friend in Ivory, said Levin.
The cat cafes website notes that the two would romp and play together until they passed out cuddled up together. Ivory went on to befriend other kittens before he died of old age a few months ago.
The cat cafe has since adopted Remy and Emile from the small animal rescue group Helping All Little Things. The rats spend time with kittens younger than 8 weeks old who are separated from other cats until theyre old enough to be vaccinated. Unless the kittens are orphaned, they are also kept with their mothers. The kittens in the Instagram video are orphans, so the rats help play a crucial role in keeping them clean.
I know the rats we have often groom themselves and each other and it seems to be both a self-comfort and a friendship connection, Levin said.
The Huffington Post
==============================
## Title: Sword attack on two policemen in Kopai
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Sword attack on two policemen in Kopai
Twelve men on motorcycles attacked two police constables with swords while they were engaged field duty in the Kondavil area.
Kopai police said the two policemen were admitted to the Jaffna Hospital with multiple cut wounds.
The incident had occurred at around 11.30 am yesterday when the two constables went to conduct inquiries related to minor complaints in the Kondavil area.
The two constables saw a crowd, some of whom were drinking by a Kovil in the area. As they rode up in that direction, five motorcyclists with pillion riders attacked our officers, he said.
Had they stopped the bike, they would have definitely killed them,he said.
They carried out the attack in public view, he said.
Police Media Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said police investigations will be conducted by Northern Province Senior DIG, ASP and the OIC of the Kopai Police Station.
Asked if the incidents of police becoming victims of assault becoming common in Jaffna, Gunasekera said except for one incident about a week ago, there have not been any major incidents so far.
The suspects in connection with the present incident will also be brought to justice, as was in the past  he added.
==============================
## Title: Taking Sri Lankan cuisine beyond borders
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Taking Sri Lankan cuisine beyond borders
Uga Escapes represented Sri Lankas gastronomic prowess at the Sri Lankan Culinary Experience, in Munich, Germany recently. Approximately 50 participants were present at the event, including German travel enthusiast consumers, travel agents and journalists. The practical and hands-on session was aimed at personally engaging with Sri Lankas expansive culinary background under the guidance of one of Ugas executive chefs from Residence by Uga Escapes. Rare, the highly sought-after fusion cuisine restaurant is housed here.
The event consisted of a combination of multiple cookery demonstrations, which included Sri Lankan highlights such as isso baduma and dhal curry, followed by a bona fide, sumptuous Sri Lankan dinner. Some of the other dishes featured include Sri Lankan chicken curry, coconut sambol, mango chutney, and to sweeten things up, kalu dodol, kiri toffee and thala rolls.
Guests and invitees were particularly astonished to discover the wide spectrum of colourful and flavoursome spices used in Sri Lankan cooking, and perhaps more so loved the layers of piquancy found in each dish.
Sri Lanka has typically incorporated a plethora of spices in its dishes for centuries, a majority of which is grown and produced on home soil. In fact, the islands precious spices was one of the main attractions that drew the colonial powers to it many years ago, with cinnamon being one of the most coveted.
==============================
## Title: Union Bank partners NCE Export Awards as Premium sponsor
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Union Bank partners NCE Export Awards as Premium sponsor
Union Bank announced its partnership as the Premium sponsor of the Annual Export Awards organized by the National Chamber of Exporters (NCE) of Sri Lanka for the 25th consecutive year.
This is the fifth year in which Union Bank has partnered the event and the second consecutive year as the Premium Sponsor of the awards.
Commenting on the event partnership, Union Banks Vice President, Wholesale Banking Hiranthi De Silva said, It is a great pleasure to come forward as a Premium sponsor of the NCE Export Awards that recognise local exporters for their noteworthy achievements within the sector and for the contributions made to the national economy through their enterprises.
With its roots firmly embedded in SME Banking, today as a fully-fledged commercial bank, Union Bank still continues to place dedicated focus on empowering SMEs and entrepreneurs. As the Premium sponsor, the Bank will be partnering the awards for Best Performer in Emerging Markets, Best SME Exporter, Best Value Added Exporter  Services and Best Value Added Exporter  Products, thereby reinforcing Union Banks continuous commitment towards the development of export potential within the SME sector.
For over two decades, Union Bank has extended its support towards empowering Sri Lankan entrepreneurs, especially inspiring the small and medium scale entrepreneurs to improve their export potential.
Today, as a fully-fledged, licensed commercial bank etched with financial stability and the international knowhow of the global investment giant TPG, Union Bank has enhanced its product and service offerings across corporate, SME and retail banking segments to help them reach their financial and business goals.
Union Banks enhanced portfolio, which includes diverse propositions that span across corporate banking, trade/Treasury services, and investments has enabled the Bank to generate customised financial solutions for exporters in the form of debt, equity and working capital.
Its corporate banking and trade financing divisions are geared to provide expert financial advice coupled with diverse trade finance tools including pre-export loan facilities and export bill discounting facilities to help meet the funding needs at the post-shipment stage.
Advising of Letters of Credit (LCs), processing collection bills and issuing shipping guarantees are amongst other specialised services extended by Union Bank to local exporters. The Bank also grants foreign currency loans to exporters at competitive rates and funds the working capital cycles of the exporters through customised loans.
We are appreciative of this initiative of the National Chamber of Exporters (NCE), which encourages local exporters to continuously improve their business performance. Such initiatives are imperative to continuously improve the standards of this sector.
I would like to congratulate the NCE for their efforts in conducting this awards ceremony successfully for 25 years, while thanking the Chamber for their commitment towards developing this nationally important segment. I hope this year too, the awards ceremony will attract high quality applications and would like to wish the participants all the very best at this national awards contest, De Silva said.
==============================
## Title: Vellaveli Police Station reopens after 31 years
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 12:45
Vellaveli Police Station reopens after 31 years

The Vellaveli Police Station in Batticaloa, which was moved to another location after it came under attack by the LTTE during the civil war, was reopened after 31 years on the 29thof July.
Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundara and Chief Minister of the Eastern Province Ahamed Nazeer officiated at the event.

==============================
## Title: Weapons cache found in Jaffna well
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Weapons cache found in Jaffna well
A cache of weapons was found yesterday at the Rajarajeshwari Hindu Kovil near the Kareinagar Navy Camp in Jaffna.
The weapons included nine Clemo bombs, six small Clemo bombs, two mortars and two pressure bombs. They were unusable.
The weapons were recovered from an abandoned well at the Hindu Kovil by several persons who were cleaning the well and informed the Navy. The weapons were defused and destroyed, the Navy said.
==============================
## Title: Woman arrested for keeping tusks
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, July 31, 2017 - 01:00
Woman arrested for keeping tusks
A woman, who kept a pair of elephant tusks without a licence, was arrested by the crime branch of the Borelesgamuwa police station.
The suspect Damayanthi Noelin Karunaratne is a resident of Gangodawila, Nugegoda. Police have sent the tusks to the Dehiwala Zoological Gardens for an actual value estimation.
The suspect woman was granted two personal bails worth Rs 100,000 each. Further hearing will take place on September 28 at the Gangodawila Magistrate's Courts.
==============================