## Title: A tipping point
## Supertitle: Women writers pledge to boycott gender biased books after very male anthology
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Women writers pledge to boycott gender biased books after very male anthology
A tipping point
After 2017s Cambridge Companion to Irish Poets included only four women, 250 writers have agreed to boycott anthologies, conferences and festivals where women are not fairly represented.
Irish women poets are rising up en masse against their repeated exclusion from literary history, signing a pledge of refusal to participate in anthologies, conferences and festivals in which the gender balance is skewed.
The pledge was conceived after the publication of the Cambridge Companion to Irish Poets in 2017. Covering Irish poetry from the 17th century to the present, it features essays on four women poets and 26 men, with just four female contributors. According to the 250 poets, academics and writers who have now signed the pledge, the book repeats the minimisation or obliteration of womens poetry by previous anthologies and surveys and leads to a distorted impression of our national literature and to a simplification of womens roles within it.
Mary ODonnell
The Cambridge guide is by no means the first time women writers have been left out. Research from Irish publisher Lagan found in December that women are underrepresented in a host of Irish anthologies: last years A Treasury of Irish Literature featured only five female authors in a total of 32; An Anthology of Modern Irish Poetry featured 10 women out of 53 poets; and Modern Irish Poetry: An Anthology contained 22 female poets among 177.
The Companion is part of a larger process by which the significance of works by women is attenuated as they become inaccessible or obscured, simply by virtue of their absence from canonical textbooks, says the preamble to the pledge, going on to name a panoply of Irish women writers who could have been included in the Cambridge anthology: 19th-century poet Emily Lawless, 18th-century poet Laetitia Pilkington, 20th-century author Katharine Tynan and modernists Freda Laughton and MaighreadMedbh, among others.
Poets including Christine Murray, Ailbhe DArcy and Mary ODonnell worked together to come up with the pledge, which they have dubbed Fired! Irish Women Poets and the Canon. Our pledge is short and simple. It commits us to asking questions about gender representation early on in collaborative projects such as edited collections, conferences and festivals. It commits us to withdrawing our participation when, in our opinion, insufficient effort is made to render representation fair, they write. In many cases implicit bias will have been involved in women being less famous, so editors and organisers should make an effort to include some slightly less famous female names.
The issue is not confined to Ireland, or to poetry: the first volume of the Penguin Book of the British Short Story is 75 per cent male, while the second is 64 per cent male; and in both the Oxford Book of American Poetry and in A Glimpse of Truth, the 100 Finest Short Stories, more than two thirds of the writers selected are men.
ODonnell, a novelist and poet, said: I really hope it can make a difference. The Cambridge anthology has, once and for all, brought about a convergence of women, responding after decades of exclusion. This isnt personal against the editor of the anthology  the anthology is a tipping point. We have had a whole history of exclusion.
ODonnell called for high-profile writers to come on board and support the pledge  both men and women. As long as good men arent getting political about this, nothing will change, she said. The literary patriarchal door keeps slamming in our faces.
Booker prize-winning Irish novelist Anne Enright is one of the biggest names to sign up. The author, who has previously called out sexism in the literary scene in the London Review of Books, spoke of a festival she was invited to attend two years ago in order to redress the gender balance of a male-heavy line-up  and to speak about gender imbalances. I had a book which was No 1 on the bestseller list, and longlisted for the Booker, and I still hadnt been invited to talk about it. I was invited to restore the gender balance. There are multiple double-binds in that exclusion  even when youre included, youre excluded. It is maddening in the extreme, said Enright.
In 1991, the Field Day Anthology of Irish Writing famously drew heavy criticism for its male-heavy focus. It comes in cycles  every generation does it again. Its like they really cant receive the memo. Theres an absolute aversion to having the conversation on the Irish scene. Its unbelievable  here we go again, said Enright.
Enright, comparing the situation to the #MeToo movement, said that no one was willing to stand up and be counted over gender bias. Prejudice against women is a universal crime with zero perpetrators. Irish men are lovely, Irish poets are especially lovely  what on earth could be the problem There is an amazing series of defences between men and this conversation, she said. With the #MeToo movement, the fact there are misdemeanours and crimes involved, and sexual activity, means everyone can point fingers and individuals can be identified, and they can stand in for a whole culture of harassment. When there is no physical content, when its about aversion, when its about exclusion, it is extremely hard to identify and call out.
The pledge points to studies that have suggested that both men and women tend to evaluate women more negatively than men in professional contexts, so women may need to do a lot more to be considered successful than men do.
Academics also feature on the list of signatories to the pledge. To be clear, I studied zero female poets in college. I envy US students who have Emily Dickinson, Gertrude Stein, Mina Loy, Susan Howe, et al. We literally have huge gaps there and the narrative states that women poets emerged in the 1970s. Nope! They were ignored until the 1970s, said Murray.
Responding to the controversy, Cambridge University Press said in a statement that it was committed to publishing fairly and without bias. The Press publishes many significant works about Irish literature and history. The Cambridge Companion to Irish Poets is one part of this ongoing and ambitious programme, which in 2018 will include titles such as A History of Modern Irish Womens Literature, A History of Irish Womens Poetry and A History of Working-Class Literature.
 we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading the Guardian than ever but advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And unlike many news organisations, we havent put up a paywall  we want to keep our journalism as open as we can. So you can see why we need to ask for your help. The Guardians independent, investigative journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce. But we do it because we believe our perspective matters  because it might well be your perspective, too.
- The Guardian
==============================
## Title: ANCL has done yeoman service to foster ethnic harmony
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
ANCL has done yeoman service to foster ethnic harmony
National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages Minister Mano Ganeshan said the Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited (ANCL) has fulfilled its duty to establish ethnic harmony, while wiping out racism and extremism.
He added that there are racists in the North as well as the South. But as the oldest and the most experienced media organisation in the country, ANCL has done a yeoman service and a national duty to ensure ethnic harmony.
The Minister was while addressing an event organised to celebrate Thai Pongal at the Lake House premises on Thursday (18).
The Minister said that no room would be left by the government to allow the dark era which brought much disaster to the country, to return again. The President and the Prime Minister would never allow to take the country backward.
The government will go until 2020, even though there are some issues. Those issues are natural and there is no doubt about the persistence of the government, he said.
There are extremists in the North and the South. They are cousins. It is an informal agreement between these segments. But we are treading on the middle path.
There should be a difference between religions, ethnicties, and languages. In a certain period, this was considered as a weakness, but this variation is a must, he said.
He said the Thai Pongal festival has a long history, and such an event paves the way for religious harmony of the country.
It has been reported that the country has 19 ethnics, four religions, and three languages.
A new constitution is being formulated not as a government but as a country.
Parliamentarians in the government and the opposition have joined in the task of creating a new Constitution, he added.
The Minister said he has suggested to the Speaker to brief students about the value of coexistence when they visit Parliament.
==============================
## Title: Indias economy to be USD 5 trn by 2025
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Indias economy to be USD 5 trn by 2025
Indian economy is set to double to USD 5 trillion in the next 7-8 years as booming consumption of digital services would support addition of about USD 2.5 trillion to the countrys wealth, Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma said today.
It took 70 years for India to become USD 2.5 trillion economy, and now the same amount of growth will take just next 7 years, Sharma said while addressing Internet and Mobile Association of Indias (IAMAI) 12th (rpt) 12th India Digital Summit.
Sharma added that the time was ripe for entrepreneurs to create products in India for the local market.
This is the time for Indian entrepreneurs to build something for India, from India, something that is a world- class model, he said.
Sharma, whose company is backed by global investment giants like Alibaba and SoftBank, said spending capacity of consumers in tier II cities and beyond is often underestimated.
Lauding the accomplishments of Flipkart founders Sachin and Binny Bansal, he said the duo had changed the countrys ecosystem.
Sharma reminisced his struggle in early days while building Paytm, and said the company has now grown to 255 million transactions last month and will achieve USD 14 billion gross merchandise value (GMV) run rate at the end of the fiscal. (www.indiatimes.com)
==============================
## Title: People in Ratnapura now have water, electricity
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
People in Ratnapura now have water, electricity
Many development projects were launched in Ratnapura district during the past few years and now people in the district have pipe-borne water for 24 hours, Labour and Trade Union Relations Minister W.D.J.Seneviratne said.
Minister Seneviratne said the project water cost Rs.11,000 million. Earlier, people received water only for few hours per day; now they have access to pipe-borne water throughout the day.
He was addressing the gathering during a meeting held at Pelmadulla recently.
Minister Seneviratne pointed out that in the past only 52 percent of the people in Ratnapura had electricity and now 96 percent of the people have electricity. Ratnapura General Hospital and many other rural hospitals had been developed with foreign aid.
The OPD was developed with JAICA assistance.
Construction work on Ratnapura Divisional Secretariat building complex is now going on.
State schools in the district had been developed.
Roads in the district have already been carpeted, he added.
==============================
## Title: Serving people honestly should be prime desire of politicians
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Serving people honestly should be prime desire of politicians
Addressing an election propaganda rally at Hataraliyadda, Special Assignments Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama declared that the prime desire of a politician should be to serve the people honestly.
Speaking further the Minister said: "Today many people enter politics with the intention of making money. However the prime objective of people entering politics should be to serve the people honestly. The strongest desire of politicians should be to identify peoples problems and to serve the people. However, a person who did not have even a bicycle when he entered politics starts driving about in a Benz. He builds huge mansions. He buys land and property. People should decide to punish such people."
"In earlier times politicians sold their land and property, spent their wealth and did politics," the Minister said. "Such exemplary leaders were seen in the past. Unfortunately such people are seen rarely today."
"Our party represents one of the massive political processes in Sri Lanka today. SLFP governments functioned from 1956 to 1960, 1960 to 1965, 1970 to 1977 and 1994 to 2015. Today we are running the country through a Unity government. SLFP governments were engaged in developing the country economically, socially and culturally. Further than that, it was an SLFP government that defeated Eelamist terrorism and freed the country from the terrorist menace. In recent times an SLFP government launched a new development process which included expressways, new airports, big building complexes, etc. People know this well. Therefore, people are rallying round our party day by day. Neither the pohottuwa nor the elephant or any other force can stop that."
Minister Dr. Amunugama said: "Our party is based on the Bandaranaike Chinthanaya. That philosophy adopts itself to changing circumstances and takes economic and social development forward in a way appropriate to the country. In that, the people have confidence as well as respect. Everyone knows that our party is the friend of the common man, the friend of the poor. We always work fearlessly for the poor. We dedicate ourselves on behalf of the poor, to uplift their standard of living. Our party with the President in the lead, dedicates itself to take the country to a new dawn of economic and social development. The people know that well."
"The SLFP is constantly working according to a plan to elevate the standards of sectors like education and health services and to provide the people with the best services possible. No country can go forward without improving the standards of education and health services. Therefore, the President has strongly dedicated himself to developing those sectors."
==============================
## Title: Aguero treble gets City back on track, United keep up the chase
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Aguero treble gets City back on track, United keep up the chase
BURNLEY, Saturday: A Sergio Aguero hat-trick helped Manchester City get back to winning ways in the Premier League with a 3-1 victory over Newcastle United, as they stayed 12 points ahead of Manchester United who had to dig deep to secure a 1-0 win at Burnley.
Chelsea stayed three points adrift of United as they enjoyed a 4-0 victory at Brighton and Hove Albion, while Arsenal were quick off the mark, scoring four goals inside the first 22 minutes in a 4-1 win over Crystal Palace.
Having suffered their first league defeat of the season at Liverpool last weekend, Pep Guardiolas Manchester City side initially struggled to find rhythm at the Etihad Stadium before Aguero glanced in a Kevin De Bruyne cross after 34 minutes.
The Argentine doubled their lead from the penalty spot shortly after the hour mark when Raheem Sterling was brought down by Javier Manquillo in the box.
Four minutes later, Jacob Murphy dinked the ball over home goalkeeper Ederson to score his first goal for Newcastle and briefly bring them back into contention.
However, the day belonged to Aguero who scored his 14th goal against the Magpies in the league seven minutes from fulltime to keep City on course for the title.
Playing before their rivals, United did briefly close the gap to City to nine points, thanks to a goal from Anthony Martial.
The Frenchman blasted home off the under-side of the bar in the 54th minute after brilliant work from Romelu Lukaku, who held off two challenges before finding the Frenchman with a sweeping cross-field pass.
Burnley, who slip to eighth with the loss, fought hard for an equaliser and Icelandic winger Johann Berg Gudmundsson struck the bar with a free kick.
It was certainly a battle and that is what you get when you come to Turf Moor - it is about character and we showed that in abundance today, said United defender Phil Jones.
Manager Jose Mourinho said after the game that he thinks Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez will complete his move to Old Trafford, while British media reports said that Henrikh Mkhitaryan was due to have a medical at Arsenal in the next 48 hours to complete the transfer swap.
ARSENAL RAMPANT
The disappointment of Arsenal fans in losing Sanchez will have been eased by their attacking display against Crystal Palace in a comfortable win at the Emirates.
Arsenal, who hadnt won in their last five games in all competitions, struck their four goals in a blistering start to the match.
Nacho Monreal headed in from a Granit Xhaka corner and then turned provider for close-range goals by Alex Iwobi in the 10th and central defender Laurent Koscielny three minutes later.
French striker Alexandre Lacazette made it four for the home side in the 22nd minute, collecting a clever backheel from Mesut Ozil in the area before turning to curl his strike around outstretched Palace keeper Wayne Hennessey.
Palace captain Luka Milivojevic pulled one back for the visitors in the 78th minute.
Eden Hazard scored twice as Chelsea enjoyed a 4-0 victory at Brighton and Hove Albion -- giving Antonio Contes side their first league win of 2018.
Hazard and Willian struck inside six minutes to set them on their way. With Brighton pushing forward, Hazard brilliantly netted a third 13 minutes from time before Victor Moses made it four late on.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Amaya Resorts & Spas welcomes 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Amaya Resorts & Spas welcomes 2018
Amaya Resorts and Spas celebrated in style and simplicity to say goodbye to 2017 and welcome 2018 with a bang. Each of the resorts had their own way of celebrating NYE with their patron guests such as sit down dinners at Amaya Langdale, buffets at Amaya Hunas Falls, Amaya Lake and of course a grand NYE party featuring DADDY and Yes FM DJs at Amaya Hills.
Here are some highlights.
==============================
## Title: Another massage clinic raided
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Another massage clinic raided
Welikada police have arrested 18 women allegedly engaged in prostitution at a brothel house in Nawala on Friday (19).
The arrest has been made on a tip-off by the Welikada Police.
They were arrested on a search warrant from the Colombo Magistrates Court.
The brothel was functioning under the guise of a massage clinic, and the police sent a decoy to verify the facts.
The women are residents of Hingurakgoda, Moneragala, Moratuwa, Matale, Mahawa, Madapatha, Ambalangoda, Harakuruwita, Nugathale, Haburugoda, Dayagama, Bamaragaswewa, and Kubuththe.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (22-01-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (22-01-2018)]
Maruneekiar Thiruvathavoorar
She led a graceful life
I feel privileged and honoured to have been called upon to pay tribute to the memory of our dearly beloved cousin late Maruneekiar Thiruvathavoorar, who was affectionately called Manie akka. She passed away on June 10, 2017. I only hope I can do justice to the memory of this lovely lady who has touched our lives as either a family member, friend, colleague or beloved teacher, leaving loving memories of her in our hearts.
Maruneekiar Thiruvathavoorar was born on March 17, 1926, as the third child of Kathiravelu Sadayer Arulnandhy and Sakunthalaiamma.
She had a brilliant secondary school career; at the Senior Cambridge Examination, she came second in the Island. She proceeded to Annamalai University in South India to do her degree. She topped the batch at the Inter-Science Examination and was granted a full scholarship to complete her degree. Her subjects were Physics and Mathematics. Maruneekiar's proficiency in English was such that her English professor, impressed by one of her essays, had suggested she do an English Honours Degree, which Manie akka politely declined because physics and mathematics were her favourite subjects. She read physics and pure mathematics and obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree. In 1955, she obtained a Diploma in Education from the Colombo University.
Upon graduating, she joined Holy Family Convent, Bambalapitiya, and taught there for a short period before joining Saiva Mangayar Kalagam, where she taught for 15 years until her premature retirement over the language issue. The Principal at that time was Nahamma Kasipillai, the eminent educationist. Her period at Kalagam was a happy period, as her colleagues were congenial and the students keen and respectful. She was not only elegant in attire, but also equally elegant in appearance. She would often observe that the saree had to be neatly draped and pinned so that she was free to concentrate on teaching the students without worrying about her attire.
In 1952, she married Thambipillai Thiruvatharoorar, a fellow student at Annamali University, but of the Arts Faculty. They were rarely apart. Her husband, after a short spell as a Land Development Officer, joined Walker Sons and Co. Ltd. and retired as Sales Manager in the Northern region. When her husband went to Australia on a scholarship, he took her with him and she stayed with friends during the period of their stay.
In all our moments of joy and sorrow, Manie akka was always the first to call and celebrate or mourn with us, as the circumstances required. I was always touched by her caring and reassuring words, when I was in need of them most. More than anything else, she was a loyal friend and reliable ally. She was a genius at making friends, was cultured, and always bright and cheerful. She was one of the most delightful companions, and I do not think she ever made an enemy.
She was deeply religious, but was ecumenical in perception and always accommodated all religions as one. I have never known her to have failed in her duties; whatever she did for her family, friends, and colleagues, whether they were in the right or wrong, it was always with the best intentions. Her word was her honour and her promises were her bond. In short, as a woman, she was endowed with a warm, genial, benevolent, and magnanimous disposition. Her compassion and kindness knew no bounds. She was completely free of pettiness in her attitude to others. These were the sterling qualities which endeared her to all those who had the good fortune to know her.
Manie akka was always a cheerful, loving, sharing and giving person. Her house was always open for those who needed tender loving care. She was a foster mother for so many of her nieces, nephews, and other relatives. Manie akkas heart was always at home; thus, she possessed unshakeable love, devotion, and care for her husband and her brothers and sisters, and gave her family the utmost of her nurturing care. She was a tower of strength to her husband, Thiruaththan; sisters, brothers, all family members, and relatives, who always looked up to her for help and support in times of trials and tribulations.
Maruneekiar Thiruvathavoorar had, in some way or other, touched the lives of many of us and left us with precious memories of her that we would always treasure in different ways, as we offer our thanks to the good Lord in prayer for the gift of this lovely lady who inspired many, and lived as a true human being in life and spirit.
I carry with me the fond and pleasant memories of the late Manuneekiar Thiruvathavoorar, a simple and humane person who was not only trusted, loved, and highly-respected by her friends, relations, and by all communities, but was also held in the highest esteem by them. The passing of late Maruneekiar removed from our midst, one of the most popular relations.
She will be always remembered with devotion, love, and respect by all of us who have been fortunate to have known her. Many will miss her, and many more will mourn her demise. She is worthy of remembrance for generations to come.
My wife, my siblings and their families, and I share these heartfelt sentiments with Chithra akka, Thevi akka, and all those dear and near to them, with a sense of love, affection, and gratitude for having known her family and having been greatly impacted by every member of it.
May her soul rest in peace!
A. Gnanathasan,
Presidents Counsel
Jith de Fonseka
He was a loving husband
When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth, you are weeping for that which has been your delight. - Kahlil Gibran
I wish to thank the Almighty God for his grace that is upon me to pen these thoughts about my late husband, Jith de Fonseka. Even though I am not a writer, it was in my heart to honour him, as it has been four years since he went to be with Jesus.
I never thought it would be possible for Suranjith, Sarita, and I to get through the journey of life without Jith. We were a closely-knit family and had lots of great times together. Jith was an amazing husband who always chose to do his best for the family.
Spending quality time with each of us was top- priority to him. I can hardly remember a no to any request that the three of us made. He would go out of his way to do anything to make us happy. We truly miss the times the four of us had together; we would laugh and joke together amidst the busyness of life or make it a point to have at least dinner as a family, pray together every day, sneak in a holiday just so we could enjoy one anothers company while getting some rest or have family-night about once every few weeksall because we believed and still believe in family. What we miss the most is the time the four of us used to have when we got into one big bed and had close, intimate chats about anything and everything.
Jith also had very sincere qualities when it came to his friends. He would never forget even the smallest thing anyone had done for him, even in the years gone by. He was simple and a person without guile. He was no respecter of persons and treated the most affluent person the same way he would the poorest of the poor. I truly admire these amazing qualities he had, as they were rare and have taught us much as a family.
He had the highest regard for his parents who were unique and wonderful people.
Jiths faith in God was simple, yet profound. As a family, we came to realise this even more during the time of his last illness. He had such simple, child-like faith and trusted the Lord Jesus with regard to everything. Even when faced with impossible situations, he believed that Gods plan and purpose for his life would prevail.
There was not a trace of doubt or fear, and he rested in knowing that he was a child of God who was absolutely loved by him. There is so much that the three of us have learnt from him and are so grateful to him. He was truly a special human being and we are so thankful to God for ordaining us to be a family. We treasure the years the Lord gave us together, as they are priceless and will never be forgotten.
Jiths motto was always as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. (Joshua 24:15) and we will pass on this legacy to the next generation and the generations to come.
Kithmani
Patrick Samaranayake
Silent social worker
Death came to Patrick Samaranayake quite suddenly. He hailed from a distinguished family and was the son of W. H. Samaranayake of Loretto, Polgahawela. His father, W. H. Samaranayake, was the author of Practical English, and was an ex-Principal of St. Bernadette's College, Polgahawela.
Patrick Samaranayake was loved and admired by all. He was a silent social worker, and his devotion to duty was unique. He was calm and collected in manner, and was a staunch member of the Roman Catholic Church.
Men of the stamp, mettle, and genius of Patrick are indeed rare as the sandalwood trees that adorn the jungles of Sri Lanka. Patrick has now gone to his eternal rest; may he reap in the heavens of gladness, the fruits of a holy past, and may his generation follow in his noble footsteps.
May he be born again among us and may God Almighty grant him eternal rest.
I do wish that this humble and sincere tribute of mine to a brilliant pupil, catches the eyes of his wife and children, to whim I, along with my wife and child, extend our deepest sympathies. He leaves behind three brothers and a sister. His death anniversary falls in January, 2018. A beautiful life, full of kindly deeds, a helping hand to those in need; unselfish, loving, and kind are the memories left behind by him.
May his virtues hasten his journey to heaven.
Cecil R. Senanayake
Jinadasa Hettiarachchi
An exemplary individual
Jinadasa Hettiarachchi of Galahitiyawa, was a dedicated and conscientious social worker in the Gampaha district. He was a leader to many voluntary organizations in the Genemulla area and spent his energy and resources for the benefit of his fellow men.
He voluntarily donated a portion of his paddy land to build access roads to a number of houses which were not served by any other road.
Hettiarachchi (Jine to his friends), was a product of Galahitiyawa Central College. During his school career, he excelled in academic studies, as well as extra-curricular activities.
He was the first student of the college to pass the Gandharva Sabha examinations and perform the full ves regalia and demonstrate his dancing skills to the public.
After his college career, he joined the Cooperative Development Department, and served in remote areas in the North Central Province and the Puttalam district, rising in executive positions. After retiring from public service, he devoted his time to social services in and around his home area. He was the Chief Dayaka of the Sugatha Subhadraramaya of Galahitiyawa.
Hettiarachchi was a patron and active member of the Past Pupils Association (PPA) of the Galahitiyawa Central College up to his last days. His contribution and guidance in the school's development activities were highly appreciated by his colleagues and the PPA members.
He was a good friend, and even in his last days, he had not forgotten to call his colleagues.
With his demise, we have lost a genuine and sincere friend, as well as an exemplary human being.
May he attain Nibbana!
Muthu
Noeline De Silva
Teacher par excellence
Noeline started her teaching career at St. Anthony's College, Wattala. Later, she entered the Maharagama Teachers' Training College and did the special English course. After passing out, she taught at various schools such as Ruwanwella Central; Vijaya College, Matale; Gonsalves MV, Pamunugama; and later, got a transfer to her hometown Mabola, Wattala, where she taught at St. Mary's MV until her retirement. Wherever she taught, her main aim was to give a sound and basic English education to the underprivileged children of the area. She often conducted English classes free-of-charge and always stressed the importance of English. She was also involved in various religious and social activities organized by the Mabole parish, and did a silent service to uplift the underprivileged people of the area. She was also an active member of the Legion of Mary and an energetic Sunday school teacher.
After her retirement, she joined the staff of Aquinas College of Higher Studies, Colombo 8 and served for over 10 years as a senior lecturer in the English Diploma course. Noeline was Ever-ready to help anyone in any emergency or illness. Always smiling, caring, and empathetic, her simple ways and faith in God was an example to us. Her illness two years prior to her passing on November 2, 2017, was a great shock to many of us. She was handicapped during this period, and the attention and tender care rendered to her by her loved ones was admirable.
May all the merit you accrued during your lifetime, help you to attain the eternal bliss of God's heavenly kingdom. May your gentle soul rest in the peace of the Lord.
C. S. M. de Silva
==============================
## Title: Audit Commission - Time is most appropriate
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Audit Commission - Time is most appropriate
As we all know there are many public issues and ambiguities pertaining to both domestic and external finances of the country. The parliamentarians spend more time in debating the controversial issues on finances and it is a waste of time in the context of the development of our country.
Why cannot they debate it at a specific location in the parliament come to a conclusion and make a joint statement as to what further action to be taken. By this way valuable time could be saved to discuss the development drives in all districts of the country.
The audit commission was a promise given to by the government and it is high time that a very active and an efficient audit commission be set up to save billions of public funds.In quoted companies, there is a separate Audit committee to look into the audit aspect of each company.Our public institutions should follow the same if we are to achieve good corporate governance in public institutions.
Let us now consider the specifics relevant to the issue.
What is Public Audit
An audit is carried out to ensure public accountability which is,
1.The obligation of persons/authorities/bodies entrusted with public power and/or resources to report on the management of such resources and to be answerable for the fiscal, managerial and programme responsibilities that are conferred.
2. The answerability of the executive to the legislature and through the legislators to the people, civil society and other stake holders.
Why Audit
All societies are interested in good governance and good governance is a product of public interest and public accountability,maintaining the integrity of the nation, food/fuel security,maintenance of law and order, eradication of illiteracy, Technological advancement, regional development, social changes through legislation, maximum happiness for public, etc., constitute public interest.
Adequate financial resources are needed for public interest to bear fruition. Policy formulation may have political orientation but spending is a common denominator and the accounting of such spending goes hand in hand with public accountability which is a must for good governance. Audit is to ensure this public interest and public accountability.
Accountability Structure
Effective exercise of accountability depends on the quality of internal control, information management, performance review, financial monitoring. Internal audit, etc. The accountability structure as it positions today,falls broadly under two categories, namely, administrative accountability and public accountability.
Internal Accountability Structure
Internal accountability provides support to the senior management to meet their obligation for public accountability by providing timely, reliable and relevant information on performance. Cabinet is the highest executive body and the minister is personally accountable to the legislative for implementation of the approved policy of the Government. The secretary is responsible to the Minister.
His focus is on programme accountability. His main financial responsibility is operation of the budget allocation and proper use of the financial resources for achieving the approved programmes of government.
Public Accountability and Public Financial Accountability
Obligations of public financial accountability are met when the government places the budget in the legislative and the legislative debate and feedback from people influence government policy and budgetary decisions. Similarly,tabling of audited accounts in time is a clear demonstration of public accountability.This enable the legislators,media and public to raise questions about performances of government.This will also enable the donor agencies and investors to form opinion about the financial health of the government.
At another level,the public accounts committee will be able to explain the performances for a year to the members of parliament in a confident manner.Duties and functions of the Auditor General is carried out in pursuance of the provisions in Article 154 of our constitution for the direction of the independent examination on the effective and efficient maintenance of parliamentary control on the Public Finance devolved on parliament in pursuance of provisions in Article 148 of the constitution.
The work scope of the Auditor General mainly cover the following areas.
1. Ministries and Departments
2. Foreign Funded Projects
3. Provincial Councils
4. Public Corporations,Authorities, Boards and Statutory Funds
5. Non Statutory Funds
6. Local Authorities
7. Special Audits
8. Public Companies
According to the 19thAmendment to the constitution it was accepted by the Government that the Auditor General and his staff should be given more powers and to secure the independence not only in the operational aspects but also in finance and administration also.
The general public of this country had to savor many omissions, commissions, scams, and other malpractices of public sector administrators especially during the last 4 decades, in view of opening of the economy. In 1977. The main reasons for these could be attributed to one or more of following factors.
1.Frequent changes in Governments and regular country wide elections and the elected parties and the politicians endeavor to earn the maximum for their families, to spend for future elections,etc.,
2. Excessive authority provided to state institutions and administrators in running them
3. Absence of regular monthly internal audits and internal controls
4. Absence of corporate governance measures
5, Absence of quarterly performance reports based on draft accounts prepared.
6. Delays in the presentation of annual audited accounts.
7. Intimidations and harassment of audit personnel by politicians and their agents.
8. Lack of adequate facilities provided to the audit personnel
9. File Insecurity, missing of vital documents, computer failures,etc.
10. Promotion/Recruitment of unsuitable/inexperienced staff with political influences
The above are only some of the factors and even after 70 years of independence the internal controls, accounting procedures, management information systems and corporate governance measures of our state institutions are well below the international standards.
Few years back there was a reported case of an Audit officer of a Provincial council who was subjected to an acid attack as a result of an investigation of an irregularity. Further, a senior official of the Inland Revenue was physically assaulted in the south while returning after work.
In addition there are a large number of unreported cases of threats and intimidations on honest public officials who are only interested in doing their jobs properly. Political hierarchy also arrange transfers and demotions for these honest public officials in trying to suppress them.
Therefore, the need arises for a high powered National Audit Commission to ensure irregularities are reported first at a political party leaders meeting at the Parliament in addition to a COPE meeting monthly.This will become possible through an analytical internal audit carried out employing qualified professionals who have become senior citizens.
The commission should also highlight the value for money spent on annual budgetary allocations through the National budget and also on cost overruns on budgetary allocations, if any,and also on funds spent on unplanned projects and under utilization of funds.Even the recent controversies and other reported cases to Parliament arose as a result of inadequate audit practices especially the monthly internal audits.
The monthly internal audits will ensure quick unearthing of irregularities and reporting of same to the Parliament.Right now what is happening is the conduct of POST MORTEMS after many years of the irregularity, with no recovery of state funds lost in sight, in the short term.
Take the case of a ticketless traveler in the train. His/her will be subjected to a big fine probably 100% of fare plus the ticket fare. What we should seek through the Audit Commission for all irregularities is the value of funds lost,a 100% fine and the bank interest applicable from the date of loss of state funds up to the time of recovery.
This will totally eliminate malpractices committed by state officials and Politicians.With another 8,000 politicians entering the arena after the forthcoming elections, the Auditor General and his staff will have an uphill task to perform their duties. In the alternative,the elected members will take laws into their hands and override the Police also.
The political parties and their leaders also will also be pressurized due to the mere fact of threatening to cross over to the opposition if they are obstructed in their attempts to override prevailing laws and accumulate wealth from the very first day of assuming office. The idea and promise of this high powered National Audit Commission was mooted many years back.
The non-formation of the commission has resulted in large scale loss of public funds and the introduction of more taxes on the public and the business sector.
We should consider the case of Nick Leeson way back in 1994 in Singapore. Nick Leeson a Britisher who came to Singapore for fund management, was charged by the Singaporean Government for destabilizing the fund/capital markets in Singapore causing loss of local/international investor confidence.
He was arrested in Germany and brought back to Singapore for trial where he was charged on two counts of deceiving the Auditors and of cheating the Singapore Exchange including forging documents. The swift action of Singaporean Government ensured Leeson being sent to Changi Prison for 6  years. The stringent laws of Singapore in all aspects has ensured a large number of foreign investors and an ever growing tourist influx from the time of gaining independence in 1965,17 years after Sri Lanka gained independence.
After 70 years of independence we have sunk deep in the mud and are pleading & begging for foreign investors who could have totally solved the unemployment problem in Sri Lanka and uplifted their standard of living.
We should have given serious thoughts on enhancing the local Government members to over 8,000.Even some of the Ministers and members of Parliament opposed the move from the time of mooting of the idea itself.It is left to be seen the service the newly elected members could do to the economic development of this country.
The proposed Audit Commission should be set up immediately to ensure control over the activities and budgetary allocations from the time they take office with a well-coordinated effort and evaluation systems.
The proposed Audit Commission need to cover capital markets,Board of Investment in addition to state enterprises & public/private partnerships.It is very essential that the monthly internal Audit reports be forwarded to the COPE and to a party leaders forum within 25 days from the end of a month for effective control and prompt action.This could save billions ofrupees funded by the Treasury to loss making enterprises and also for unproductive purposes.
Let us now get on to the methodology and specifics of the Audit Commission in the light of current needs and controls to be established.
1. Constitution
The commission should ideally include the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance,Commissioner General of Inland Revenue,President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,President of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Committee, Attorney General and the Auditor General. A separate Secretary General be also appointed with specific responsibilities.
2. Administration
Administration be divided into the main divisions as follows.
a.Special Investigations
b.Monthly Internal Audits
c.COPE and Parliamentary Liaison
d.Staff Training & Enrichment
e.Data & file Security
f.Information Technology
g.Finance and Budgetary Compliance
h.General Administration
3.Liaison with local External Agencies
4. International Collaboration
From time to time, officials of overseas Audit Commissions & Authorities be invited to conduct specific training Programmes and also for sharing of information &findings. If required specific assistance be sought for forensic investigations.
5. Staff Cadre
Unlike other state organizations,no political influence be exercised for the recruitment of staff.Recruitment be based on merit and specific audit experience and with professional qualifications. At least 2 overseas experts should sit in the interview panel along with the Commission members.Salary scales be fixed at a higher level so that the executives and the staff could not be bought over by outsiders.All dishonest staff members will be subjected to fines and dismissal,if required.
6. Penalties for state officials,financial crime offenders & others in association
These penalties should surpass the fines/penalties under the normal laws of the country. Setting up of a superior court may well be useful to discourage offences at state enterprises. The commission findings,monthly reports,quarterly accounts,annual audited accounts be made available to the public through a special web site to comply with the provisions of the Right To Information Act.
The existing FCID (Financial Crimes Investigation Department) could be dissolved on setting up of the National Audit Commission as some quarters allege that it has a political face.
Professionally qualified and well experienced audit staff and executives be recruited to the commission with a higher financial allocation from the Treasury and also funded by financial grants from overseas governments/agencies to ensure the long term stability of the National Audit Commission. The setting up of the commission should not be delayed any further.All Chambers Of Commerce led by corporate magnates should immediately spearhead the initiative by meeting the President, the political party leaders and make a formal request to set up the National Audit Commission before the 10 February 2018 as already 3 years have passed for the unity Government.
The writer has no malice towards any individual or political party but only interested in preventing future financial crimes in state enterprises as we have already wasted 70 years after independence in party politics and political enrichment rather than accelerated economic development of the country. All the best for all promoters who voiced for a stronger Audit commission.
The writer is a finance professional involved in revival and stabilizing of corporate ventures for higher profitability and long term existence and could be reached via [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Avg. weekly turnover hits high since Nov17
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Avg. weekly turnover hits high since Nov17
The Bourse ended in the red as the ASPI decreased by 30.12 points (or -0.47%) to close at 6,443.50 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also decreased by 31.72 points (or -0.84%) to close at 3,735.48 points.
HNB was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR1.32Bn or 30.40% of total turnover value.
Commercial Bank followed suit, accounting for 24.16% of turnover (value of LKR1.05Bn) while JKH contributed LKR0.61Bn to account for 14.14% of the weeks turnover. Total turnover value amounted to LKR4.34Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR4.16Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR1.09Bn (+30.50% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.83Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.46% W-o-W (or LKR 13.57Bn) to LKR 2,946.55Bn cf. LKR 2,960.11Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 68.83% (or LKR 2.99Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by HNB, Commercial Bank, Sampath Bank & Central Finance which accounted for 96.67% of the sectors total turnover.
The Diversified Sector meanwhile accounted for 17.36% (or LKR 0.75Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by JKH, Melstacorp & Hemas Holdings which accounted for 96.38% of the sector turnover.
The Beverage, Food & Tobacco Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 7.59% (or LKR 0.33Bn) to the market driven by Cold Stores, Ceylon Tobacco & Cargills which accounted for 90.32% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Banking, Finance & Insurance sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 43.12% (or 20.96Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 2.99Bn. The Diversified Sector followed suit, adding 16.24% to total turnover volume as 7.89Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR0.75Bn of total market turnover value. The Manufacturing Sector meanwhile, contributed 14.29Mn shares (or 10.89%), amounting to LKR0.14Bn.
Top gainers and losers
SMB Leasing[NV] was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 50.0% W-o-W from LKR 0.20 to LKR 0.30.
Agalawatte gained 26.0% W-o-W to close at LKR22.80. Sathosa Motors(+17.8% W-o-W) and Brac Lanka (+16.9% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
Kotagala Plantations finance was the weeks highest price loser, declining 30.2% W-o-W to close at LKR8.10 while PDL (-17.9% Y-o-Y), Renuka Hotels (-17.4% W-o-W) & Adam Capital(-16.7% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net buying position with total net inflows amounting to LKR 0.34Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 0.36Bn (-4.2% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases decreased by 12.0% W-o-W to LKR 2.29Bn from last weeks value of LKR 2.60Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 1.94Bn relative to LKR 2.24Bn recorded last week (-13.3% W-o-W).
In terms of volume HNB & Sampath Bank led foreign purchases while United Motors & Commercial Bank led foreign sales. In terms of value HNB & Sampath Bank led foreign purchases while United Motors & Commercial Bank led foreign sales.
Point of view
Markets skirted around 6400-levels this week as profit-taking and a sell off by foreigners on Thursday & Friday drove the Index lower.
The benchmark ASPI fell ~30 points over the week amid the profit-taking that has dominated markets since last week, and pushing the YTD gain on the Index down to 1.2% cf. the 2.3% gain recorded in the 1st week of trading in 2018.
Markets lost ~64 points during trading in the 1st half of the holiday shortened week, but recovered ~33 points on Friday to help the ASPI Index consolidate 43 points above the 6400-mark.
Weekly average market turnover levels however, improved 31% over the week to hit a YTD high of Rs.1.09Bn, the highest since early Nov17 when weekly average turnover rose to Rs.1.42Bn. Market activity was aided largely by strong HNI and Institutional participation, which accounted for ~61% of total market turnover for the 3rd consecutive week. Institutional and HNI interest in equities was driven primarily by Banks, -particularly HNB (48% of total crossings), COMB (23% of total crossings) and SAMP (15% of total crossings) -which accounted for a total of 87% of total crossings for the week.
Foreign investors meanwhile, turned net sellers for the 1st time since the start of 2018, pushing the net foreign buying on the Colombo Bourse down to Rs.344Mn, down a marginal 4% from last weeks net buying of Rs.359Mn.
Net foreign sales of Rs. 342 on Thursday and Friday, trimmed down the net foreign purchases of Rs. 685Mn at the start of the week. Foreign investors have consistently remained net purchasers since the start of 2018, and the net selling on Thursday and Friday was largely prompted by profit taking as the Index made strong gains (2.3%) in the 1st week of trading in 2018. Markets in the week ahead are likely to remain largely unchanged from the current levels.
World Bank estimates GDP of 5.1% in 2018E
In its flagship publication Global Economic Prospects, the World Bank highlighted that global growth is likely to increase to 3.1% in 2018 after a stronger-than-expected 2017, as the recovery in investment, manufacturing, and trade continues.
The Group noted that the broad-based cyclical global recovery has been aided by a rebound in investment and trade, against the backdrop of benign financing conditions, broadly accommodative policies, improved confidence, and the easing impact of the previous commodity price collapse.
Global growth is expected to be sustained over the next couple of years and even accelerate to a degree in Emerging and Developing economies due to the rebound in commodity exporters.
The WB noted that 2017 GDP growth in Sri Lanka (est: 4.1%), is estimated to have grown lower than its June forecast due to disruptions from droughts and floods.The Group added that despite monetary policy tightening to ease inflationary pressures in H117, credit growth remained strong, supporting private consumption and investment.
The WB estimates growth over 2018-20 to average 5.1% p.a, reflecting strong private consumption and investment growth, with exports being supported by the reinstatement of the GSP+ to the EU. The Group added that Sri Lankas potential growth is estimated between 6-8%, and that the countrys economic reform agenda supported by World Bank and IMF programs, is expected to sustain macroeconomic stability and support potential growth over the medium term.
Public debt meanwhile is expected to decline amid ongoing fiscal consolidation, which should create fiscal space and enable the country to allocate public spending toward human capital investments that support potential growth.
==============================
## Title: Avoid deadly dengue bite
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Avoid deadly dengue bite
These are the common instructions issued to the public by the Health Ministry, the Epidemiology Unit and the medical experts during recent dengue outbreaks of the country.
Protect yourself
* The people can protect themselves from mosquito bites by wearing long sleeves / fully covered dresses during day time.
* Mosquito repellents (the mosquito repellent should be applied on the skin and repeat applying after few hours.
* The most popular mosquito repellent is Citronells oil. It can be applied by mixing with 50 percent of coconut oil or something similar in order to reduce its mild burning sensation.
* Adults can apply both natural and artificial mosquito repellents.
* Mosquito repellents are not suitable for the infants bellow the age of two years.
* Natural mosquito repellents should be used for the children between two and five years.
* Mosquito nets should be used while sleeping both day and night.
* House screening - using nets or similar material to prevent entry of mosquitoes through windows and doors.
* Keeping bedrooms, kitchen and toilets well-lit, ventilated and airy to prevent adult female mosquitoes hiding inside houses.
* Special attention should be paid to destroy and clean all possible dengue mosquito breeding sites which hold water such as gutters, water tanks, refrigerator tray, commode and its water tank regularly (scrubbing them at least once a week is a must).
* All plants in bromeliad family, cut bamboo trees, tree holes etc. should be removed or filled with sand. Wells should be used daily or otherwise they should be covered with a net or similar material preventing the entry of mosquitoes.
* All flower vases with water, ants traps, small ponds etc. should be removed from homes.
* Garbage, especially used food containers, tyres etc. should be removed from gardens. Even a tiny pen clip which holds water is adequate for dengue mosquitoes to breed. Cleaning should be done regularly (at least once a week).
* Since dengue mosquitoes cannot fly few kilometers / miles, the people should pay their attention to keep their homes and surroundings free of mosquito breeding sites.
If a person suffers from fever
* All who suffer from fever should seek medical treatment from a hospital or a qualified doctor without delay.
* Pregnant mothers, infants, elderly and people who suffer from chronic diseases should seek immediate medical treatment for fever.
* Home remedies should not apply for any type of fever even when few family members are suffering from a viral flu.
* All fever patients should take bed rest. They should not attend work, school etc.
* Medications such as Aspirin and Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) such as Aspirin, Ibuprofen, Diclofenac etc. should not be taken.
* All fever patients should take Paracetamol only. Other medications cause Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever (DHF).
* All fever patients should not take any red or dark brown food and beverages. It makes difficult for Consultants to diagnose DHF.
* A Full Blood Count should be tested in 48 hours and even the result is normal, the test should be repeated in another 24 hours. The fever patients should not ignore fever even if the fever goes down in a day or two. They must do the blood tests after wards.
If a person suffers from Dengue
* The symptoms of DHF are severe pain in the stomach, vomiting, bleeding from gums, nose, vagina etc, red patches on the skin, coldness in hands and legs, less or no urination, paleness, sleepiness, uneasiness, feeling faintness, dizziness etc. Immediate hospitalization required for the patients.
* Settling of fever alone can deteriorate the nature of dengue. It means that some patients presume that when the fever gets cured, the whole dengue situation has come to an end. Perhaps it is not. The patients have to be more vigilant and go for frequent treatments until it is recommended by a qualified physician.
* If a person has the dengue virus inside his/her body even without any visible symptoms, he or she can infect mosquitoes and when that mosquito bites a healthy person, he or she gets dengue. Therefore all dengue patients must be kept inside mosquito nets all the time.
If you recovered from Dengue
* The duration of rest depends on the persons condition and how she or he feels.
* The recovered persons should not start their normal routine until they feel normal and energetic.
* Especially the children should take adequate rest.
* The parents should not force recovered children to attend sports, tuition classes etc.
* A person suffered from one type of Dengue and recovered, can get infected with other three types of dengue at any moment.
* All who suffer from fever should seek medical treatment from a hospital or a qualified doctor without delay.
* If a person has the dengue virus inside his/her body even without any visible symptoms, he or she can infect mosquitoes and when that mosquito bites a healthy person, he or she gets dengue. Therefore all dengue patients must be kept inside mosquito nets all the time.
* Since dengue mosquitoes cannot fly few kilometers / miles, the people should pay their attention to keep their homes and surroundings free of mosquito breeding sites.
==============================
## Title: BRITISH CURRY KINGS IN COLOMBO!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
BRITISH CURRY KINGS IN COLOMBO!
Sri Lankan diners can whet their appetites by tucking into British curry, as the Taste of Britain Curry Festival sets up a base at the five star luxury Hilton Colombo from 24-28 January 2018.
A team of British chefs will be in Colombo to showcase their talent at this British food promotion, which is organised by the UK trade magazine, Curry Life. Hot, mild, creamy or dry, any way you like it, the fact still remains: CURRY has come to be the UKs number one national food.
The curry, which originates from the Indian Sub-Continent, now outsells even fish and chips. Some twelve thousand curry restaurants in the UK cater to ever-increasing love of British curry cuisine. Rupert Rowley, one of the most experienced and celebrated Michelin Starred chefs in the UK, heads the Taste of Britain team to Colombo.
Accompanying Rupert, award wining British curry chefs team are also here, who will be producing a range of new dishes giving a spicy twist to traditional British meals as well as classic high street favourites like Chicken Tikka Masala, Balti and Ceylon dishes. The aim of the festival is to showcase the best of British Cuisine and the work of some of the UK's most creative chefs.
The festival team will also be going on a food trail to taste local cuisine in Colombo and get inspiration from the famous Sri Lankan dishes for their menu back home in Britain. During this festival chef Rupert, will be showcasing Sri Lankan seafood inspired British menu, while his curry chef colleagues will offer a classic British curry menu during the festival.
The British curry chefs contingent includes Vijay Singh Panwar from London, AbulMonsur from Chatham, Kent and Syeduz Zaman Kamran from Warrington, Cheshire and Mr Shamsul Islam, Food Hygiene Specialist, who provides food safety and quality compliance.
In a message of support for the festival, the UK minister of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Office responsible for Asia and Pacific, Rt Hon Mark Field MP, said: I send my best wishes to everyone at Curry Life Magazine and to all those participating at Taste of Britain Curry Festival in Colombo for organising this marvellous event in Sri Lanka.
I would also like to extend thanks to the Hilton Colombo for hosting the Festival.
Festival organiser and the editor of Curry Life Magazine, Syed Belal Ahmed added: British food is enjoying a renaissance period after many years and curry has played a major role in helping put us back in the world kitchen.
Curry Life festival team all over India with British curry, but this is our first British curry promotion in Sri Lanka. Hopefully this will create the opportunity not only to showcase the best of British but also help our chefs to bring fresh ideas to their own menus by working alongside the culinary masters of Sri Lanka.
We also hope they will get to know more about Sri Lankan cuisine.
We are delighted to be hosting the Taste of Britain Curry Festival at the Hilton Colombo, the flagship property of Hilton in Sri Lanka, says Manesh Fernando, General Manager, HILTON COLOMBO.
==============================
## Title: Buttler serves up series success for England
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Buttler serves up series success for England
SYDNEY, Sunday: A scintillating century from Jos Buttler brought England a 16-run win and a one-day international series victory against Australia in Sydney on Sunday.
The hosts, set 303 to win by England after winning the toss and choosing to bowl, were always struggling in their chase and eventually managed only 286 for six.
The result gave England an unbeatable 3-0 lead in the five-match ODI series, a remarkable turnaround after Australia had trounced them 4-0 in the Ashes Tests.
England ODI captain Eoin Morgan said Buttler had engineered of the best wins hed been part of.
Jos was probably the difference between the sides, he said. On a two-paced wicket he paced it to perfection, played the anchor until about five or six overs out.
This is one of the best wins from this group.
Australias hopes largely rested with Steve Smith (45) and Mitchell Marsh (55), but both were dismissed at a crucial stage of the chase, with Smith falling to a contentious low-down catch by Buttler off the bowling of Mark Wood (2-46).
Marcus Stoinis made a late attempt to lift Australia with a punishing 56, but England managed to hold on despite losing pacemen Liam Plunkett to a leg injury early in the Australian innings. Australian captain Smith said the game was lost in the last few overs of the England innings.
I thought the way we bowled in the first 45 overs was good, but Jos played exceptionally well, Woakesy too, but we bowled poorly at the end, cant do that to a guy like Jos, he said.
We were chasing probably 30 too many... batted well but not enough to get over the line.
Buttler, 27, was the only batsman from either team really to get to grips with a slightly slow pitch. His late surge enabled England to reach a total which had seemed out of their reach until the final few overs.Several English batsmen failed to capitalise on promising starts, but Buttler notched his fifth one-day international century from the last ball of the innings as England helped themselves to 38 off the final two overs.
Buttler himself took 28 runs from the last 11 balls he faced. He faced 83 balls, hitting six fours and four sixes, in a dashing innings that gathered momentum in the last 10 overs.
Just as England appeared to be struggling against a full-strength Australian attack, Buttler found a willing ally in Chris Woakes late in the innings, the seamer making 53 from 36 balls in a match-winning partnership of 113 in 11.5 overs. Australia recalled pacemen Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood for the match, the first time in the one-day series that the trio of Cummins, Hazlewood and Mitchell Starc, who spearheaded the Ashes win, had been reunited. The tactic appeared to be working until Buttler and Woakes came together and turned the match on its head. The English were aided by sloppy Australian fielding, with four missed catches and two botched run-out attempts. The easiest of the catches to go to grass was a howler by Cameron White, who failed to get a hand to a skied chance from Moeen Ali when he was on one.
Marsh was the unlucky bowler, but had his revenge a few minutes later when he bowled Ali for six, continuing the all-rounders wretched tour. Smith dropped Morgan (41) on 18 off spinner Adam Zampa, while Starc got his fingers to a tough caught-and-bowled chance.
==============================
## Title: Call for a canopy for Gajaman Nona
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Call for a canopy for Gajaman Nona
The statue of Gajaman Nona at the triangular highway junction at Nonagama, Ambalantota, is exposed to the vagaries of nature due to lack of a canopy and proper maintenance.
Gajaman Nona was a poetess who was also exceptionally beautiful; she had a talent for composing emotional and romantic verses. She was named Dona Isabella Cornelia Perumal and received baptism at the Milagiriya Church, Bambalapitiya.
There are also important places such as tanks and villages in Ambalantota DS area named after her.
The residents in the area urge authorities concerned to take steps to protect the statue.
==============================
## Title: CameraLK launches Sony a7R III camera
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
CameraLK launches Sony a7R III camera
One of the largest independent retailers of photographic and digital equipment in Sri Lanka, CameraLK, launched the Sony a7R III camera to the Sri Lankan market recently, during a ceremony held at the Galle Face Hotel.
CameraLK Founder and Manging Director Anushka Gunasinghe, explaining the features of the Sony a7R III camera.
==============================
## Title: Career based subjects help children undergo job training - Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Career based subjects help children undergo job training - Minister
The novel concept of introducing career based subjects to our school curriculum shortly will immensely help children to undergo job training in industrial plants and various work places outside the school.
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam made these remarks at the opening ceremony of EDEX Expo -2018 and job fair held at BMICH. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was the chief guest on the occasion. Principal Royal College B.A. Abeyratne and EDEX, Chairman Mahinda Galagedara Former EDEX Secretary Kamal Abesinghe, RCU, Secretary Athula Munasinghe , EDEX, Secretary Sudeera Senaratna also attend the inaugural ceremony of the 32nd annual EDEX exhibition and job fair, conducted by Royal College Union (RCU).
Over 25,000 local and foreign visitor and students from public, private and international schools and universities visited the three -day exhibition and job fair which concluded yesterday (January 21). Highlighting the value of conducting the EDEX Expo and Job Fair, Minister Kariyawasam said not only the urban population but also the rural youth in every nook and corner of the country will benefit from having first-hand information about available employment in the Lankan job market.
Minister Kariyawasam also highlighted the invaluable service rendered by EDEX over the past decade to help thousands of younger generation to improve their educational activities and thereafter to find better employment here and abroad. He mentioned that free education is compulsory for children between 5 to 18 years and thereafter from Grade 11, every child will be absorbed to advance Level classes irrespective of their achievement in the OL examination.
Then students could choose career based subjects and the Education Department wish to introduce seven career paths. He further said EDEX endeavours to create a conduit between job providers and job seekers and to provide expert advice on starting ones own business and encourage youth obtain gainful employment.
Quoting great Greek philosopher Socrates, the Minister said education and skill training education should extend to all.
Principal, B.A. Aberatna said EDEX from its inception in 2004 helped thousands of Sri Lankan youth to receive higher education and trainings in various fields.
EDEX, Chairman Mahinda Galagedera said the exhibition helped participants to select academic, vocational, technical and professional courses and post graduate programmes which were offered by both local and foreign educational institutions.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe also presented a plaque to a group of students of the Astronomical Society of Royal College for launching 1950 water rockets and also breaking the former record and becomimg the official Guinness World Records Title Holder.
The print media sponsor of the exhibition is Daily News and Sunday Observer.
==============================
## Title: Cargills Bank pioneers use of cognitive security in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Cargills Bank pioneers use of cognitive security in Sri Lanka
IBM announced Cargills Bank Ltd, a licensed commercial bank based in Sri Lanka, has deployedIBMs cognitive cyber security solutionstoenhance their existing defensive capabilities,enable improved monitoring and implement stronger preventive protocols to guard against sophisticated threat incidents.With the Financial Services industrybeing targeted the most by cyber criminals, CargillsBankhas taken a proactive approach to better safeguard customers and becomes the first commercial bank in Sri Lanka to deploy AI technology to augment their operations and security capability.
With the significant increase in the number of cyberattacks, the volume and rate of security information(both structured and unstructured) has continued to grow at a rate and speed which makes its near impossible for security teams to stay up to date and armed with accurate intelligence to make decisions quickly.
Cargills Bank is leveraging IBM QRadar, an industry leading security intelligence platform, along with QRadar Advisor with Watson, the first security solution which takes advantage of IBM Watsons unique augmented intelligence capabilities, to facilitate early detection and classification of cyber threats and alerts.
The solution helpsCargills Banks cyber defense team to manage and analyse the large volumes of unstructured information coming from multiple external streams, and compare it with the latest information about potential threats coming from within their systems to get a complete picture of the threat and thereby correlate the data to obtain actionable insights.
This was implemented locally through IBM Business Partners Blue Chip Engineering Co. of Sri Lanka and Secbounty Services Private Limited of India. Rohan Muttiah, Chief Operating Officer, Cargills Bank said, We are committed to enhancing our customers digital banking experience while being mindful of emerging security threats. With cyber crimebecoming more organized and sophisticated, it is imperative to deploy highly adaptive prevention and response capabilities based on proven technology. IBMsbest-in-class cognitive security portfolio will help us pre-empt threats and mitigate risk, thereby supporting our position as a leading Digital Bank.
Cybercrime is the organized crime of the 21st century and possibly the single largest threat to any company in the world today. The increasing frequency of cyber attacksalso brings up an overwhelming volume of related data which is near impossible to comprehend quickly, said Manori Unambuwe, Head-Software Sales  Sri Lanka & Maldives, IBM.
IBM Security offers one of the most advanced and integrated portfolios of enterprise security products and services.
Cargills is a brand that has been faithfully serving Sri Lankans for 174 years, built on a foundation of values and ethics.
==============================
## Title: Ceylinco Life celebrates 30th anniversary with donations to SL Police
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ceylinco Life celebrates 30th anniversary with donations to SL Police
Ceylinco Life recently made several donations to the Sri Lanka Police as a part of the companys 30th anniversary celebrations.
The Sri Lanka Police was selected as a beneficiary as it celebrated 151 years of service to the country and for having the oldest and longest-serving band.
The donations included free life insurance policies to 33 members of the Police Band, an electric organ and an advanced security system for the Police Special Task Force (STF).
The donations were received by Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundera and Senior DIG M.R. Latiff, Commandant of the Special Task Force.
==============================
## Title: CEYPETCO bans the sale of Lanka Kerosene Oil
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 17:28
CEYPETCO bans the sale of Lanka Kerosene Oil

The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CEYPETCO) notified all filling stations to ban selling of Lanka Kerosene Oil fuel to wholesale distributers, barrels, factories, bowsers and vehicles.
Accordingly, CEYPETCO notified all dealers to refrain from distributing Lanka Kerosene Oil in accordance with circular number 987, the Petroleum Resources Development Ministry said. 
Lanka Kerosene Oil which is red in colour is sold to the fishing community and lower income households under a subsidized price, by the government.
Industrial Kerosene which is colourless, is sold for all other purposes.
==============================
## Title: China to invest $1 billion in three 60-storey Port city buildings
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
China to invest $1 billion in three 60-storey Port city buildings
China will invest $1 billion in the construction of three 60-storey buildings at a mega-project near Sri Lankas main port, Colombo as Beijing aims to boost its influence in the Indian Ocean. The deal follows an earlier Chinese investment of $1.4 billion to carry out reclamation work for the wider Colombo International Financial City development, strategically located next to Sri Lankas harbour, the only deep sea container port in the region. The countries hope this will create a financial centre in the Indian Ocean comparable with those in Singapore and Europe, drawing billions in foreign investment and thousands of jobs.Sri Lankan officials said 60 percent of the 269 hectare (672 acre) reclamation, due to finish next year. Here Pumps dredge sand to reclaim land at the site of a Chinese-funded $1.4 billion reclamation project in Colombo, , a deal that preceded a new $1 billion investment in three 60-storey buildings near the countrys main port.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (22-01-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (22-01-2018)]
Saving the giant gentle creatures
The sad stories of elephant-man conflict appear in the print and electronic media almost daily. It is either an elephant killing a man or a man killing an elephant. The latest being the man killing the tuskers in search of Gaja Muthu.
The last census of the elephants has been carried out in 2011 according to the Wildlife Department and the Daily News. There are conflicting ideas in carrying out a survey on elephants in 2018. The most important and crucial factor is the damage caused to the people living in the border villages of the elephant-infested areas. These innocent people are killed on the road. Their houses and plantation are damaged and reduced them to a pauper level. Their lifelong savings are reduced to zero overnight.
The next pathetic stage is where these majestic animals become targets of a shotgun of a villager in retaliation and vengeance for the loss of his kith and kin and damage caused to their property. This action cannot be condoned by any standard of thinking. With all the agonies experienced, there are numerous incidents when the affected villagers themselves come to the rescue to salvage of the jumbos to lift them out from the pits and waterholes. It is an excellent sign of showing mercy even to your foe when in difficulty.
According to Wildlife Director, there have been 250-270 deaths of wild elephants in 2017 due to natural causes as well as elephant-man conflicts. While natural deaths cannot be averted, there may have been a certain number saved, had the authorities taken this problem seriously. Most of the elephant habitat is concentrated in the dry zone of the country. They could be confined to their sanctuaries preventing them trespassing to human habitat by erecting electric fences as done in some areas. An arrangement has to be made for a supply of water during dry seasons to prevent them from stepping from their sanctuaries.
This problem should be taken seriously by the authorities as some critics point out. A stepmotherly treatment is meted out as the victims are only hand to mouth poor villagers who have no political influence living in abject poverty. If these things are happening in a politico-infested area, elephants would have been spirited away in white vans!
J Nagodavithana
Nugegoda
==============================
## Title: CMA Australia completes 20 years in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
CMA Australia completes 20 years in Sri Lanka
The institute completes twenty eventful years, since the qualification was first introduced to the Sri Lankan professionals in 1998. The CMA (Australia) final Qualifying Workshop was introduced to qualified Chartered Accountants in Sri Lanka by the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
The 19th workshop is scheduled to be conducted by the Academy of Finance in February 2018.
Kapila Dodamgoda
A qualified Accountant or Finance Degree holder or a holder of Masters Degree specialised in Finance can become a Certified Management Accountant (Australia) by completing the seven day intensive programme on Strategic Cost Management and Strategic Business Analysis.
The programme is facilitated by Prof. Janek Ratnatunga, Chief Executive Officer of ICMA (Australia). Since 2017 the Qualifying Programme has been conducted twice a year, in orderto accommodate the growing demand.
CMA (Australia) Graduate Conversion Programme was later introduced by the Academy of Finance in 2006. Since then, The Academy has facilitated twenty graduate conversion programme intakes during the past twelve years.
This entry route to qualify as a CMA (Australia) provides an excellent path for University Graduates and Qualified Professionals to become a Certified Management Accountant within one year. Nearly eight hundred qualified Marketers, Engineers, Bankers and HR Professional have benefited from the programme. The full Graduate Conversion Programme comprises of four comprehensive modules covering Financial modeling with insights to financial accounting and Excel modelling, Management accounting, Financial statement analysis and an in depth module in Financial Management. The assessments are based on a combination of examinations and assignments.
Most demanded entry path is available for Qualified MBA holders who are entitled to fourteen subject exemption route with two additional modules to be completed in six months followed by the Seven Day Qualifying Workshop. This has become the ideal qualification for the dynamic corporate executives aspiring to climb the corporate ladder faster.
Module contents perfectly aligned to the business executives knowledge gaps and organisational requirements, comprehensive coverage and the excellent panel of lecturers have contributed to the popularity and success of the programme during the past two decades commented Kapila Dodamgoda, Regional Director for ICMA (Australia) - Sri Lanka Region. ICMA candidates holding middle to senior managerial positions with professional maturity, corporate experience and solid academic qualifications make use of this qualification as a stepping stone to General Managerial positions and Board level appointments, Dodamgoda said.
Academy of Finance is the exclusive academic partner for ICMA (Australia) programmes in Sri Lanka. Since the seats for the February workshop have already been filled, registrations are currently open for the second Qualifying Workshop in August 2018.
Registrations are also in progress for the Graduate Conversion programme commencing in late January 2018.
More information could be obtained from www.cmaaustralia.lk, [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: CMA celebrates 14th graduation ceremony
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
CMA celebrates 14th graduation ceremony
The Institutes of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka (CMA), since its inception 17 years ago celebrated its 14th Graduation Ceremony recently, at the Grand Ballroom, Kingsbury Hotel, Colombo.
The Chief Guest at the function was Prof. Sampath Amaratunga Vice Chancellor University of Sri Jayewardenepura and the Guest of Honour Mahendra Jayasekera Managing Director Lanka Tiles Plc. and Lanka Walltiles.
With this event CMA moved another milestone and recognized and presented awards to students who have passed the examinations of CMA in November 2016 and May 2017.
Prof. Lakshman R. Watawala President of CMA in his welcome speech said CMA Sri Lanka established in 1999 with the technical assistance of CMA Canada now CPA Canada and financial assistance from Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) commenced its operations in June 2000 and was incorporated by an Act of Parliament in the year 2009 and is today the National Professional Management Accounting Body in Sri Lanka.
CMA is as a member of the South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA) and joins the fraternity of Professional Accounting bodies in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Maldives, Bhutan and Afghanistan. CMA is a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). IFAC is the global organization for the accountancy profession dedicated to serving the public interest by strengthening the profession and contributing to the development of strong international economies.
IFAC is comprised of over 175 members and associates in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions, representing almost 3 million accountants in public practice, education, government service, industry, and commerce.
The launch of the CMA Professional Programme 2018 in conformity with the IFAC International Accounting Educational Standards Board (IAESB) carries significant improvements in the syllabus with respect to the focus, structure, and coverage both in terms of scope and depth of contents.
It will undoubtedly facilitate the grooming of competent management accountants who are capable of crafting strategies and managing risk in pursuit of developing sustainable world class organizations.
From 2018 CMA will Commence Computer Based Examinations (CBE) in association with Pearson VUE the global testing body for the Foundation Stage.
CMA will be the first National Professional Accounting Body to commence computer based testing introducing new technology in keeping with the developments taking place globally.
==============================
## Title: Committee recommendations come into effect today
## Supertitle: SAITM issue
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:01
SAITM issue
Committee recommendations come into effect today
The recommendations of the Nine Member Committee appointed to resolve the issue surrounding the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe, will come into effect from today (January 22), National Policy and Economic Affairs Deputy Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva said.
This includes the maintaining of minimum standards for medical education, and the setting up of two institutes one of which will aborts all SAITM students and the other which will consider new enrolments for a fully fledged MBBS degree, Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva who chaired the nine member committee said at a press conference held at the World Trade Centre yesterday.
They had now succeeded in funding a solutions to the issue with the blessings of the President and the Prime Minister, the conference and approval of all parties concerned. The committee recommendations are legally binding and the gazette notification regarding its implementation will be published today (January 22).
Dr. Harsha de Silva said accordingly SAITM would be abolished forthwith. All students enrolled in SAITM for Medical degree programme of one to five years would he enrolled to the new not for profit sunrise institute which will cease to exist once the current batch of students graduated.
Apart from this, a new institute afflicted to Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT) will be set up encompassing all assets, liabilities, staff and other resource which belonged to former SAITM. Both these institutes will be affiliated to SLIIT.
He said SAITM encountered opposition on two accounts. One was that it did not conform to minimum standards of medical education and the other was that its sole objective was the profit motive.
As such the President appointed a Committee of nine members headed by him (Dr.de Silva) to the issue. The nine members represented all parties to the issue. The committee report submitted to the Attorney General had received legal approval and it would come into effect with the gazette notification issued today.
==============================
## Title: Constables rescue man off Trincomalee sea
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Constables rescue man off Trincomalee sea
A man who was being pulled by a current while sea bathing in the Trincomalee police division, was rescued by police constables Prasanna (PC38935), Upul (PC 47504), Basnayake (PC52622), Shantha (PC61955), Senewirathna (PC 75243) and Kumasinhe (PC83277) who were on duty there, around 1.20 pm, on Saturday.
The victim was given first aid by the police and handed over to his parents.
==============================
## Title: CTC Laboratory receives ISO/IEC 17025:2005 Certification
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
CTC Laboratory receives ISO/IEC 17025:2005 Certification
Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC (CTC) recently received the ISO/IEC 17025:2005 Certification by the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for complying with standards set out by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electro-technical Commission (IEC), two global entities which form specialized systems for worldwide standardization.
Following a comprehensive audit, the CTC Laboratory received this certification, which is a testament to the organizations development of management systems for quality, administrative and technical operations. As a result, this acknowledges the laboratorys competency in performing chemical and mechanical testing.
CTCs Laboratory has complied with these standards and practices for 14 years since 2002. The specialty in 2017 is that we were able to obtain the ISO certification without having any non-conformity in the field of chemical and mechanical testing which is a remarkable achievement for CTC, said Rukshan Gunatilaka, Operations Director, Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC.
This year marks the most successful ISO audit in the history of CTCs laboratory  not only did the lab pass ISO surveillance without any non-conformities, it also did well in the continuous improvement criteria, with a record-high 25% reduction in areas to improve.
The auditors were impressed with the commitment shown by CTCs laboratory team to work continuously on maintain and improving their standards and operations. The auditors remarked that the CTC laboratory can serve as a benchmark for similar laboratories in Sri Lanka.
The ISO/IEC 17025:2005 Certification emphasizes the CTC laboratorys ability to provide accurate feedback and maintain high standards which the management and other employees within the organization can rely on for planning and decision making.
==============================
## Title: Dancing to success
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Dancing to success
Dance World Studio recently made a journey of epic proportions when they made the trip to Dance Excellence 2017 in Los Angeles. It is an award winning studio in Sri Lanka. These outstanding individuals have certainly made their country proud.
An event was held last week to honor these students and appreciate their commitment and dedication to this studio that they love. It was attended by Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara. DANCEWORLD was also invited to showcase their talents on the legendary Fantasyland Stage at Disneyland, Los Angeles. A first for Sri Lanka, DANCEWORLD dancers gave a unique performance that left the international audience mesmerized and placed Sri Lanka, quite literally on the world stage of entertainment," said Creative Director of Dance World Shaan Deen.
It was an incredible journey made possible by the concentrated efforts of the entire DANCEWORLD Management Team  DanceWorld Founding partner and Artistic Director Sureka Gunawardena Buell, Partner/ Business Director Shaanee Deen Olegard and Creative Consultant to the studio Shaan Deen In recognition of the studios outstanding work in dance and performance, Dance Excellence invited DANCEWORLD from a select number of Studios from around the world to take part in a festival of expression and movement. Dance Excellence also coordinates with leaders in the entertainment industry of Hollywood and DANCEWORLD was privileged to have attended workshops headed by Choreographers, Producers and Directors who have worked with some A-list Celebrities as Beyonc, Lady Gaga and Rihanna to name a few, explained Shaan Deen. These particular dancers of Dance World have pushed the limits of physical endurance, inspired hard work and determination amongst their fellow students and continue to give their most passionate performances, every step of the way.
One of the main highlights of DANCEWORLDS trip to Los Angeles was a surprising sweep at the Dance Excellence Awards Gala where the Studio received a total of 5 Awards for outstanding performances - in various Categories at the International Performance Boards. We want to pay special tribute to DANCEWORLDs Long-Term Students some of whom have been with the studio for more than 5 and up to 12 years. Giving nothing short of their very best throughout the years, said DanceWorld Founding partner and Artistic Director Sureka Gunawardena Buell.
Danceworldschool.com is a feature packed website catering to current students, new students, parents and visitors. In the website anyone can visit, make enquiries and discover more about DANCEWORLD. Each student will receive their own exclusive user credentials opening up a tailor-made portal where they can monitor all activity related to the school.
Our message is simple and profound - With hard work, determination, discipline and passion, anything is possible. For what began as a hobby 12 years ago, rises to a world class, award-winning studio that is synonymous with talent, beauty, grace and style.
The hallmarks of success that is DANCEWORLD, said Buell
==============================
## Title: Death of veteran journalist Jatila Wellabada
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Death of veteran journalist Jatila Wellabada
The death occurred yesterday of veteran journalist Jatila Wellabada (56), a former Chief Editor of Lakbima and Irudina newspapers.
He was working as a Consultant (News) to the Independent Television Network (ITN) at the time of his death. His journalism career began as a reporter for the Divaina newspaper in 1984. He soon gained a reputation as a political analyst, columnist and editorialist.
He was appointed as the Chief Editor of the Lakbima Daily in 2002, a post which he held for 10 years. He then became Chief Editor of the Irudina Sunday newspaper. He also headed the Front Page and Savana websites.
An old boy of Ananda College, Colombo, Wellabada received journalism training from several prestigious foreign institutions. He functioned as a member of the Panel of Judges of the Journalism Awards of Excellence for several years and as the Secretary of the Editors Guild of Sri Lanka. He was also a lecturer at Sri Jayawardhanapura and Kelaniya Universities.
He is survived by his wife Priyadharshani and two children. His remains are at his residence near the Raja Maha Viharaya, Kelaniya. The funeral will take place at 5 p.m. on January 24 (Wednesday) at the Pilapitya Cemetery, Kelaniya.
==============================
## Title: EDEX ends with record participation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
EDEX ends with record participation
Sri Lankas largest education exhibition and job fair, EDEX Expo concluded at BMICH Colombo yesterday with a record number of stalls on display and a huge crowd participation. The expo in its 32nd edition saw Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe as the Chief Guest on the opening day. Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd (ANCL) was the print media partner of the event. Here Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe at the opening.
==============================
## Title: Emphasising on civilian casualties
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Emphasising on civilian casualties
In the course of a debate in the House of Lords, Lord Naseby disclosed some vital information regarding the number of civilian causalities of the war between Sri Lankan Security Forces and the LTTE. According to the information available to the United Nations, the number of civilian deaths could have been about 40,000. The estimates of the United Nations are based on the Report of the Secretary Generals Panel of Experts (PoE) on accountability in Sri Lanka in March 2011 and subsequent OHCHR investigation on Sri Lanka (OISL).
The position of the government of Sri Lanka is that the Sri Lankan governments military operation against the LTTE was a humanitarian operation for the restoration of peace in Sri Lanka. The government had pointed out that the civilian death toll was in the region of 7,000 - 8,000 and argued that the Sri Lankan government was not responsible for civilian deaths and it is the violations of human rights and humanitarian law by the LTTE which caused the civilian deaths.
The Sri Lankan government appreciates very much the hard work that Lord Naseby has done to obtain with much difficulty from the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) the wartime confidential dispatches sent by United Kingdom Defence Attach in Colombo to the FCO. Sri Lankan President, by a letter dated November 2, has thanked Lord Naseby for assisting Sri Lanka to convince the United Nations authorities, especially the UNHRC in Geneva that the Sri Lankan government and its military had not committed serious human rights violations amounting to genocide or war crimes. However, the UK government and other states that sponsored the resolution 30/1 have not taken the contention of Lord Naseby seriously and they are of the view that the findings of the United Nations investigations cannot be rejected because they are based on credible information gathered from multiple sources of information during the final stages of the war. Their position is that the United Nations should not take recommendations made on the basis of the findings of a single individual seriously and they should insist on the Sri Lankan government to honour the commitments undertaken by the Sri Lankan government by co-sponsoring the resolutions of the UNHRC in Geneva.
If the Sri Lankan government as a co-sponsor finds that any amendments or corrections in the resolution 30/1 are necessary Sri Lanka has to bring to the attention of the UNHRC the reasons for making such changes. But, it appears that the other sponsors of the resolution 30/1 may not agree to review the resolution. Therefore, if the UNHRC insists that the Sri Lankan government should honour the commitment to establish a special tribunal envisaged in the resolution 30/1, the Sri Lankan government cannot ignore or postpone indefinitely taking necessary steps.
Regarding the requirement for including judges from foreign countries the Sri Lankan government may be able to convince the sponsors of the resolution that the judicial system in Sri Lanka is now free from political interference and capable of conducting a credible judicial investigation by a domestic tribunal.
Policy guiding the United Nations
In a statement issued to The Island newspaper (December 12) Lord Naseby states that the policy by which the United Nations is guided when it deals with states affected by terrorism is that states must ensure that any measure taken to combat terrorism complies with their obligations under international law, in particular, international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law. The United Nations also insists on states to implement a credible accountability process for those responsible for serious violations and abuses and such accountability process contributes to safeguarding the reputation of those included within the military, who conducted themselves in an appropriate manner with honour and professionalism.
A significant role has been assigned to the United Nations to intervene in civil wars because there is a tendency for the authoritarian states to disregard human rights and resort to excessive violence for suppressing anti-government insurgencies. Even after the end of a civil war, the United Nations has a responsibility to intervene in the state concerned for ensuring that necessary steps are taken by the parties for promoting reconciliation and lasting peace and creating a political economic and social environment conducive for peaceful coexistence among all parties to the conflict.
7,000 civilian deaths not a trivial matter
The dispatches by Col. Anton Gash, the former defence attach of the British High Commission constitute a very valuable source of information to any investigator or tribunal which seeks to ascertain the truth regarding the number of civilians who died and under what circumstances they died.
Lord Naseby should be commended for sending the copies of the parts of the dispatches he obtained together with substantial corroborative evidence from many other sources to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the human rights team at the UNHRC in Geneva. He is seeking their support for the correction of the misleading figures and information in the Darusman report and other sources regarding the civilian death toll.
However, Lord Naseby emphasizes that the death of even seven thousand civilians should not be regarded as a trivial matter. He says that whatever the number of civilian deaths that occurred during the last stage of the war, the Sri Lankan authorities should honour their commitment to the UNHRC by conducting credible investigations and thereafter proceed to prosecute any persons and officials against whom credible evidence is available. The material that Lord Naseby has discovered and the documents that he has with him regarding the manner in which the parties to the war, the Sri Lankan military forces and the LTTE conducted themselves during the war, may be valuable evidence before any tribunal.
Referring to the unlawful conduct of the LTTE during the last stage of the war, Lord Naseby observes that Tamil civilians were herded into a war zone against their will by the Tigers. In effect, this was a mass hostage situation and the Sri Lankan Armed Forces took action to release the Tamil civilians. Despite this position, the casualties remain remarkably low. He further observes that there is no evidence to indicate that Sri Lankan Security Forces were directed by their government to break the principles of conducting operations in a way that was beyond the bounds of military necessity nor that Sri Lankas Armed Forces did not take due diligence to avoid civilian casualties by conducting their operations with regard to distinction and proportionality.
National Unity Government has the political will
The national unity government of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has shown the political will to implement the UNHRC Resolution 30/1 with the understanding that the United Nations is intervening only for the purpose of promoting reconciliation among all communities in Sri Lanka by bringing the attention of the Sri Lankan government to the various aspects of the reconciliation process such as accountability, human rights and good governance, that should necessarily follow after the end of the war. The leading nations that co-sponsored the resolution 30/1 have appreciated the substantial progress Sri Lanka has made by taking many steps in compliance with the resolution 30/1.
Most challenging task
The most challenging task for the government in the reconciliation process appears to be the drafting of a new constitution. The steering committees interim report based on the reports of the six sub-committees was presented to the Constitutional Assembly on September 21, 2017, which was subsequently debated in Parliament. The peace-loving people of this country who are yearning for durable peace hope that the final report of the Steering Committee together with the draft constitution will be submitted for approval of the Constitutional Assembly without delay.
==============================
## Title: Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers visits Colombo on Jan. 23
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers visits Colombo on Jan. 23
The Sri Lanka  Malaysia Business Council of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce to hold Business Meetings with members of the visiting Delegation of the Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) on January 23, 2018 at the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.
The 11 member Malaysian team is expecting to meet potential Business Personals from Sri Lanka for joint ventures and for export and import opportunities.
The Sri Lanka  Malaysia business council organized this meeting in order to strengthen the bilateral ties between the two countries and to promote bilateral trade and investment between Sri Lanka and the Malaysia which provides great opportunities for Sri Lankan business community.
The Malaysian delegation is comprised with well-known large Malaysian companies from the sectors of Anti-Microbial Spray, Mosquito repellent and Control Solutions, Waste Management and Recycling, Food flavoring and Food coloring, office furniture, Logistics providers, Dry Concrete Products, Ground Granulated Blast furnace Slag, Portland Cement (Ordinary), Pulverized-Fly Ash Cement, Ready mixed Concrete, Slag, Slag Cement. A company in the Fashion Industry with 30 chain stores in Malaysia and Singapore, Interested to source for the products from Sri Lanka such as T-Shirts, cotton pants, jeans and bags.
Also a member from Malaysias leading thermo-vacuum form plastic packaging company will be visiting with the delegation.
The Group has more than 60 well-known brands in its portfolio from various sectors including food, medical, electronics and others. Also a large company of packaging of edible oil (cooking oil)is joining the delegation a company who is Interested to source or buy any edible oils such as RBD coconut oil, RBD soya bean oil, RBD corn oil, RBD canola oil, RBD sunflower oil, RBD rice bran oil, RBD peanut oil, aromatic peanut oil, and crude sesame oil.
Companies from Sri Lanka who are interested to expand their business opportunities and would like to collaborate with these companies can contact the Sri Lanka  Malaysia Business Council of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.
More information could be obtained from [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Findmyfare partners with Contiki
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Findmyfare partners with Contiki
Sri Lankas largest online travel company Findmyfare has partnered with Contiki, the original travel company for young, wild and free, to offer an array of adventures for Sri Lankan youth.
Contiki is a very special range of tours that encompasses both quick breaks as well as epic journeys, with trips for 18 35 year old travelers that cover the world from virtually every angle. Contiki curates over 300 trips that span Europe, Asia, Latin America, the USA and Canada, and Australia and New Zealand.
As the original travel company for the young, wild and free, Contiki has perfected the art of travel for 18 to 35 year-old adventurers. Featuring 300 trips spanning six continents, with the best team in the business, Contiki packs in more experiences than anyone else, with your transportation being just the start of what you get. Contiki also offers even more flexibility through eight ways to travel, five ways to stay and endless free time and options.
Findmyfare always look at innovative ways of bringing the best experience for Sri Lankans and our partnership with Contiki will immensely enhance travel experiences of young adventurers, said Director of Findmyfare, Abishek Sithampalam.
Since its launch in 2012, Findmyfare has become Sri Lankas ultimate one-stop travel shop, providing the best travel deals available in the market-place. The findmyfare.com website allows customers to search, compare and book affordable flights and hotels around the world.
The company was also the very first in Sri Lanka to provide an online reservations system that enabled customers to confirm bookings without submitting a credit card payment. All the features of the findmyfare.com website are also designed to make the process of researching, choosing and paying for a holiday as simple, easy and convenient as possible.
==============================
## Title: First integrated Maldivian resort seeks Lankan participation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
First integrated Maldivian resort seeks Lankan participation
Singha Estate PLC a leading Thai real estate developer launched Maldives first integrated resort, a travel destination mega project in Emboodhoo Lagoon, titled Crossroads recently.
The Investment Retail Opportunity event is supported by the Maldivian government. This mega real estate project saw several international investors as well as international retail stores, including Sri Lankans attending the open house event for business and investment opportunities.
Situated just a 15-minute speedboat ride away from Velana International Airport (Mal International Airport) this Bill Bensley-designed Township will bring together a rich combination of hotels, entertainment centres, retail stores and fine dining restaurants with unique offerings for both travellers and residents of Mal. We are very keen on attracting investors from Sri Lanka, both those residing in Sri Lanka as well as expatriate Sri Lankans. The proximity between the two countries is definitely an attraction, while it is very much an investment which will keep increasing in value as the Maldives is one of the worlds leading up market tourist destinations, said Thiti Thongbenjamas, Chief Investment Officer, Singha Estate Company Limited. He also said the Crossroads development would present exciting new career opportunities for Sri Lankans who are known for their proficiency in the hospitality industry.
We are focusing on business expansion and investment via land purchases in high-potential locations and quality project development under the Best in Class concept in tandem with investment, joint investments.
Recent investments and business expansions have resulted in Singha Estate today commanding assets under the operation of the company itself, subsidiaries, and joint-venture companies in and outside of Thailand in three core areas, Commercial, residential and leisure /hotel properties. The company is investing in a rich portfolio of hospitality businesses that includes two high-end luxury resorts in Thailand and 29 hotels in the United Kingdom, giving them a combined total of over 3,000 rooms.
Crossroads is set to redefine the Maldives tourism experience and stimulate the countrys economy. The project is responding to the rapidly growing demand of the international family-leisure market, while embracing the One Island, One Resort concept.
==============================
## Title: First stage of 2018 LG postal voting held today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 17:37
First stage of 2018 LG postal voting held today

The first stage of postal voting of the Local Government Election 2018 began this afternoon.
Accordingly, employees of police stations, Divisional Secretariats, District Secretariats and Election Offices casted their postal votes.
The Additional Election Commissioner M.M. Mohommad said the voting process went on smoothly and no incidents were reported.
According to him, the other state employees will be able to cast their votes on January 25 and 26.
State officers eligible to apply for postal votes include school principals, teachers, those who are attached to Sri Lanka Transportation Board, Postal Department, Railway Department (Essential Services), military forces, the Police Department and the Civil Security Force.
The Election Commission has accepted around 560,000 applications for postal voting at the local government polls.
==============================
## Title: Foundation laid for giant economic leap - PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:03
Foundation laid for giant economic leap - PM
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe stressed that Sri Lanka has great potential to take a giant economic step to reach a developed nation by 2025.
The Prime Minister made these remarks participating in a television interview on Swarnavahini last night.
The Premier further said the government is duty bound to create a better economic environment and a country with economic stability for the next generation.
We are establishing a sound economic platform aiming for a speedy journey towards economic prosperity he noted.
The Prime Minister added that moves have been taken to increase the Gross Domestic Product by twofold during this decade. The country is receiving foreign investments and the country will harvest the benefits of this by next year. The mountain of loans to be repaid has been brought down to the manageable position. However, the GDP probably should be increased in the coming years, resulting in the country being able to settle loans more comfortably. The Prime Minister further noted that export income will also be trebled in due course and then the country will reach a comfort zone.
Speaking on the Hambantota port and the Mattala International Airport, the Prime Minister added that the port has been converted to profit making venture. The harbour is not a burden to the countrys economy anymore, he said. The Mattla Airport will also be utilised for the wellbeing of the country.
Asked whether the economic achievement of this Government is at a satisfactory level, the Prime Minister said that it can be totally satisfied with the preliminary measures taken to uplift the countrys economy. It was taken two years to establish a sound economic platform,he said.
The country will be developed economically by establishing five mega economic zones. To achieve economic prosperity, the countrys infrastructure will see a huge turnaround with mega projects, he said.
==============================
## Title: Four new childrens hospitals planned
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Four new childrens hospitals planned
Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said the government has decided to construct four new fully equipped childrens hospitals in Karapitiya, Kalutara, Ragama and Jaffna to uplift the quality of childrens healthcare in these areas.
He said the plan to construct four new childrens hospitals is a timely intervention, since the Lady Ridgeway Hospital is the only childrens hospital in Sri Lanka, offering a free healthcare services for children below 12 now.
Minister Senaratne laid the foundation stone to establish the new nine storey childrens hospital complex at the Karapitiya Teaching hospital, Galle recently.
Plans are also afoot to set up 24 accident and emergency treatment units and 148 blood transfusion centers across the country for the benefit of our patients, he added.
The estimated cost for the project is around Rs.1,587 million.Newly constructed dialysis Unit and Kidney Transplant Unit at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital at a cost of Rs 1,200 million will also be opened in April,this year.
==============================
## Title: Govt. will continue till 2020  PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:04
Govt. will continue till 2020  PM
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday said that regardless of the challenges, the unity government will continue until 2020.
While noting that persons involved in corruption and malpractices in the past were trying to change the Good Governance government, the Premier said that they will never be able to realise their goal.
The Wanni Hathpaththuwa Development plan will also be launched this year, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister was speaking at a UNP election rally at Nikaweratiya town yesterday.
The Premier said the Sinharaja Range Development project too would come into operation soon. He said the Wanni Hathpaththuwa development plan would be implemented through the Wayamba Development Ministry.
If the large area reserved in Galagamuwa for an elephant habitat proved insufficient to tackle the wild elephant menace causing undue pressure on the people of Wayamba, more elephant zones will have to be demarcated to find a solution to it. Tourist Zones could be developed around such elephant zones,the Prime Minister added.
The Prime Minister who promised to provide necessary funding for dredging neglected tanks and reservoirs in the Wayamba, said that drip irrigation systems too should be developed in the region.
==============================
## Title: Green Key gets green light for waste management in SP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Green Key gets green light for waste management in SP
Southern Provincial Council is to obtain the services of Green Key Enterprises of USA to convert municipal waste to energy.
Provincial Councilors of both the ruling party and the opposition, led by Chief Minister Shan Wijayalal De Silva and Provincial Minister Chandima Rasaputra, had discussions with Green Key in this regard at the Council secretariat at Kalegana, Galle recently. Chief Government Whip Ajith Rajapaksa coordinated the discussion.
Chief Executive Officer Michel Hill and Project Director Brent Lee Greer made presentations over the proposed project which convinced the councillors and ministers who expressed their satisfaction over the intended strategies of the project and its projected outcomes and benefits.
Green Key Enterprises LLC, based in Utah, USA, said that they had been successful in introducing and implementing municipal solid waste (MSW) recycling solutions through the use of a combination of specialized technologies.
Usng MSW as input, Green Key will produce lumber, energy, and bio-diesel as key outputs that could be reused to meet construction and consumption needs.
Green Key will carry out waste management in the Southern districts of Galle, Matara and Hambantota. They will undertake waste collection, sorting, processing and output generation of Waste to Lumber (W2L) and Waste to Energy (W2E) through the generation of electricity and bio-diesel.
In his deliberations, Michel Hill said that they had already entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Taprobane Waste Management.
Green Key is well equipped with its own technology and is reputed in the field of recycling solutions. Green Key will tie up with the Weepel Group which is one of the W2E (waste to energy) companies in manufacturing bio-diesel.
Green Key plans to invest US$ 200 million through private equity funds in the initial stages of the project. The company hopes to establish their recycling plant in a landfill to be purchased or leased in Matara district as it has highway accessibility.
The Green Key project will help Sri Lankan authorities to eliminate the chronically disturbing waste problem in the region as the company would collect and process the waste piled throughout the province.
The lumber produced can be used for construction and exporting, while the energy and bio-diesel could be supplied to the National Grid and CEPETCO.
Project Director Brent Lee Greer responded to a number of questions raised by the Chief Minister, Provincial Minister and the councilors over proposed project.
Subsequently Green Key officials had a further meeting with a group of senior provincial officials led by Southern Province Chief Secretary R.C. De Silva at the Chief Secretariat.
Prior to the meeting with Southern Provincial authorities, Green Key representatives met the officials of Prime Ministers office and Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils including Minister Faizer Musthapa, who positively responded to the proposed project, they said.
Former National Paper Company Competent Authority Mangala C. Senarath serves as the local representative of for Green Key.
==============================
## Title: Hela Clothing ships one millionth garment from Ethiopia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Hela Clothing ships one millionth garment from Ethiopia
Sri Lankas Hela Clothing, recently produced and shipped their one millionth garment from their factory in Ethiopia.
A feat made more impressive considering the company only commenced operations in the country in June 2017. With 800 workers and 70,000 production hours logged it is the most efficient factory in Ethiopia representing 66% of the countrys total knit womens underwear exports.
Dominic McVey, Group Board Director said, We are proud of achieving this milestone in such a short period of time. It is a testament to our operational expertise and execution. It is also a testament to the hard work and dedication of our entire Ethiopia team who made all this possible. Following this success, we are looking at increasing our investment in the region and raising our workforce to 2,000 people.
This will help us to further reduce lead times, increase output and provide our clients with better customised solutions. We truly believe in Africa as the driver for growth in apparel solutions, we are committed to continue investing and expanding in the region. We are the largest intimates apparel exporter in East Africa and aim to have a workforce of 8,000 people by the end of the year through our plants in Kenya and Ethiopia.
Keeping to the founding tenets of the company, Hela practices sustainable manufacturing in Ethiopia which ensures that the resources of the company are aligned with the needs of the community. Hela provides their employees with meals, accommodation and transport. In a country where 8.5 million people are facing severe hunger and distance to work can be a substantial barrier to employment these services can have a widespread positive impact on those who utilise them.
Since beginning operations in Ethiopia we have endeavoured to balance profitable growth with caring for people. This latest milestone is further proof that our sustainable approach to apparel manufacturing and ability to adapt strategies to local conditions allows us to better cater to our clients needs, said Keith Harding, CEO Hela Ethiopia.
==============================
## Title: Hemas acquires 75.1% of Atlas Axillia Co for Rs 5.7 bn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Hemas acquires 75.1% of Atlas Axillia Co for Rs 5.7 bn
Hemas Holdings PLC acquired 75.1% of Atlas Axillia Co (Pvt) Ltd for a consideration of Rs. 5.7 billion. The existing shareholders of Atlas will retain a stake of 24.9% in the company post-acquisition.
Nirmal Madanayake, Managing Director of Atlas Axillia Co. said Atlas Axillia is on a great journey of growth and we were keen to take our organisation to the next level. We went through a rigorous process to find the right partner, and we saw a great business and cultural fit with Hemas. Both our organisations have a rich history of bringing loved brands to Sri Lankan homes and have served the Sri Lankan consumer with high quality, affordable and innovative products. Both Atlas and Hemas have always felt that our most valuable asset is our team and we strive to empower the people in our organisation.
Hemas Holdings PLC is expanding its presence in the Sri Lankan consumer market by acquiring one of the most respected local brands with market leading positions for its notebooks, pens, pencils and colour products. Todays consumers seek out premium, innovative and design-oriented products and Atlas has demonstrated its ability to do this repeatedly, resulting in its unique position as the most loved school and office brand said Steven Enderby, Group Chief Executive Officer of Hemas Holdings PLC. A-Sec Capital (Pvt) Ltd, the investment banking affiliate of Asia Securities (Pvt) Ltd, acted as arranger and sole advisor to the seller on this transaction.
==============================
## Title: Homemade Harry and Meghan dolls for sale!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Homemade Harry and Meghan dolls for sale!
A woman has launched Harry and Meghan dolls ahead of the royal wedding. They look a little bit like characters from 2004 action-puppet movie 'Team America' or classic show 'Thunderbirds'.
Designer Shirley Corsey has given Prince Harry slightly longer, browner hair than in real life, while Meghan Markle isn't captured perfectly, but there is a vague resemblance.
The couple do come in their formal wedding attire. Harry's dressed up in a white and gold military-style jacket. Meghan's in a traditional white wedding dress.
The dolls are 18 inches tall and available to buy on Etsy. They cost 130.
Shirley says the dolls are a "fun way to celebrate the upcoming, wedding of the year". Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are due to get married in May this year.
She adds: "I love history and current events, therefore my 18 inch doll outfits and designs for girls and boys reflect my interest. I also look for current event trends regarding what I feel Esty shoppers will be looking for, and I created and just launched for 2018 my Royal dolls inspired creations based on what will be one of the most exciting 2018 weddings for the UK and America."
Shirley designs dolls and matching clothing to fit popular culture. On her site HistoryWearz, a number of other characters feature, including a 'colonial man' and a Disney-style princess.
She hopes the royal dolls will be popular with collectors and history-lovers. They're available worldwide.
Mirror
==============================
## Title: Jaffna citizens cynical of upcoming polls
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Jaffna citizens cynical of upcoming polls
It has almost been three-and-a-half years since the Jaffna Municipal Council (JMC) was dissolved; longer than the other local government bodies in the island. But those who expect some excitement among the local populace of the possibility of finally having an election would be disappointed.
"There was not much pressure to hold the elections in these areas; we did not have the opposition parties pushing for it here," noted Pt Pedro Institute of Development Principal Researcher Dr Muttukrishna Sarvananthan.
His observations are reflected in the sense of apathy shown by the people themselves. M. Vaseegaran (42), a three-wheel driver working in the Jaffna city, perceived the exercise of ones franchise a futile effort.
They are all corrupt. What is the point in voting for anyone We earn for ourselves and look after our means. There is no party that works, he said.
His colleague, R. Prem (37), agreed with him: People only come to talk to us during election time. Look at our streets. They are so dirty, garbage piled up everywhere. We have to work in this environment.
The Jaffna Municipal Council area consists of 90,279 people living within its borders (Divisional Secretariat Jaffna and Nallur, 2013). At the last local government election held in 2009, only 22,280 voters turned up to vote though the number of registered voters was 100,417 (Elections Commission, 2009). This time around, it is generally expected that more will turn out to vote but the question is, what do they expect from their local government authority
Garbage
When the people were asked what they thought the most important task of their local government was, they said it was garbage. As garbage littered every street corner, drain and market place in Jaffna city, the inefficiency of their local government authority was all the more apparent to all.
The upcoming polls, however, has stirred some action.
In the last two months, the authorities came and cleaned up the upstair section of the building. For many years, that was neglected and was being used as an open toilet and garbage dump by many. Our shops below used to smell so bad. We complained many times about it through our trade association here, but nothing happened. But in the last two months, they finally cleaned it up, said K. Rajani (37), an owner of a shop in the Jaffna market complex.
The vendors within the open market however have had no such luck. One of the main tourist spots in the city, the market where all visit to purchase produce unique to Jaffna has at its heart - a garbage dump.
Vendors whose stalls were right next to it, complained that it made working difficult there and often discouraged customers from visiting their stalls. The question of how hygienic produce sold next to it is was another concern.
All officials are the same; they have kept the garbage inside, where we sell our goods. There is also no security for this market, by 5 pm the guards disappear. We have to undertake all the upkeep even though we pay tax for this market, said M. Sivakumar (40), a vendor at the Jaffna Market.
When we constantly complain, they eventually come and take the garbage, but later come back with more. We have been having the same garbage problem for the last three years, he added.
Looking at the prospect of the upcoming polls as an opportunity, he said, This time we need a change. If the rules are enforced, we will stick by them, the place is so run down now and nobody cares for it. There is zero administration here.
Jaffna Municipal Council Commissioner, R.T. Jayaseelan has been at his post for the last two months. The Commissioner is all powerful in the absence of an elected body, but he is defensive when it comes to the garbage problem,
We collect garbage from 5.00 pm to10.00 pm but during the morning hours, the shops pollute so you will see garbage all over if you walk around in the morning, he said when questioned on the issue.
There is also a court case regarding garbage disposal, so we cannot do anything about it; so we have to work within those constraints, he added.
In the absence of a political leadership, the people have found it hard to voice their opinions to the JMC and push their case through. But according to the former JMC Commissioner, Ponnampalam Vageshan, they have tried their utmost to be both mediator as well as executioner.
The elected council ended its term at the end of August 2014. I went to JMC in September 2015 and completed two years and 2.5 months of service as the Municipal Commissioner, he said.
Steering through the challenging times, Vageshan explained that whilst the 25 respective branch heads looked after the functioning of various departments, overall accountability and responsibility fell on the Commissioner.
If the Mayor, council and standing committees are there, they attend to peoples requests and demands. Then, the decisions taken are communicated to the Commissioner for implementation. During my period, I had to attend to requests and needs of the municipal citizenry. It was a challenge actually in view of limited resources. However, I and my team were cautious enough to deliver non-discriminative service, he said.
During budget preparation, I opened ways to get maximum inputs from the public. Community centres were approached. Public petitions and letters were considered. There was a newspaper advertisement that invited public budgetary inputs.
In October 2017, I sent a team to all 47 grama niladhari divisions to meet the public and get their inputs to prepare the Local Authority Participatory Development Plan. The earlier plan lasted for five years and lapsed. The JMC's intention was to update or produce a new plan for another five years. In 2016, I formed the Advisory Committee comprising prominent personalities in the city. It was through a proper recruitment procedure by public notice. They advise the council voluntarily or on my request. The first Advisory Committee worked well, he continued.
This was also a period where the JMC took the initiative to open up and invite public participation into the JMC through modern technology.
I kept all local newspapers informed about JMC activities. The JMC has taken all positive and negative criticisms positively. The official website (www.jaffna.mc.gov.lk), in all three languages, has facilities for people to send their complaints/suggestions/proposals. Last August, the JMC started an official Facebook account under the name of Yalpanam Manakara Sabhai. People, especially youngsters, have joined and have actively been in it as followers'.
In addition, the JMC issued a handbook on its services to residents with Assessment Notices. The handbook includes the Municipal policy frameworks on road construction and water supply connections formulated by us.
The question, however, is how far such consultations and Facebook engagements reached the ordinary people. On the street, the people only look to the council for garbage collection - a scheme which, according to the JMC website, costs Rs 92 million.
Vageshan, however, stressed that during his tenure he focused highly on Municipal Solid Waste Management (MSWM).
The JMC conducted several awareness programmes in schools to promote segregation of garbage. We opened five Recyclable Waste Collection Centres. All look similar so as to be identified easily. We revamped the compost making plant and registered the brand name for the JMC compost, Veeriyam'. We have started putting segregation bins in public places. A plastic and polythene recycle plant was opened. The recyclers from the South entered into an agreement with the JMC. We have succeeded in an attempt of bringing PPP (Public Private Partnership) in waste collection from shops, hotels and restaurants.
People were often informed about JMC initiatives on MSWM and their role via newspapers, web and social media. Public littering was monitored and culprits were spot fined or brought to legal action, he highlighted.
The segregation bins today however are filled with all kinds of garbage, with only the colours signifying that garbage needs to be separated there. The efficacy of their awareness programme among the general public thus needs to be looked into further.
Despite his efforts, Vageshan noted that it was always best to have an elected local authority run the show.
Peoples representation is a must for a local authority. The revenue amount collected does not matter here. The right personalities in a council will definitely find means and ways to improve their administrative area. The people need to be heard through representatives they elect.
Therefore, participating in local polls is not only about exercising their franchise, but it is also about having someone from their neighbourhood amplify their voices and take it even to Parliament, he said.
The purpose of local government
Whilst the local representative would be motivated by the election cycle to deliver on at least some of the deliverables rather than a public servant, Prof Rajan Hoole, academic and human rights activist based in Jaffna, felt that the community still lacked understanding of the role of the local government authority.
Here too they speak of the same issues; of self-determination, missing persons, lands, etcwe dont seem to be taking on local government issues, he said.
There is rubbish littered everywhere, it is not collected on time, our natural reserves are polluted, but you see very few people protest against these, added Prof Hoole.
In Kandy I hear they have a good waste collection programme. Why cannot we do it here he asked, as he pointed out that even the local civil society or university hardly paid attention to issues of the environment or local governance.
The same old parties are contesting again and I dont think there will be a change because people do not expect much. Change wont happen unless there is an articulated protest movement here but there isnt, he further observed.
Dr Sarvananthan concurred with Prof Hoole and observed that even the political parties contesting in the area were speaking of national level issues at the local government election.
Many also believe that if Tamil politicians at the national level cannot achieve anything, they can do very little at the local level, he added.
However, what they do not notice is that interior roads, protection of wells, rain water harvesting, garbage collection, etc. are done by the local government and not the centre, explained Dr Sarvananthan.
And despite the shortcomings, he observed that the local government in the last few years had undertaken the building of interior roads and the provision of fertilizer and other assistance to farmers. So we see a break from just mega projects to smaller things that affect people day to day, he said.
As work continued even in the absence of a political authority, Dr Sarvananthan observed that the Commissioners have been successful in ensuring that life continued in Jaffna.
But the JMC is a symbolic win for all Tamil parties contesting, he added.
The election
Thus far only six election related violations have been reported from Jaffna, according to the Elections Commission. The offenses involve misuse of government property, violation of media guidelines, one unauthorized meeting, illegal pasting of posters and one case of intimidation.
This, according to Tamil National Alliance (TNA) Jaffna District MP E. Saravanapavan is a welcome change from the election environment of 2009.
People were scared to vote in 2009, elections were held under the dictatorial leadership of Mahinda Rajapaksa and Douglas Devananda. We could not even find contestants, we had to force people to contest because they faced all kinds of threats and people were being killed, he said.
This time is different, we have a democratic environment and there is no doubt that the TNA will win the JMC and the other 16 councils in the district, he added.
Saravanapavan noted that people were now more interested in development and expected at least a 70-80 percent voter turnout at the election.
The 2009 election had the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) lead by the Eelam Peoples Democratic Party (EPDP) score 13 seats, Ilangai Tamil Arasu Kachchi (ITAK) gain eight seats, an independent group one seat and the Tamil United Liberation Front win one seat.
EPDP leader Douglas Devananda, speaking to the Daily News, however remarked that the people would continue to vote for his party having seen how the TNA has failed to deliver results to the Tamil people at the national level. Whichever government, we have not neglected the people, we work for them, he said.
He explained that at the last general election EPDP scored only one seat into Parliament because the people were confused over his party running independently of the UPFA, This time it is much clearer, he added.
The EPDP, he said, also had the advantage of appealing to all in a society strictly based on caste.
The most significant change during this election however would be the significantly higher number of women contesting the polls, thanks to the 25 percent mandatory quota for women.
Womens right activist, Udayani Navaratnam (39) believed that there would be a change in the local government as most parties have chosen female social workers at the grassroots to run for them.
We believe that the women will be able to achieve more, at least they will be able to work for the higher number of women in the area, she said. The Jaffna district is estimated to have 20,000 women headed households.
Problems, she feared would come after these women are elected into the local body.
Many female candidates are scared that even after they are elected, if they oppose any legislation in the council, there would be personal attacks hauled against them, said Navaratnam.
The women coming forward are also from lower income backgrounds, which means that at times, they are also the breadwinners of the family. Being a councillor does not pay much and thus the five years in power would take a massive hit to the familys economy.
Despite these concerns, the women have come forward and according to Navaratnam, are more focused on local issues unlike their male counterparts.
They have lived through the war, they know the issues the community faces day to day, so they want to change things, she said.
Dr Sarvananthan in the meantime believed that gender will stand for the women at the election.
We have had female leadership in the past. People will not shy away from voting for a woman, we have seen that they can work, he said.
==============================
## Title: Kabul: Gunmen shot Intercontinental Hotel diners - eyewitness
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 09:08
Kabul: Gunmen shot Intercontinental Hotel diners - eyewitness
An eyewitness has told the BBC of the terrifying moment gunmen burst into Kabul's Intercontinental Hotel restaurant on Saturday.
The man, who is not being named for security reasons, said he was spared after saying he was an Afghan. "Where are the foreigners" they shouted.
Fourteen foreigners are confirmed to have died, along with four Afghans.
However, some media reports indicate the number of dead could be much higher.
The interior minister said the recent decision to transfer security to a private company had been a mistake.
Some 160 people were rescued after Afghan troops fought throughout the night to regain control of the building.
Three attackers were also killed in the siege, officials said. Ten people, including four civilians, were injured.
Kabul police told the BBC that nine Ukrainians, one German, one Greek and one Kazakh citizen had been confirmed dead. Two have yet to be identified.
Afghan airline Kam Air says a number of its employees were killed and some are still missing.
The Taliban, which targeted the hotel in 2011, says it was behind the latest attack. A spokesman said in a statement quoted by AFP that the group had "killed tens of foreign invaders and their puppets".
Gunmen 'ate before shooting'
The gunmen burst into the six-floor hotel at around 21:00 local time (16:30 GMT) on Saturday evening, as guests were enjoying dinner.
The eyewitness told the BBC he was having dinner with his son when the gunmen began firing into the air with small arms.
They killed a woman - believed to be a foreigner - and turned the gun on the eyewitness himself.
He shouted "I'm Afghan". One of the gunmen shouted that they didn't kill Afghans and demanded to know "Where are the foreigners" The men then ran out of the room to look for them.
Haseeb, another eyewitness told Tolo News that two of the gunmen had asked him to serve them food first.
"They were wearing very stylish clothes," he said. "They came to me and asked for food. I served them the food and they thanked me and took their seats. Then they took out their weapons and started shooting the people."
"There were dozens of dead bodies lying around me."
Several guests were pictured using bed sheets to try to climb down from a top-floor balcony.
Dramatic images on Afghan TV showed thick black smoke and flames rising from the imposing hilltop hotel.
Afghan special forces were lowered by helicopters on to the roof of the hotel during the night, an interior ministry spokesman said.
They were working with Western special forces to bring the siege to an end.
The ministry has promised an investigation into how the attackers breached security, which was handed to a private company two weeks ago.
Hotel manager Ahmad Haris Nayab said the gunmen had entered the hotel through a kitchen.
The Intercontinental is a state-owned hotel - not linked to the global hotel chain of the same name - which often hosts weddings, conferences and political gatherings.
Security has been tightened in Kabul since last May, when a huge truck bomb killed at least 150 people.
However, there have been several attacks in recent months. They include a bomb at a Shia cultural centre last month that killed more than 40 people.
==============================
## Title: Kaveesha excels for Lalith Athulathmudali Vidyalaya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Kaveesha excels for Lalith Athulathmudali Vidyalaya
The all-round performance of T. Hasith Kaveesha Madushan guided Lalith Athulathmudali Vidyalaya, Mount Lavinia to enter the third round of the Inter School Under 13 Division Three Cricket Tournament.
In the first round they participated in four matches while in the second round they played three games. Hasith playing in all seven matches scored 466 runs at an average of 66.67 and he notched up four centuries and claimed five wickets.
His skipper Ferwez Adnan too captured 22 wickets for 124 runs at an average of 6.4 and the team is coached by Ayesh de Silva and A.K. Dinesh as his deputy.
The Master-in-Charge is K.D. Nilantha and R.A. Niroshani Perera is the PTI and the Principal Navarathne Bandara is extending his fullest support to keep the game alive at his school.
How Kaveesha fared:
Vs. Lumbini Vidyalaya 28 Vs. Methodist School, Rawathawatte 16 and 01 wkt
Vs. Methodist High School, Puwakarambe 43 and 09
Vs. Moratu Maha Vidyalaya 115 not out
Vs. Lyceum College, Panadura 05
Vs. Sir John Kotelawala Vidyalaya, Piliyandala 122
Vs. Bomiriya Central School 128 and 4 wkts Total 466 and 5 wkts
==============================
## Title: Kunchana Gihan plays key role in Cambrian success
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Kunchana Gihan plays key role in Cambrian success
The all-rounder of Prince of Wales College Kunchana Gihan Perera helped Prince of Wales College to come up to the semi finals of the inter schools under 15 division one cricket tournament.
Kunchana bowls left arm leg spin and bats right hand and he is a safe fielder in any position with a good arm. So far playing in eleven matches he has captured 34 wickets which carried a long way for Cambrians success and he is the highest wicket taker of the side.
His best was a match bag of 9 48 versus Kegalle Central.
How he fared
Vs  Dharmapala Kottawa  0/32, Vs  Nalanda  3/27, Vs  Siri Piyarathne  Match Abondened., Vs  Piliyandala Central  3/20, Vs  Royal Panadura  2/28, Vs  Carey  2/23  1/17, Vs  Kegalle Central  2/12  7/36, Vs - Kalutara Vidyalaya  2/53, Vs  St. Aloysius 3/22, Vs  Tissa Central  4/9, Vs- St. Benedicts  5/32, Vs  Mahinda  0/10. Total 34 wickets
==============================
## Title: Labourer killed, two injured in earth slip
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Labourer killed, two injured in earth slip
One labourer died on the spot and two other colleagues were injured and admitted to the Kandy hospital when a large mound of earth slipped and fell on them burying them. The tragedy occurred while they were engaged in cutting a trench to lay the foundation stories for a retainer wall to be built in Asgiriya without Municipal approval around 10.30 a.m on January 20.
Rescue workers were able to rescue the two injured within a few minutes and dispatched them to hospital.
The other labourer had succumbed to his injuries by the time he was retired after about 20 minutes with great difficulty.
The deceased was identified as P.G. Janaka (44) of Bokalawela, Katugastota. Kandy Municipal Commissioner Chandana Tennakoon. Their approval had not been obtained for the excavation. The Kandy Police and the Kandy Municipal Council have launched to separate investigations into the tragedy.
==============================
## Title: Little Expressionless Animals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Little Expressionless Animals
Its 1976. The sky is low and full of clouds. The grey clouds are bulbous and wrinkled and shiny. The sky looks cerebral. Under the sky is a field, in the wind. A pale highway runs beside the field. Lots of cars go by. One of the cars stops by the side of the highway. Two small children are brought out of the car by a young woman with a loose face. A man at the wheel of the car stares straight ahead. The children are silent and have very white skin.
The woman carries a grocery bag full of something heavy. Her face hangs loose over the bag. She brings the bag and the white children to a wooden fencepost, by the field, by the highway. The childrens hands, which are small, are placed on the wooden post. The woman tells the children to touch the post until the car returns. She gets in the car and the car leaves. There is a cow in the field near the fence. The children touch the post. The wind blows. Lots of cars go by. They stay that way all day.
Reflected light
Its 1970. A woman with red hair sits several rows from a movie theaters screen. A child in a dress sits beside her. A cartoon has begun. The childs eyes enter the cartoon. Behind the woman is darkness. A man sits behind the woman. He leans forward. His hands enter the womans hair. He plays with the womans hair, in the darkness. The cartoons reflected light make faces in the audience flicker: the womans eyes are bright with fear. She sits absolutely still. The man plays with her red hair. The child does not look over at the woman. The theaters cartoons, previews of coming attractions, and feature presentation last almost three hours.
Alex Trebek goes around the Jeopardy! studio wearing a button that says PAT SAJAK LOOKS LIKE A BADGER. He and Sajak play racquetball every Thursday.
Its 1986. Californias night sky hangs bright and silent as an empty palace. Little white sequins make slow lines on streets far away under Fayes warm apartment.
Faye Goddard and Julie Smith lie in Fayes bed. They take turns lying on each other. They have sex. Fayes cries ring out like money against her penthouse apartments walls of glass.
Other light
Faye and Julie cool each other down with wet towels. They stand naked at a glass wall and look at Los Angeles. Little bits of Los Angeles wink on and off, as light gets in the way of other light.
Julie and Faye lie in bed, as lovers. They compliment each others bodies. They complain against the brevity of the night. They examine and reexamine, with a sort of unhappy enthusiasm, the little ignorances that necessarily, Julie says, line the path to any real connection between persons. Faye says she had liked Julie long before she knew that Julie liked her.
They go together to the O.E.D. to examine the entry for the word like.
They hold each other. Julie is very white, her hair prickly-short. The rooms darkness is pocked with little bits of Los Angeles, at night, through glass. The dark drifts down around them and fits like a gardeners glove. It is incredibly romantic.
On 12 March 1988 it rains.
Faye Goddard watches the freeway outside her mothers office window first darken and then shine with rain.
Dee Goddard sits on the edge of her desk in stocking feet and looks out the window too. Jeopardy!s director stands with the shows public relations coordinator.
The key grip and cue-card lady huddle over some notes. Alex Trebek sits alone near the door in a canvas directors chair, drinking a can of soda. The room is reflected in the dark window.
Half-catatonic
We need to know what you told her so we can know whether shell come, Dee says.
What we have here Faye is a twenty-minutes-tops type of thing, says the director, looking at the watch on the underside of her wrist. Then were going to be in for at least another hours set-up and studio time. Or were short a slot, meaning satellite and mailing overruns.
Not to mention a boy whos half-catatonic with terror and general neurosis right this very minute, Muffy deMott, the P.R. coordinator, says softly. Last I saw he was fetal on the floor outside Makeup.
Faye closes her eyes.
My husband is watching him, says the director.
Thank you ever so much, Janet, Dee Goddard says to the director. She looks down at her clipboard. All the others for the four slots are here
Everybody whos signed up. Most weve ever had. Plus a rather scary retired WAC whos not even tentatively slotted til late April. Says she cant wait any longer to get at Julie.
But no Julie, says Muffy de Mott.
Dee squints at her clipboard. So how many is that altogether, then
Nine, Faye says softly. She feels at the sides of her hair.
We got nine, says the director; enough for at least the full four slots with a turn-around of two per slot. The rain on the aluminum roof of the Merv Griffin Enterprises building makes a sound in this room, like the frying of distant meat.
And Im sure theyre primed, Faye says. She looks at the backs of her hands, in her lap. What with Janet assuming the poor kid will bump her. Your new mystery data guru.
Dont confuse the difference between me, on one hand, and what Im told to do, says the director.
He wont bump her, the key grip says, shaking her head. Shes chewing gum, stimulating a little worm of muscle at her temple.
Alex Trebek belches quietly, his hand to his mouth. Everyone looks at him.
Dee says, Alex, perhaps youd put the new contestants in the booth for now, tell them we may or may not be experiencing a slight delay. Thank them for their patience.
Alex rises, straightens his tie. His soda can rings out against the metal bottom of a wastebasket.
A good host and all that, Dee smiles kindly.
Gotcha.
Alex leaves the door open. The sun breaks through the clouds outside. Palm trees drip and concrete glistens. Cars sheen by, their wipers on Sporadic. Janet Goddard, the director, looks down, pretends to study whatever shes holding. Faye knows that sudden sunlight makes her feel unattractive.
- Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Lumbini Tea Estate, tea factory win record twenty awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Lumbini Tea Estate, tea factory win record twenty awards
The oxygen rich atmosphere in the Lumbini tea valley and ecofriendly agricultural practices helped us win a record twenty national and international awards in 2017, said Chaminda Jayawardena, Managing Director of Lumbini Tea Estate and Tea Factory over a cup of freshly brewed Lumbini Sinharaja Wiry tips a few days ago.
Lumbinis Sinharaja Wiry Tips a single origin single garden Ceylon FBOPF EX SP (Finest Broken Orange Pekoe Flowery Extra Special) produced by Lumbini and has won six awards this year and a total of twelve awards since 2013.
As Sri Lanka celebrated her 150th year in the tea industry Lumbinis award winning year was crowned when Chaminda was honored to receive the Presidential Award for the best Small Scale Tea Factory in Sri Lanka from President Maithripala Sirisena a few weeks ago. The other awards won by Lumbini Tea Estate and Lumbini Tea Factory in 2017 are: Global Tea Championship USA - Lumbini Tea valley Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF EX SP) 1st Place, Global Tea Championship USA - Lumbini Breakfast Tea (FBPOF) 1st Place, World Tea Expo Las Vegas USA  Peoples choice award as the best black tea for the Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF EX SP), Gold Medal Tea Competition 2017 USA- Lumbini Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF EX SP) 1st Place, Gold Medal Tea Competition 2017 USA  Lumbini Breakfast Tea (FBOPF) 1st Place, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Lumbini Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF EX SP) Best Black Tea Gold Award, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Best Yellow Tea (Yellow Tips) Gold Award, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Best Flavored White Tea Gold Award, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Best Single Origin Black Tea Gold Award, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Best Ceylon Black Tea Gold Award, Golden Leaf Awards Australia  Best Black Tea Flavored Lumbini Lemon Grass Tea Silver Award, Hong Kong International Tea Fair  Best Black Tea Lumbini FBOPF SP 2nd Runner Up, Hong Kong International Tea Fair  Best Black Tea Lumbini Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF SP EX) 1st Runner Up, Ceylon Specialty Tea Competition Beijing, China  Lumbini Sinharaja Wiry Tips (FBOPF SP EX) Silver Award, Ceylon Specialty Tea Competition Beijing, China  Lumbini Tea Valley FBOPF 1 Bronze Award, NCE Export Awards 2017  Best Service Provider (Medium Category) Gold Award, NCE Export Awards 2017  Best Small Scale Value Added Exporter Gold Award, NCE Export Awards 2017  Most Outstanding Value Added Exporter Gold Award, NCE Export Awards 2017  Best Innovative Exporter Silver Award.
We believe in producing quality tea rather than quantity and provide the tea lovers with single origin single garden unblended Pure Ceylon Tea which is fast becoming a rarity. At Lumbini we strictly adhere to only picking two leaves and the bud as it is the bud and first two leaves that have the highest concentration of polyphenols, Jayawardena said.
There are over 30,000 polyphenol compounds in tea which gives it its unique flavor, aroma and color. The Polyphenols together with Amino acids, enzymes, pigments, carbohydrates and minerals makes tea a beverage with many health benefits.
Lumbini Estate is a family business founded by my father in 1984 and presently managed by me. Together with Harris Uddika Mahadiulwewa who was ready to take on the challenge of recapturing the niche market for Pure Ceylon TeaI formed Giri Tea Marketing Pvt Ltd. We have been successfully promoting teas from the Lumbini Valley which are marketed under theDalu and Giri brand names among connoisseurs of tea in USA, Japan, UAE, Australia, India, Sweden, France, Latvia, Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, Germany, Kuwait, Mexico and Spain who are willing to pay a premium price for Pure Ceylon Tea. Lumbinis Dalu brand of teas comprise of single origin single garden pure black tea including handspun tea and specialty tea while we market single origin unblended pure Ceylon tea and Ceylon Seasonal Teas, Green Teas, Garden grown Lumbini Valley white Teas and flavored teas with 100% Lumbini Valley Black Tea under the Dalu brand. We rather go in search of new markets rather than compete for existing markets. We at Lumbini believe in offering the world the purest Ceylon Tea, said Jayawardena.
As the cost of producing quality tea is high Lumbini been compelled to establish their own sales outlets to keep the Dalu and Giri brands within the consumers budget. Presently there are Dalu Tea Centers at Lumbini Valley, Deniyaya Town, Hikkaduwa and Ella.
Black Tea should be allowed to steep for approximately between three to five minutes in boiling water to obtain optimum benefits, said joint Managing Director of Giri Tea Marketing Uddika Harris Mahadiulwewa.
"In 2017 Chaminda and I have been traveling around the world promoting Pure Ceylon Tea produced in the Lumbini Valley. We highlighted that Sri Lanka was one of the few tea producing nations that still resort to hand picking tea leaves and Lumbini Valleys proximity to the UNESCO world heritage Sinharaja Rain Forest which helped convince those who attended our promotional events of the pureness of the atmospheric conditions in the valley.
==============================
## Title: Maggi Pazzta launched in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Maggi Pazzta launched in Sri Lanka
Nestls Maggi brand has launched Maggi Pazzta and entered the value-added pasta category.
Made with the wholesome goodness of semolina grains, which is high in fibre, Maggi Pazzta only requires cooking in hot water for five minutes for a delicious pasta meal in rich creamy cheese sauce. It is the latest in a series of product innovations and renovations by the Maggi brand to encourage the younger generation to indulge in more home cooking, and cook tasty meals as part of a balanced diet, states a press release issued by Nestle.
Maggi Pazzta is entering the market with a promise to convert even an amateur cook into a veritable gourmet chef said Vice President - Food at Nestl Priyadarshinie Karunaratne, in the same press release.. Its a great first dish for young men and women who want to attempt cooking and make a good first impression.
Our Facebook teaser campaign, #BeCheesy, leading up to the launch has whetted curiosity. With a series of funny posts and videos of a young man looking to win over the love of his life, #BeCheesy unveils Maggie Pazzta as a cool, fun, creative and easy way to cook. Maggi Pazzta seeks to help the new generation of men and women Taste the new language of Love and drive home the idea that men too can cook.
Tthe Maggi range of products include Noodles, Coconut Milk Powder, Seasoning and Soup Cubes; all of which are must-haves in every kitchen across the country for their taste, convenience and goodness, and which are fortified where appropriate with vegetables, spices, grains and essential micronutrients. Leveraging on the strong brand recognition enjoyed by Maggi in Sri Lanka, all-new Maggi Pazzta joins the Maggi product range to help the brand cater to millennial consumers, and also offer a range of products to enjoy at every eating occasion.
Maggi Pazzta was launched at Colombos first Pazzta Festival at Independence Arcade, which featured a range of delicious pasta dishes using Maggi Pazzta. The event served as the grand final to Maggis #BeCheesy teaser campaign, where the main character cooks up a delicious cheesy Maggi Pazzta and wins the girls heart.
==============================
## Title: Maha Sangha, Ministers, workers get together to resolve issues
## Supertitle: Magampura Port
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Magampura Port
Maha Sangha, Ministers, workers get together to resolve issues
A special meeting to resolve issue of the Magampura port workers was held under the patronage of the Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe on January 18 at the Ministry auditorium.
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Minister Mahinda Amaraweera, and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority Chairman Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake represented the government, while a group led by Omalpe Sobitha Thera represented the workers.
==============================
## Title: Malibans Yaha Posha receives SLS Certification
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Malibans Yaha Posha receives SLS Certification
Maliban Biscuits wholesome breakfast offering Yaha Posha achieved a significant milestone when it received the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) Certification recently.
Yaha Posha as the latest innovative produce offering from the House of Maliban, leverages the companys unwavering dedication to quality and taste. The term Yaha in the brand-name connotes a wholesome and good natured choice imbibing Malibans long-term vision of offering its consumers products that are not only tasty and good but the best of both worlds and the balance they value so much.
Director General SLSI, W.N.N. Satharasinghe, Group Chief Executive Officer, Ravi Jayawardena, Chairman, A.G.R Samaraweera and Group General Manager, Operations, Bandula Perera.
Maliban Yaha Posha offers both children and adults a new and healthy morning meal option or even to be consumed as an evening snack. Recognised by every Sri Lankan household as the assured mark of quality, the SLS certification also guarantees continued compliance through routine monitoring ensuring customer expectations are met.
For over six decades, the House of Maliban has persevered to be a much-loved household name among all Sri Lankans. The company continues to delight consumers with flagship products while introducing revolutionary innovative biscuits, uncompromising on quality and taste at all times. The brand enjoys a strong and robust island-wide distribution. Present in 35 countries Maliban has strong endorsement among its international distribution network. Ravi Jayawardana, Group CEO said, Maibans Yaha Posha provides consumers a great tasting, healthy product conforming to the highest standards. As a wholesome and good natured brand it is ideal to help the younger generation in their nutrition goals and also to demonstrate the value of good health
Free from chemicals, Yaha Posha has no added flavors, colorings or preservatives ensuring a healthy diet for everyone. The product consists of nutritionally dense ingredients such as Corn, Soya, Green Gram, Rice, Vitamin and Mineral Premix.
The SLS certification recognises our stringent quality practices followed in the manufacture of Yaha Posha. Receiving this approval demonstrates Malibans constant commitment to stay true to the quality of its product, provide customer satisfaction through taste and as a testament to Malibans long tradition of quality celebrated for decades, added, Varna Fernando, General Manager Quality Assurance & Research & Development.
The Yaha Posha manufacturing plant is based in Dambulla and all ingredients are locally sourced. Maliban proudly supports and encourages local farmers in their production to enhance and expand their yield to contribute further towards its products and nourish consumers.
We also initiated several corporate social responsibility programmes among its farmer population. Maliban continuously engages these farming communities to enhance their quality of life and improve their well-being including improving their livelihoods and supporting all individuals in the villages, said Bandula Perera, Group General Manger Operations.
==============================
## Title: Man hacked to death over financial transaction
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Man hacked to death over financial transaction
A man was hacked to death at Medagama, Kudugala, in the Medagama Police area, on Saturday.
According to Police, the deceased D.M.Jayasinghe (50) is a resident of Kudugala, Udagangoda, Bakinigahawela.
Police said that a financial transaction had taken place between the deceased and the accused and a heated argument between them broke out over the money which led to killing, near the accuseds house.
The accused (46) is a resident of Udagangoda, Bakinigahawela.
He was produced before Bibile Magistrates Court on Sunday.
Medagama Police are investigating under the direction of acting OIC. K.M.G. Nandasiri and Moneragala SP Sujith Wedamulla.
==============================
## Title: Meelad un Nabi celebrations at Osmaniya College
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Meelad un Nabi celebrations at Osmaniya College
The Muslim Religious Cultural Affairs Department organized a National Meelad un Nabi celebration and prize-giving ceremony which was held at Osmaniya College, Jaffna, to present prizes to winners of essay, oratorical, and calligraphy competitions in all three languages, recently.
It was held under the patronage of Post, Postal Services and Muslim Religious Affairs Minister M. H. A. Haleem. Speaker Karu Jayasuriya was present as the chief guest and distributed certificates and cash awards to the students who took part in the Meelad contest.
Students of Osmaniya College, Kadija Girls' School, Vaitheeswara College, and Kottadi Namashivaya College, Jaffna, sang the National Anthem at the opening ceremony. Students presented cultural events and a welcome song at the ceremony as well.
Minister Haleem presented the first copy of the Meelad Souvenir to the Speaker.
Industries and Trade Minister Rishard Badurdeen, National Integration and Reconciliation State Minister A. H. M. Fowzie, Members of Parliament, religious leaders, secretary to the ministry, senior officials of the ministry and Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs Department, principals, teachers, parents, and students, were also present.
==============================
## Title: Monk abducted, beaten, robbed...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Monk abducted, beaten, robbed...
A monk from a Mawanella temple had been abducted blindfolded by three men on January 18. They had left the monk inside a dilapidated house and fled after beating him for two days keeping him under starvation. They had robbed the monk of Rs. 125,000 as well.
The monk, Ven. Pinpare Sumanarathana Thera (58) has been stayed at the Pinketha Rajamaha Viharaya in the Padiyathalawa Police Division in Ampara. The Thera had come to Mawanella from Ampara to meet a vehicle dealer to resell a three wheeler. He had written a cheque to the monk for him to encash it in three months for the three wheeler. The Thera had purchased a motorcycle from the dealer with the balance, police said. After a few days, the monk had returned to Mawanella to get the cash from the dealer since the cheque got bounced.
When he arrived, his three wheeler was not to be seen at the shop. The dealer told the monk that the three wheeler was yet to be sold. He gave the monk Rs. 125,000 and informed the monk that the three wheeler was on hire.
The monk then came to Colombo to register the motorcycle he bought from the dealer. But he was told that he lacked the documents required to register the motorcycle. While he was returning, he had been abducted, Police said.
I called the dealer from Mawanella and inquired him about the documents to register the motorcycle. He asked me to come to Mawanella to provide them. After arriving at Mawanella, when I was at the clock tower, a car stopped by me around 8.30 pm and an unknown person inside the car asked me to get into the car. I thought he could be a friend of the dealer and got into the car. Then I was blindfolded with a black cloth and my hands were tied. He then started beating me. My robe was removed and my money in a polythene bag under the robe was taken, the monk had told police.
The monk was then taken to a isolated house and assaulted furthermore. He was dumped after two days on a cross road and warned not to tell anything to the police. However, the monk had lodged a complaint in the police about the incident.
The monk was admitted to the Hemmathagama Hospital and later transferred to the Mawanella Base Hospital.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: NDBs Pancha Mama visits Katana Pre-school
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
NDBs Pancha Mama visits Katana Pre-school
The National Development Bank has introduced its minor savings account along with Pancha Mama to instill the joy of saving in young children.
With this in mind, NDBs Pancha Mama visited the Little Bird Pre-School where a special programme which combined education with entertainment was conducted. Pancha Mama  a famous character from the childrens show Tikiri Peya spent the day with the children, teaching them the joys of saving with fun games and activities.
The event was a massive success in terms of spreading the need to save and the Principal and the parents requested Pancha Mama to return to the school annually.
NDB offers various savings accounts to specifically suit a parents need and to instill a habit of saving in their children.
NDB continuously strives to instill the joy of saving in the young generation. NDB minor Savings Accounts are specifically designed to cater to each parents unique needs while making savings more rewarding and exciting for the children at the same time.
The salient feature of the NDB Childrens Savings is the fun of receiving valuable gifts for the children whilst the account balance grows with a comprehensive savings plan.
It is carefully designed in a way that the savings will prosper and reward the children and will also be entitled to substantial benefits for important milestones they achieve along the way.
Meanwhile, the bank has specifically designed NDB Shilpa as a versatile solution to help build the dreams of the aspiring younger generation of the country. Shilpa is not merely a childrens savings account, but a comprehensive financial proposition that provides for a childs education throughout his/ her childhood while instilling the good habit of saving in them.
NDB remains dedicated to bringing its customers one step closer to accomplishing their life long ambitions and uplifting their standards of living through the range of services that is accessible through its growing branch network.
==============================
## Title: Nearly half a million labour demand in private sector
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Nearly half a million labour demand in private sector
The nominal market in which workers find paying work, employers find willing workers, and wage rates are determined, is defined as the labour market. Labour market outcomes result from a combination of the demand for labour by firms and the labour that workers supply. Firms are the focus of trying to understand labour demand, whilst workers are the focus of trying to understand labour supply. Holistic understanding of the current supply and demand for skills is required to analyse how the two interact and to inform policies to support an inclusive economic growth path. With the ever-changing labour market and economy, timely and relevant labour market information is critical for decision making. It is also essential for career development, locating employment opportunities, and sourcing skilled workers. Such information should also guide educational and training programmes to suit the demands of the labour market, and more importantly, to influence such demands for the benefit of the country.
Labour Supply
The working age population, labour force, economically-active population, economically-inactive population, potential labour force, employment, underemployment, main and second job, and unemployment, are key determinants of labour supply. Information on these aspects have been compiled by the Department of Census and Statistics (DCS) on a quarterly and annual basis since 1990 through the Sri Lanka Labour Force Survey (SLFS). The SLFS provides detailed information on characteristics of the labour force such as age sex and education qualification. This information is necessary to understand the supply side of the labour market, which is essential to fully understand the labour market situation in the country. However, there has been a lack of information on the demand side of the labour market. Therefore, the DCS conducted its first ever Enterprise Labour Demand Survey (ELDS) in July 2017, and the report containing the key findings of the ELDS, was released recently, in less than seven months.
Enterprise Labour Demand Survey
The need for conducting ELDS  2017, was driven by the recognition of the importance of ensuring adequate and reliable information on the fit between the skills and competencies of the workforce, on one hand, and the requirements of employers on the other. There was also the concern of a mismatch between the availability of and the demand for skills. This can negatively impact the level of employment and productivity in the workplace.
Specifically, the objective of the ELDS was to gather more information from businesses about their workforce, nature of their business, recruitment patterns, vacancies, hard to fill positions, and training for employees. ELDS  2017 includes a detailed disaggregation by occupations, hiring patterns, difficult to find skills, and some comparisons of first time job-seekers with different educational backgrounds. Disaggregation of occupation in labour market data in a standardized manner is essential in the analysis of labour market data. Therefore, the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO-2008) was used to classify occupations in this survey.
Survey Methodology
According to the findings of the Economic Census 2013/14, there are little over one million private sector economic units in the country. Among those, there are 189,000 economic units with more than three employees. ELDS  2017 was carried out a survey of 3,500 enterprises from across the country. The sample was selected using stratified random sampling technique, to ensure that all categories of enterprises are included in the sample and that it is nationally representative. A structured questionnaire was used to gather and record the data from the enterprises.
Information gathered
Information gathered in this survey were of three types: characteristics of the current stock of employment, labour demand or unfilled vacancies, and the number to be recruited within the next twelve months. This information was collected (a) to ascertain the distribution of workers by key demographics, educational attainment, occupation, skill type, and work experience, (b) to examine the unfiled vacancies by type of occupation and sector, in order to identify employment opportunities in the private enterprises, and (c) to ascertain the extent to which employers experience difficulty in recruiting appropriate staff to fill vacancies. Information gathered on recruitment drive during the next 12 months provide opportunity not only to identify employment opportunities in the short-term, but also to adjust educational and training programs offered by different institutions.
Employment by sector and age group
The estimated total number of employees in the private sector is approximately five million. The leading categories are the service and sales workers (28.8 percent), elementary cccupations (16.9 percent), plant and machine operators and assemblers (14.6 percent), clerical support workers (10.5 percent). These are skilled or semi-skilled worker categories. Shares reported for managers, professionals, and associated professionals were smaller; 7.8 percent, 8.6 percent and 6.2 percent, respectively.
The vast majority (59.3 percent) of employed persons in the private sector are in the age group of 25-45 years. This is followed by less than 25 years (21.2 percent) and 45-60 years (17.8 percent). Nearly two percent of the current employees in the private sector enterprises is past the retirement age of 60 years.
Preparedness of first time job seekers
The employers were asked to report the job preparedness of first-time job seekers in terms of the vocational and educational backgrounds. The first-time job-seekers possessed different vocational and educational backgrounds. The highest above average preparedness was reported for the firs-time job-seekers having university degrees with vocational training (94.7 percent) and the lowest was reported for those having only technical and vocational training (60.4 percent). The percentage vary from 67 percent to 81 percent for those having only secondary education, university degrees, secondary education or vocational training qualifications.
Problems of labour resources
The enterprises experience difficulties in filling vacancies due to lack of applicants and dissatisfaction of job seekers with the offered salary. A brief analysis on unfilled vacancies, also known as labour demand, was carried out with regard to sectors, provinces, occupations, and difficult to fill vacancies.
Enterprises were asked to report the vacancies that they have not been able to fill. The estimated labour demand was 497,300. The service sector reported the highest demand (177,813), followed by the industry sector (175,250) and the trade sector (110,770). The labour demand reported for construction, tourism, and agriculture (plantation) sectors were 20,224, 10,207, and 3,033, respectively.
The top five shortages were reported for sewing machine operators, security guards, other manufacturing labourers, shop sales assistants, and advertising and marketing professionals. Reported demand for these occupations were approximately 77,200, 57,000, 39,400, 28,200, and 21,000 respectively.
Labour demand varies widely across provinces. Of the 497,302 labour demand, the giants share (70 percent), was in the Western Province and the smallest share was in the Eastern Province (0.4 percent). Labour demand in different sectors also vary considerably across provinces. For example, the labour demand in the industry sector varies widely from three percent in the Eastern Province to 83.2 percent in the North-Western Province.
Labour demand in the plantation sector was mainly for tea pluckers (2,474), followed by rubber tappers (437). The demand reported for all other occupations of this sector was less than 25.
Industry sector
The total labour demand in the industry sector was 175,250. The majority of over 134,321 were in the formal sector and it was mainly for sewing machine operators (59,659). The same occupation had the highest demand (13,858) in the informal Industries sector also.
Construction sector
In the construction sector, the total demand was 20,000, almost all of it (18,000) in the formal sector. The highest demand was for building construction labourers (4,300), other manufacturing labourers (4,200), and heavy truck and lorry drivers (1000). For all other occupations, the demand was less than 900. In the informal sector, the highest demand was for building construction labourers (671) and masons (647), and it was less than 380 for all other occupations.
Trade sector
shop sales assistants (22,255) and advertising and marketing professionals (20,744) had the highest labour demand in the Trade sector. Shop sales assistants (4,143) were in most demand in the informal sector as well, followed by waiters (1,730).
Service Sector
The service has been expanding widely in the economy of Sri Lanka. This sector reported the highest labour demand. The three occupations that reported highest were security guards (56,674), commercial and sales representatives (14,360), and cleaners and helpers in office, hotels, and other establishments (13,712). In the informal, the highest demand was for hairdressers (4,182).
Difficult-to-fill vacancies
The survey attempted to find out the occupations for which the employers found it difficult to fill. The reported top four difficult-to-fill occupation in the formal sector were sewing machine operators, security guards, and other manufacturing labourers. The number of vacancies that they have not been able to fill were 46,576, 45,316, 31,277, and 17,568, respectively. In the informal sector the top four occupations difficult to fill, were sewing machine operators, other manufacturing labourers, creative and presenting artists and carpenters and joiners. Numbers reported were 14,667, 7,800, 3,347, and 3,229, respectively.
Difficulties in filling vacancies
The enterprises were asked why they could not fill the vacancies. One fourth of the enterprises reported that people were not willing to do the kind of jobs offered to them.
Little more than one-fifth reported the reason as competition from other employers. Other reasons given were high salary demand, low number of applicants qualified for the job, poor terms and conditions (e.g. pay) offered for post, job entails shift work/unsociable hours, remote locations (poor or no transport), seasonal or time-limited work, and others; the percentage of employers who selected those reasons were 13.5 percent, 13.5 percent, 9.5 percent, 5.2 percent, 5.1 percent, 3.4 percent, and 3.7 percent, respectively.
Plans for hiring workers
Another important area investigated in this survey was the planned recruitment drive during the next 12 months by the employers. In the formal sector, the highest number of workers (74,079) were to be recruited for the occupation of tailors, dressmakers and hatters. Next to this are commercial and sales representatives, and the expected number was 69,865. In the informal sector, the highest (22,400) number to be recruited was reported for building construction laboures.
Skill improvement
In this survey, information was also gathered from the employers on what skills of their workers needed to be improved. Almost 40 percent of the employers identified teamwork as the skill that was most needed to be improved. Oral communication came second (30 percent), followed by being proactive (26 percent), and literacy (20 percent). advanced IT application, management responsibilities, and taking a lead, was mentioned by nine - 10 percent of the employers.
Conclusion
A key finding of this survey is that there is a labour demand of nearly half a million in the private sector institutions having more than three employees.
However, the Sri Lanka Labour Force Survey in 2016, has shown that there is a potential labour force of 210,480 who are not actively seeking employment, but ready work if an opportunity comes. There is also an unemployed population of 363,000. Thus, there are over half a million people who can be employed. However, to do so they need to be provided with knowledge, skills, and opportunities as identified by the employers in the ELDS reported above. By doing so, enterprises can obtain the human resource they need. Equally importantly, half a million people who are not productively engaged can be given employment. Appropriate action to bridge the disconnect between the supply and demand in the labour market can have major economic and social benefits directly affecting half a million people, and a large number of enterprises.
The report on the Enterprise Labour Demand Survey of Sri Lanka, recently released by the DCS, is an important resource to inform the planning and provisioning of vocational and training, as well as to assist individuals to make appropriate career and educational choices. The report is expected to contribute to the improvement of the responsiveness of the post-school education and training system to the needs of the economy and society more broadly, by supporting decision-making on matters pertaining to skills-planning.
==============================
## Title: Nearly Rs 600,000 collected from errant SP traders
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Nearly Rs 600,000 collected from errant SP traders
Officials attached to Southern Regional Office of the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) have intensified their raids and mobile inspections against fraudulent traders in the Southern province.
According to them, an income of nearly Rs 6 lakhs has been collected from errant traders by way of court fines through raids and inspections conducted covering the Southern Province during the previous month.
One hundred and six raids and mobile inspections were undertaken in the Matara district, 93 raids in the Galle district and 85 raids and mobile inspections were conducted in the Hambantota district, during that period. The total of raids in all three districts during the last month was 284.
Errant traders were prosecuted in the Magistrates courts in Galle, Matara and Hambantota districts. Errant vendors nabbed were indicted on counts of sale and display for sale of food items unsuitable for human consumption, sale and display of expired food items, selling foodstuffs which were decayed and eaten by rats, weevils and insects, altering set prices marked on labels and selling them at excessive rates, selling electrical appliances without issuing warranty cards, sale of rice and cement above set prices, non-display of price tags, hoarding essential food items and violating orders, rules and regulations imposed by the Consumer Affairs Authority.
According to CAA, complaints on fraud, malpractices and corruption committed by unscrupulous traders are received daily by the Authority. Under these circumstances, CAA has increased its raids and mobile inspections to apprehend vendors committing fraud and corruption throughout the Southern region.
Awareness programmes on consumer rights are also being conducted for school children, members of voluntary organizations, people and the trading community as well by the Authority.
CAA investigation officers are conducting these raids and inspections covering the Southern region, on instruction of Minister of Industry and Commerce Rishad Bathiudeen and under the supervision of District Secretaries of Galle, Matara and Hambantota, officials said.
==============================
## Title: Nepali Army Chief meets Navy Commander
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Nepali Army Chief meets Navy Commander
Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) of the Nepal Army, General Rajendra Chhetri, who is on an official visit to Sri Lanka, paid a courtesy call on Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy, Vice Admiral Sirimevan Ranasinghe at the Naval Headquarters in Colombo, last Friday.
Upon arrival at the Naval Headquarters, the General was accorded a guard of honour and was warmly received. General Chhetri and Vice Admiral Ranasinghe held cordial discussions on matters of mutual interest and mementos were exchanged symbolizing the goodwill of the two friendly forces in the region.
The visiting Nepali COAS also posed for a photograph with the Commander of the Navy and Director Generals.
==============================
## Title: New Chinese Ambassador arrives
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
New Chinese Ambassador arrives
The new Ambassador-designate of the People's Republic of China to Sri Lanka, Cheng Xueyuan arrived in Colombo yesterday.
Cheng and his family were received at the Airport by representatives from the Protocol Division of the Foreign Affairs Ministry, the Sri Lanka-China friendship Associations, representatives from Chinese enterprises and Embassy officials.
As the 21st Ambassador to Sri Lanka, I wish to make great friendships with people of all circles in Sri Lanka and look forward to promoting the China-Sri Lanka partnership as well as join building the One Belt, One Road Initiative and implementing the cooperative agreements, the Ambassador said on his arrival. Under the great guidance from leaders of our two countries, we are ready to jointly build a China-Sri Lanka community of shared destiny and improve the wellbeing of the two peoples. On the basis of win-win cooperation, we will work together to promote the peace, stability and prosperity of the region, he said.
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Obituaries
ANTHONISZ - MAJOR SEAN KENNETH ALLAN - (6 Field Engineers S.L. Army). Beloved husband of Krisha, loving father of Shrestha and Gambheera (St. Thomass College, Mt. Lavinia), son of Dayanthie and late Allan Anthonisz, brother of Tiyana and late Roger Anthonisz, brother-in-law of Sajin De Vass Gunawardena. Cortege leaves residence No. 24, Charles Place, Dehiwela on Monday 22nd January 2018 at 3.30 p.m. for cremation at General Cemetery, Kanatte at 4.30 p.m.009361
CHOKSY - FRENY - Beloved wife of the late K.N. Choksy P.C. former Minister of Finance, darling mummy of Jamsheed, Kusheed and Vishtasp, mother-in-law of Carol, Pervin and Sirini, passed away on 19th January 2018, and the funeral rites took place on the same day. 22/4, Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha, Colombo 7.009360
EDRISINHA - JOYCE - Wife of the late Eardley, loving mother of Rohan and Arnjali; mother-in-law of Gameela and John; beloved grandmother of Samuel, Tahira and Arvind; sister of the late Derek Samarasinha and Ranee, and Nalini. A private funeral was held on Saturday 20 January in accordance with her wishes.009359
FERNANDO - DOUGLAS - Dearly beloved husband of Mallika, loving father of Marina, late Michael, Devika & Dushan, father-in-law of Anuraddha, Darshika, Ajith & Tania. Cortege leaves at 4 p.m. 45, De Alwis Place, Dehiwala for the General Cemetery, Borella Roman Catholic Section at 4.30 p.m.009357
FERNANDO - THERESE- Death is announced of Therese Fernando. Beloved wife of Dennis, loving mother of Charmaine, Denver and Shelton of USA. Funeral arrangements will be notified later.009299
MAWELLE - PEMASINGHE - Retired Principal, JP (All Island) - Beloved husband of late Soma Wijesinghe, loving father of Nandani, Kithsiri, Irangani, Priyani and Nishamani, loving father-in-law of Hennayake (late), Indira, Ajith, Sujith and Rohitha, much loved grandfather of Chethana, Bharatha. Nisansala, Deshal, Malindra, Thilosha, Dewanga, Minethri and Mineth, expired. Cremation at Homagama Cemetery at 5.00 p.m. on (Monday) 22nd January . Cortege leaves residence 65/24, Suramya Place, Homagama at 4.30 p.m.009346
==============================
## Title: Patient missing from hospital found dead
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Patient missing from hospital found dead
The body of a patient named Wadumesthrige Chaminda Wasantha Kumara, 41, of Wekada in Panadura, who had gone missing from the Panadura Base Hospital while under treatment on January 17, was found near a building of a private dental clinic near the hospital on January19.
A team of policemen headed by Panadura South Police Headquarters Chief Inspector Indika Thusara de Silva, visited the scene and conducted investigations.
On the orders of Panadura Chief Magistrate Chandena Liyanage, the Police rushed the body of the victim to the Ragama Teaching Hospital on January 20. The Chief Magistrate ordered an autopsy to be conducted on the body by the Judicial Medical Officer of the Ragama Teaching Hospital.
The relatives of the deceased had previously staged a protest near the Panadura Base Hospital, as the hospital authorities had not informed them that the deceased was missing. They had then made a complaint to the Panadura South Police.
They alleged that the medicine he was treated with at the hospital had poisoned him.
Police investigations revealed that the deceased was admitted to the hospital on January 16 and went missing the following day.
==============================
## Title: Pilgrimage targeting LG polls votes detected
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Pilgrimage targeting LG polls votes detected
Matale Assistant Elections Commissioner (AEC) has requested instructions from the Chairman of the Election Commission to investigate an alleged pilgrimage with a hidden political agenda organised in the Wilgamuwa and Laggala DS Divisions recently. Assistant Elections Commissioner Shanika Rupasinghe said Laggala police and his office had received complaints alleging that a political bigwig in the Matale district had organised the pilgrimage with an eye on elections. About 595 people in Wilgamuwa and Laggala were asked to join a one-day pilgrimage in 13 buses for free on January 19.
Candidates from a certain political party contesting the Laggala and Wilgamuwa Pradesheeya Sabha elections had planned the pilgrimage, they alleged. The Assistant Elections Commissioner said that during the initial investigations, the tour operators had said a private tour operator in Avissawella had organised the pilgrimage using part of his profits from the venture and it had no political connection whatsoever.
The Laggala Police OIC said police intervened and advised the tour operator to cancel the tour, but allegedly they were organising the pilgrimage secretly, circumventing election laws.
==============================
## Title: PM at Kuppiyawatte UNP rally
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
PM at Kuppiyawatte UNP rally
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe presided over a UNP rally at Kuppiyawatte yesterday evening. Sri Lanka's first female mayoral candidate Rosy Senanayake also participated in the rally. Picture by Chaminda Niroshana
==============================
## Title: Police come from behind to hold Havies 24-all
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Police come from behind to hold Havies 24-all
Police Sports Club came from 12-14 down to carry out a sensational second half rally where their granite prop forward Edirisuriya crashed through for a spectacular under the post try during injury time to hold the formidable Havelock Sports Club to an exciting 24-all draw in their Dialog A division inter-club league rugby second round match played at Police Park yesterday.
Both teams scored their points in identical fashion through 4 tries and 2 conversions.
Police showed better control of the ball in perfect conditions with a rousing game carried out in the entire match.
The Havies outfit staged a spirited performance in the first half to lead 14-12 at half time the points coming off two tries and converted by full back Reeza Mubarak. The cops also scored two tries in the first half and their solitary conversion was slotted in by former Peterite captain cum fly half Sandesh Jayawickrama.
After the turn around Police gave a superb brand of running rugby and scored two more tries out of which Jayawickrama managed to put over one conversion. Havies also scored two tries in the second half but their kicker Mubarak missed both the conversions.
For Police the four tries were scored by hooker Lahiru Pavithra, flanker Wajid Fawmy, winger Sujan Kodithuwakku and prop forward Edirisuriya.
The Havies tries came from scrum half Soodam Sooriarachchi (two), winger Ramesh Fernando (one) and flanker Sharo Fernando (one). Referee: Ajith Kumara
==============================
## Title: Postal Voting starts today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 10:32
Postal Voting starts today
Postal voting at the Local Government polls has started by now, Additional Elections Commissioner Saman Sri Ratnayake stated.
Accordingly, the election commission, the police and the district secretaries will get the opportunity to cast their postal votes today.
More than 560,000 people have been qualified as postal voters for Local Government polls this time.

==============================
## Title: PPJ election campaigns have no leaders picture: Amaraweera
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
PPJ election campaigns have no leaders picture: Amaraweera
"The Sri Lanka Podu Jana Peramuna (PPJ) is the only political party contesting the forthcoming local government elections without the picture of its leader on its election literature. The party is displaying the picture of Mahinda Rajapaksa instead, Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Minister and UPFA General Secretary Mahinda Amaraweera said.
He was addressing an election rally held at the Angunukolapelessa Town Hall on January 20 in support of UPFA candidates contesting the Angunukolapelessa Pradesheeya Sabha election.
Minister Amaraweera said the forthcoming election was not a contest to change the President or the Prime Minister but to appoint a representative to undertake village development schemes. He said voters should consider the ability and credentials of the candidate when they vote for their representatives to develop the villages.
Amaraweera said he was providing housing assistance to the people, while Minister Sajith Premadasa was providing housing loans for them. He said politicians elected by the people, hereafter had to think not only twice but several more times before engaging in bribery and corruption.
He said the people earlier questioned the prudence of the SLFP joining hands with the UNP to form a consensus government, but now they force them to stay on and strengthen the President's hands to punish those engaged in fraud and corruption.
"President Maithripala is a farmer's son and he has a clean political record. He helped the country achieve international recognition and restored the GSP plus facility, He also saved former President Rajapaksa, former Defence Secretary and the war heroes from the electric chair," Minister Amaraweera said.
==============================
## Title: President musters Maharagama SLPP candidates support
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
President musters Maharagama SLPP candidates support
Two Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) Candidates contesting the Maharagama Urban Council elections, Manjula Jayashantha Perera and Heenatigala Madinnage Rasika, met President Maithripala Sirisena on January 20 morning and pledged their support to the President and the SLFP at the forthcoming elections.
They were accompanied by Western Province Chief Minister Isura Devapriya.
The President is conducting a clean political campaign to build a country eschewing bribery and corruption, and they would lend their maximum support to the President and SLFP at the forthcoming elections to ensure their victory, Jayasantha Perera and Madinnage Rasika said.
The Chief Minister handed over a copy of the election manifesto of the SLFP candidates contesting the Maharagama UC election to the President.
Other SLFP candidates contesting the Maharagama UC election were present.
==============================
## Title: President orders immediate probe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:05
President orders immediate probe
President Maithripala Sirisena has directed IGP Pujith Jayasundera to conduct an immediate investigation into complaints of alleged harassment caused by Uva Chief Minister Chamara Sampath Dassanayake to a female school principal in Badulla recently.
The President has also asked the Uva Governor to take over the functions of the Uva Province Education Ministry temporarily, to ensure a just and fair investigation into these allegations.
Chamara Sampath Dassanayake
The President has directed the IGP to take any suitable legal action recommended in the investigation report.
The principal was taken to the Badulla General Hospital yesterday where she was declared as being mentally sound. Thereafter she was asked to accompany the Police to the Chief Ministers home, a move which met with opposition by JVP Uva Provincial Councillor Samantha Vidyarathna and UNP MP Vadivel Suresh who were present.
They objected to the principal being taken to CMs residence by police to the place where the incident was said to have taken place.
Meanwhile, Uva Province Chief Minister Dassanayake, who is alleged to have forced the female principal to kneel before him, yesterday said he resigned as Provincial Education Minister.
The Chief Minister said he decided to step down as Provincial Minister of Education until investigations on the allegations against him are completed. Addressing the media at his office the chief minister said the letter of resignation has been forwarded to the Governor of the Uva Province.
Dassanayake however denied the allegations against him while adding that it was a part of a conspiracy by his political opponents to tarnish his image. The Chief Minister said he was confident that his name will be cleared after the investigation.
It has been alleged that the Chief Minister had summoned the Principal of the Badulla Tamil Girls School and reprimanded her for disregarding an order sent by him to admit a student to a school. The Chief Minister has allegedly made the principal kneel and apologize to him.
The Ceylon Teachers Union recently threatened to go on strike if appropriate action is not taken against the Chief Minister.
The Human Rights Commission too said it has begun an investigation into the incident, following a complaint.
==============================
## Title: President to take charge of economic management
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
President to take charge of economic management
President Maithripala Sirisena said he will take charge of the country's economic management this year in order to lessen the Cost of Living burden of the people.
"It was for this purpose that I appointed a national economic council three months ago and he will handle economic management through this council in order to provide economic relief to the people," the President said addressing a Jana Hamuwa held at Kegalle on January 20. President Sirisena said he would assume the responsibility of strengthening the national economy by protecting and safeguarding local industries, products and local investments.
The President said he would earnestly request all local industrialists and investors to join hands with him to uplift the motherland without seeking greener pastures abroad.
"This country is blessed with unlimited national resources needed to transform it to a highly developed nation in the world. But, corrupt politics stood in the way of achieving that goal. He would therefore launch his march towards crying halt to corrupt polities with the February 20 local government elections the President said.
Along with the February 10 election victory he would launch the march towards making this country an enlightened state by rallying all religious leaders intellectuals and the general public under a single flag.
Referring to pledges held out to build several large scale reservoirs in Kegalle district, the President said a project to direct the mass of water now draining into the sea without towards the Northern Province through a tunnel network would be launched with the help of new technology without damaging the natural resources of the district while ensuring effective flood control systems.
A massive gathering attended the Kegalle Pola grounds as part of the election rallies held countrywide under the patronage of the president.
The rally organised by SLFP Assistant Secretary Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya was attended by Minister S.B. Dissanayake, Central Province chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake, Deputy Speaker Thilanga Sumathipala and others.
==============================
## Title: Raising an emotionally healthy child
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Raising an emotionally healthy child
Its important to recognize and treat mental illnesses in children early on. Once mental illness develops, it becomes a regular part of your childs behaviour. This makes it more difficult to treat.
But its not always easy to know when your child has a serious problem. Everyday stresses can cause changes in your childs behaviour. For example, getting a new brother or sister or going to a new school may cause a child to temporarily act out. Warning signs that it might be a more serious problem include Problems in more than one setting (at school, at home, with peers)Changes in appetite or sleepSocial withdrawal or fear of things he or she did not used to be not afraid ofReturning to behaviours more common in younger children, such as bedwettingSigns of being upset, such as sadness or tearfulnessSigns of self-destructive behavior, such as head-banging or suddenly getting hurt oftenRepeated thoughts of self-harm or death.
u Identifying mental disorders in children can be tricky for health care providers. Children differ from adults and they experience many physical, mental, and emotional changes as they progress through their natural growth and development. They also are in the process of learning how to cope with, adapt, and relate to others and the world around them.
u Furthermore, each child matures at his or her own pace, and what is considered normal in children falls within a wide range of behaviour and abilities. For these reasons, any diagnosis of a mental disorder must consider how well a child functions at home, within the family, at school, and with peers, as well as the childs age and symptoms.
Most common mental health conditions in children
There are several different types of mental disorders that can affect children and adolescents, including:
Autism
Autism, or autism spectrum disorder, refers to a range of conditions characterized by challenges with social skills, repetitive behaviours, speech and nonverbal communication, as well as by unique strengths and differences. We now know that there is not one type of autism but many types, caused by different combinations of genetic and environmental influences. The term spectrum reflects the wide variation in challenges and strengths possessed by each person with autism.
Autisms most-obvious signs tend to appear between two and three years of age. In some cases, it can be diagnosed as early as 18 months.
Anxiety disorders: Children with anxiety disorders respond to certain things or situations with fear and dread, as well as with physical signs of anxiety (nervousness), such as a rapid heartbeat and sweating.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD):
Children with ADHD generally have problems paying attention or concentrating, cant seem to follow directions, and are easily bored and/or frustrated with tasks. They also tend to move constantly and are impulsive (do not think before they act).
Disruptive behavior disorders:
Children with these disorders tend to defy rules and often are disruptive in structured environments, such as school.
Pervasive development disorders:
Children with these disorders are confused in their thinking and generally have problems understanding the world around them.
Eating disorders:
Eating disorders involve intense emotions and attitudes, as well as unusual behaviors associated with weight and/or food.
Elimination disorders:
Disorders that affect behavior related to using the bathroom. Enuresis, or bed-wetting, is the most common of the elimination disorders.
Learning and communication disorders:
Children with these disorders have problems storing and processing information, as well as relating their thoughts and ideas.
Affective (mood) disorders:
These disorders involve persistent feelings of sadness and/or rapidly changing moods, and include depression and bipolar disorder. A more recent diagnosis is called disruptive mood dysregulation disorder, a childhood and adolescent condition involving chronic or persistent irritability and frequent angry outbursts.
Schizophrenia:
This disorder involves distorted perceptions and thoughts.
Tic disorders:
These disorders cause a person to perform repeated, sudden, involuntary (not done on purpose), and often meaningless movements and sounds, called tics.
Some of these disorders, such as anxiety disorders, eating disorders, mood disorders and schizophrenia, can occur in adults as well as children. Others begin in childhood only, although they can continue into adulthood. It is not unusual for a child to have more than one disorder.
Symptoms of mental illness in children
Symptoms in children vary depending on the type of mental illness, but some of the general symptoms include: Inability to cope with daily problems and activitiesChanges in sleeping and/or eating habitsExcessive complaints of physical ailmentsDefying authority, skipping school, stealing, or damaging propertyIntense fear of gaining weightAbuse of drugs and/or alcoholLong-lasting negative moods, often accompanied by poor appetite and thoughts of deathFrequent outbursts of angerChanges in school performance, such as getting poor grades despite good effortsLoss of interest in friends and activities they usually enjoySignificant increase in time spent aloneExcessive worrying or anxietyHyperactivityPersistent nightmares or night terrorsPersistent disobedience or aggressive behaviorHearing voices or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations)
Causes of mental disorders in children
The exact cause of most mental disorders is not known, but research suggests that a combination of factors, including heredity, biology, psychological trauma, and environmental stress, might be involved. Many mental disorders run in families, suggesting that the disorders, or more accurately, a vulnerability to the disorders, might be passed on from parents to children through genes.
How is mental illness in children treated
Mental illnesses are like many medical disorders, such as diabetes or heart disease that require ongoing treatment.
Medication:
The drugs often used to treat mental disorders in children include antipsychotics, antidepressants, anti-anxiety drugs, stimulants, and mood stabilizing drugs.
Psychotherapy:
Psychotherapy (a type of counseling often simply called therapy) addresses the emotional response to mental illness. It is a process in which trained mental health professionals help people deal with their illness, often by talking through strategies for understanding and dealing with their symptoms, thoughts, and behaviors. Types of psychotherapy often used with children are supportive, cognitive-behavioral, interpersonal, group, and family therapy.
Creative therapies:
Certain therapies, such as art therapy or play therapy, might be helpful, especially with young children who might have trouble communicating their thoughts and feelings.
To be continued next week
==============================
## Title: Ranasinghe (115 & 9 wickets) steers St. Annes to win
## Supertitle: Singer U19 Cricket
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Singer U19 Cricket
Ranasinghe (115 & 9 wickets) steers St. Annes to win
St. Annes College Kurunegala captain Randeera Ranasinghe came up with a fine all round performance to steer his team to an innings and 129 runs win over Revatha College Balapitiya in their Singer Cup Under 19 inter-schools cricket match played at Kurunegala yesterday.
Ranasinghe scored 115 off 68 balls with 16 fours and 4 sixes and captured 9 wickets in the match that included a haul of 7 wickets for 12 runs in the second innings as Revatha were bowled out for 36 in their second innings.
Sasith Manuranga scored his second ton of the season and left-arm spinner Sajitha Suranjana took 8 wickets for 22 runs in the second innings for Rahula Matara against P. de S. Kularatne MV Ambalangoda at Matara.
Similarly Mithila Poornajith scored and Tharusha Sandaruwan took a match bag of 11 wickets for St Johns Nugegoda in their innings win over Madampa MMV.
RESULTS
* At Kurunegala: St. Annes Kurunegala won by inns & 129 runs.
St. Annes: 234/9 decl.;
Revatha Balapitiya: 69 and 36 (12/6 o/n) in 16.3 overs (Kavindu Dilhara 20, Randeera Ranasinghe 7/12, Wanitha Wanninayake 3/21)
* At Matara: Rahula Matara won by inns & 59 runs.
Rahula: 219;
P. De S. Kularatne: 58 and 102 in 65.1 overs (Achala Akalanka 21, Manusha Theekshana 16, Sajitha Suranjana 8/22)
* At Padukka: St. Johns Nugegoda won inns & 8 runs.
St. Johns: 302/7 decl.;
Madampa MMV: 137 (123/8 o/n) in 44.4 overs (Sachin Dilhara 42, Sasindu Nimesh 39, Tharusha Sandaruwan 5/40, Mithila Poornajith 4/36) and 157 in 55.4 overs (Sachin Dilhara 42, Kavindu Vindura 31, Pasindu Lakhan 26, Malsha Tharupathi 27, Tharusha Sandaruwan 6/54, Mithila Poornajith 3/71)
* At Raddoluwa: Karunaratne Buddhist Ragama won by 46 runs.
Karunaratne Buddhist Ragama: 334 and 121 in 32.1 overs (Viraj Vihanga 28, Hansa Hiranya 7/54)
Sri Pangnananda MV Raddoluwa: 245 (161/4 o/n) in 64.3 overs (Hansa Hiranya 69, Kavindu Maduranga 55, Lakshan Ruwantha 40, Kavindu Armantha 5/87, Ishika Subodha 3/17, Sadun Thejana 2/44) and 164 in 29 overs (Isodya Yasohara 40, Sasanka Abhiman 29, Supun Dhananja 22 n.o., Abishek Vimukthi 4/52, Supun Tharaka 3/68, Kavindu Armantha 2/20)
* At Udammita: Dr. Kulasinghe MV Udammita won by 9 wickets.
Thaksila Gampaha: 170 in 47 overs (Pushpika Kaushalya 56, Ravishka Jayakody 25, Hashan Randika 7/54) and 124 in 42 overs (Hasitha Sandeepa 44, Ravihara Jayakody 30, Ravindu Udayanga 2/06, Chamila Silva 2/20)
Dr. Kulasinghe MV Udammita: 274/9 in 54 overs (Dewage Hirusha 79, Hashan Randika 79, Ravindu Udayanga 29, Pasindu Ekanayake 27, Kaveesha Rodrigo 6/89) and 21/1 in 4.1 overs
* At Gampola: Ranabima Royal won by 3 wickets.
Wickramabahu NS: 181 in 49 overs (K.G. Wickramasinghe 39, Y.V. Ranawaramulla 34, H.P. Anurasiri 30, Matheesha Pathirana 3/46, Shohan Wijesinghe 3/49, Kalindu Perera 2/38) and 136 in 3.2 overs (H.P. Anurasiri 5, G.L. Gamage 20, Matheesha Pathirana 8/66)
Ranabima Royal: 157 in 46.3 overs (Matheesha Pathirana 40, Saranga Weerasekara 27, R.K. Jashwanth 21, Dulan Sandaruwan 15, Manula Kulatunge 14, M.K. Dilshan 6/36, H.P. Anurasiri 3/33) and 161/7 in 35.2 overs (Gihan Weerakoon 34 n.o., M. Razan 34, J. Vidyakaran 23, Y.V. Ranawaramulla 3/33, M.K. Dilshan 2/40, H.P. Anurasiri 2/60)
* At Matugama: Match drawn.
Ananda Sasthralaya Matugama:163 and 216/7 in 64 overs (K. V. Sahan 54 n.o., Enula Thewarapperuma 50, Bihan Randika 28 n.o., Vindura Manthika 24, Ravindu Rasanka 4/37)
Veluwana Colombo: 163 (87/4 o/n) in 72 overs (Pramuditha Anagipura 75, Pabasara Thisera 3/20)
DAY ONE SCORES
Match will be continued today on day two.
* At Godigamuwa: Nalanda Boys Minuwangoda: 213 in 56.1 overs (Nipun Kanishka 64, Pasindu Sandaruwan 22, Dasun Achira 20, Lalindra Fernando 4/59, Savindu Nonis 3/48, Avishka Dananjaya 2/26)
Loyola Negombo: 113/8 at close in 38 overs (Shon Rodrigo 30, Shenuka Fernando 24, Lalindra Fernando 20 n.o., Kavindu Maduranga 5/16, Charuka Janith 2/27) -YK
==============================
## Title: Ranpul helps Cambrians enter semi-finals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ranpul helps Cambrians enter semi-finals
The all-round cricketer of Prince of Wales College Vinuja Ranpul guided his alma mater to reach the semi-finals of the all island under 15 division one cricket tournament conducted by Sri Lanka Schools Cricket Association. Vinuja bats left hand and bowls right arm medium pace.
Due to his performances he was promoted to the first eleven and he played in three matches and got 44 and 56 runs. In eleven matches in the under 15 he has so far scored 403 runs with four fifties and against Tissa Central, unfortunately he missed a well deserved century by four runs and he was unbeaten on 51 runs versus St. Benedicts college. His average stands at 36.6. He is coached by Kalpa Fernando. Last year playing in under 13 division one he missed the magical 1000 runs by 16 runs.
How he fared
Vs Dharmapala Kottawa  Abandened, Vs Nalanda  79, Vs Siri Piyarathne  11, Vs Piliyandala Central  08  05, Vs Royal Panadura  71, Vs. Carey  03, Vs Kegalle Central  09, Vs Kalutara Vidyalaya  34, 28, Vs St. Aloysisu  05, Vs Tissa Central  96, Vs St. Benedicts  51 n o, Vs Mahinda  00, Total 403.
==============================
## Title: Real Madrid out of top four as Villarreal win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Real Madrid out of top four as Villarreal win
MADRID, Saturday - Villarreal moved above Real Madrid and into the top four in La Liga after a 2-1 win over Levante on Saturday that piled more pressure on the struggling champions coach Zinedine Zidane.
Valencia had two players sent off as they fell to a shock 2-1 defeat at lowly Las Palmas, while Atletico Madrid gave leaders Barcelona the chance to pull 11 points clear after only drawing 1-1 with Girona.
A 26th-minute penalty from Manu Trigueros and Real youth product Denis Cheryshevs first league goal in nearly two years saw Javier Callejas side, who beat Real at the Santiago Bernabeu for the first time ever last week, move up to 34 points, two ahead of Real.
Zidanes team are fifth, level on 32 points with Sevilla, who crushed Espanyol 3-0 in a dominant display in Catalonia that gave Vincenzo Montella his first league win since arriving in Spain in late December.
The last time Real finished outside the top four was in 2000, when they placed fifth but won the Champions League -- a year before coach Zidane had even signed for the club as a player.
Madrid do have two games in hand on the teams around them, though, and host Deportivo on Sunday.
Cheryshevs tap-in, the first goal in La Liga for the injury-plagued attacker since March 2016, sealed the deal against Levante, who pulled one back with a stoppage-time penalty from Roger.
Russian international Cheryshev clattered into the post after charging down the left flank to tap home Enes Unals low cross, but after some time on the ground in pain, struggled on until being substituted in the 65th minute.
We are going to fight to finish as high as up as possible. Right now we are fourth but Madrid still have to play, said Calleja.
We are ambitious. There is a long way to go but we are dreaming of doing the very best we can.
Antoine Griezmanns first goal in six league games wasnt enough for Atletico as they drew 1-1 with Girona and gave Barcelona a chance to extend their lead at the top.
The draw at the Wanda Metropolitano means Atletico are second and eight points behind Barca, who can almost end discussion over the league title with a win at Real Betis on Sunday.
Atletico stay second on 43 points, three points ahead of Valencia after their surprise defeat in a temperamental affair at Las Palmas, which saw defender Gabriel booked twice for dissent after giving away the hosts winning penalty and then his centre-back partner Ruben Vezo sent off with three minutes left for elbowing spot-kick scorer Jonathan Calleri.
Valencia looked set for a routine win when Santi Mina headed home the opener from a corner after just five minutes, but Jonathan Viera smashed home Calleris knock-down 15 minutes later.
Calleri slotted home the penalty that sealed the three points as Gabriel strode off to the showers.
Griezmann lashed home Diego Costas brave knockdown for Atletico in the 34th minute but Portu snatched a shock equaliser for the away side 17 minutes from time.
Costa made his mark again on Saturday, with his second assist since returning from Chelsea adding to his three goals in five games in all competitions.
He lay down in a heap after being clattered by Girona goalkeeper Bono as he headed on for Griezmann, but it was the shot-stopper who came off worse and had to be substituted at half-time.
 AFP
==============================
## Title: Rehab of ex-LTTErs nearing completion
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Rehab of ex-LTTErs nearing completion
The rehabilitation process of ex-LTTE combatants is almost complete with just eight more left to complete their rehabilitation process, sources from the Bureau of the Commissioner General of Rehabilitation said.
Speaking to the Daily News, Deputy Commissioner General, Rehabilitation, Brigadier Darshana Liyanage said of the eight remaining at the Poonthottam Rehabilitation Centre in Vavuniya, one is expected to be reintegrated by the end of January, while another two rehabilitants will be reintegrated into society by February upon completion of their one-year rehabilitation process.
He noted that to date, around 12,182 ex-LTTE combatants had been rehabilitated and reintegrated into society through this programme. The ex-LTTE members who undergo this rehabilitation process receive vocational training in several courses including Plumbing, Carpentry, Computer, House Wiring, Masonry, Aluminum Fabrication and Welding.
During the one year of rehabilitation the participants also undergo Meditation, Aesthetics/Drama Therapy, Spiritual Development, Sports Activities, Leadership and Personal Development, Language Training (Sinhala, Tamil and English), Counseling and Mentorship among others.
Last year (2017) Rs.100 million was allocated to the Rehabilitation Bureau while this year Rs. 50 million has been allocated. In addition, Rs. 250 million was allocated to the Bureau of Rehabilitation as an extra allocation for the payment of salaries of the rehabilitants.
The rehabilitants who have been integrated into society will be paid an additional Rs. 10,000 by the government when employment is found for them in addition to the allowance paid during employment training, Brigadier Liyanage said.
He further noted that Rs.35 million worth of equipment, including water motors, bicycles, fishing nets and other equipment to supplement their livelihood will be distributed among those reintegrated into society, after the elections.
==============================
## Title: Royal enter quarter finals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Royal enter quarter finals
The all-round performance of Omal Dissanayake helped in a big way for Royal College, Colombo to reach the quarter-finals of the ongoing inter-schools under 13 division two cricket tournament conducted by Sri Lanka Schools Cricket Association.
Omal is a fine all-rounder who bats right hand and bowls right arm off spin and a fine fielder in any position and also he is a man for the occasion.
Out of the ten matches so far played he has scored 366 runs and claimed ten scalps.
He has hit two centuries an unbeaten 113 runs against Asoka Vidyalaya and 103 versus formidable St. Paters College, Bambalapitiya carried long way for Royal College success and his average is 45.75.
How he fared:
Vs. St. Bernadette College 32
Vs. St. Josephs, Colombo 25
Vs. St. Thomas, Matale14
Vs. Asoka Vidyalaya 113 not out
Vs. Maris Stella 05
Vs. Isipathana 12 not out
Vs. Mahanama, Colombo 39
Vs. Presidents College 07
Vs. De Lasalle College10
Vs. St. Francis College did not bat
Vs. St. Peters, Bambalapitiya 103
Total 366 Average 45.75
==============================
## Title: Ruhunu Hospital offers Life Membership to customers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ruhunu Hospital offers Life Membership to customers
Ruhunu Hospital a leading private hospitals in the Southern Province, is offering membership to its customers to enjoy greater benefits.
Payments for the membership cards can be made via online payment scheme or through Visa or MasterCard. The beneficiary will be entitled to enjoy up to 30% discount on standard and air conditioned rooms and 5% discount on X-rays, CT scan and mammography services.
The membership card is issued to those who are above 15 years of age and to minors below 15 year of age, are entitled to enjoy these benefits if a parent is a member of the scheme.Ruhunu Hospital Life Membership scheme has partnered with more than 20 brands in the Southern Province to offer valuable discounts for our customers, in addition to the medical benefits.
This pioneering concept will enable us to add more benefits and ensure convenience and satisfaction of customers as well. Because we place great value on the well being of our customers and the Life Membership Scheme will further broaden the objectives we have as a leading healthcare provider in the Southern Province, Ruhunu Hospital Chairman Deepal Wickremasinghe said. The hospital recently opened another Medical Centre at Baddegama and a Nursing College at Karapitiya as part of their expansion process in the Southern Province.
==============================
## Title: Saracens beat CCC to qualify for Super 8
## Supertitle: Premier League Inter-Club Cricket  Tier A
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Premier League Inter-Club Cricket  Tier A
Saracens beat CCC to qualify for Super 8
Saracens SC a team without a club house or ground facilities qualified to play in the SLC Premier League Super Eight when they pulled off a creditable first innings win over fancied CCC in their Tier A match played at Maitland Crescent yesterday.
Saracens who piled up 496 in their first innings dismissed the hosts for 372 to move into fourth position in Group A and thus qualify for the next stage of the tournament the Super 8 with SSC, Ragama CC and Colts from the group.
NCC beat Baduraliya SC by 10 wickets to record their third win of the season and qualify for the Super Eight from Group B. Chilaw Marians, BRC and Ports Authority are the other teams to qualify for the next round from this group.
* At NCC: NCC won by 10 wickets.
Badureliya CC: 147 and 160 (28/1 o/n) in 54.4 overs (Subramanian Anand 62, Shiran Ratnayake 21, Chathuranga de Silva 4/44, Lasith Ambuldeniya 3/46)
NCC: 313 and 45/0 in 4.4 overs (Lahiru Udara 39 n.o.)
* At CCC: Match drawn.
Saracens SC: 496;
CCC: 372 (140/3 o/n) in 128.3 overs (Ashan Priyanjan 101, Kaveen Bandara 92, Madhawa Warnapura 48, Sachith Pathirana 50, Lahiru Gamage 31, Malindu Madhuranga 21, Roshan Jayatissa 4/100, Saliya Saman 3/67)
* At SSC: Match drawn.
SSC: 199 and 563 (357/3 o/n) in 112.1 overs (Kaushal Silva 142, Dimuth Karunaratne 128, Sammu Ashan 79, Minod Bhanuka 75, Milinda Siriwardana 52, Dilan Jayalath 27, Sachithra Senanayake 23, Tharindu Rathnayake 4/184, Dilanka Sandakan 4/199, Sahan Wijeratne 2/97)
Moors SC: 160 and 164/5 in 41 overs (Pabasara Waduge 64, Shanuka Dulaj 52 n.o., Irosh Samarasooriya 37, Sachithra Senanayake 2/27)
* At Bloomfield: Match drawn.
Ragama CC: 320 and 327/7 (51/3 o/n) in 109 overs (Roshen Silva 106 n.o., Lahiru Milantha 92, Lahiru Thirimanna 31, Ramesh Mendis 2/46, Malith de Silva 2/48) Bloomfield: 273.
* At BRC: Match drawn.
Army SC: 232 and 454/9 (126/2 o/n) in 115 overs (Lakshitha Madushan 151 n.o., Dilshan de Soysa 56, Ashan Randika 52, Dushan Vimukthi 47, Kasun de Silva 46, Himasha Liyanage 36, Yasoda Mendis 26, Himesh Ramanayake 3/56,Chamikara Edirisinghe 3/91) BRC: 345. - YK
Tier B
Panadura trounce Galle by an innings
Panadura SC beat Galle CC by an innings and 25 runs in their SLC Premier League Inter-Club Tier B cricket match played at Galle yesterday.
Eranga Ratnayake of Kalutara Town Club scored his second century of the season with an unbeaten 130 against Lankan CC at Maggona and was joined by Nilushan Nonis who also crossed the three-figure mark.
The rest of the matches were drawn.
* At Galle: Panadura SC won by inns & 25 runs.
Galle CC: 217 and 191 in 44.2 overs (Damitha Hunukumbura 70, Charitha Buddhika 27, Dhanusika Bandara 4/41, Shameendra Madushan 4/59)
Panadura SC: 433 in 112.1 overs (Kashif Naved 159, Suresh Peiris 84, Rasika Fernando 68, Ashen Kavinda 42, Gayan Sirisoma 4/102, Gohar Faiz 3/135)
* At Katunayake. Match drawn.
Kurunegala YCC: 286 and 196 (54/4 o/n) in 54.5 overs (Keshan Wijerathne 62 n.o., Malith Cooray 48, Dhanushka Dharmasiri 23, Chathura Samantha 6/57, Hashan James 2/50)
Air Force SC: 158 and 261/8 in 54 overs (Suminda Lakshan 75, Roscoe Thattil 46, Dulash Udayanga 39, Hashan James 37, Udayawansha Parakrama 23, Sarinda Dassanayake 2/36)
* At Kadirana: Negombo CC: 178 and 276/9 decl. (239/5 o/n) in 84.4 overs (Praveen Fernando 70, Sandun Dias 55, Shehan Weerasinghe 53, Akeel Inham 50, Ravindra Karunaratne 21, Kalyana Rathnapriya 5/98, Nimesh Vimukthi 4/95)
Police SC: 100 and 288/9 in 80 overs (Tharindu Dilshan 102, Samith Dushantha 80, Dinusha Fernando 52 n.o., Shehan Weerasinghe 3/39, Ravindra Karunaratne 2/82, Umega Chaturanga 2/104)
* At Maggona: Match drawn.
Lankan CC: 534/8 decl.;
Kalutara TC: 296 (257/7 o/n) in 82.3 overs (Eranga Rathnayake 130 n.o., Geeth Perera 35, Nipuna Kariyawasam 32, Madhawa Nimesh 32, Geeth Kumara 4/34, Navin Kavikara 3/91, Rajeewa Weerasinghe 2/54) and 263/5 in 71 overs (Nilushan Nonis 117, Nipuna Gamage 97, Thushira Madanayake 2/34, Rajeewa Weerasinghe 2/45) - YK
==============================
## Title: Sheikh Abdul Qadir Al Jailani (Ral)
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sheikh Abdul Qadir Al Jailani (Ral)
Sheikh Abdul Qadir Al Jailani is regarded by many of his co-religionists as the chief and prince of all saints. The venerable Sheikh who lived almost a thousand years ago is still followed, admired and honoured by the multitude of his adherents and admirers across the Muslim world. Commemorative ceremonies to mark his exemplary life and indelible contribution towards spiritual enrichment are held in this month corresponding to the Islamic month of Rabi-us-Sani.
The Sheikh is held in such esteem that his blessed mausoleum in Baghdad, Iraq, is still an active place of pious visitation. I too had the good fortune to be a frequent visitor to the tomb of this reverent saint, during my brief stint at the Sri Lanka Mission in Baghdad in 2014  15. It was indeed memorable and instills a sense of reverence and humility.
The cornerstone of his Message was his clarion call to people to reform themselves, to purify their hearts, to dispel the love of the world from their hearts and instead to fill them with the love of Almighty Allah. He exhorted them to follow the Messenger of Allah (Peace and Blessings be upon him), to abstain from affectation, rid themselves from arrogance, hatred, jealousy, envy, perfidy, hypocrisy and falsehood.
The noble Sheikh declared: My brothers and sisters, I did not arrive in Union with God, by staying awake all night in worship, by staying aware all day fasting, or by staying engrossed acquiring knowledge; rather I arrived in union with God by generosity, humility and letting my breast at peace.
Amazingly, the admirable Sheikh, whilst observing the religious edicts scrupulously, also seized time and opportunity to guide and admonish his followers.
He delivered numerous orations and also authored a number of books of guidance, in his inimitable style and scholarship, which provided a comprehensive exposition of the outer and inner aspects of Islam.
Amongst the invaluable and inspiring orations, now compiled in book form are Al Fath ar Rabbani (The Sublime Revelation).
Even a non-Muslim scholar like D.S. Margoliouth was so favourably impressed by the content and style of Al Fath ar Rabbani that he wrote in his article Abd al-Kadir in The Encyclopaedia of Islam, The sermons included in this work are some of the very best in Muslim literature, the spirit which they breathe is one of charity and philanthropy: the preacher would like to close the gates of Hell and open those of Paradise to all mankind. He employs Sufi technicalities very rarely, and none that would occasion the ordinary reader much difficulty.
I felt it may be pertinent and useful to make mention of a few of his wise sayings and admonitions.
Sheikh Abdul Qadir, also referred to as Ghouth Al Azam (the Supreme Helper) declared: The root, branch and consummation of all acts of worshipful obedience is modest humility.
Patience means giving up complaining. Contentment means the expulsion of disagreeable from the heart, so that nothing remains except happiness and joy.
Truthfulness means that no distinction is made between what is believed in private and what is professed in public.
The true nature of thankfulness is the act of praising the beneficent person by mentioning his beneficence.
Improve your hearts for when they are improved, you will experience improvement in all your circumstances.
Reckon that all you have left of your life is today and no more. Make ready for the hereafter.
The renowned scholar Imam Ibn Kathir described the admonitions of Sheikh Abdul Qadir as follows. He enjoined the people to do what is good and to abstain from what is evil. His admonitions addressed Caliphs, Ministers, people in authority, judges, companions and the masses.
In his book Qata Idul Jawahir Harada stated, I have never seen anyone of better character, more magnanimous, more generous, kinder at heart, more trustworthy and loyal to his promise and his friendships than our master Shiekh Abdul Qadir. Despite his revered status, he would stand and converse with the common people, honour the elders, initiate gatherings, sit with the meek and humble himself to the poor.
In the words of Sheikh Muzaffar Ozak Effendi, The venerable Sheikh Abdul Al Qadir Al Jailani passed on to the Realm of Divine Beauty in A.H. 561/1166 CE.
He is famed for his extraordinary spiritual experiences, miracles and exploits, as well as his memorable sayings and wise teachings. It is rightly said of him that he was born in love, grew in perfection and met his Lord in the perfection of love.
(The writer in the former Deputy General Manager  Bank of Ceylon and a diplomat)
==============================
## Title: Simple trick for speedy sleep
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Simple trick for speedy sleep
Count sheep, have a hot bath and a glass of warm milk, douse yourself in lavender spray, cool down your room, wear socks to bed. The internet is full of advice on how to get to sleep faster - and how to improve the quality of that sleep.
But not all of these will be practical, or work for you in terms of getting to sleep. Maybe you hate milk and lavender makes you want to vomit. In which case, a new and dazzlingly simple trick may be worth a try. Make a list!
Not an Arya Stark-style kill list, but specifically a to-do list of all those tasks and jobs which you haven't yet got round to doing.
Dr Michael Scullin and his team at Baylor University in Texas studied 57 adults aged 19-30 and split them into two groups, which both slept over in a lab.
Each group was given a writing task. The first wrote about things they had already completed while the second wrote a list of tasks they needed to do.
What the researchers found was those in the second 'to-do list' group fell asleep a whole 16 minutes before the other group.
Writing in the journal Experimental Psychology - researchers said worrying about future tasks is a significant contributor to difficulty in falling asleep." They added:
"The more specifically participants wrote their to-do list, the faster they subsequently fell asleep, whereas the opposite trend was observed when participants wrote about completed activities."
Worth a try
Mirror
==============================
## Title: Singapore PM arrives today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:02
Singapore PM arrives today
Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong will arrive in Sri Lanka today on a three day official visit at the invitation of President Maithripala Sirisena.
The Singaporean Premier will be received at the Presidential Secretariat on the morning of January 23 with an official Guard of Honour and gun salute that will be followed by official bilateral discussions with President Maithripala Sirisena.
A Free Trade Agreement between Sri Lanka and Singapore will be signed following bilateral talks, the Foriegn Affairs Ministry said in a statement.
During the visit, Prime Minister Lee will also meet Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and discuss economic, trade and investment cooperation between the two countries.
The visiting Prime Minister is scheduled to attend a Business Forum in which leading businesspersons and investors from both Singapore and Sri Lanka will be present.
Sri Lanka and Singapore established diplomatic relations in 1979 and enjoy a strong and robust bilateral relationship that has been built on mutual understanding, respect and people-to-people contacts. An official visit of a Singaporean Prime Minister to Sri Lanka takes place after 13 years.
==============================
## Title: SLMA initiates drug, alcohol-prevention programme
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
SLMA initiates drug, alcohol-prevention programme
The Sri Lanka Mahaweli Authority (SLMA) has initiated a programme aimed at eradicating drug and alcohol addiction within the Mahaweli development zones, on the instructions of President Maithripala Sirisena.
According to the Mahaweli Authority Institutional Development Department, the number of youth getting addicted to narcotics and alcohol is on the rise.
As such, it is planned to curtail the prevailing drug addiction among Mahaweli settlers, with the patronage of the Narcotics Control Bureau, Presidential Task Force, and National Dangerous Drugs Control Board.
Under this programme, it is planned to train a volunteer narcotics and drug-prevention force.
Hence, 60 to 100 youths such as school leavers, members of various rural volunteer agencies and farmer organizations who are permanent residents of Mahaweli zones, are to be selected for this purpose. It was reported that 1,000 such volunteers have already been trained and issued with proficiency certificates.
They are expected to start anti-alcoholism strategies at their own homes and extend their services from house-to-house.
A narcotics-prevention committee is being formed in every village in the Mahaweli zones, to coordinate this programme under the guidance of SLMA Institutional Development Director Mahendra Abewardana.
==============================
## Title: Social price of Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Social price of Sri Lanka
Human beings in the process of getting civilized and cultured through education, get enlightened; and in addition to being lawful in public conduct also become urbane, refined, formal, gracious, cordial, suave, sober and self-denying for the sake of others. Yet life in the context of modern society is made miserable by public servants among whom are politicians, who abuse their position. They twist the truth of many a situation to create problems for citizens and thereby make unlawful gains. They try to be on the safe side even while contravening the law.
Rulers sometimes resort to legal amendments to satisfy their inordinate desires. Those in elevated authority, resort to bending the law or stretch the law to extremities to suit their ends and pretend to be socially and legally correct. And those in authority, to suit their fancy have so bent the law in ages past and they do so now.
However, Sri Lanka does not lack men and women who stand sturdily for human dignity, justice and truth even after having suffered in silence under tyranny. Those who voluntarily risk their lives come to the help of others in distress. They range from humble three-wheeler drivers, devoted teachers who give of themselves to students, impartial judges to ordinary citizens who spontaneously and courageously act to uphold rectitude. They go beyond the law to adhere to a spirit of justice and decency.
A bystander comes to the rescue of another person fallen victim to an unexpected disaster or perhaps intimidated and unnerved by a gold-chain snatching lawbreaker. Though they do not proclaim themselves to be so, these are the humanly refined, gracious, cordial, sober and self-denying men and women who uplift the civilized standards of our society. Their sense of honour stresses them to limits ordinarily beyond other human beings. They show a high human quality and an inimitable and admirable sense of human goodness. They uphold human courtesies and obey the laws of the land even when no one watches.
Public minded officers
Law is the minimum standard of social conduct expected from all the citizens. But if workers as a group limited themselves to work to rule as it happens even among the so-called educated, the civilized behaviour will break down and society would begin to creak if not come to a grim standstill. One does not go to ones workplace, factory, office, law court or parliament to socialize or to be entertained. One goes there to attend to specific duties for which a remuneration is given. Yet how many are conscious of their duty or the implicit responsibilities
Something akin to work to rule obtains in many government offices where individuals do the minimum required and apart from their salary always expect a gratification even for the services they are duty-bound to render to the public. This rampant mean practice is administrative leprosy and incurable cancer maintained by the degenerate in our society.
Yet conscientious and public-minded officers are not altogether absent. Due to them, a modicum of civilization survives in public administration. There are some instances in public life when in attending to their official duties highly placed officials responsibly exercised the duties of their office without fear or favour and suffered physical harm or even paid for it with their lives. They had a self-respect and self-esteem that valued the rights of other citizens.
On the other hand many public officials do not care for the law, so much so that to get something done even according to the law, one has to offer a bribe which needs to be a fat one proportionate to the estimates in the application/project to carry out which government authorities permission is needed! In Sri Lanka, the permitting authority turns out to be a blackmailer.
If no bribe is given, the project is delayed under one pretext or other. Often a bribe is solicited through someone closely connected to the blackmailer. That is how the system operates in Sri Lanka today. So disgraceful. When a head of state advises his henchmen to be cautious so as not to get caught, one can imagine the level of the qualities of the man, the chief executor of the law of the Land and the qualities of his henchmen!
Living should be upright
In any case, many Sri Lankans, even highly placed, do not seem to understand what life is for and what values they should live by, even while they live in the glare of light shed by religions. Rejecting light they stumble and totter in darkness! They do not understand that life is not about the ephemeral prestige of a job that one does or the high salary earned. Life is not about the kind of house one lives in luxury or the kind of vehicle one travels in or the company one keeps. Life is not about status, race, caste or political ideology. But, not seldom, these become the priorities of the decadent at the summits of power and position. How many members of governments, without a conscience, have dragged the people to misery!
Life is more than law or legality. Life is not about how cleverly you stay within the law or circumvent it and help others, at a price, to circumvent the law and grab as much as possible. Life is about what values you hold as important, what high ideals you follow, how sublime what you love and strive after. Life is about how you value your life and the lives of others and live in a community. Life is about how you persevere, grow and mature in your life and contribute to the preservation and progress of others. Life is about the service you render to others and to society to enhance and improve the well-being of many. Life is about the substance and excellence of those values by which you live, spend and sacrifice your life.
Life is about living freely, honourably, truthfully, justly and fraternally in peaceful solidarity in reconciliation with others without causing them any harm but bringing to others lives a measure of happiness. Life is not about living in self-satisfied isolation and degenerating corruption but about embodying a noble spirit, living out your life for others, being in empathy with others and mutually enriching interiorly one another. Life becomes abundantly rich when it is lived for others, saving and enhancing the lives of others; it is above and beyond any man-made law. It is living out in the pure fragranced air of love and graciousness. All the people of Sri Lanka should live out this life and abandon every selfishness and discrimination.
Politicians ignorant of values
From 1972 with the adoption of the Republican Constitution there has been a downward trend in the Sri Lankan political culture and social discipline and decency in life. As a result of today, there is an evident dearth of honest public-spirited men and women in the field of politics, law and public service and administration which are the most extensive fields, besides religion, where just one individual could give of his service to so many.
In Sri Lanka, there is a notable disregard for merit. Why should anyone, least of all a legal luminary, canvass politicians in support of an appointment to office Many an important matter get knotted when most politicians in power and top rung administrators and officials do not have the interior strength, that moral stamina required for their tasks. The political parties and the existing political culture and party system have not only not equipped them either intellectually or morally for it but corrupted them abysmally. The content and level of public political discourse are weighed more towards the undercurrents of the personal advantage than the common good.
Nevertheless, politicians also could turn round, improved. None of us is perfect. In the process of growing, we could have let ourselves be undeveloped, under-developed, insufficiently formed or deformed in our character in many a way. Yet as our sense of responsibility should match the work we have to do or the position we hold, we should face the challenge of changing, improving and reforming ourselves. In the Sri Lankan scenario, a person of integrity should give leadership to that.
All of us have the capacity to honestly look within ourselves, detect what is wrong, adopt more genuine values and set aright matters within ourselves. We could adjust our relationships. We should shed our deformities, become more consistent and perfect ourselves as we age and mature. We could not only restore ourselves, we could re-create ourselves anew and enhance the lives of others. In fact, becoming a better person could be an on-going process and a challenge to others as well.
As long as the politicians are individually and collectively ignorant of or ignore lifes true values and are mired and bogged down in social depravity and corrupt political hell holes, they have not grasped the basic meaning of life or of law-making over which they are spending a lot of parliamentary time and a high proportion of the peoples hard-earned money. They are indeed traitors to the country. Though many politicians are incapable of giving of their services in the manner they should, the sane majority of the people who strive to hold on to civilized values should get further organised and coordinated.
In spite of the contemptible leadership of politicians many ordinary people in the face of the burdens they bear, live in solidarity and peace. Thoughtful leaders and the honest intelligentsia should be supportive of them. And the people need to elect altogether new legislators more representative of their culture and fraternity than the brawling scoundrels, some of whom are now ensconced in power or trying to come to power.
Sri Lanka has to begin to venture in new yet unexplored directions to modernize Sri Lanka in hitherto uncharted ways to become an enlightened democracy with reaffirmed individual and group rights and responsibilities. For that, we need new people who are true patriots instead of the thieving politicians who take turns accusing one another while boasting of their jingoism.
==============================
## Title: Special CID team to probe Kataragama police shooting
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Special CID team to probe Kataragama police shooting
Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundara has deployed a special team from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to probe the Kataragama shooting incident that left one dead and led to a tense situation in the area.
Violent protests erupted in Kataragama on Sunday evening. Police who were compelled to fire tear gas to disperse the crowd also arrested 63 people, including 15 women.
The Police Officer arrested in connection with the shooting was remanded till January 30 by the Tissamaharama Magistrates Court.
Police shot at a motorcyclist at around 10.55 pm on Saturday, when he disregarded an order to stop.
The Police Media Spokesmans office in a statement said a constable and an officer from the Civil Security Department on duty at the Kataragama town ordered a motorcyclist riding towards the Wedehiti Kanda Road to stop.
The Police officer had opened fire at the motorcyclist as he did not heed the orders to stop, the Police Media Spokesmans office said.
Following the shooting, a large mob had attacked the police and the police had used tear gas to disperse them.
The Police Media Spokesmans office said a probe would be launched to nab those who had damaged public property.
The Police yesterday said a peaceful situation prevails in Kataragama now.
The deceased was identified as a 44-year-old male, a resident of Kataragama.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka mourns decorated counter-terrorism veteran Major Sean Anthonisz
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lanka mourns decorated counter-terrorism veteran Major Sean Anthonisz
Major Sean Anthonisz, who served as a commanding officer of the armys Field Engineer Regiment (SLE) passed away on Saturday afternoon. He was 45 years old. An old boy of S. Thomas College, Mount Lavinia, Major Anthonisz was one of the armys most vaunted practitioners and instructors of explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) and demining during his nearly two decades of service through the bloodiest chapters of the war against terrorism. Major Anthonisz, who led several victorious military operations, had an illustrious service record in the armed forces.
He received his commission as 2nd Lieutenant on May 3, 1993, and served in several leadership and operational roles in the armys elite Field Engineer regiments, including stints as Troop Commander, Intelligence Officer, Adjutant and Commanding Officer.
Major Anthonisz distinguished himself through his contributions to the Jayasikuru and Riviresa operations as well as several humanitarian missions in the North and East.
His badges of honour include the Deshapuththra Sammanaya, Ceylon Armed Service Long Service Medal, North and East Operation Medal, the Poornabhumi Padakkama, Riviresa Campaign Service Medal, Sri Lanka Army 50th Anniversary medal, and commendations for his service in Humanitarian Operation North and Humanitarian Operation East.
Major Anthonisz retired from service on March 10, 2012, after nineteen years in the army. His remains lie at No 24, Charles Place, Dehiwala. Cortege leaves residence at 3.30 pm today for cremation at Borella Kanatte at 4.30 pm.
==============================
## Title: State Bank of India joins LankaPay common ATM network
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
State Bank of India joins LankaPay common ATM network
In light of their current expansion strategy, State Bank of India Sri Lanka branch recently joined LankaPay Common ATM Network taking a leap towards enhancing customer convenience.
With legacy since 1806 as Bank of Calcutta, State Bank of India came into existence in 1955. It is the largest bank in India with over 24,000 branches, 59,000 ATMs and 190 foreign offices in 36 countries.
The bank with 22% market share in Indian Banking Industry secured place in the league of Top 50 Global banks with balance sheet size of INR 41 trillion and ranked 232nd in Fortune Global 500 worlds biggest corporation as of 2016.
The State Bank of India commenced its operation in Sri Lanka in 1864 and primarily focused on corporate banking till recent times, prior to the new strategic direction of diversifying into retail banking.
Speaking of the partnership with LankaPay, Rajeev Ratna Srivastava, Country Head of State Bank of India Sri Lanka office stated SBI is the leading Bank in India and many other countries and after beingin continuous service of people of Sri Lanka for more than 153 years, we now aspire to become the preferredBank of masses in Sri Lanka.
Welcoming State Bank of India on board, Channa de Silva, GM and CEO of LankaClearPvt Ltd.said We at LankaClearare delighted to have the State Bank of India (SBI) joiningLankaPay umbrella as the 27thmember of the LankaPay Common ATM Switch (CAS). We believe this partnership would be of great significance to all SBI customers in providing accessibility to any of the 4000+ ATMs currently connected to the LankaPay Common ATM Network.
LankaPay CAS went live as the Phase I of the Common Card and Payment Switch, which is envisioned to be the backbone of all domestic electronic payments in future. The launch of LankaPay Common ATM Network in 2013 marked a significant milestone in the countrys banking sector through common usage of resources generating greater economies of scale whilst enhancing customer convenience.
==============================
## Title: Stolen treasure items found
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Stolen treasure items found
A gold Buddha statue and a few ancient treasures were seized by the Anuradhapura Divisional Crime Investigation Bureau on a tip-off on January 18.
A Buddha statue weighing 1kg, a gold plated Buddha statue, three gold plated ancient containers and three multi coloured conchs were recovered from two suspects in the Rotawewa forest area in Mihintale Mahakanadarawa South-shore region. Police said the suspects had brought them to sell and they fled leaving behind the items when they saw the police team.
The items were wrapped with a red cloth, while the Buddha statues and conchs were kept inside gold plated containers, police said.
The tip off received by police said that a large scale selling operation of cannabis in progress in the Rotawewa area along with the treasure sale racket.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Sugar Corporation profits top Rs 1,174 mn in 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sugar Corporation profits top Rs 1,174 mn in 2017
The Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation (SLSC) has profited Rs 1,174 mn during the last financial year.
The SLSC which was running at a loss of more a billion rupees in 2015, managed to record a profit of Rs 1,006 million in 2016.
While continuing its progress, the SLSC was able to increase the profit by another Rs 168 million by 2017 totalling a net profit of Rs 1,174 million.
It had been planned to increase the production of the SLSC aiming to receive a profit of Rs 1,816 million (Rs 1.8 billion) during this financial year, Industries and Commerce Minister Rishad Badiutheen said.
The SLSC had produced 51,422 MT of sugar in 2016 obtaining a revenue of Rs 4059.9 million, while making a net profit of Rs 1,006.3 million. Even though there was a slight decrease in production in 2017 due to the severe drought situation, the SLSC was able to produce 42,841 MT of sugar and obtain a profit of Rs 4,652.8 million during last year. The net profit of the year was Rs. 1174.6 million.
The Minister said that this government took several measures to convert the SLSC to a profit making venture, including appointing a capable management. In line with the financial success of the SLSC, sugarcane farmers of the area have also been benefitted.
==============================
## Title: Suspect nabbed with foreign cigarettes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Suspect nabbed with foreign cigarettes
A Sri Lankan male, 33, who arrived in the country from Dubai on flight No. FZ557, was apprehended with 23,889 sticks of foreign cigarettes (Gold Leaf) valued at Rs. 1,194,000 on Saturday (20).
It was revealed that the suspect was a small-scale businessman from the Kurunegala area. The suspect was released on a bail of Rs. 200,000.
==============================
## Title: Sweet and artistic treat!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sweet and artistic treat!
Are you ready for this jelly Japanese desserts are world-famous for the painstaking detail and effort that their creators go to, to make them look as aesthetically appealing as possible. However this example, called Fly Me To The Moon, really takes the cake!
Made by renowned sweet-maker Nagotoya, the jelly dessert, made is in the shape of a block, has a different scene embedded in the jelly with every slice taken, creating the image of a bird flying toward the moon in a flip-book style.
Looks too good to eat right Not so. With cranberry, Japanese walnut and raisins sitting atop the jelly, you can be sure that this dessert tastes as good as it looks.
Priced at around $30USD it is not really an everyday dessert, to be served as a follow up to some pie and mash. For those special occasions however, when you want to impress your guests, Fly Me To The Moon is guaranteed to win you some new flans.
Bored Panda
==============================
## Title: Take care!
## Supertitle: Physicians and the challenge of the future
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Physicians and the challenge of the future
Take care!
Based on the Presidential Address to the Ceylon College of Physicians, delivered at the ceremonial induction held at the BMICH.
As we all entered the New Year, the Ceylon College of Physicians, one of the pioneering and premier professional organisations of medical specialists in Sri Lanka entered the second 50 years of its existence. Its achievements at this point are many and enormously important  but so too are its future challenges. This is, therefore, a time for both celebration and reflection.
The College was inaugurated in 1967 by eleven pioneering consultants, who met at the consultants lounge in the General (now National) Hospital Colombo and resolved to promote an academic postgraduate medical college for physicians, paediatricians, and psychiatrists. At that time our doctors received their specialist training in the UK, from where they obtained world-renowned qualifications such as MRCP (London) or FRCS (England). These pioneers were responding to the need to create a process that would enable our country to train its own specialists, which would be both contextually more appropriate and economically more viable, without compromising on the internationally recognized standards that the country already possessed.
This was necessarily a task for many sectors to take up in unison: the healthcare sector, the academia and the profession. Perhaps the best possible start was provided in 1959, when Prof K Rajasuriya commenced the MD (Ceylon) postgraduate degree, which quickly established itself internationally: in the words of Lord Rosenheim, chief examiner of the MRCP (Lon) and external examiner at the MD (Cey): Your degree of MD is awarded on the results of a very searching examination, the standards not differing from the London Membership [MRCP]. We place Australia, New Zealand and Ceylon on the top bracket. I hold your MD in very high esteem.
The College was founded in 1967, with Dr E.M. Wijerama as the founder-president and Prof Rajasuriya himself as the president who followed him. From then on through the 1970s was the trying, tentative gestation period of creating the local training process that everyone wanted, with the College itself playing a pivotal role and providing the input from the profession. It was eventually born in 1980, with the establishment of the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine (PGIM).
Today the pioneers dream is fulfilled  our country now produces an adequate number of specialists, not only in the speciality of Medicine but also in just about every medical speciality. The PGIM has become a robust, highly cost-effective institution that produces our specialists in the required quantity and quality.
The contribution of the College to this process has been crucial and essential. It was part of the initial process of conceptualization  a crucible of disparate ideas from diverse sectors that helped bring forth a composite, harmonious whole. It has provided the academic training programmes for trainees, as well as continuing professional development (CPD) for practising specialists. When the finer specialities emerged, the College encouraged and nurtured them, and we now have a healthy plethora of these with their own vibrant colleges and professional organisations, producing a close-knit family with the College as the overall, much-loved umbrella. Throughout, it has continued to maintain close links with overseas professional colleges, both in the UK and elsewhere; our outlook is, therefore, both locally situated and globally informed.
The backbone of our College has always been the generations of dedicated members who have given their time, energy and priceless intellectual input to our numerous projects. They have worked tirelessly, voluntarily and often at their own expense. They are conscious of how much they have benefitted as individual citizens from the nations collective gifts of education, training and professional status. And, having not squandered away those gifts nor emigrated, they are now determined to give back to the profession and the nation, both individually and collectively. The College is a collectivity that we all value and are proud of  a lasting legacy of professional excellence and dedication.
Facing the future
But the global human society is in transition. We all face enormous challenges that would haunt future generations: climate change, environmental degradation, increasing and ageing population, unplanned urbanization, untrammelled consumerism, increasing socio-economic inequity, increasing violence and wars, and more disease emergence.
How much longer can business-as-usual continue before humanity loses everything it has gained, including its many health-related successes Lester Brown, one-time vice-president of Exxon and later founder of World watch Institute, warned: Socialism collapsed because it did not allow the market to tell the economic truth, and capitalism may collapse because it does not allow the market to tell the ecological truth.
These broader social issues will affect our health and disease too because human health is inextricably intertwined with not only our biological environment but also our physical and social environments. This understanding was crucial to medicines shift in the 1970s from the biomedical model to the biopsychosocial model, first articulated by psychiatrist George Engel. They will also affect our health-seeking behaviour and health systems because these are integral parts of our general human and societal responses. This understanding was crucial to our shift from a narrow, health sector-limited societal response to a broader, multi-sectoral approach, first articulated in 1974 by Canadian Health Minister Marc Lalonde as the Health Field Concept.
But not only these issues, even the solutions offered for them by the global elite could themselves become problems. Such innovations are often mass-produced commodities that swamp over the lives of people everywhere, leading to the McDonaldisation of healthcare. Instead, solutions need to be both effective and appropriate to the contexts that people live their lives in, what they find able to afford, understand and accept. Professionals both understand the science and look after the people in their own settings  they are therefore in the right place to decide on the appropriateness of solutions.
As the pace of all this change quickens, the challenge of understanding, responding and adapting to it will become harder. For the medical profession, it is no longer enough that we understand science and technology well  we must also understand the human mind and society better. And our awareness has to extend beyond our own immediate surroundings into what is happening in the far corners of the world today because globalization enables them to affect our own corner of the world tomorrow. What is more, it is not enough that we merely understand it  we must also be able to predict, advocate and give directions to that change, at least for the benefit of our own part of the world.
Thanks to our College and other colleges and organisations like it, in Sri Lanka the medical profession has successfully made the quantum leap from a collection of individual doctors to a collective profession. We must now make the leap from a profession that prescribes remedies to sicknesses to an intellectual force that understands the local and global undercurrents that create sickness.
It is opportune for us to reflect on what Rudolf Virchow, one of the most brilliant of modern physicians, said about medicine in the nineteenth century: Medicine is a social science, and politics is nothing else but medicine on a larger scale. (Here, of course, the word politics is used in the broad sense, as in Aristotles Politics.)
Our strategies
As a responsible and important group of citizens, the medical profession must evolve into a proactive group that understands these undercurrents and advice and advocates to our society what our response should be. We need to evolve from a profession of service-providers into being, in addition, a force of public intellectuals.
Our strength is science  the approach to understanding our world that gives it its reliability and validity and yields and guides effective responses. We need to expand our scientific know-how from the natural sciences to the social sciences; from the physical, chemical and biological sciences to the psychological, social and environmental sciences.
Our guide is professionalism  the contract we have with the society that gives us our legitimacy, dignity and independence, in return for our social conscience, disinterested service and responsiveness.
Our toolkit is knowledge  not only the declarative and procedural knowledge that we acquire in our training but also the conditional knowledge that comes from reflective practice and from exploring the humanities.
Hence our theme for the College this year: Inventing the future: with science  professionalism  knowledge.
The College invites not only its own members, but also all medical professionals and, indeed, the wider society to join it in an effort to get ready for the future. Join us and support us in this broad, collective and multi-sectoral effort as we face our common future  a future we can successfully negotiate only if we work together. As computer scientist Alan Kay said: The best way to predict the future is to invent it.
==============================
## Title: Taking walking etiquette in your stride!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Taking walking etiquette in your stride!
People in Sri Lanka no longer know how to walk suitably in public. On the streets of Colombo and suburbia there are jaywalkers, baby walkers, dog walkers, cell-phone talker- walkers, slow walkers, fast walkers, group walkers and drunken walkers. Unfortunately, all of these walkers most of the time are walking into one another.
There was a time when any seasoned Colombo dweller had a built-in sonar in terms of walking down its streets. Yes every Colombo dumbo then could skilfully manoeuvre down the most crowded pavement without ever bumping into a fellow pedestrian.
In a crowded capital city that is forever rebuilding itself, sometimes it is impossible to be a graceful walker. And not all our pavements are equally paved. Pedestrian etiquette is the general courtesy expected from those walking among other pedestrians. It involves staying out of the way of fellow pedestrians and not hindering their ability to travel. Doing this prevents collisions that may potentially cause injury or damage to what you or the other person is carrying.
Still, strollers say that many problems could be avoided if some basic rules were followed. Bear in mind that walking rules are like driving rules. Yes, and always remember that in marked similarity to driving where selfish individuals at the wheel are referred to as 'road hogs,' walkers with no consideration for others are called 'pedestrian pigs.' Not a nice term at all but quite deserving when you forget your pavement manners.
Allright then, let me point out a typical pavement discourtesy which we all are guilty of at one time or another. When we are in a group we take up the entire pavement, forcing approaching pedestrians to step into the street. Stay to the right is the golden Number One rule. But that is easier said than done from a practical point of view at times. I am talking about times such as when a bull-like walker approaches you from the opposite direction. So a dance step would come in handy unless you want to be flattened by the opposing jumbo-like juggernaut heading in your direction.
Pedestrian etiquette is not all that complicated, so come on. Here are some basics: Do not walk in the middle of the pavement. Some pedestrian in an infernal hurry may want to pass you. And if he is aggressive he will do it in the shove-off bull-stampede sort of way. If you happen to be strolling along with a group, instead of forming a giant wall, break into smaller formations to walk together. Do not take up the entire walkway. It is annoying. And watch where you're going. If you do have to text and walk at the same time, pay attention to everyone else so you are not an obstacle that everyone else has to avoid. Or better yet, stop on the side for a second to send your text and make everyone happier.
Certainly many people do not give much thought to walking, although it is such a simple, straightforward activity. Obviously there isn't much to it on the surface at least. But that's until you encounter people with poor walking etiquette. They come in all shapes and forms. Most distinct are those who walk too fast or too slow for you to keep up. Somehow they are oblivious to the fact that different people may enjoy different speeds of walking. It is mostly the fast walkers who do this, if they looked to the side for a minute they would see you taking giant strides trying not to fall behind.
But even if they look, it is one of those disapproving looks which relays the unspoken message: "Could you pick up the pace a little bit you think" The fast walkers are easily identifiable, they always have a purpose to their walking. These aren't the people who go window shopping. No they keep their eyes fixed on their destination.
No change of course being made here. Time to them obviously means money.
On the other side of the equation you have the slow walkers. And this isn't about physical ability or endurance, these people just refuse to speed up no matter what the situation is. It would seem as if going faster would be in conflict with their religious beliefs. And sometimes you need to pick it up a little, when you have to get somewhere on time.
These people never worry about getting anywhere on time. Whatever happens. 8 or 8.30 am, what is the difference anyway And they are so attached to this notion of never doing anything quicker than they normally do at their casual pace that it is downright hard to shake them. Only a serious threat of missing out on something, or better yet facing a penalty for being late, will sway them from their comfortable path.
Too fast or too slow, that is fairly obvious all things considered. But that's not all, there are certain variations of these trends. For instance, there are people who tell you they cannot keep up with you. But instead of stopping or slowing down, like any rational person would expect, they walk at the same speed you do, only some two or three steps behind you to prove their point. Not surprisingly, this does not work because if you can walk at my pace, walking behind me is just a question of displacement, not velocity.
More annoying yet are people who refuse to align with you for any reason at all. If you are walking for more than 30 minutes, inevitably at some point one person will stop for some reason. The excuses are many, tying shoelaces, looking at something you pass by on the road among other sidetracking actions. Allow other pedestrians as much space as you can and give corners of buildings a wide berth to avoid colliding with someone coming around the other side. Always apologise if you accidentally brush or bump against someone. Use common sense when jaywalking. Even if it is legal in your locality, it can still be dangerous.
And do not be a heel stepper. Nothing infuriates a sandal-wearer more than when a heel stepper clips the back of her sandal, knocking it off her foot and causing her to become a sudden stopper. They are almost as bad as the cellphone talker-walkers who appear oblivious to everything around them as they are in a connected universe of their own. But you had better keep an eye out for them because they can be typically misguided missiles.
While observations of pavement behaviour are not scientific research, they can certainly tell us a lot about cultural morals and values. And they can be used to help us question those same values and make more conscious choices about what's important and what's just plain selfish.
Unnatural obstacles can also spoil a stroller's rhythm. So it would be a good thing if every one of us follows this guide. That would mean taking public walking etiquette in our stride!
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Thailand's new ambassador presents her credentials
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Thailand's new ambassador presents her credentials
Thailand's new ambassador to Sri Lanka, Chulani Chatsuwan presented her credentials to President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday. (Picture by President's Media Division)
==============================
## Title: Theres no such thing as wasted writing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Theres no such thing as wasted writing
In a recent essay, John Jeremiah Sullivan notes that 19th-century African American stage actors commonly performed in blackface. It is, he writes, a strange story, but this is a strange country. The same observation could be applied to Sullivans own work. His nonfiction investigations of Disney World, reality TV, American history and prehistory, and, most frequently, popular music, have appeared in the New York Times Magazine, GQ, Harpers, the Oxford American, and the Paris Review (where he is the Southern Editor), and were collected in Pulphead (2011). Sullivans first book, Blood Horses: Notes of a Sportswriters Son (2004) won him a Whiting Award. In more recent years he has been honored with the Windham-Campbell Prize, administered by the Beinecke Library at Yale University. Sullivan, who has two daughters, lives in Wilmington, North Carolina, where his wife, Mariana, teaches film studies, but he was born in Louisville, Kentucky. In 1997 he graduated from the University of the South, which publishes the Sewanee Review. Sullivans current book project, The Prime Minister of Paradise, dates from his undergraduate days, when a conversation with a French professor sent him searching through the SR archives for an essay about a man named Christian Gottlieb Priber. Twenty years later, Sullivan is still immersed in documenting Pribers vision of an early-American utopia.
Sewanee Review first published Sullivan in Winter 2017; his two-part essay The Curses explores the origins of the blues. This interview was originally conceived of as a discussion of that story, but soon expanded to cover other aspects of Sullivans career.
A phone call last May was followed by two in September, and then, in October, an afternoon and an evening spent talking and typing in the attic of a farmhouse near campus.
Sullivans curiosity, his powers of association, and his singular talent for turns of phrase were on generous display during each of these conversations, as we discussed Spinoza, the idea of literary generations, and how Cabeza de Vaca made it to Mexico City.
Alec Hill: The Curses: Part I chronicles the life of Columbus Bragg, the black critic to whom the Oxford English Dictionary attributes the first use of the word blues to describe a style of music. Where did you find him
John Jeremiah Sullivan: I first encountered Bragg in the pages of the Chicago Defender, the African American newspaper, so in a sense I came up against him raw. Id never read anything about him in an academic context: theres been hardly anything written. But initially it was just background. He was one of forty or fifty different characters Id run across and made a note to learn more about.
Then we met again when I saw the OED credit, which had him using that phrase, using blues as a genre adjective, in 1914. But even that wasnt what struck me about him: instead it was the idea that he was asking, in that first usage, about the first blues song (which he identified, idiosyncratically, as Paul Dressers The Curse).
I was amazed to see evidence that this way of thinking had begun so early. The year 1914: by most scholars accounts, thats not too long after you get the first blues song, period.
Its as if the blues as a commercial form and this almost religious desire to understand its roots came into existence together. Bragg, to me, is the initiator of that tradition. - Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Thisara halts Sri Lanka slide with win over Zimbabwe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Thisara halts Sri Lanka slide with win over Zimbabwe
DHAKA, Sunday: Thisara Perera starred with bat and ball as Sri Lanka ended their recent dismal run by beating Zimbabwe by five wickets in the tri-nation one-day international tournament in Dhaka on Sunday.
Perera claimed four wickets to lead an inspired Sri Lankan bowling attack that limited Zimbabwe to 198 all out before his unbeaten 39 helped the islanders to chase down their target in 44.5 overs.
Sri Lanka were in trouble at 145-5 before skipper Dinesh Chandimal (38 not out) and Perera put on an unbeaten 57-run stand for the sixth wicket.
Perera, who bats left-handed, sealed the win with a six to keep Sri Lankas tournament hopes alive after they lost against Zimbabwe and hosts Bangladesh.
Zimbabwe paceman Blessing Muzarabani claimed three wickets to rattle the Sri Lankan top-order after opener Kusal Pereras dominating 49.
But the day belonged to Thisara Perera, who soon took the attack to the opposition with his 26-ball knock that was laced with a four and 3 sixes.
Chandimal, leading the side in place of injured Angelo Mathews, played the sheet anchors role to perfection during his 71-ball stay.
Earlier Perera ran through the Zimbabwe top-order, grabbing the most vital wicket of Brendan Taylor, who top-scored with 58 before his side were bowled out in 44 overs.
The 28-year old Perera, who bowls medium-pace, was ably supported by fellow paceman Nuwan Pradeep (3-28).
Left-arm wrist spinner Lakshan Sandakan took two wickets before Pradeep wiped off the Zimbabwe tail including the prized wicket of skipper Graeme Cremer for 34.
The win kept Sri Lanka in the hunt for a spot in the final as they still have a game in hand against Bangladesh. Zimbabwe, who beat Sri Lanka by 12 runs in their first match of the tournament, also can qualify for the final if they can beat the hosts in their next match on Tuesday.
==============================
## Title: Three injured in car-train collision
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Three injured in car-train collision
Two women and a child were injured on Friday (19) at 10.40 pm, when the car they were travelling in collided with a train plying from Aluthgama to Colombo at the level crossing situated at Kuda Waskaduwa, Kalutara, between the No.1 Railway Station and the Kalutara North Station. The Kuda Waskaduwa level crossing lacks a gatekeeper, and hence, is unsafe and prone to accidents.Residents had rushed to the scene and pushed the ill-fated vehicle away from the crossing and rescued the three persons. They were then immediately admitted to the Kalutara Nagoda Hospital for medical treatment. The women and child sustained minor injuries.Residents of Kalutara North and Kuda Waskaduwa appealed to the responsible Ceylon Government Railways (CGR) authorities to look into the situation and make all possible arrangements to employ a responsible gatekeeper for this unsafe level-crossing, immediately.
==============================
## Title: A timely proposal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
A timely proposal
Custody. Care. Correction. You will find these three words in the emblem of the Sri Lanka Prisons Service. As the signboard of the Welikada Prison in Colombo proclaims Prisoners are also Human. Hence, the main objective of the prisons system is reforming individuals who have committed offences against society. Some prisoners (sentenced to death and life terms) many never enjoy true freedom again, but even they get plenty of opportunities to repent and reshape their lives inside the four walls of a prison.
Prisons are a necessary evil, in that they keep people who have committed anti-social activities away from society. The location of a prison is immaterial in terms of what it sets out to do  rehabilitate individuals who have committed crimes and other misdemeanours. But thanks to a prison system that is a legacy of the Colonial era, Sri Lanka has prisons right in the heart of many cities including Colombo. This is a sheer waste of prime real estate that can be used for alternative purposes.
The Bogambara Prison located in the very centre of Kandy was a clear example. Having rightly realised the folly of having a huge prison complex in the heart of Kandy, the Government in 2013 closed it down and moved the inmates and most equipment to another prison facility in Pallekele. However, the facility remained closed for nearly five years without any action being taken on converting it for another use.
After touring the facility on Thursday, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe declared that the Bogambara prison premises will be converted into a cultural and tourism centre under the Governments programme of developing Kandy as a tourism hub. These development activities will be conducted under the guidance and blessings of the Chief Prelates of the Malwatte and Asgiriya Chapters, the Premier said.
Under the new development plan, the Bogambara Prison premises will be converted to a cultural venue under three phases and a park will be constructed under the first phase of the project at a total cost of Rs 400 million. The other two phases will be conducted with Japanese financial assistance.
This will come as a great relief to those who harboured fears that the land could be given over to build a monstrous but hideous high rise hotel/apartment complex or shopping centre. Kandy already has a world-class multi-level shopping centre, so another one was not needed anyway. Given Kandys unique topography, a high-rise complex would have been a grotesque invasion.
The proposed cultural centre will fit in ideally with Kandys reputation as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and Home to the Sacred Tooth Relic of the Buddha, the Sri Dalada Maligawa. Tourists both foreign and local will be able to learn more about the regions religious and cultural ethos through the new cultural centre.
The authorities have to urgently address several other issues affecting Kandy. The highly polluted air is one of the biggest problems, with the city boxed in by the mountains. Improving Kandys air quality should be a priority project. Traffic and parking are nightmares in Kandy, though the proposed underpass (tunnel system) and the Central Expressway now under construction will address these issues to some extent. The Premier has also revealed plans to extend the Kandy city to the Gannoruwa area, which will also help to find solutions to traffic and parking issues.
It is not only Kandy that has lost economically and socially as a result of a prison being located in its very centre. Colombo has suffered a similar fate with the Welikada Prison, which occupies prime real estate. There were plans to shift the prison elsewhere and use the land and structures for another purpose, but we are not aware of any further action on this front. This project should be revived and expedited. The authorities should review locations of other regular and remand prison sites throughout the land from Mahara to Vavuniya to ascertain whether it would be economically feasible to move the facilities to other less central locations as in the case of Kandy.
There is simply no need to locate prisons in the main cities  the recently opened 65-acre prison complex in Angunakolapelessa is a fine example that proves that rural areas with plenty of bare land are the most suitable places to build prisons or similar structures. More attention should also be paid to the viability of community service centres and outdoor prisons/work camps for minor to medium offences. A large number of people languish in prisons unable to pay a simple fine thus increasing congestion - a solution should be found for this problem. Expediting court cases will ease congestion in remand prisons.
The best answer however is a righteous society where offences of every kind are at a minimum. Religious leaders, parents and school teachers have a major role to play in this regard. If everyone lives according to the tenets espoused by the great religious masters, there will be no hatred or crime in the society. Prisons will be redundant in such a society where all can live in peace.
==============================
## Title: Tourisms foreign ownership share up
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Tourisms foreign ownership share up
Tourism has become the largest segment to have foreign ownership share in Sri Lanka with 3.3% of foreign ownership and another 3.1% as joint ventures with Sri Lanka.
This segment has now overtaken the industrial sector which was at 2.9 % at the end of 2017.
According to the Department of Census and Statics latest report the highest number of employment was in the industry sector. Among the occupation group in 2017, the highest number of employment was recorded in service and sale workers category. The largest number of labour demand was reported from services sector followed by industry sector.
The relevant estimates are 177,813 and 175,250 respectively. The highest proportion (91.2%) of permanent employees is reported from the occupation group, plant machine operators and assemblers. This is followed by managers (89.1%) category. The majority of employees recruited on casual basis belong to elementary occupations (24.3%). Further the table reveals that average highest wage salary is paid for the category of managers (Rs 49,737) and least paid category is elementary occupations (Rs 19,654)
Majority of employees of the age group 25 to 45 years. The proportion of managers less than 25 years was very low compared to other groups. Comparatively larger percentages of employees of age 60 years and over are recorded in manager and elementary occupations groups. It also showed that around 44 percent of firms mentioned the lack of job specific required skills or competencies as reasons of showing poor preparedness by employees with only secondary school educational background and which is the highest percentage. First job seekers coming from university or other higher education institutions have been reported having poor attitude- personality or lack of motivation by 17.1 % of firms.
The largest number of labour demand was reported from the services sector followed by industry sector. The relevant estimates are 177,813 and 175,250 respectively. According to the report more than one third of the firms mentioned that the ability of team working is needed for the employees, who were not performing up to the standard.
The next highly important skills highlighted by the management of the firms, which have to be improved among the poorly performing employees were oral communication and taking initiatives. Meanwhile it was reported that the Western province has the highest number of labour demand and the Eastern province has the lowest.
==============================
## Title: Trinco police hunt for suspects in kidnap case
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Trinco police hunt for suspects in kidnap case
Trincomalee headquarters police have launched a special investigation to arrest a group of suspects who were allegedly involved in kidnapping a youth in the Trincomalee area with the intention of holding him to ransom for Rs 25 lakhs.
According to the police media unit, the gang had kidnapped Wadduwage Chatura Dilranga of 4th Mile Post, Kandy Road, Trincomalee.
The kidnappers have asked his family to pay Rs 25 lakhs if they wanted to see him alive again. After agreeing to pay the ransom, the relatives had prepared said amount of money in a briefcase, including Rs 500,000 in 100 notes of Rs 5000, all the numbers of which were noted by them. After taking the briefcase, the kidnappers had abandoned the youth in Miriswatte area.
According to preliminary investigations, police found some of the CCTV footage of those who kidnapped the youth. The footage showed a woman too in the gang. Police urge the general public to inform them on 026-2222222 or 071- 8591174 if they know the whereabouts of the suspects.
==============================
## Title: A truly Indian experience
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
A truly Indian experience
India celebrates 71 year of independence this year while Sri Lanka celebrates 70 years of independence this year. This friendship between Sri Lanka and India is highly valued by the governments of both countries, which is why the High Commission of India in Colombo tries to do something of importance every year to strengthen relations between both countries.
And last week they organized a musical evening named Bollywood and Beyond celebrating independence.
Music has always been considered a unifying force in this world throughout history. Indeed it is a universal language that speaks to the hearts and minds of both men and women.
This time the High Commission of India used the power of music to demonstrate Indias commitment and intent towards eternal friendship and love between our two countries.
For this purpose three stars aligned last week  Violin Maestro Padma Bhushan Dr. L. Subramaniam, Renowned Vocalist Padma Shri Kavita Krishnamurti and Daughter Bindu Subramaniam. All these three individuals are musical personalities who have etched their name in Bollywood and Beyond. Dr. L. Subramaniam is a musical genius, Krishnamurti a Bollywood sensation and Bindu Subramaniam is her fathers daughter and a class of her own. She owned the night with her powerful voice. Bindu Subramaniam is renowned internationally and as well as in India.
Before her performance, the music of Dr. L. Subramaniam and Kavita Krishnamurti held the audience spellbound.
The Sri Lanka audience was treated to a truly unique Indian experience. Seeing these three phenomenally talented artistes on one stage on one night was an unforgettable experience.
Words cant really express what that musical evening was like except that it was a privilege to be there. Getting an opportunity to be in the presence of these internationally renowned musicians and listening to their rapturous music, was like attending a Beyonce Concert or a Rihanna concert!
At the evening were some political heavy weights - President Maithripala Sirisena, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya, former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, a number of Ministers, Members of Parliament, senior officials and diplomats were among the dignitaries who participated in the special cultural event.
The musical evening showcased the beautiful blending of Indian and Western classical music with popular Bollywood songs.
The trio were accompanied by eminent musicians Tanmoy Bose on Tabla, Frijo Francis and Sanjay Marathe on Keyboard, Alwyn Dominic Fernandes on Guitar, Keith Peters on Bass guitar, Prasad Kulkarni on Octopad and percussion and Satya Sai on Mridangam.
High Commissioner Taranjit Singh Sandhu evinced his pleasure by warmly welcoming everyone to the momentous occasion. The High Commissioner delivered a powerful speech.
Today is a fitting occasion to mark this milestone of 70 years of independence in Sri Lanka. This is a milestone for democracy as well. It has been a delightful and a satisfying journey. Both of our countries have walked the path of democracy with confidence and courage. We have faced challenges boldly and we have given the best to our countries. This is testimony to our invincible will and fearless spirit. It is a moment of pride for both of our countries. We are keen to reach our destination while being conscious of the path chosen. The journey is as important as the destination.
Our forefathers have courageously made sacrifices. There are so many unsung heroes  the men and women who have made sacrifices for our two countries in their own unique ways. We are walking towards a bright future with common interests with the wishes and aspirations of our peoples merging. This merely strengthens the bonds between our two peoples  India and Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka occupies a special place amongst our neighbors. We are delighted by the fact that our interaction and projects benefits both our peoples, said Sandhu.
Sandhu said that India is always ready to assist Sri Lanka and India will stand by Sri Lanka.
Finally I wish to thank the Subramaniam trio and the players for being here today giving this musical evening meaning and for providing entertainment and being a part of our celebrations today. The cultural ties between Sri Lanka and India ties their soul and spirit together. The overwhelming turnout here today proves this. Our ties run deep, said Sandhu.
==============================
## Title: Two human footprints emerge on Maskeliya rock
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Two human footprints emerge on Maskeliya rock
Two human footprints were found on a rock at the New Fogmore Group in Guardmore, Maskeliya in close proximity to Sri Pada by estate workers five days ago.
They said they came across a right footprint and once they cleaned the moss gathered on the boulder, the left became visible adjacent to it.
The right footprint is very clearly visible, while the toes of the left were invisible.
The space between the two is about one foot. Each is about one and a half feet long and is on the boulder to a depth of about one and a half feet.
Curious crowds are thronging to catch a glimpse of the imprints. Some estate workers have covered the two footprints with a canopy and started to pay homage to them.
Ambagamuwa Divisional Secretary R.P.G. Sumanasekera said he would inform the Archaeological authorities about the footprints and request them to conduct investigations.
==============================
## Title: Two Lankans conferred with Order of the Rising Sun
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Two Lankans conferred with Order of the Rising Sun
Japanese Ambassador Kenichi Suganuma conferred The Orders of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon upon Das Wijeratne and Frederick Medis, on behalf of Emperor Akihito, at a special ceremony held on January 18, at the Ambassadors residence, in Colombo.
==============================
## Title: U.S. GOVT. IN SHUTDOWN ON TRUMP INAUGURATION ANNIVERSARY
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
U.S. GOVT. IN SHUTDOWN ON TRUMP INAUGURATION ANNIVERSARY
US: US President Donald Trump marked the first anniversary of his inauguration Saturday with his government in shutdown, accusing Democrats of taking Americans hostage with their demands.
From midnight Friday, in the absence of an agreed spending plan, federal services began to come to a halt or be scaled back, even as lawmakers continued to argue on the floor of the Senate.
Essential services and military activity will continue but many public sector workers will be sent home without wages and even serving soldiers will not be paid until a deal is reached to reopen the US government.
Soon after the news broke, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney issued a memo to government agencies, telling them they should now execute plans for an orderly shutdown due to the absence of appropriations.
A deal had appeared likely earlier Friday, when Trump seemed to be close to an agreement with Democratic Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer on a measure to prevent the expulsion of undocumented migrants who arrived in the country as children.
But no such compromise was in the language that reached Congress for a stop-gap motion to keep the government open for four more weeks while a final arrangement is discussed -- and Republicans failed to win enough Democratic support to bring it to a vote.
The White House lashed out at Schumer, blaming him for the shutdown and doubling down: Trumps spokeswoman Sarah Sanders declared that he would never negotiate an immigration deal until Congress agrees to resume normal government spending.
Senate Democrats own the Schumer Shutdown, she declared.
Tonight, they put politics above our national security, military families, vulnerable children, and our countrys ability to serve all Americans.
We will not negotiate the status of unlawful immigrants while Democrats hold our lawful citizens hostage over their reckless demands, she said.
Republican majority leader Mitch McConnell echoed the White Houses language, but Schumer fought back, blaming Trump for leading him to believe a deal was possible on the immigration dispute but then failing to bring his own party along.
Every American knows the Republican Party controls White House, the Senate, the House -- it is their job to keep the government open. It is their job to work with us to move forward, Schumer told the Senate, after the 50 to 49 vote. Republicans have a tenuous one-seat majority in the Senate but would have needed to lure some Democrats to their side to get a 60 vote supermajority to bring the motion forward. They fell ten votes short.
The measure brought to Congress would have extended federal funding until February 16 and reauthorized for six years a health insurance program for poor children -- a long-time Democratic objective.
But it would have cut the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals programme, known as DACA, that affects Dreamers. White House officials insisted there was no urgency to fix DACA, which expires March 5.
A new Washington Post/ABC poll found that 48 percent of Americans blame Trump and the Republicans for a potential shutdown, and only 28 percent hold Democrats responsible.
There have been four government shutdowns since 1990. In the last one in 2013, more than 800,000 government workers were put on temporary leave. International ratings agency Fitch said a partial shutdown was unlikely to affect Americas AAA/stable rating for US sovereign debt.
Meanwhile, Protestors took to the streets en masse across the United States Saturday, hoisting anti-Donald Trump placards, banging drums and donning pink hats for a second Womens March opposing the president -- one year to the day of his inauguration.
Hundreds of thousands of marchers assembled in Los Angeles, New York, Washington, Chicago, Denver, Boston and other cities nationwide, many donning the famous pink knit pussy hats -- a reference to Trumps videotaped boasts of his license to grope women without repercussions.
Protestors hoisted signs emblazoned with slogans like Fight like a girl, A womans place is in the White House and Elect a clown, expect a circus.
The largest demonstrations were in cities where Trump performed poorly at the polls: the Los Angeles mayor said estimated turnout in his city was 600,000, while New York police estimated about 200,000 protesters.
In Manhattan, a diverse crowd descended on Central Park West, the avenue that borders the citys beloved park and arrives at the foot of the Trump International Hotel -- part of the magnate-turned-commander-in-chiefs real estate empire. - AFP
==============================
## Title: US to grant $1.2 mn to counter trafficking in persons
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
US to grant $1.2 mn to counter trafficking in persons
The U.S. government will award more than 183 million rupees ($1.2 million) to counter trafficking in persons in Sri Lanka over the next three years. The U.S. Department of States Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs will award the new project Equipping Sri Lanka to Counter Trafficking in Persons (EQUIP) to the International Labor Organization (ILO) Country Office for Sri Lanka and Maldives.
U.S. Ambassador to Sri Lanka Atul Keshap applauded the effort, saying, The United States has a strong commitment to working with international partners to tackle the root causes of modern slavery and protect victims and vulnerable populations. Through the EQUIP project, we will continue to support the government of Sri Lanka in combating the scourge of human trafficking.
This is a very timely opportunity for the ILO to step up efforts to combat human trafficking, said Simrin Singh, Country Director of the ILO for Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Well-known ILO tools on fair recruitment and the application of recommendations of ILO Conventions and Protocols on Forced Labor will make a positive dent in tackling the challenges at national and grass root levels.
EQUIP will directly assist Sri Lankan men, women, and children who are at risk and those who are victims of human trafficking. The project will work closely with agents of change policy makers, law enforcement, recruitment agents, trade unions, as well as business  to amplify the impact of interventions and achieve lasting change.
==============================
## Title: Wolves lead cut at top of Championship after surprise defeat
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Wolves lead cut at top of Championship after surprise defeat
LONDON, Saturday - Wolverhampton Wanderers saw their lead at the top of Englands second tier Championship cut to nine points after they suffered a 2-0 loss at home to Nottingham Forest on Saturday -- their first league defeat since late October.
First-half goals from Kieran Dowell and Ben Osborn were enough for Forest to pick up a first win in seven games, and give new boss Aitor Karanka his first victory since taking charge.
Second-placed Derby County will rue the fact they were held to a goalless draw by fellow promotion hopefuls Bristol City on Friday, missing the chance to cut Wolves lead yet further.
Debutant Cameron Jerome thought he had earned Derby a golden chance to earn victory late on, but rather than winning a penalty, Jerome was cautioned for simulation by the referee.
Scott Hogan scored twice in three first-half minutes as fourth-placed Aston Villa beat Barnsley 3-1 to close the gap on Derby to three points.
Hogans double was followed up by Dimitri Cavares goal for Barnsley, with Conor Hourihane adding a third for Villa against his former club.
Cardiff City climbed back above Villa but missed the chance to move level on points with Derby as they were held to a goalless draw by Sheffield Wednesday in the days late kick-off.
Millwall snatched a 4-3 victory over 10-man Leeds United after a quite incredible game at Elland Road.
Aiden OBrien put the visitors ahead before home captain Liam Cooper was sent off, making it three red cards in as many games for the hosts. Lee Gregory then scored seemingly to put the game to bed, before Pierre-Michel Lasogga got Leeds back in it.
Kemar Roofe then scrambled an equaliser and Lasogga thought he had won it with a 25-metre effort. But, Tom Elliott levelled three minutes from the end and Jed Wallace secured the win in stoppage time. Sheffield United enjoyed a 2-1 triumph on the road at Norwich City. Manchester United loanee James Wilson opened the scoring and Clayton Donaldson added a second. Ivo Pinto replied but it was not enough.
Tony Puliss Middlesbrough won on the road at Queens Park Rangers thanks to goals from Daniel Ayala, George Friend and Adama Traore, while Joel Asoros goal proved enough for struggling Sunderland as they pulled Hull City closer to trouble with a 1-0 win.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Womanly vigour
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Womanly vigour
Retired Army Major Ramani Kangaraarachchi can be called a woman of many talents - talents which are unique from one another. Kangaraarachchi was one of the six women to have joined the Sri Lanka Armys Womens Corps at its inception in 1979.
Childhood dream
It had been Kangaraarachchis childhood dream to join the forces, a somewhat unusual dream for a young girl at that time. After completing her academic years in school, armed with a diploma in business management, she joined the Sri Lanka Army as a cadet officer and after training was commissioned as a second lieutenant.
In the 1980 I saw an advertisement in the papers calling for applications to join the Army Womens Corps which was unheard of because at the time there were no women in the forces and I did not believe my childhood dream to be in the military would become a reality.
I was so happy and thought it was meant for me, so, I applied and got selected to join the Sri Lanka Army after three interviews which was a major turning point in my life until I was married, she recalled.
Five other girls along with me were the very first recruits to the Armys Womens Corps, she said. She has also been a part of the first womens group to receive military training at Womens Royal Army School in Camberly.
It is attached to the prestigious Sandhurst Military Academy in the UK and we received training for nine months, she added.
Challenging life
Ramani Kangaraarachchi.Picture by Thushari Fernando
Of course life in military is not a bed of roses. It is far more than being a career woman working in an air conditioned room in front of a computer. Life in the army teaches you a lot. These experiences can be life changing. It teaches you to work hard and teaches you to be part of a team, but most of all it teaches the discipline in life which is invaluable, said Kangaraarachchi.
In her view the qualifications you earn in military are priceless. You are a part of an adventure when you are in army at the same time gives you the chance to work in situations where no other organisation can offer.
Its considered a mans job so women have to keep up with their male counterparts.Young women aspiring fora military careeryou have to keep in mind its all about hard work and sacrifices.
Army makes one a highly trained expert and you can achieve a lot. The army is not the place for people who just want a job. You have to be willing to make the sacrifices if you are in the forces, she said.
After 15 years of service, in 1995, Ramani retired as a Major in the army and made history as the first officer to retire in the Armys Womens Corps. During her last five years in the service she gained the position of the second in command of the regiment.
Inspiration for women
Having been part of the pioneer womens group, I got the chance to pave the way for others. Even after my retirement, I did not stop being involved in army, she said.
Kangaraarachchi is the founder President of Ex-Army Womens Association and served in the post for eight years. She still continues to inspire, uplift and empower women who are a part of the association.
These women have been in a military setup. They feel lonely and stranded once they are in society. So, through the association we help them to settle in civil setup. We assist them to find jobs or to be self-employed. We help in the education of their children. We uplift their lives spiritually as well, she said.
For her services she was recognized and awarded a service medal by Speaker Karu Jayasuirya at the remembrance parade recently. Having served women from all walks of life Kangaraarachchi has also been an excellent mother of two wonderful children.
Being a mother serving in the military was a challenging task and some of the challenges were just like any other working mother would have, Kangaraarachchisaid. Such challenges were trying to have a work-life balance and the constant feeling of not being devoted enough towards the children.
Even though womens corps was not deployed for longer durations in Sri Lanka during the 80s, there were instances I had to leave the children behind and go outstation for various duties.
I used to have mixed feelings during those instances; the duty to serve the country over powers the guilt of having left the children under the care of maids or vice versa. Since then I have come a long way, she explained.
On a spiritual path
At the moment Kangaraarachchi is in a different battle trying to conquer spirituality that is more needed in ones life. At present I am content with my journey, however, the experiences I gained throughout the years made me realize the importance of improving ones spirituality to lead a quality life. From past few years I was able to conduct several spiritual programmes through my initiative with Viruliya Sevana, engaging the Ex service women. As I have celebrated my 60th birthday last year, it is my wish to continue being in this path until the later part of my life, she concluded.
==============================
## Title: The worlds coldest village
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
The worlds coldest village
Welcome to Oymyakon, a village where students are expected to attend class till temperatures reach minus -52C (-62F). The remote Siberian village is considered to be the coldest permanently inhabited settlement in the world, and it has just plummeted into a -62C (-80F) winter, making our daily complaints about the weather sound rather silly.
Photographer Amos Chapple traveled there some time back to brave the freeze.
I was wearing thin trousers when I first stepped outside into -47C (-52F), Chapple said.
I remember feeling like the cold was physically gripping my legs, the other surprise was that occasionally my saliva would freeze into needles that would prick my lips.
This time, however, the cold is even stronger, not only gripping legs but turning peoples eyelashes into icicles as well. The official weather station at the pole of cold registered -59C (-74F), but the new electronic thermometer claimed the weather was -62C (-80F). In fact, it even stopped working after reaching the painful mark. Some of the 500 locals go beyond that, claiming the temperatures are as low as -68C (-90F).
In the 1920s and 1930s, Oymyakon was a stopover for reindeer herders who would water their flocks from the thermal spring. In attempts to force its nomadic population into putting down roots, the Soviet government later transformed the site into a permanent settlement. In 1933, a temperature of -67.7C (-89.9F) was recorded in the village, accepted as the lowest ever in the Northern Hemisphere.
Bored Panda
==============================
## Title: Writers gonna write
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Writers gonna write
Books on proper English do strangely well  perhaps because those who buy books are those who mind about apostrophes. Such volumes are supposed to improve your prose. But the true appeal seems to lie in a tasty kind of misanthropy: the reader gets to froth over dimwits who say things like, She literally disappeared off the face of the earth. But the language scold always loses in the end. Those kids who, thirty years ago, irked adults by saying like all the time are today saying like at board meetings, on national broadcasts, and to their own teenagers.
Whether ours is a time of butchered English or of flourishing invention isnt obvious. Does online writing strip English of pomposity and outmoded rules When Emmy J. Favilla turned up for her job interview at BuzzFeed five years ago, the media company already enjoyed notoriety as the leading trawler of click-bait, filling its webpages with enticing posts such as Cat Enjoys Being Vacuumed. The site had millions of views a day, and not a single copy editor. At first, BuzzFeed had been a mere side project for Jonah Peretti, one of the creators of the Huffington Post. His passion was to understand how ideas and information spread online, and this enterprise was his lab to track viral content. But he was onto something bigger than that. Financing poured in, humans were hired to oversee the algorithms, and he finally left the Huffington Post in 2011 to dedicate himself to the listicle capital of the world.
Original content
Peretti had discerned that social media were becoming a dominant reading source. He plotted the BuzzFeed expansion accordingly. A big part of that is scoops and exclusives and original content, he told the New York Times in 2012, and its also about cute kittens in an entertaining cultural context. Peretti employed a much-respected newshound, Ben Smith of Politico, as BuzzFeed Editor-in-Chief, and more appointments followed, including that of its first copy editor, Favilla. Almost at once, she had decisions to make, beginning with how you abbreviate macaroni and cheese.
Her ruling: mac n cheese, which she deemed cuter than mac & cheese. With that, she was off. In a mere two months, Favilla had drafted an entire style guide, thousands of words on preferred spellings and the like. When BuzzFeed posted a version online in 2014, old-school media sources treated the occasion as a milestone: the internet was growing up. Or, at least, someone could finally pronounce on whether you should say de-friend or unfriend (its the latter). All the attention surprised Favilla, and prompted her manifesto, A World Without Whom: The essential guide to language in the BuzzFeed age.
As if to immunize herself against criticism, she begins by announcing her paucity of qualifications; she is neither a lexicographer nor an expert in linguistics. Previously, she worked at Teen Vogue. I am constantly looking up words for fear of using them incorrectly and everyone in my office and my life discovering that I am a fraud, she says. But despite the tone of chirpy self-satire, what follows is a small revolution.
Today everyone is a writer  a bad, unedited, unapologetic writer, she says. Theres no hiding our collective incompetence anymore. Unlike the language scolds of yore, Favilla embraces the new ways, punctuating her writing with emoji, inserting screen-grabs of instant messages, using texting shortcuts such as amirite Hers is a rule book with fewer rules than orders to ignore them. Humans are gushing out words at such a pace, they cant be expected to bother with grammar, she says. More important is to be entertaining, on trend, popular (neatly matching the corporate goals of BuzzFeed). Its often more personal and more plain-languagey, and so it resonates immediately and more widely.
Style ruling
Many of her judgements will chill traditionalists. She delights in the use of literally to mean its opposite. As her book title declares, shed abolish whom, given how few people use it correctly. Other matters that have long rattled copy-editors dont concern her: variations in spelling, comma precision, full stops in acronyms. Often, when pondering a style ruling, she offers no firm guidance, as if mistrusting authority to such a degree that she cant grant it even to herself, the author of the essential guide to language.
Use your judgment, friends, she says. And: Dont sweat it too much. And: In the end, who cares Her chapter Getting Things as Right as You Can: The stuff that kinda-sorta matters features an instant-message exchange in which she corrects a BuzzFeed colleague on a style point. When questioned, Favilla lifts the rule, then admits to being drunk  so whatever. In this merry free-for-all, her scorn is reserved for those who scorn. A person who resists current usage is stodgy and miserable and irrelevant, prefers a stagnant, miserable world, and will be sitting motionless in a puddle of his own tears. She claims to want only to describe language, not prescribe its correct use. But her preference is clear, to raze what she deems pedantic and elevate the verbal etiquette of millennials. At times, she sounds like an activist: Weve come a long way, but weve still got some work left to do.
Immersion in memes makes Favilla a handy guide for the perplexed  by which I mean people old enough to remember the twentieth century. However, she seems unsure where to pitch her book, leery of appearing uncool to her peers but needing to address those miserable geriatrics who somehow missed out on cash me ousside, howbow dah.
(This line was spoken by a thirteen-year-old girl on the daytime television talk show Dr. Phil as a threat to a derisive studio audience: Catch me outside  how about that A clip of her saying those words became a viral hit, watched more than 100 million times on YouTube.
The girl, Danielle Bregoli, is now a celebrity.) Another meme Favilla explains for the web-blind is Doge-speak; a photo of a dog is superimposed onto other illustrations, then overlaid with phrases in broken English, as if to reflect the inane thoughts of the animal. In one, the dog appears at the Last Supper, thinking, Such delicious and wow.
BuzzFeed and its rivals dine on this sort of material, which is intended to be silly, often ironically. Fixing grammar in slapstick would be absurd, so Favillas practical rule for editing is this: I ask myself, How would I write this in an email to a friend, or in a Facebook status What Favilla circles around is a striking proposal: eliminate formal English. If professional writing should read like an online message, and messaging is akin to conversation, theres only one register. Repeat after me, she commands. If we speak that way, its okay to write that way.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Youths climbing Sri Pada with cannabis arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, January 22, 2018 - 01:00
Youths climbing Sri Pada with cannabis arrested
Twenty nine youths who went on pilgrimage to the sacred Sri Pada (Adam's Peak) were arrested and later remanded after Police found cannabis in their possession.
They were arrested on Friday after trained sniffer dogs helped police detect the cannabis.
The Hatton Magistrate's Courts had ordered the youth to be remanded until today.
The Police said they had seized 570 g of cannabis.
The arrested are residents of Maharagama, Pilimatalawa, Colombo, Horana, Hanwella, Awissewella, and Kalutara.
Since the Sri Pada season started, Police have arrested 60 people with narcotics.
==============================