## Title: [Appreciations]-30.10.2015
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
[Appreciations]-30.10.2015
Saumyamoorthi Thondaman:
Trade Union giant of plantation workers
The 16th death anniversary of Saumyamoorthi Thondaman falls today. All remember him as one who fought for trade union and political rights of the Indian origin people of this country especially of plantation workers.
The imperialistic and inhuman approach of the British Planters during colonial period had been an instrumental factor for Saumyamoorthi Thondaman to champion the cause of the plantation workers.
His wandering among tea bushes during his early childhood observing the pathetic conditions under which the indentured labour had been subjected to work had made indelible impressions in his mind to fight for the workers rights. This made him to assume leadership of the Ceylon Workers Congress in 1940 and continue until his demise in 1999.
The Ceylon Workers Congress of which he was the founder President became a political party subsequently. It played a major role in shaping the destinies of the Indian population in the country. Major strikes, go slows, work to rule campaigns and Satyagrahas waged by CWC had their impacts in industrial relations and even the industrial laws of the country.
The vexed question of citizenship and voting rights of the Indian population were restored by a series of amendments to citizenship laws culminating in eradicating the term Statelessness by the legislation brought in 2003.
In the same way, the amendment Act brought in on April 26, 1989 by the government conferred the voting rights on those newly registered as citizens of Sri Lanka.
Thondaman was a person of different roles, a trade unionist, a Minister, legislator, king maker, a respected and revered leader popularly called by all as Ayah. He was able to move with ease with the President of the country and the humble worker. His diplomacy to interact with foreign dignitaries and international leaders brought esteem and honour to the country.
He was the founder President of the South Asian Trade Union Council (SARTUC) which consolidated and focused on the trade union movement in South Asia.
He was a member of the ILO governing body until he became a Minister. His contribution to the workers movement through the ILO, ITUC and international workers groups was immense.
He will be remembered for ever not only for deep involvement in trade union and political arena, but for promoting, supporting and spearheading measures for the educational, economic and social well being of the Indian community in Sri Lanka.
K Marimuttu
Attorney-at-Law
==============================
## Title: Cheating case: Dental surgeon acquitted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Cheating case: Dental surgeon acquitted
Magistrate and Additional District Judge Saliya Channa Abeyratna acquitted Marawila Government Hospital dental surgeon Y. Mallika Samarakoon when she was not found guilty to the charges against her in a cheating case.
The accused was charged with cheating P.W.D. Sriyani of Nattandiya for Rs. 600,000 by promising her employment broad.
President's Counsel Upali Goonerathne, Senior Counsel for Mallika Samarakoon submitted to court that his client had not been present during the money transaction.
==============================
## Title: China to end one-child policy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 11:30
China to end one-child policy
China has decided to end its decades-long one-child policy, Xinhua news agency reports.All couples will now be allowed to have two children, the state-run news agency said, citing a statement from the Communist Party.The controversial policy was introduced nationally in 1979, to reduce the country's birth rate and slow the population growth rate.
However, concerns at China's ageing population led to pressure for change.The one-child policy is estimated to have prevented about 400m births since it began.
Couples who violated the policy faced a variety of punishments, from fines and the loss of employment to forced abortions.Over time, the policy was relaxed in some provinces, as demographers and sociologists raised concerns about rising social costs and falling worker numbers.The Communist Party began formally relaxing national rules two years ago, allowing couples in which at least one of the pair is an only child to have a second child.The announcement comes on the final day of a summit of the Chinese Communist Party's policy-making Central Committee, known as the fifth plenum.The party is also set to announce growth targets and its next five year plan. (BBC)

==============================
## Title: Colombo's faulty lights: Whose fault
## Supertitle: [Action Desk]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
[Action Desk]
Colombo's faulty lights: Whose fault
Pedestrians and motorists, especially in the Colombo city limits, face many difficulties due to the malfunction of traffic lights. Traffic lights help the smooth flow of traffic as well as ensure the safety of road-users. However, people on the roads have to face constant risks due to the lack of proper traffic lights.
Accidents are reported on a daily basis, which are mainly caused by the absence or malfunction of traffic lights. When queried, authorities seem to evade this very important matter passing the blame on others. Negligence of authorities seems to be the main cause for such road problems.
Traffic lights, sporting red, yellow and green, could be seen at many intersections cautioning commuters. Colombo is the most densely populated and congested city in the country. Traffic lights or signal lights have been installed in most places to ease the traffic congestion and ensure the smooth flow of traffic. They are needed for both motorists and pedestrians alike. Unfortunately, traffic lights at some of the busiest junctions in Colombo are found to be malfunctioning. Malfunctioned colour lights have become a common sight in many parts of Colombo now.
An intersection is the point where vehicles from several roads meet. Vehicles reach an intersection from different directions. The purpose of signal lights is to minimize traffic congestion in a junction, allowing the traffic to flow as smoothly as possible and let pedestrians cross the road safely.
However, several commuters expressed their displeasure when asked about the colour lights. They do not work continuously. Therefore, pedestrians and drivers are not aware of its function, said R. Mahesh, a three-wheeler driver referring to the inactive colour lights near Maradana.
Pointing out that hundreds of people flock to Maradana as the railway station is also nearby, he said one could witness the hustle and bustle on the road during office hours. When the traffic lights do not function properly, drivers go high speed as the colour lights do not stop them. On the other hand, pedestrians, after learning that the lights do not work, try to jaywalk, Mahesh said.
"I have seen several occasions where pedestrians are scolded by drivers when they try to cross the road. It is a life threat to those people. Many rush across the road to catch the train," the three-wheeler driver added.
Road rules and regulations are meant to protect commuters. If people tend to take care of their own safety, what is the need for rules and regulations pedestrians ask.
Pedestrians as well as drivers face numerous issues when traffic lights do not function continuously. Although people consider their safety, they tend to violate rules in places where the law is not executed properly. Therefore, road rules and regulations must be implemented under a proper system which leaves no room or easy way out for any violator.
The victims of the negligence of authorities are members of the public. When colour lights do not work, drivers speed up and pedestrians cross the roads knowing that colour lights are inactive.
Traffic lights without a countdown. Left: An inoperative pedestrian crossing button
"Several colour lights do not work continuously, especially the ones near pedestrian crossings," said Asma Ismail, a university student from Punchi Borella.
"One day, I was in a hurry to go to the university as I had exams. I went up to the pedestrian crossing and pressed the button. I waited for a few minutes but the colours did not change. Then a person in the boutique nearby told me that it does not work. I missed three buses waiting at the crossing. That is how the traffic lights in our country work," she claimed.
Asma added: "From then on, I first check whether the lights are working. If it does not work, crossing the road is a big challenge especially in the morning. Sometimes the lights function and sometimes not. Only a few drivers stop to let pedestrians cross. Most drivers fly like jets on the road."
When it comes to public issues, authorities tend to provide answers to evade the situation. Speaking to the Daily News, a few people alleged that the police are switching off the colour lights.
Responding to these allegations, Traffic Admin and Road Safety Director SSP Jayantha Senaviratne said lights are switched off after 10 pm at night as the traffic, pedestrians and vehicles are less during those hours.
Colour lights near pedestrian crossings are not switched off without a valid reason, he emphasized.
"It is the responsibility of the OIC of each area to look into malfunctioning colour lights and to inform about it to relevant authorities. When the department receives complaints regarding colour lights, we immediately respond to the problem," he added.
He had already identified several malfunctioning colour lights, maintained by the Colombo Municipal Council engineering services.
When the Daily News inquired Nihal Wickramaratne of the Colombo Municipal Council, engineer services, he said problems pertaining to colour lights are attended to immediately when complaints are received.
On the contrary, a pedestrian alleged that sometimes all colours - red, amber and green - function at the same time. He explained that this happens when rain water seeps in short circuiting the lighting system.
Wickramaratne responding to allegations said minor errors in colour lights can be solved within a day. But it takes more time to fix if there is a power failure.
Colour lights with a countdown system are more effective than the ones without. Pedestrians and drivers can see the countdown before making a move. This is safer compared to other colour lights, Wickramaratne added.
Tackling road safety issues have become a major challenge today as people have various opinions. Earlier, before the installation of colour lights, drivers and pedestrians functioned on instructions of the traffic police. The country expected to see an improvement in the flow of traffic following the installation of traffic signals. But in reality, traffic lights are not functioning properly and sometimes the traffic police have to be near the lights to control traffic. One wonders about the significant difference that traffic lights have made on the road to ensure safety.
"Sometimes the situation becomes worse when a policeman handles traffic at junctions which earlier had colour lights," alleged W. K. Sanath, a shopkeeper at Pettah.
Congestion increases especially in the morning when vehicles come to Colombo and in the evening when vehicles go out, he added.
Sanath pointed out that when traffic lights do not function continuously, pedestrians risk their lives and cross the road through moving traffic.
Sunith Bandara, a banker from Gampaha said some drivers drive recklessly which is worse when a traffic policeman is not present.
Traffic policemen are not deployed where traffic lights have been installed and traffic is controlled by the lights. However, this had become a failure as many traffic lights are not functioning, he claimed.
SSP Senaviratne speaking about the interference of the police with the traffic flow said: "According to the law, if there is a traffic policeman on the road, drivers and pedestrians should obey his instructions. In such a situation, traffic signals do not function."
He accepted that people face several problems due to malfunctioning lights. "The department is in the process of improving the system and there are problems with regard to the duration when colours change. That has to be adjusted," he said.
He also said that colour lights with a countdown are more effective.
According to transport experts, traffic signals are not meant to be manned by the police. Traffic signals can be programmed according to traffic patterns of the day and week.
In addition, the police, Road Development Authority or Colombo Municipal Council should make regular traffic counts at intersections and draw up a traffic plan to minimize waits and reduce congestion.
Pictures by Malan Karunaratne
==============================
## Title: Delft Devils Well
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Delft Devils Well
I discovered there is a lot more to Delft than its wild royal horses left behind by the Portuguese.
Delft kovil
Zero visibility over, do you read me the voice at the other end sounds desperate as the radio crackled and a clear order was made abort landing do you read me Not a great thing to hear while heading for Jaffnas Delft Island in the middle of a storm that has steadily got worse as the trip had progressed from the ferry from Kurikattuwan to the meeting place of the seven seas.
I could see from the hunched up cowering position of the usually cocky boat driver that this was really as serious as it gets. We could not see anything ahead, and were quite literally sailing blind and he was only just managing to keep the boat from turning over from the crashing waves, which were sometimes twice the height of the ship and freak cyclone style rain that was smashing us on all sides. Looking out of the window of the cabin where I had taken cover from the stormy conditions I hoped desperately searching for a sign of land as I swayed at alarming angles.
Pretty much hopeless
The fog instead was getting thicker, rain lashing us from both sides was now filling the cabin and the conditions of the sea made me realize that our situation was pretty much hopeless, after all when I could not even see the helm of the boat how on earth was the guy supposed to sail into a rocky harbour and not dash us into a million pieces. The operational guys based at Delft island kept saying its too dangerous to come in. Abort landing and over and over are you reading us and despite our close proximity the captain did not want to risk making a run for it and going back was equally dangerous. I was glad I was wearing my orange life jacket and for not skipping my school swimming lessons to go shopping. The radio crackled and went dead and the silence that followed was chilling and it was obvious the captain and his crew had totally lost control of the situation even with all their military marine training they had never seen weather conditions like it.
As the boat turned in, ever decreasing circles it was as if we had vanished into a cloud of smoke, akin to the Bermuda Triangle and would like the time machine be jettisoned into another world. Even the non-religious among us started to pray, Amzar my youngest son was enjoying all the drama and pointed out a bird sitting on the deck, follow the birdie he said and although I thought my two year olds thing for birdie boats was verging on the ridiculous, and not exactly helpful in the current situation, the crew thought otherwise and keeping the bird as it took off in sight made a run for it. As if the bird had some magic power the mist, like an opening night curtain call rose for a brief minute or two and gave us just long enough to see the land and make it in one piece.
Even if Delft Island, the largest inhabited island of the Jaffna peninsula had been a hell hole we would have loved it as a location, after a near death experience on the unpredictable high seas. The island interestingly located almost equidistant from the city of Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, India and Jaffna. It is an intriguing place with incredibly friendly people, classic old school tuck shops, ancient Buddhist ruins and a strange, bleak, windswept landscape that wild horses trot across daily.
The island which once had its own royal ruler, King Vaidyarasan has a population of Hindus, Catholics and Protestants. King Vaidyarasan is credited with having built the canal across Delft linking two large tanks, an indication that agriculture flourished on this island, along with mercantile trade.
However, the problems of recent times and the political turmoil of 26 years of war led to many people migrating further south until 2009, when there has been a slow return to the island. Most of the well water is salty, so if you plan on going bring plenty of water with you. It takes a couple of hours to circle Delft in a four wheel drive with its ancient coral walls and unusual ancestral homes it is easy to see why people are charmed by the place, which only now is being reclaimed by the original island families.
Originally called Pasuthivu or Nedunthivu (the island of cows) and renamed Delft by the Dutch, after the town in the Netherlands, where they make blue and white china. Today it is hard to see the connection, although lots of the houses have lovely azure blue frontages. Delft is known in all the guide books for its horses left behind by the Portuguese colonialists and some rather unusual historic buildings, which include a messenger pigeon house.
Delft has emerged unlike the other islands relatively unscathed from the conflict and has kept its old world charms. Except for the bus, there are only a few military vehicles and Singer style bikes available to explore the place, which is the preferred form of transport and with one liners like its magic, one can easily see why peddling ones way across this picturesque almost Scots like island is an experience to savour.
Wild horses and ponies
Where time stands still
Houses are fenced by coral-stones piled up or by palmyrah leaf fans giving Delft its particular unique architectural aspect and inside are walled gardens. It has a haunting beauty, which is made even more appealing when you find out that its barren plains are still heavily populated with wild horses and ponies, which were introduced by the Portuguese in the 1600s. These horses are forbidden by law to leave the island and despite the ruling, the population is now into the lower hundreds and can mainly be found in the open lands near the now fenced off giant baobab tree with its doorway like opening that they suggest should never be used in a storm, as the tree retracts in size and might leave you crunched up inside its bowels. The Quindah Tower, the wells of Sarapiddi, the old stables and village shops are all worth checking out.
The most pleasant season is probably July-August when the roughest weather has gone and when there are still enough breezes. January and February are cooler like in the rest of the island but January can be wet. The ferry from Kurikattuwan on the southern tip of Pungudutivu takes about a 45 minutes drive by car from Jaffna old town along the Quays, which is a magical experience watching the time old fishing traditions.
On a good day there are two ferry services a day. One in the morning and one in the afternoon but check first prior to planning your trip; timetable is subject to important changes due to the days weather conditions which can leave you stranded on an island without even one hotel and thats if you even make it! Although the local people will take you in and the shops are full of great goods, so you wont starve however bad things get and the good bit is you will get to try real Jaffna Cool island style. They say the dish came from the island and was another thing inherited from the Portuguese, whose influence is clear in the beauty of the people.
Good fortune
The coral crags and their rocky arches with the nestling pigeon nests, money putting into cracks of rocks for good fortune that grow on religious ground and the littered scrap remnants of a temple from the Chola dynasty period fetter the path of this island, which can only be reached upon passing the suckling current of the meeting place of the seven seas and inside past the lighthouse which allows one a glimpse to India.
The most sort after place is the Devils Well which is the only fresh water source on the island with its bottomless abyss and the Giants Footprint after which one reaches the cemetery stone wood blocks which look to the distance like morose mute gargoyles demarcating the single moss covered wall of the stable: the men lasso the ponies and the wild horses who bray and prance like praying mantises. Then its tea and another boat ride on the high seas before the storm starts again playing havoc with us seeing more of Jaffnas out islands.
Back on the boat mottled with sea spray and bile  the island fades out of view, not out of mind, passing the western shore in and out of time. Kenneth Pinyan of Enumclaw, the patron saint of horses, looms large, his spectre perforating the mood of the insidious Puck, wandering in search of the jackass, fulfilling his duties with his spells cascading. Jaffnas Islands known as Sri Lankas crown jewels are well worth all the danger and tomfoolery. All be it a travellers clich it really is the perfect place to vanish from the world into the mists of time.
==============================
## Title: Economics and politics in period of transition - 1
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Economics and politics in period of transition - 1
Sri Lanka is experiencing a period of transition. It is a transition from a crony capitalist dictatorship to a liberal democratic capitalism. The process of change or transition initiated on January 8 and reinforced on August 17 is nothing more than that. To ascribe to it characteristics of a social revolution is a gross exaggeration though politicians are at liberty to identify it as such.
A period of transition is such that the old structures though defeated are still not vanquished and the new ones are still struggling to be born. An inevitable struggle takes place for the defeated strike back with vigour and venom of a snake harmed. The ultimate victory of the new is yet not established. This political factor has to be kept in mind especially when considering economic and political reforms.
The legitimacy for the transition depends on the trust placed by the people in the present administration twice in the course of several months. Obviously that trust is not unconditional or everlasting. The moment this trust wanes off the legitimacy of the government gets eroded.
Unfortunately the importance of economic revival and measures towards its attainment are hardly the subject of public discussion. Still less attention is paid to the relation between politics and economics in any reform process that must be followed.
Burning economic issues
To put it in ordinary parlance two things should be sustainable for the success of the transition. One is the sustainability of the masses at present cost of living or how much further hardships could they endure. People expect better living conditions and not a worsening of them. If the latter happens their trust would be lost giving way to the defeated to come back to the saddle. The other, related the first is the sustainability of the Government. Should it fall the consequences could be a return to crony capitalism and its dictatorial ways. That is why economics cannot be divorced from politics or textbook cures or universal recipes formulated elsewhere, would not suit us.
Both the Government and the people should understand that every inch of ground has to be won in a relentless struggle with the enemy. It was so in the struggle to get the 19th Amendment to the Constitution passed.
It actually deranged the composition of the Constitutional Council. More and far bitter struggles lie ahead despite the consensual nature of the Government. While burning economic issues have to be resolved political expediency too should not be forgotten in doing so.
Most economists agree that a rosy picture of a healthy economy is a luxury we do not possess at the current juncture. Despite all talk of "rapid development" and "miracles" several negative economic factors have crippled our capacities for development. They include among others a debt trap into which we have fallen, huge deficits in the terms of trade and balance of payments and an economy not geared for production.
We live in a highly globalized world and it is necessary for us to take part in the international division of labour. Self-sufficiency is an unsustainable policy though it could be practiced in limited areas under special circumstances. On the other hand as a developing country trying to build its own industries and develop its own agricultural production it needs certain safeguards against the penetration of foreign goods into the local market.
Foreign direct investments
Because of the low savings ratio Sri Lanka lacks adequate capital for investment which compels us to depend on foreign capital. Further we have been unable to draw in foreign direct investments in sufficient quantities and had to borrow foreign capital at commercial rates. This has aggravated the foreign debt and debt servicing takes over 25 percent of export earnings, most of which is earned by the poorest of the poor in our society - domestic slaves in the Middle East and the plantation proletariat. Further our foreign debt to GDP Stands around 60 percent. The meagre and progressively diminishing State revenue also comes mostly from the masses (around 80 %) and not from the rich and the filthy rich that are lightly taxed or not taxed at all.
In the meantime, Sri Lanka has to depend mainly on export revenue as the local market is quite limited. However low productivity of labour makes our goods costly and hence less competitive in the world market. Thus we lose in the world market due to unequal exchange. This makes the development of technology an imperative for our development. Unfortunately we do not spend enough on Research and Development as well as on innovation. Besides we do not possess state of art laboratories for such research.
All these problems call upon policy planners and economists to think out of the box and define a path of economic development that best fits our needs. Production for export without finding a means of bridging the technology gap at least in a selected key industries and services will not be of much use in freeing ourselves from the debt trap. On the other hand the mandatory debt servicing saps our resources.
The increase of the debt/GDP ratio would sooner or later land us in a situation similar to Greece and it would be too late to think of remedies. The donors including the international financial agencies would dictate terms that our people would be unable to agree.
That is why the present government has a do or die task of improving production in the country, generate employment and create wealth. Unless this could be done only a miracle could save it when it has to go before the people.
As far as the donors are also concerned they will not have a friendly government in place that could guarantee their investments unless they help out the present government. Hence the consensual government should seize this opportunity of guaranteeing enough investment for development through selective investment promotion that guarantees sure short and medium term returns unlike showcase projects of the former government.
An important measure in improving the investment funds is to propose a moratorium on debt servicing at least for a period of five years and negotiate a revised re-payment option at the end of the moratorium period.
In the aftermath of the tsunami the donors agreed to such a moratorium. Experience would have already told the donors that such a moratorium and a revised schedule for debt-servicing is still possible and would be in the interest of both parties.
Otherwise it would lead to a situation of debt default. It would give Sri Lanka a breathing space to put its economy in order and embark on a path of fast development without heaping unbearable austerity on the masses who are already finding it difficult to make ends meet, especially with the floating Rupee and the spiralling cost of living.
(Part 2 will appear next week)
==============================
## Title: Empathy for elephants
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Empathy for elephants
One can measure the greatness and the moral progress of a nation by how it treats its animals-Mahatma Gandhi
Due to the escalation of the Human Elephant Conflict (HEC), the Wildlife Department recently announced that it is taking immediate steps to mitigate the problem with short term and long term measures. Alas! the immediate measure is to strengthen and increase electric fencing to enclose elephant habitats.
Although electric fencing is considered to be the most effective way of diverting elephants away from human habitats, elephants have shown intelligence in finding ways to effectively bring down electric fencing and cross over avoiding electrocution as evidenced in media reports.
One of Sri Lankas most eminent conservationists, Dr Prithiviraj Fernando, Chairman of the Centre for Conservation and Research, gave a lecture recently titled Are our National Parks, Sanctuaries or Concentration Camps for Elephants It was a shocking expose of how the elephant population in Sri Lanka is gradually perishing due to incarceration in sanctuaries enclosed by electric fencing. He states that there is a significant lack of elephant fodder within sanctuaries to meet the demand resulting in gradual starvation of elephant populations.
Forest reserves
The contiguous elephant habitats of Udawalawe, Lunugamwehera and Yala are currently enclosed with electrical fences preventing access to neighbouring forest reserves managed by the Forest Department. Dr Fernando believes that if the forest reserves are opened to elephants, elephants will thrive due to unhindered space and adequate vegetation to forage thereby significantly reducing the HEC.
As mega herbivores, elephants require relatively large areas and diversity of environments to forage. It is estimated that an adult elephant consumes up to 150 kg (330 lb) of plant matter per day. Our lush tropical forests provide a staggering 116 plant species as elephant fodder.
It is estimated that Sri Lanka has the highest density of elephants in Asia. However, as a small island nation with an increasing human population density and changes in land-use patterns, elephant habitats are being rapidly eroded. As a result, much of the present day elephant range extends into and overlaps with agricultural lands resulting in conflict with man.
Although the Forest Department and the Wild life Department come under separate ministries, there could be collaboration for expanding elephant habitats. The National Policy on Wildlife Conservation and National Land Use Policy are two important policies which form a part of the National Forest Policy which can be leveraged to facilitate collaboration.
Magnificent creatures
The tragic outcomes of the HEC are human and elephant injury or fatality, loss of livelihoods due to crop loss, grain storage damage and destroyed homes consequent to frustrated, hungry and displaced elephants on the rampage in human habitats. What can be done to correct this
Since ancient times, elephants have been respected for their iconic role in our spiritual, cultural and economic life. Elephants have not only laboured for our economic well being but also played a venerated role as bearers of sacred relics in Buddhist religious pageants over the centuries.
The seasonal migration and the famous Gathering of wild elephants at the ancient Minneriya Reservoir is considered one of the most stunning spectacles in the world. Undoubtedly, it is our moral duty to continue to act as custodians of these magnificent creatures as a national treasure for posterity.
It is tragic that the Sri Lankan elephant population has declined by as much as 65% since the turn of the 19th century with the current population down to an estimated 5,000 to 6,000 mainly on account of loss of elephant habitat. Now, it appears that the HEC has reached the tipping point in Sri Lanka. Each year approximately 50 people in Sri Lanka are killed by elephants and over 100 elephants are killed by farmers protecting their crops. According to conservationists, successive governments failure to give priority in addressing the HEC has resulted in a increasingly negative attitude to elephants by affected communities and their apathy or indifference to conservation initiatives.
It is indeed timely that reforestation has been given priority by the government through a tree planting campaign to increase the country's forest density from the existing 29 percent to 32 percent in the next three years. Deforestation mainly due to small scale farming, commercial plantations and human settlements are resulting in rapidly declining wild life habitats. Due to the variety of causes of deforestation, it is evident that a multi-disciplinary approach is needed to tackle the problem.
As opposed to electric fencing, less costly and environmentally friendly solutions to mitigate the HEC have been put forward by experts. As an immediate measure, they recommend awareness building among affected communities on elephant behavior patterns. In the medium term they suggest structured fencing with palmyrah palms averse to elephants and in promoting the cultivation of crops averse to elephants such as Chillie, Ginger, Citrus, Turmeric, Thibattu berries, Kohila and Sesame. In the long term, they recommend habitat enrichment by planting varieties of elephant favoured plant species and re generation of forests through a sustainable and environmentally friendly program.
The elephant conservation strategy of the Department of Wildlife Conservation aims at conserving as many viable populations as possible in as wide a range of suitable habitats as is feasible. This means protecting elephants both within the system of protected sanctuaries and as many animals outside sanctuaries that the land can support and landholders will accept, and not restricting elephants to the protected area network alone.
The proposed strategy of the Department of Wild life Conservation is to (1) manage the protected areas and their elephant populations in their current context, as the core of future elephant conservation (2) Manage areas outside protected areas, so that together with the protected areas, they form a contiguous landscape for elephants. They also recommend the management of unprotected areas by regulating Chena cultivation, so that traditional cycling regimes are preserved and permanent cultivation is prevented in order to permit natural re-generation of forests which provides elephant fodder. They recommend supporting Chena farmers, so that they derive a direct conservation benefit from elephants being outside protected areas, and consequent costs of having elephants in their areas, such as crop depredations, are offset.
Project to produce elephant resistant crops
The international wild life charity, Born Free has conducted a project to produce elephant resistant crops in Pallegama in central Sri Lanka which is claimed to be a success. The success story needs to be replicated in other HEC prone zones. Supported by Born Free, the Sri Lankan Wildlife Conservation Society is currently working with local communities in Wasgamuwa to provide orange trees for villagers  a sustainable source of income and a crop that elephants do not raid or trample.
The above mentioned cost effective and environmentally friendly solutions need to actively promoted through a coordinated effort led by the three state agencies referred to above. National conservation policy planning and the political will to implement same are the two most critical areas in the protection of not only our elephants but all of our wild life. Recognized globally as a bio diversity hotspot, not only do we have the moral responsibility to preserve this asset as a world heritage but also as an economic resource for the nations benefit.
In addition to the networking of relevant state agencies, all stake holders, local and international, who are direct beneficiaries such as the travel and tourism industry and those directly linked to wild life protection such as conservationists, environmental and nature protection societies, impacted communities as well as the local and foreign media such as Animal Planet, National Geographic and Discovery should be invited to participate with the government towards mitigating the HEC for their mutual advantage through advocacy, awareness building and display of commitment leading to sustainable wild life habitats.
(Dr Fernando together with the Wildlife and Nature Protection Society appeal to the President Maithripala Sirisena, as the Patron of the Society, to initiate urgent action to save the elephant population of our country.)
==============================
## Title: Experience the adidas football revolution
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Experience the adidas football revolution
The world renowned sports brand adidas recently launched its latest football boots promotion at selected outlets across Sri Lanka. Now when you spend over a certain amount on the new Ace, X15 and Messi range of football boots, you will receive a special voucher which can be utilized at the Havelock Road, Crescat, Rajagiriya and Kandy City Centre adidas outlets.
The promotion is valid until December 6 and is giving Sri Lankan sports enthusiasts the chance to be a part of the adidas football revolution.
The Ace X15 provides optimal control enabling you to perform exceptionally well in all aspects of the game. The Messi15 range was created in close collaboration with football legend Lionel Messi and provides ultimate grip, stability and comfort. The range is inspired by the colours of the Argentinian flag and the outsole and stud-construction are specially built to withstand the strain of playing on artificial grass. You can therefore safely wear this pair of boots on different surfaces and rest assured that wear and tear will be minimized.
Football is a game that is loved and played across the world and is rapidly gaining popularity in Sri Lanka. This promotion will provide football enthusiasts with added value via a special voucher, which they will receive when they invest in a pair of Ace X15 or Messi15 football boots. Both these ranges offer world-class quality and exceptional design at an affordable price and give Sri Lankan consumers the chance to join the football hype and play the game in style, Adidas Sri Lanka Assistant Brand Manager Vadivel Suthakaran stated.
The adidas outlets offer the best footwear for sports professionals and enthusiasts in Sri Lanka, who seek exceptional design that enhances performance. Hameedia is the sole agent of adidas footwear in Sri Lanka and offers the Ace X15 and Messi 15 range in a variety of colours and sizes.
==============================
## Title: Fish cry for help to escape predators: Australian scientists
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Fish cry for help to escape predators: Australian scientists
AUSTRALIA: Distressed fish caught by predators emit a cry for help to attract other carnivores so they can escape during the ensuing chaos, Australian scientists said Thursday.
While researchers had discovered that fish emit a chemical substance found in their skin when injured to alert others nearby of the dangers, they did not know whether the distress call also benefited the captured prey. "Within a minute (of the chemical alarm being emitted), you get this aggregation of little predators coming in," the study's co-author Mark McCormick of James Cook University told AFP, adding that most fish displayed similar behaviour.
"For them, it's like somebody ringing a dinner bell. So other predators swoop in... and start chasing the predator that first caught the little prey fish and in doing so, disrupt the initial predator. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Former IS prisoners tell of beatings and torture
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Former IS prisoners tell of beatings and torture
IRAQ: Muhammad Hassan Abdullah al-Jibouri had long ago lost hope that he would ever make it out of the Islamic State's jail alive, and he had not even seen the sun in more than a month. Then, early last Thursday morning, he heard the helicopters overhead.
The 35-year-old police officer heard bursts of gunfire, and shouts in Kurdish and in English. Suddenly, the door to his cell was battered open.
"Who is there Who is there" a soldier yelled, first in Kurdish and then in Arabic.
"We are prisoners!"al-Jibouri's cellmates yelled back.
Al-Jibouri was one of 69 Arab prisoners of the Islamic State freed in a military raid near the northern Iraqi town of Huwija last week, the first in which U.S. Special Operations forces were confirmed to have accompanied the Kurdish forces onto the battlefield.
On Tuesday, in their first interviews since being brought to the Kurdish autonomous region by U.S. Chinook helicopters, four of the former prisoners described life under the thumb of the Islamic State.
As members of the police, or suspected of ties to the Iraqi government or the United States, the men were beaten and tortured by militants during their captivity. It was all suddenly reversed by a military mission than happened upon them by mistake - the raid had originally been meant to free captured peshmerga fighters.
Civilians trying to escape the wrath of Islamic State terrorists.
Told by his Islamic State guards he was just hours away from execution, Saad Khalif Ali Faraj, a 32-year-old police officer, said he had spent his last night in captivity writing a letter to a nephew, urging him not to risk his safety by going searching for him.
"I told him: 'Look after your brothers and your family,'" he recalled. "'Don't go out looking for me. They will kill me. Do not look for me.'"
In a 2 1/2-hour interview with a reporter for The New York Times at a government building in the town of Salahaddin in Iraqi Kurdistan, the former prisoners, all Sunni Muslims, gave accounts that illuminated life and punishment in one of the Iraqi areas long ago captured by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
In Huwija, the militants' draconian rules and regimented torture were not driven by sectarian hatred or foreign prejudices: This was a world in which Iraqi Sunnis brutally imposed their will on fellow Iraqi Sunnis. One of the militants' main ringleaders in the area was from nearby Diyala province, and some of the Islamic State fighters were from the Huwija area itself, according to the freed prisoners.
After the militants arrived last year, they went house-to-house, seizing weapons and money, recalled Muhammad Abd Ahmed, 35, who said he was on a leave from the Iraqi army when the Islamic State swooped in. Disarmed and impoverished, Sunni men in the town were later offered $50 if they joined the militants.
The men described an array of exacting restrictions imposed by the militants. Local residents were told down to tiny details what to wear - the cuffs of men's trousers had to be rolled up over the ankle, for instance - and precisely how to position their hands and fingers when praying. Disobedience or carelessness in following the rules provoked suspicion, or even beatings.
Trying to leave the Islamic State's "area of control" was another offense that could lead to severe punishment, said Ahmed Mahmud Mustafa Mohammed, 31.
The militants were wary of anybody who had served in the Iraqi police or army, or whom they thought might have had contact with Americans or Kurds.
The fighters also had a growing need for a detainment network to house those who had come under suspicion. The freed men recalled that the militants referred to the Huwija compound they were kept in simply as "Prison No. 8."
They said that new prisoners were subject to a methodical program of abuse - electrically shocked, beaten with hoses, smothered with plastic bags until they lost consciousness - even without any interrogation questions. Food was meager: pieces of bread pushed through cell doors.
Prisoners were kept in their cells day and night, and the rooms were jammed: al-Jibouri's cell held 39 detainees, he said. And the Islamic State's messaging was relentless. There was a television set in the cell that was used to play Islamic State videos of beheadings, and the captives were forced to watch.
Al-Jibouri's troubles began when his older brother, who had taught English in Hawija, came under suspicion, was imprisoned and told he would be killed. He escaped, but the Islamic State exacted retribution by detaining al-Jibouri, three of his other brothers and his 80-year-old father.
After a week, all but one of them was set free. The exception was a young brother who was killed as a warning to the family.
"They executed my brother Mouf in cold blood," al-Jibouri said as he covered his face and sobbed.
The family was warned never to mention the killing, but soon the militants came looking for al-Jibouri and his remaining brothers again. After confiscating al-Jibouri's cellphone, the militants discovered two contact numbers for two U.S. soldiers who had worked with the Iraqi police in Huwija in 2008.
Al-Jibouri denied that he had any lingering ties to the U.S. military, but that simply led to more beatings and torture.
"If I say 'yes,' they will execute me. If I say 'no,' they will hit me to say 'yes' to execute me," he explained.
Muhammad had worked as a contractor for a U.S. government aid program in Diyala. But he says that he came under suspicion because of a feud over money with another Huwija resident who tried to get even by denouncing him to a cousin who had joined the Islamic State. The beatings he endured soon after being jailed did not appear to be aimed at extracting information. "This was like a process," Muhammad said.
Ahmed said that he was tortured so relentlessly and thought his situation was so hopeless that he decided to end the abuse by signing a confession with his fingerprint even though this would all but seal his death.
Faraj said he came under suspicion because one of his two wives was Kurdish. His brother had already aroused the attention of the militants and been beheaded. "They gave me his head, not his body," he recalled.
Accused of supplying information to the peshmerga, he was jailed by the Islamic State, which also insisted that he divorce his Kurdish wife and mother of five of his children. He refused.
When the Kurdish and U.S. soldiers burst into the prison compound, al-Jibouri said that he felt that his prayers had been answered. "We were very lucky," he said.
He and his fellow prisoners were taken by the peshmerga to the city of Irbil, where they met on Tuesday with Massoud Barzani, the president of the Kurdish autonomous region.
Six Islamic State militants who had also been jailed for various offenses and who were also taken out of Huwija by the U.S. and Kurdish soldiers received a different sort of welcome: After they were identified by the fellow prisoners, they were led away by the Kurds for questioning. - THE NEW YORK TIMES
==============================
## Title: Gastronomic adventure with Noodle-Mite
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Gastronomic adventure with Noodle-Mite
Hot on the heels of its recent launch of Chocolate-Mite, Unilever Sri Lanka takes the gastronomic adventure to another level with the launch of yet another innovation  Noodle-Mite.
Conjured by Sri Lankas celebrity and revolutionary chef Koluu, Noodle-Mite is not simply a deliciously mouthwatering dish of noodles with minced chicken or beef and Marmite. It is more than that. Its a carefully orchestrated ensemble of well-balanced flavours which seamlessly blend with the meats. That correct dash of Marmite brings out a palette of distinctive flavours which then gradually travel on ones palate to climax in an exhilarating explosion of tastes  making one crave for more.
My raison detre and passion have always been to create new culinary experiences. Theres a lot of hidden magic in matching and mixing flavours to tantalise the taste buds and please the palate. As a child, Marmite was always to me a soup or a spread. But today, years downs the line, Im delighted to work with Marmite and take off on a yummy culinary ride with Noodle-Mite, chef Koluu enthused.
Marmite has been a trusted companion of thousands of Sri Lankans over the past many decades. They have literally grown up with the taste of Marmite. In our journey of creating Marmite Mealtime Magic we are delighted to join hands with celebrity Chef Koluu and create lots more adventure with Noodle-Mite which will be exclusively available at Ginger in two options - Chicken and Beef, Unilever Sri Lanka Brand Manager Marmite Bianca de Silva stated.
==============================
## Title: Govt ensures drinking water for all in Hambantota - Sajith
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Govt ensures drinking water for all in Hambantota - Sajith
The present government will take up the responsibility of ensuring the right to have pure drinking water for all people in the Hambantota district, Housing and Construction Minister Sajith Premadasa said yesterday.
He said a large number of people in the Hambantota district faced difficulties without safe drinking water for the past 10 years.
"But they couldn't raise their voices against the previous regime due to dictatorial powers. The previous regime implemented large scale development projects in the area without paying their attention to these issues. This government has taken measures to solve the drinking water issue of the area," he said.
The Bandagiriya people engaged in a protest on October 12 at the Pallemalala Junction along the Hambantota-Tissamaharama Road demanding pure drinking water, he said.
The minister alleged that there was a political agenda behind the issue.
"I submitted the Cabinet paper with regard to the second phase of Bandagiriya and Gonnoruwa water supply project on October 14. Cabinet approval has been granted to provide Rs.214.93 million for the second phase of the project," Premadasa said.
He said Hambantota has also been recognised as a CKDu affected area.
Meanwhile, addressing the Cabinet media briefing at the Government Information Department yesterday, Cabinet Spokesman and Parliament Reforms and Mass Media Minister Gayantha Karunathilaka said Cabinet approval has been granted to implement the second phase of the pipe laying project from Andaragasyaya underground tank to Gonnoruwa as a solution to the acute drinking water problem in the Hambantota district, following a proposal by Housing and Construction Sajith Premadasa.
Karunathilaka said around 12,000 persons of about 3,000 families in Bandagiriya, Keliyapura, Ketenwewa, Gonnoruwa, Andarawewa, Kuda Indiwewa and Hendilla areas of the Hambantota district are facing various economic, health and social issues with the acute drinking water deficiency in the area.
"As a permanent solution to this issue, the first phase of the project to provide 250 new water supplies at a cost of Rs.465 million under the Ruhunupura Water Supply Project is being implemented," he said.
He also said that the second phase of this project will benefit additional 11,272 persons with construction of a new pipeline system that facilitates the distribution of drinking water with 2,818 new water supplies from Andaragasyaya underground tank at a cost of Rs.214.93 million.
==============================
## Title: 'Govt's policies will affect country's economy'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
'Govt's policies will affect country's economy'
The policies initiated by the present government will largely affect the country's economy, former Minister Professor Tissa Vitharana.
Addressing the media at the N.M Perera Centre yesterday, Prof Vitharana said the government has taken measures to obtain external loans which will have a huge impact on the economy.
The government is totally depended on the World Bank and international funds. Those who blamed Chinese projects commenced under the former regime have now sought a loan arrangement with China to construct the first phase of the Colombo -Kandy Expressway," he added.
Responding to the statement made by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe that the previous government had failed to address resolutions of the UNHRC properly, Professor Vitharana said former President Mahinda Rajapaksa did not support America and other resolutions which would affect the country.
He said according to the government, it was the mistake the former President had committed. Professor Vitharana said only American supporters are happy with the government's progress.
The progress with regard to the UN report has to be reconsidered. That will affect the political leaders, the Forces and the people, he said.
The interest of loans received by the government is gradually increasing, former Minister Bandula Gunawardene said.
He said for the first time in Sri Lankan history, Treasury Bills increased to Rs. 400 billion.
The price of oil, coal, rice and other items have gone down in the world market. Development programmes have been stopped and no new projects have been introduced by the government. There fore the need for more money has become a complicated issue, he said.
Former Minister Dinesh Gunawardene said they condemn the government's initiative to abolish the concessions given to tea and rubber manufacturers.
The government should grant concessions for tea and rubber smallholders as promised in the election manifesto, MP Janaka Wakkumbura said.
The government has stopped giving concessions provided to tea and rubber smallholders. There is no reasonable price allocated for tea, he said.
Wakkumbura said the authorities need to show concern over the issue as these manufacturers provide a great support to the economy.
Former Minister D.E.W. Gunasekara said Presidential Commission have to be appointed to give a report on the crimes happening in the country.
Officials should be directed to submit the report in six months. Death penalty is not the solution to reduce the increase of crimes, he said.
Gunasekara added that the report should include the suggestions and proposals of religious leaders and diplomats as well.
MPs Wimal Weerawansa and Udaya Gammanpila, Democratic Left Front leader Vasudeva Nanayakkara and former Minister G.L Peiris were also present.

==============================
## Title: Guest is always correct
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Guest is always correct
Today on Chefs Dish we meet Chef Qiu ZhiQiang but everyone in Colombo knows him as Chef Jason. He is from Fujian, China. He has two children - a son and daughter. He has been in the culinary field for the past 17 years.
Q: How long have you been at your present work place
A: I have been at Mount Lavinia Hotel for one year.
Q: Why are you a chef
A: I like cooking. I always enjoy it.
Q: What do you feel when you are cooking, creating and working in the kitchen
A: Im always excited when Im cooking. Its a part of my life.
Q: How do you handle dishes that are rejected and sent back to the kitchen
A: First, I find out the reason for the rejection from the guest. According to their request I cook and offer another dish to satisfy them, because the guest is always correct. Then I go back to the kitchen to taste it and see what went wrong with the other dish, so that I can improve it the next time.
Q: When at homedo you cook or do you let your partner take control
A: When Im at home, I always like to cook for my wife and parents. Its good to see their happy face.
Q: If you were not a chef what would you be today
A: I would like to be a gourmand if I was not a chef. I would like to taste all the delicious food in the world.
Q: Of all the places you worked at, what are your greatest memories of them
A: My greatest memories of all the places I worked at, are the staff in the kitchen. In every place, we are like a family. a good team is really important when you work in big kitchens.
==============================
## Title: Iran to join Syria talks as diplomatic push gains pace
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Iran to join Syria talks as diplomatic push gains pace
RUSSIA: Iran said Wednesday it will take part for the first time in international talks aimed at resolving the brutal war in Syria, as a diplomatic push to end the conflict gained momentum.
Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif will join key players in the Syria crisis -- including Russia, the United States and Saudi Arabia -- in Vienna on Friday for a renewed effort to end more than four years of bloodshed.
US Secretary of State John Kerry cautioned that this week's talks would not secure an immediate political solution, but nevertheless represented the best hope available.
"While finding a way forward on Syria will not be easy -- it's not going to be automatic -- it is the most promising opportunity for a political opening we have seen," Kerry said just before he was to set off for Vienna.
"The challenge that we face in Syria today is nothing less than to chart a course out of hell," he added.
Washington is at loggerheads with Moscow over Syria, accusing Russian forces of concentrating their air campaign there on moderate opposition groups opposed to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's rule.
Moscow says its bombing campaign is targeting Islamic State jihadists and also other "terrorist" groups.
But Kerry stressed that the US and Russia also shared "common ground", arguing that both want "a united, secular Syria" in which citizens can choose their own leader through elections.
The inclusion of Iran -- a key ally of Assad -- in this week's meetings marks a crucial shift after Tehran was excluded from earlier talks, mainly because of opposition from Washington and Riyadh.
"We have reviewed the invitation, and it was decided that the foreign minister would attend the talks," Iranian foreign ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham said.
It will be the first time all the major international players in the conflict are in the same room, but there has been no mention of either the Syrian government or the opposition attending.
Top diplomats from Russia, the United States, Saudi Arabia and Turkey will also meet beforehand on Thursday evening, the second time the quartet will have met in less than a week.
The following day will see them joined by Britain, Egypt, France, Germany, Italy, Lebanon and the European Union.
Britain's Foreign Office said the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Jordan will also be present.
After months of failure, efforts to find a breakthrough have gained pace as hundreds of thousands of Syrians have fled their shattered country.
Serious divisions remain over when or whether Assad should step down -- and four-way Russia-US-Saudi-Turkey talks in Vienna last Friday failed to make a breakthrough.
On one side, Russia and Iran are backing Assad's forces on the ground and say Damascus must be helped to defeat "terrorism" before a political process can take shape.
On the other, the United States and its key regional allies Turkey and Saudi Arabia are supporting groups fighting Assad and insist he must go. French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said Wednesday that France and its allies had agreed on the need for a "precise timetable" for Assad's departure.The dynamic in the Syrian conflict shifted after Russia launched its air campaign on September 30, claiming it was targeting IS fighters.
Russian warplanes have struck 118 "terrorist" targets in Syria over the past 24 hours -- the highest total yet -- the defence ministry in Moscow said Wednesday. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Jeb Bush tackles Republican rival over 'French work week'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Jeb Bush tackles Republican rival over 'French work week'
US: White House hopeful Jeb Bush mustered the ultimate American put-down as he clashed with a former ally at Wednesday's Republican debate: he accused him of putting in a French work week.
Florida Senator Marco Rubio -- who like Bush hopes to steal a march on current frontrunners Donald Trump and Ben Carson -- has come under fire over perceptions he neglected his duties as he focuses on 2016.
"Literally, the Senate, is it a French work week" Bush hit out in a fiery exchange with his Florida neighbour early in the debate in Boulder, Colorado. "Just resign and let somebody else take the job. There are a lot of people who are living paycheck to paycheck in Florida."
Many consider Rubio to be the most serious establishment challenger beyond Bush to go up against Carson or Trump, neither of whom have held elected office.
Rubio responded to Bush by saying many White House hopefuls -- including John McCain -- had missed Senate votes as they focused on the presidential race.
"Jeb, let me tell you, I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record," said Rubio. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Major city transformation programme in January
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Major city transformation programme in January
The government will present its programme in January next year designed to transfer the entire Western Province to a major city and then the Hub of Asia, said Megapolis and Western Province Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka.
The views of professionals, voluntary and the public are being obtained at present, he said at the ceremonial opening of the Railway Quarters at the Slave Island Re-development Project. Forty houses were granted to the employees of the Railway Department.
Ranawaka said the participation of the public and their assistance to make such a programme a reality was compulsory.
"For example when they are given a housing unit, they have to accept it without reluctance to give up the previous place," he said. "The public attempt to acquire lands illegally. During the recent four holidays, people had acquired government lands on a large scale."
Minister Ranawaka said steps have to be taken if the government commits an offence against the people.
"In the similar way, if a particular community acquires government land illegally, stern action should be taken against them," the minister said.
"If some one attempt to acquire public property using thuggery, we would take stern action against them".
==============================
## Title: Millipedes invade villages
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Millipedes invade villages
People in Hahinnakanda, Hendiriyagama and surrounding areas in the Palugaswewa Divisional Secretariat area, are inconvenienced owing to the spread of millipedes.
Villagers said the majority of them suffer from skin diseases due to the situation. Children are the most affected.
The threat of millipedes emerges at the beginning of every rainy season, they said.

==============================
## Title: Nepal's parliament elects first female president
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 04:45
Nepal's parliament elects first female president
Nepals parliament elected lawmaker Bidhya Bhandari as the countrys first female president Wednesday (Oct 28) after the adoption of a landmark constitution last month.
The former defence minister defeated her opponent Kul Bahadur Gurung by 327 to 214 votes to become the Himalayan nations ceremonial head of state. Bhandari, the vice-chair of the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist), replaces Ram Baran Yadav.
He was elected as the first president in 2008 following the abolition of a 240-year-old Hindu monarchy.
I announce that Bidhya Devi Bhandari has been elected to the post of Nepals president, said Speaker Onsari Gharti Magar, to loud cheers from lawmakers.
Bhandari, a rare female face in Nepals parliament, took up politics in her teens, seeking to overturn the absolute monarchy and later marrying a fellow communist, Madan Bhandari.
But it was after her husbands death in a vehicle accident in 1993 that the mother of two became a prominent voice, riding a wave of sympathy to win a seat in parliament. Yadav was initially supposed to hold office for only two years. But years of political wrangling delayed agreement on a new constitution, which was only finally adopted last month.
Bhandari, 54, is the second woman to be elected to a senior position since then, after Magar became the countrys first female Speaker. As required by the new charter, parliament also this month elected a new prime minister, KP Sharma Oli, who is tasked with unifying the earthquake-hit country.
The constitution, the first drawn up by elected representatives, was meant to cement peace and bolster Nepals transformation to a democratic republic after decades of political instability and a 10-year Maoist insurgency. But it has instead sparked deadly violence.
More than 40 people have been killed in clashes between police and ethnic minority protesters, who say a new federal structure laid out in the charter adopted last month will leave them under-represented in parliament.
Work on the constitution began in 2008 after Maoist rebels laid down arms and entered politics, winning parliamentary elections and abolishing the monarchy. But power-sharing squabbles between parties stymied progress.
Lawmakers finally reached agreement in June, spurred by the massive earthquake two months earlier that killed nearly 8,900 people and left more than half a million people homeless.(Channel News Asia)
==============================
## Title: Notice on UDA director General
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Notice on UDA director General
Colombo Fort Magistrate and Additional District Judge Priyantha Liyanage issued Notice on Urban Development Authority Director General to appear in court on October 10, 2015.
The judge issued notice on the director when he was not present in court when the case was called.
The Urban Development Authority has filled a case against two respondents, Asanga Ranasinghe of 18 Pederis Road, Colombo and T.F. Dharmaratnhna, 29, Alford Place, Colombo 3.
According to the complaint, the two respondents had violated Development Authority regulations by building unauthorised buildings in the Development Authority area.
==============================
## Title: ON14 Presents Spookiest Halloween Party
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
ON14 Presents Spookiest Halloween Party
Party the night away this Halloween with OZO Colombo, on Saturday October 31, ON14 is throwing a Halloween bash to die for!
For the night, ON14 will be transformed into a giant haunted house, show up with the best Halloween costume for a chance to win an overnight stay for two at OZO Colombo. Get spooky on the dance floor with live entertainment as DJ Nick spins everything from house music to best of hip hop.
Doors creak open at 8pm with free entrance, titillating cocktails, fun gifts and special deals throughout the night. ON14 is the place to be for some hair-raising fun. Party the night away at the ultimate Halloween party at the trendiest rooftop bar and lounge in Colombo and enjoy a buy one get one free promotion on Halloween cocktails, beer and wine by glass as well as a 25% off on all bottles of spirits during 8pm and 9pm. Join us  we dare you!
ON14 is one of the hottest locales in the heart of Colombo and the mix of classic chic with modern glitz and glamour makes ON14 the perfect nightlife location.
==============================
## Title: Presidential commission on missing persons refutes rumours
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Presidential commission on missing persons refutes rumours
The Presidential Commission to Investigate into complaints Regarding Missing Persons while refuting reports that commission has recommended for the local mechanism yesterday said that the commission report has not refered to a foreign judge component to the proposed mechanism.
The commission in a press release yesterday said that the commission's report has said in the event Sri Lanka was to set up a purely domestic tribunal without the participation of any foriegn judges.
"It is the view of the commission that there should be international Technical Assistance and Observers only", the commission states
The release: "In paragraph 616 of the Report, it says in the event Sri Lanka was to set up a purely domestic tribunal without the participation of any foreign judges, it is the view of the Commission there should be International Technical Assistance and Observers only.
"International Technical Assistance does not equal foreign judges sitting in judgement over Sri Lankan citizens.
At Paragraph 625 of the Report under the heading "A proposed mechanism", the Commission goes on to set out a mechanism without reference to foreign judges, foreign investigators or foreign prosecutors.
"The actual process of the trial is delft with at paragraph 625.V.(D) where the trial process is set out as follows: The matter will proceed in the same way as any other criminal trial within the jurisdiction of Sri Lanka. Thus, there is no reference to a foreign judge component.
"The Commission urges responsible media organizations to report facts contained in the report and refrain from misleading the public by publishing news items which have not been the subject of the Commission's consideration."
==============================
## Title: Previewing the 'Paris Promise'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Previewing the 'Paris Promise'
At least 80 world leaders, including Barack Obama, Xi Jinping, David Cameron and Narendra Modi, will join talks aiming to forge a new global climate deal in Paris in December, aimed at reducing global greenhouse gas emissions and thus avoiding the threat of dangerous climate change.
Current commitments on greenhouse gas emissions run out in 2020, so at Paris governments are expected to produce an agreement on what happens for the decade after that at least, and potentially beyond.
Scientists have warned that if greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, we will pass the threshold beyond which global warming becomes catastrophic and irreversible. That threshold is estimated as a temperature rise of 2C above pre-industrial levels, and on current emissions trajectories we are heading for a rise of about 5C. That may not sound like much, but the temperature difference between today's world and the last ice age was about 5C, so seemingly small changes in temperature can mean big differences for the Earth.
What progress have we seen on a global agreement
In 1992, governments met in Rio de Janeiro and forged the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. That agreement, still in force, bound governments to take action to avoid dangerous climate change, but did not specify what actions. Over the following five years, governments wrangled over what each should do, and what should be the role of developed countries versus poorer nations. Those years of argument produced, in 1997, the Kyoto protocol. That pact required worldwide cuts in emissions of about 5%, compared with 1990 levels, by 2012, and each developed country was allotted a target on emissions reductions. But developing countries, including China, South Korea, Mexico and other rapidly emerging economies, were given no targets and allowed to increase their emissions at will.
Al Gore, then US vice-president, signed up to the protocol, but it was quickly apparent that it would never be ratified by the US Congress. Legally, the protocol could not come into force until countries representing 55% of global emissions had ratified it. With the US - then the world's biggest emitter - on the outside, that was not going to happen.
So for most of the following decade, the Kyoto protocol remained in abeyance and global climate change negotiations ground to a near-halt. But in late 2004, Russia decided to pass the treaty - unexpectedly, and as part of a move to have its application for World Trade Organisation membership accepted by the European Union. That made up the weight needed, and the protocol finally came into force.
The US, under George W Bush, remained firmly outside Kyoto, so although the UN negotiations carried on year after year, the US negotiators were often in different rooms from the rest of the world. It was clear a new approach was needed that could bring the US in, and encourage the major developing economies - especially China, now the world's biggest emitter - to take on limits to their emissions. What followed was, agreed at Bali in 2007, an action plan that set the world on the course to a new agreement that would take over from Kyoto. The next act of this long-running drama fully demonstrated that: the Copenhagen conference of 2009.
All of the world's developed countries and the biggest developing countries agreed - for the first time - to limits on their greenhouse gas emissions. This was a landmark, as it meant the world's biggest emitters were united towards a single goal. The emissions reductions agreed on were still not enough to meet scientific advice, but they were a big advance on reducing emissions compared with "business as usual".. What didn't happen was a fully articulated and legally binding treaty.
It never met its objectives, because it wasn't ratified by the US, and not by Russia until it was too late. And none of the countries that failed to meet their commitments under Kyoto have been sanctioned. The Copenhagen agreement, on the other hand, was not fully adopted by the UN in 2009 because of last-minute chaos at the conference, though it was ratified the following year in the form of the Cancun agreements. For this reason, the Copenhagen agreement was derided as a failure by green groups. But the targets agreed at Copenhagen, in the form of a document signed by world leaders, still stand.
What is likely to be agreed in Paris
Representatives of governments from more than 190 nations will try to reach an agreement on carbon emissions at the COP 21 Paris climate talks in December. The EU will cut its emissions by 40%, compared with 1990 levels, by 2030. The US will cut its emissions by 26% to 28%, compared with 2005 levels, by 2025. China will agree that its emissions will peak by 2030. Nations responsible for about two-thirds of global emissions have now come up with their targets - known as Indended Nationally Determined Contributions or INDCs - but some countries, most notably India, have not yet done so, despite being asked to meet a deadline at the end of March.
What we already know, however, is that the commitments made, and likely to be made by December, will not by themselves be enough to hold the world to no more than 2C of warming. In order to bolster these targets, two approaches have been suggested: that more effort should be made to bring down emissions outside the UN process, for instance by engaging "non-state actors" such as cities, local governments and businesses to do more; and that the INDCs should be subject to regular review and ratcheting up in the years after the Paris meeting.
If the commitments from the major countries are in the bag, does that mean the Paris agreement is settled
At Copenhagen, where the finance part of the deal was only sorted out at the very last minute, rich countries agreed to supply $30bn ($20bn) of "fast-start" financial assistance to the poor nations, and they said that by 2020, financial flows of at least $100bn a year would be provided.
Poor nations want a similar provision in place beyond 2020, but there is strong disagreement over how this should be done. Some want all the money to come from rich country governments, but those governments are adamant that they will not provide such funding solely from the public purse.
They want international development banks, such as the World Bank, to play a role, and they want most of the funding to come from the private sector.
What else can we expect before Paris
Plenty. In late May, a business and climate summit brought together leading private sector companies and government officials; in June, a meeting in Bonn produced a reformation of the key details of the negotiating text; in July, a meeting of scientists reiterated their warnings.
But progress has been slow. At the latest weeklong round of negotiations, ending in Bonn on 4 September, there was supposed to be a clearing up of the text of the agreement, which has been divided into sections including a core that will be the legal document and ancillary papers, where the details of issues such as finance and forestry will appear. However, by the end of the week, questions still hovered over what would appear in the core agreement, and there was dispute over issues such as "loss and damage", by which developing countries want assistance on coping with extreme weather events, likely to be made worse by climate change.
There will be one further week of negotiations, in October, before the Paris meeting agrees, so there is much work to be done on the text.
This year, the assembly will be the crowning effort of the UN's plan for world governments to adopt a set of "sustainable development goals", which will take over from the millennium development goals that were pegged to 2015. These will include issues such as access to clean water and sanitation, access to energy, gender equality, education and health. Those SDGs will have a profound effect on whether the world can meet its climate change targets, and meet them in an equitable fashion that allows poor countries to lift their citizens out of poverty while not passing climate thresholds.
At the same time, climate change will be high on the agenda, and the Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, is expected to make a concerted push for leaders to hammer out any remaining differences and to instruct their negotiating teams to make compromises. If nations can meet and agree equitable goals on the climate, on economic development, on social and environmental issues, and do so in a spirit of cooperation, it will be a huge achievement.
But, as the French President Francois Hollande told delegates in Paris in late May, that might be hoping for a "miracle".
==============================
## Title: Railway to be made prime mode of transport - Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Railway to be made prime mode of transport - Minister
The government has decided to import railway engines and compartments to develop the railway as a prime mode of transport of goods, Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva said.
He added that a technical committee has been appointed to assure quality engines and compartments are imported unlike the substandard products imported in the past.
The minister was at the ceremonial opening of the Railway Quarters at the Slave Island Re-development Project yesterday.
"The government has decided to use the railways as a mode for transporting coal from Trincomalee to Norochcholai, flour and many other goods to various parts of the country," he said.
"When I visited Trincomalee, I came to know that 97 vehicles are used for the transport of coal from the Trincomalee Harbour to Maho daily," the minister said.
"The congestion on roads not only causes traffic accidents but also has an impact on the environment," he said.
He added that the Indian Government provided a loan grant for this purpose. He also said that some people are against obtaining loans from India.
The ceremony was attended by Megapolis and Western Province Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka, Deputy Minister Ashoka Abeysinghe Deputy Minister Lasantha Alagiyawanna . Pakistan High Commissioner in Sri Lanka Major General (Rtd) Syed Shakeel Hussain were also present at the occasion.
==============================
## Title: Rain hits Eastern Province
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Rain hits Eastern Province
Main roads in the Eastern Province were inundated owing to heavy rain last week.
Several villagers, roads, lands, schools, play grounds and houses were underwater due to torrential rains in the Ampara district.
Thousands of acres of paddy have also been inundated.
Fishermen could not go fishing due to the adverse weather.
The water levels of tanks in the province have increased. Several large, medium and small tanks have reached spill level.

==============================
## Title: Reduced rates for Lankans at Chennai fertility centre
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Reduced rates for Lankans at Chennai fertility centre
A branch of ARC International Fertility and Research Centre, which offers concessionary rates and facilities to Sri Lankans, will be opened in Chennai, India on November 1.
Tamil Nadu Governor Dr. K. Rassaiah will be the Chief Guest while Deputy High Commissioner of Sri Lanka to Chennai V. Krishnamoorthy will be the Guest of Honour. The medical facility which offers Advanced Fertility and Surrogacy treatments is managed by Dr. Saravanan Lakshmanan. The hospital chain is planning to establish centres in Sri Lanka which can carry out preliminary investigations on a client and direct them to seek specialized treatment at hospitals in India.
==============================
## Title: SLMC ignoring President's order - GMOA
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
SLMC ignoring President's order - GMOA
President Maithripala Sirisena has ordered the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) to use a transparent mechanism to select office bearers through the election, but the SLMC is ignoring the order. The Government Medical Officers' Association (GMOA) will complain about the issue to the President, GMOA Secretary Dr. Nalinda Herath said.
According to Dr. Herath, the SLMC is not conducting the election of office bearers and functioning without transparency. The SLMC Central Committee rejected the allegation. The request for a transparent election will be forwarded to the Health Minister.
GMOA Media Secretary Dr. Navin de Soysa said as a policy, Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake agreed to the proposals made by the GMOA during a discussion held on October 26. The GMOA hopes that the minister will include the proposals in the next budget.
The GMOA pointed out the importance of increasing salaries according to the National Policy. A policy should be formulated in connection with allowances and salary increments for public servants, he said.
==============================
## Title: South also threatened by CKDu - lecturer
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
South also threatened by CKDu - lecturer
The Chronic Kidney Disease of Unknown Etiology (CKDu) has invaded Southern Province, Rajarata University senior lecturer Dr. Channa Jayasumana said.
Dr. Jayasumana said a joint study had been conducted on the subject by Ruhunu Univesity and Rajarata University. The areas that at risk are Lunugamvehera, Angunakolapelessa and Bandagiriya in the Hambantota district. Several persons living in the affected areas had been used for the study and the scholars had found that 10 percent of them are in the initial stage of the CKDU, he said.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka joins the Open Government Partnership
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Lanka joins the Open Government Partnership
The Sri Lankan government has decided to join the Open Government Partnership (OGP), extending recently initiated good governance practices towards an open government. "The Open Government Declaration that Sri Lanka has just endorsed is very much in line with our government's vision for Sri Lanka," Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe said.
The minister said so addressing the Open Government Partnership (OGP) global summit in Mexico City, Mexico on October 28.
Welcoming Sri Lanka as a new member of the OGP, Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, who headed the Sri Lankan delegation to the OGP Global Summit being held in Mexico City, was accorded the honour of being the first plenary speaker at the inauguration presided over by Mexican President Enrique Pea Nieto.
Sri Lanka endorsed the Open Government Declaration committing "to foster a global culture of open government that empowers and delivers for citizens, and advances the ideals of open and participatory 21st century government," thereby becoming the newest participating country of the Open Government Partnership (OGP). Sri Lanka is the only South Asian participating country in the OGP and joins other countries in the Asian region such as Indonesia, Mongolia, Philippines and Republic of Korea.
The Open Government Partnership is a multilateral initiative by the United States launched in 2011 to provide an international platform for domestic reformers committed to making their governments more open, accountable, and responsive to citizens. From its initial eight countries - Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, Norway, Philippines, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States - the OGP has now grown to 69 participating countries, encompassing countries of both the developed and developing world. OGP aims to secure concrete commitments from governments to promote transparency, empower citizens, fight corruption and harness new technologies to strengthen governance. In the spirit of multi-stakeholder collaboration, OGP is overseen by a Steering Committee, which includes representatives of governments and civil society organizations.
Rajapakshe said, "as Sri Lanka joins the OGP, we recognize that the threshold required to be a truly open government has been raised. This makes us even more determined to walk this path together with participating states of the OGP and civil society members, learning from your experiences, and obtaining expertise whenever necessary to build our own capacities, to reach the required benchmarks. And as our government has already demonstrated, we keep our promises."
The first step towards full OGP participation is meeting the OGP eligibility criteria. In order to be eligible to participate in OGP, governments must demonstrate a minimum level of commitment to open government principles in four key areas of Fiscal Transparency, Access to Information, Income and Asset Disclosures, and Citizen Engagement. Sri Lanka became eligible to join earlier this year, having met the required criteria and scoring 14 of a total of 16 points.
The delegation to the OGP summit also included Foreign Affairs Deputy Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva, Sri Lanka's Ambassador to the US Prasad Kariyawasam and officials of the Embassy of Sri Lanka in Washington DC and the Justice Ministry.
==============================
## Title: Taliban, landslides complicate Afghan earthquake rescue effort
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Taliban, landslides complicate Afghan earthquake rescue effort
AFGHANISTAN: The mourning family had to buy the burial shroud, 20 metres of white linen, on credit from their district bazaar in northern Afghanistan. But at least the two crushed bodies of their teenage sons, pulled from the wreckage of a devastating earthquake after three hours of digging, could be put to rest on Tuesday.
But for the family, living in a Taliban-controlled area near the centre of Monday's powerful earthquake, the ordeal was not over: Dozens of militants lingered around the house after the burial ceremony, demanding to be fed.
The extent of the family's wealth had come down to several apricot and mulberry trees, a half-dozen sheep and a cow. To feed the insurgents, the family had to slaughter one of its last goats.
"Every night, every day, we have 20 or 30 Taliban coming asking for food," one of the relatives said, speaking on condition of anonymity out of fear of Taliban reprisal. "And we can't even afford one loaf of bread for our own children."
For many in Afghanistan's eastern and north-eastern provinces, the earthquake, which killed more than 300 people across northern Afghanistan and Pakistan and destroyed about 7000 homes in Afghanistan alone, was just a new layer to their misery. For months, residents had already been caught in a gruelling conflict as the Taliban have waged offensives against government forces and militias in the north-east, and as the militants claiming loyalty to Islamic State and using its brutal methods have gained a foothold in parts of the east.
Now, the rumbling earth has left many families homeless just as winter is about to set in.
In the village of Rukhshan, in Taliban-controlled Warduj district, a landslide caused by the quake buried more than 300 animals. - THE NEW YORK TIMES
==============================
## Title: TU action affects train commuters
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
TU action affects train commuters
Trade Union action affected the smooth functioning of trains on Wednesday, Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva said yesterday.
He said only 57 train engines operated on Wednesday whereas 80 engines should have been in operation.
The minister said this was due to a tug of war between a section of technicians and clerks.
De Silva made these observations at the ceremonial opening of the Railway Quarters at the Slave Island Re-development Project yesterday where 40 houses were granted to Railway Department employees.
The minister said he discussed the issue with members of both those trade unions and settled the matter.
"The technicians' salaries had not been rectified. The technicians took revenge from the people by not repairing the engines," de Silva said. "How can the country move forward with such an attitude of the working class" he asked.
==============================
## Title: US hails election of Nepal's first female President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
US hails election of Nepal's first female President
NEPAL: The White House on Wednesday hailed the election in Nepal of a new prime minister and the Himalayan country's first female president, after the adoption of a landmark constitution last month.
Nepal's parliament earlier this month chose KP Sharma Oli as prime minister and then on Wednesday elected Bidhya Bhandari as ceremonial head of state. Their elections are "milestones in Nepal's democratic development that demonstrate the people of Nepal's commitment to democracy," National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said in a statement.
Bhandari, a rare female face in Nepal's parliament, served as defense minister from 2009 to 2011. She is the vice-chair of the ruling Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist), and replaces Ram Baran Yadav, who was elected in 2008 following the abolition of a 240-year-old Hindu monarchy.
The constitution, the first drawn up by elected representatives, was meant to bolster peace and ease Nepal's transformation to a democratic republic after decades of political instability and a 10-year Maoist insurgency.
But it has instead sparked deadly violence. More than 40 people have been killed in clashes between police and ethnic minority protesters, who say a new federal structure laid out in the charter will leave them under-represented in parliament. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Wimal not harassed - Gayantha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Thursday, October 29, 2015 - 19:30
Wimal not harassed - Gayantha
UPFA MP Wimal Weerawansa was not subjected to any political harassment over his passport controversy, Parliamentary Reforms and Media Minister and Cabinet Spokesman Gayantha Karunathilake said.
He was responding to a question by a journalist at the Cabinet press briefing at the Information Department yesterday.
The minister observed the way the government handled the passport issue of MP Weerawansa was a proof that it did not take revenge on political opponents.
"We have seen that this kind of affair had been used by previous governments to restrain the activities of political opponents. In contrast, MP Weerawansa had even thanked the Prime Minister for looking into the matter immediately after it was raised in Parliament by MP Dinesh Gunawardena. However, the Prime Minister's involvement was limited to the privilege matter of the MP, and he did not meddle in the legal process with regard to the matter," he said.
==============================