## Title: Anya De Silva winner of Cinnamon- HSBC cook-off challenge
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Anya De Silva winner of Cinnamon- HSBC cook-off challenge
The long awaited Cinnamon -HSBC Marco Pierre White Challenge powered by Knorr concluded on a high recently, with celebrity chef and Judge of MasterChef Australia, Marco Pierre White judging the finalists and selecting the winner.
Young Anya De Silva emerged as winner of the cook-off challenge.
With nearly a hundred applications received at the inception of the 'cook-off' challenge, the competition was then narrowed down to six finalists, which led to an exciting afternoon cooking for Marco Pierre White as he judged and selected the winning dish. In addition to a memorable day that was well spent with Marco Pierre White and his executive chef Andrew Bennet, the finalists were awarded with medals, certificates of participation and dinner vouchers courtesy of Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts. The grand finale of the Cinnamon-HSBC Marco Pierre White Challenge was set-up in a typical MasterChef like setting, where the finalists prepared their dishes as a live audience cheered them on. Participants created their own version of a Marco Pierre White mystery recipe that was handed to them at the beginning of the session, which was prepared within a stipulated time period. Marco Pierre White's executive chef Andrew Bennet, worked closely with all the finalists during the competition, providing them with due support and the opportunity to gain valuable insights to international culinary practices.
Marco Pierre White himself observed the entire process, whereas he judged and selected the winning dish based not only taste, but also on presentation and technicality. The winner was awarded a grand trophy, medal and a certificate signed by the legendary chef himself. In addition to the award, the winner was also presented a hamper courtesy of Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts, an overnight stay at Cinnamon Bey Beruwala and an Oven courtesy of Beko by Singer.
The cook-off challenge together with the entire calendar of events conceptualized and executed by Cinnamon during Marco Pierre White's tour in Sri Lanka, indeed showcased the best of Sri Lanka and the talent that exists in the country.
==============================
## Title: Australia's return to the top hit by controversy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Australia's return to the top hit by controversy
CHRISTCHURCH, WEDNESDAY: Australia sealed a 2-0 series victory over New Zealand to reach the top Test ranking Wednesday but captain Steve Smith was forced to defend their aggressive style as he was charged with dissent.
With Smith smacking 53 off 46 balls, Australia polished off the 131 runs they needed on the last day to reach their 201 target just after lunch in what was New Zealand captain Brendon McCullum's final Test.
The match had no sooner finished than Smith was charged over Tuesday's profanity-laced confrontation with the umpires that earlier saw fast bowler Josh Hazlewood fined 15 percent of his match fee.
Adam Voges was not out 10, while the only wickets to fall on day five were those of Joe Burns for 65 and Usman Khawaja for 45 as Australia finished on 201 for three to win by seven wickets.
The victory confirmed Australia's superiority after they won the first Test by an innings and 52 runs, and allowed them to overtake India as the world's top Test side.
"It's always special when you get to number one in the world. That's our goal as a team to be number one in the world in every format of the game," Smith said.
However, Smith also had to dispute suggestions that Australia, often controversial over their uncompromising play and habit of sledging, or insulting the opposition, were cricket's bully boys.
"I don't think we're not nice guys.
We play a good hard, aggressive brand of cricket," Smith said.
"For us it's about knowing where that line is and myself and Josh Hazlewood have crossed that line in this Test match and that's not what we're about.
"Hopefully we can learn from that and continue to develop as a team and get better."
For New Zealand the drubbing by their arch-rivals put a cloud on the much-loved McCullum's farewell, as their captain took his final bow on the world stage after 101 Tests.
"We're obviously disappointed to lose the Test match and the series but the right team won," McCullum said.
"We threw everything at them at key times but they were able to withstand us. It's not the ideal way to go out but at the same time, I've had a great time."
The brittle animosity throughout the series, which came to a head on Tuesday, was put aside the moment Voges hit the winning runs with a four.
Smith immediately searched out McCullum to shake his hand and congratulate him on his career, which included a record 54-ball century in the first innings.
The series sweep made Australia world number one and earned them a US$1 million prize at the end of the cricket year.
This was the last Test before cricket's attention turns to the World Twenty20 championship in India next month.
AFP
==============================
## Title: Inaugural Presidential Sports Awards ceremony scheduled for May 13
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Inaugural Presidential Sports Awards ceremony scheduled for May 13
The Presidential Sports Awards Ceremony has been organized for the first time at BMICH on May 13 on the directive of President Maithripala Sirisena and under the guidance of Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara.
At this ceremony, life time awards will be presented by the President to Sri Lankans who have made the most substantive contributions or achieved success in Sri Lankan sports for the year. The awards are categorized as follows Kreedabhimani, Kreeda Deshoththara, Kreeda Keerthi, Kreeda Lanka Pradeepa, Kreeda Bhushana, Kreeda Rathna and Kreeda Prabha.
Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera said at the press briefing that the aim of the awards ceremony is to give honours to the sportsmen and women who have made sacrifices to bring honour to their country in sports.
The Minister thanked the chairman of the Presidential Awards Committee Saman Amarasinghe who had given yeoman service to make the awards ceremony a reality. The Sports Ministry said he hopes to make it an annual event on the second week of May.
The main event at this ceremony is presentation of scholarships to the present sportsmen and women and a retirement allowance for former sportspersons.
There will be a 'Kreeda Diriya' foster parent scheme for 25 recipients from 25 districts (over 12 years of age), a 'Kreeda Surakuma' Insurance Scheme for
members of national teams as recipients and a 'Kreeda Sevena' Pension Scheme for 10 recipients (over 55 years of age) will be given parallel to the main awards ceremony.
The most distinguished award is for the Most Outstanding Sports Personality of the Year and including Most Outstanding Sports team of the year, Most Outstanding Sportsman/Sportswoman of the year, Most Outstanding Sportsman/Sportswoman (with disability) of the year, Most Outstanding Up and Coming sports team of the year, Most Outstanding Up and Coming Sportsman/Sportswoman of the year and Most Outstanding Player
of the year (one from each sport).
People's popular awards (Most popular sportsman/sportswoman and most popular sportsman/sportswoman with disability) will also be presented at the ceremony.
The Presidential Colours for Sports Personalities will be selected by selection committees of National Sports Associations and picked by a Panel of Judges.
The Presidential Award for specialized sports fields will be for the most outstanding sports administrator of the year, the most outstanding sports science academic of the year, the most outstanding sports physician of the year, the most outstanding leisure sports provider of the year, the most outstanding referee/umpire/judge/technical officer of the year, the most outstanding coach of the year, the most outstanding trainer of the year, the most outstanding sports promoters of the year, the most outstanding sports publication of the year, the most outstanding sports electronic production of the year, the most outstanding national newspaper sports page of the year, the most outstanding TV sports programme of the year, the most outstanding radio sports programme of the year, the most outstanding sports journalist of the year, the most outstanding sports photographer of the year and Grading of the National Sports Associations based on creativity, leadership, accreditation, dedication and professionalism.
==============================
## Title: John Key to attend International Democrat Union Executive meeting in Colombo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
John Key to attend International Democrat Union Executive meeting in Colombo
This week, Colombo will see representatives of 70 political parties, drawn from 56 countries, gather for a meeting of the International Democrat Union executive. The world's largest alliance of centre-right political parties, the conference will no doubt see many topics be debated. However, economic policy will be one area that is foremost among our discussions.
Providing economic security for our citizens is a central - perhaps the central - challenge that governments around the world face today. The ability to hold down secure work, provide for your family and build a better future for your children are timeless aspirations that are as true in Auckland as they are in Anuradaphura. But in the current global context - with Chinese growth slowing down, the Middle East facing significant threats and the pace of recovery in Europe slackening - the challenge for governments to provide that security for our people is more acute than ever. Here in Sri Lanka, enjoying the spring of peace after many years of war and turbulence, the challenge is more urgent still.
Our respective parties are celebrating similar anniversaries this year; the United National Party of Sri Lanka its 70th year and the National Party of New Zealand its 80th. Throughout our existence our parties have both been guided by some simple values when it comes to the economy. They aren't abstract theories or immovable tracts, they are the things we teach our children: people who can work should; a honest day's work should always be rewarded with a honest day's pay; everyone should have the same opportunities no matter where they come from.
Of course, Sri Lanka and New Zealand are at different stages of development. Equally, our governments are at different stages of their existence. But both our governments subscribe fully to these values - and have put them at the heart of our economic plans.
Take job creation. All people who can work should have the ability to earn a regular wage and provide for their families. One of the best ways to deal with the cost of living is to get more people into work, and in turn help those currently in low paid jobs into higher paid ones. In recent years, New Zealand's government has brought over 350 initiatives together in a Business Growth Agenda to grow the economy, expand business and create jobs in critical, high skill areas. That plan is working with almost a quarter of a million jobs added to New Zealand's economy and the unemployment rate at a seven year low.
Sri Lanka has similar ambitions with a plan to create one million new jobs by the year 2020. It was heartening to see the IMF conclude recently that Sri Lanka's 'recent economic performance has been positive in a number of respects' with real terms GDP growth of 5.2 per cent in the first three quarters of 2015. We also welcome the recent statement by George Soros, visiting Colombo in January, that Sri Lanka is an increasingly attractive destination for foreign investment.
But there is still a long way to go to create the jobs that the Sri Lankan people need. More needs to be done to encourage foreign investors to come here. Total trade between our two countries, for example, stands at Rs 31 billion on current estimates but it could be far higher. Part of the strategy here must be to bring about tax and regulation reform: making it easier and cheaper to start a business and grow a business. The upcoming Investment Bill will attempt to do just that, as will new laws that make it easier for foreigners to own property here in Sri Lanka.
Equally, a process of national reconciliation is important so that all ethnic groups are able to participate fully in the new economy that is being built. This will include a Truth Commission modelled on the architecture set up in South Africa in the 1990s, as well as a Compassionate Council by the leading clergy of all the religions - Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims and Christians.
Just as critically, job opportunities will only come to this island if investors have confidence in the Sri Lankan economy and believe that their money is safe. That is why the new National Government has taken a fundamentally different approach to those who came before: making a solemn commitment to abide by the rule of law - and stay faithful to Article 157 of the constitution which binds Sri Lankan governments to respect international agreements and norms concerning economic development.
There are other areas where our governments have much in common too. There is an old Sri Lankan proverb that roughly translated into English means: 'education is an indestructible form of wealth'. We both fully agree with this sentiment and have put investing in education at the heart of our plans for prosperity. In New Zealand, education is the third largest area of government expenditure. Here in Sri Lanka, the United National Party intends to build an education system that will last thirteen years and restrict the number of children in a classroom to 35. Importantly too, the government intends to remove taxes paid on all books.
Just as important is infrastructure fit for the centuries ahead. A few weeks ago, Independence Square in Colombo saw the inauguration of the Megapolis project: a $40 billion development plan to transform Colombo and the Western Province into one of the most economically powerful cities in the world, rivalling cities such as Dubai and Singapore. The benefits of this project in the years to come will be vast: creating better paid jobs, improving housing and transport - and underlines the commitment of the government here in Sri Lanka to plan for the long term.
Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, much celebrated at the International Democrat Union and one of the world's most distinguished centre-right leaders, once spoke of her approach to government in the following terms: 'plan your work for today and everyday, then work your plan'. In the current global context, that sentiment rings especially true. There are no quick fixes to the challenging economic headwinds of today, just hard work, patient resolve and a credible plan to deliver the economic security that people need. That is what our governments will continue to do, building a better and brighter future for the people of Sri Lanka and New Zealand too. (M.H.)
==============================
## Title: Lovers write many stories
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Lovers write many stories
One of Colombo's most romantic settings Water's Edge celebrated Valentine's Day with truly memorable events over a weekend filled with prizes and surprises for the whole family. The hotel pulled out all stops to treat special couples with relaxation, romance and delicious goodies. Kiss FM was the official radio partner for the promotion.
Starting off with a range of Valentine's themed baked goodies at Sri Lanka's only drive-through bakery, Waters Edge had on offer take-home cakes, cookies and cupcake bouquets to surprise loved ones.
The highlight of the weekend however was the exquisite Valentine's Day brunch put together by the maestro chefs at the hotel. Brunch was a culinary dream for couples who love their food with everything from baked crabs, sea food on ice, roast chicken, a traditional Sri Lankan corner, Italian Pasta stations and a chocolate and strawberry dessert buffet spread out.
Attending the brunch with his beloved wife Sujeev Victoriya said "This is one of the best brunches ever. The food is absolutely amazing"
The evening's romantic dinner offerings also received glowing compliments.
Adrian Ferdinanz and wife Roshi who were also celebrating their wedding anniversary said "It was truly a romantic dining under the stars. The dinner buffet was extravagant to say the least and the food was excellent."
Water's Edge was the ultimate place to be during Valentine's Day and has many plans for upcoming special days to enjoy with friends and family.
==============================
## Title: NASA releases strange 'Music' heard by 1969 astronauts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
NASA releases strange 'Music' heard by 1969 astronauts
US: NASA has made public a recording of strange "music" that astronauts reported hearing in 1969 while on the far side of the Moon, out of radio contact with the Earth.
The story behind these unusual whistling noises was showcased on Sunday night in a show on the cable channel Discovery, as part of a series called "NASA's Unexplained Files."
The noises reportedly were heard in May 1969 by the Apollo 10 astronauts as they circled the Moon, months before the first astronauts stepped foot on the lunar surface on July 21 that same year.
The three astronauts on board were Thomas Stafford, John Young and Eugene Cernan.
Moon music: The Apollo 10 capsule (pictured) was on the far side of the moon when its occupants heard weird music on the radio
The sounds, which lasted about an hour, were recorded and transmitted to mission control in Houston.
A transcript of the text was released in 2008, but the actual audio has only just been made public.
"You hear that That whistling sound" asks Mr Cernan, describing it as "outer-space-type music."
The trio felt the sounds were so strange that they debated whether or not to tell the chiefs at NASA, for fear they wouldn't be taken seriously and could be dropped from future space missions, according to the Discovery show.
NASA says the sounds could not have been alien music.
An engineer from the US space agency said the noises likely came from interference caused by radios that were close to each other in the lunar module and the command module.
Astronaut Al Worden, who flew on Apollo 15, disputed that explanation, saying "logic tells me that if there was something recorded on there, then there's something there," according to the Discovery show.
But Michael Collins, the pilot of Apollo 11, who became the first person to fly around the far side of the Moon by himself while Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong were walking on the surface, said he too heard "an eerie woo-woo sound" but accepted the explanation of radio interference.
In fact, he'd been warned ahead of time, he wrote in his book, Carrying the Fire: An Astronaut's Journeys.
"Had I not been warned about it, it would have scared the hell out of me," he wrote.
"Fortunately the radio technicians (rather than the UFO fans) had a ready explanation for it: it was interference between the LM's and Command Module's VHF radios."
- NDTV
==============================
## Title: New trends of glass and green
## Supertitle: [Archworld]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
[Archworld]
New trends of glass and green
Glass and green buildings have one thing in common - versatility. This week Arch World features architect Bernard Gomez. As in our previous article Gomez elucidated how sequence can influence everything in a building. Last week Gomez spoke how well planned walls can influence shading and air flow creating cross ventilation. This week he touched on a similar factor - glass, while also touching on 'Green Buildings' and 'Zero Energy buildings.'
"When you think of using glass, it depends on the project. Our recent work has included several commercial multi - storey buildings, including the Corporate HQ for Dialog Axiata that are located in the heart of the city in a very dense site. You have to use a lot of glass to get in natural light and give the building a certain form and character that achieves the client's (expectations) for Corporate Identity," he said.
"You do have to understand that when you use glass there are issues of increased energy use and heat absorption into the building. This can have negative consequences in terms of increasing air conditioning and increasing visual discomfort in terms of glare. Although we use glass, what we try to do is use shading devices which are part of the facade design of the building itself - they can be cantilevered balconies or overhanging planters, which shadow and shades the glass. So when using glass, we mitigate the direct effects of heat gain by using cantilevers that shadow and shade the glass. We use glass, but in a controlled, designed way, not randomly, which can cause a lot of negative effects," said Gomez.
The concept of the green building is a little understood term. What do you mean by a 'green building' Basically these are buildings that consume less energy because they are designed as such, and also have the capacity to generate renewable energy.
"These are buildings that are designed both in terms of the mechanical engineering aspect where they can utilize less energy in heating, cooling and lighting. There is technology which gives these buildings a green label. These are buildings where you have IT based management systems that increase the operating efficiency of a lot of their service components like air conditioning chillers. They are technology driven solutions. By doing so, you reduce your energy loads, and increase your efficiency in terms of power consumption. There are also buildings that use passive concepts of cooling to reduce heat gain and energy efficiency and these can be very effective in reducing heat gain into buildings" explained Gomez.
"You can take a passive approach which is more difficult to do. You design the building to reduce heat loads by using elements such as courtyards, shading by overhangs, and generate pressure differences causing wind tunnel and wind funnel effects. The other approach is of course using technology. All buildings have to have a good intelligent mix of both design approaches. Buildings can be an invaluable source of renewable power generation. There are Photovoltaics (PV) that can be put on a building which can generate electricity using photo voltaic cells which can be on the roof or integrated into the facade," stated Gomez.
The wonders of architecture seem to be boundless, from the concept of 'heat island effect' to 'Zero Energy Buildings.'
"There is something called 'the heat island effect'. Because the larger the footprint of a building and its volumetric mass, there is a lot of absorption of heat. Now this heat dissipates during the cooling hours which is in the evenings and the nights. There are a lot of products used on buildings for example stone, and metal claddings. These absorb heat which then dissipates during the hours of darkness," Gomez pointed out.
"There are many ways you can achieve zero energy buildings. To me it is a commercial tag line. You can achieve zero emissions by spending a lot of money on very expensive renewable, alternative energy systems - photovoltaics for one. There is also geo thermal energy which is being used in several countries. There is wind which is being used in several modern buildings to generate electricity. All of these are quite expensive.
"If you really want to get a zero energy building, you can add all these components and theoretically you can achieve a zero energy status. However, one must understand that the maintenance cost of some of these technologies is quite high. Even common renewable sources like Photovoltaic cells which generate solar energy, requires maintenance over a period of time, and if not maintained it can lose their efficiency which adds to the (life-cycle) maintenance cost. So one has to decide whether you are going to go to all that trouble just to get a zero energy building. It is very difficult to sustain a zero energy building," added Gomez.
Wind technology is the concept of wind turning a wind turbine like the windmills that you commonly see.
"Right now we are doing a high rise building for a corporate involved in power generation, where we are looking at photovoltaic and wind technology to achieve a fairly high renewable energy component."
Summing up, Bernard spoke about the value of hiring a good architect. A person can build his/her own house, but a having a good architect is indispensable.
"Building beautiful buildings is just one part of it. As architects, what we really do is, we design spaces and sequence them into an aesthetic composition. We design spaces for public use so that they are comfortable and easy to use, functionally, and technically competent, well organized and efficient both in terms of energy and usage. It is a large gamut of areas that we touch," he said.
It is in an architect's hands to make the project a success or a disaster, as the case may be. "I think it is important for the public to understand that an architect is more than the guy who gives you a beautiful building, or gives you a beautiful looking faade. He is so much more. An architect knows the inside and outside of a project. We take the basic need of a client from an idea to a finished building product. An architect takes a project, enhances it, and makes it financially viable, besides being a functional and technologically competent building," he said.
There seems to be a trend where there is increasing reliance on foreign architects and contractors.
"You can have so called professionals with dubious credentials who have very little idea about our culture, climate, or traditional building systems and way of building. Some of these buildings can be quite problematic.
There have been buildings done by foreign architects and consultants which have become disasters both functionally and aesthetically, even to the extent of basic functional necessities such as inadequate and inappropriate parking."
(Pictures by Vipula Amarasinghe)
Italian villa heated and cooled by Earth
This extraordinary Alpine residence in Italy's Brescia province provides stunning views of the mountains that rise 1,200 meters (3,937 feet) above sea level. Every point in the interior is visually connected to the natural landscape-a large panoramic window in the living room frames views of the valley, while openings on the rear side provide glimpses of the grassy hillside that meets a sunken courtyard. Architect Camillo Botticini played with the concepts of harmony and tension between the building and the site, both through the structure and choice of materials, and incorporated sustainable technologies to curb the building's energy consumption.
The house is rooted to the hillside near the Passo del Cavallo pass in the Alps. A suspended metal staircase cuts through the grassy slope and connects a small entry area to the house above. The glazed entrance is sheltered by a broad window and a terrace.
We are still in a place close to the urban noise but at the same time far away, where the aroma of mountain herbs and grazing sheep seem to have stopped time, said Botticini about the location of the building. The house uses geothermal energy, features well-insulated walls and natural ventilation.
Treated Accoya wood and sheets of pre-rusted corrugated copper dominate the material palette of the house. The ventilated wall copper and the wood were used in a way which reflects light for more daylighting. Inside, the C-shaped layout wraps around the iroko wood patio. In order to blend into the surrounding, the house changes in height and includes a mezzanine with a study above the living area, while the kitchen is nestled beneath and opens up onto the patio.
(Inhabit)
==============================
## Title: NZ Premier promises top class rugby coach for Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
NZ Premier promises top class rugby coach for Sri Lanka
New Zealand Premier John Key yesterday promised to send a top-class rugby coach to assist the Sri Lankan national team.
Key, currently in Sri Lanka had made the promise following a request from Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and Minister for Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure Harin Fernando during a luncheon hosted by the Prime Minister at Temple Trees yesterday.
"Key promised to ask current All Blacks rugby coach Steve Hansen to coach our national side once he steps down," Fernando said.
New Zealand head coach, Steve Hansen steered the All Blacks to their historic 2015 Rugby World Cup triumph and has announced his intentions to step down shortly.
"If Hansen declines Key promised to explore other alternatives," Fernando added.
==============================
## Title: Oven fresh Pies at the Echelon Pub
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Oven fresh Pies at the Echelon Pub
Hilton Colombo's ever popular annual Pie Promotion kicked off this year at the hotels' Colonial style pub - the Echelon and will go on till February 29 from 11am to 11pm. A variety of crusty, baked savoury and sweet pies with exotic fillings will be available during the promotion.
Pie lovers could enjoy different options such as the 'Savoury Board' which consists a variety of 3 baked pies - Lamb Massaman (Thai style lamb and potato cooked in Massaman curry paste and coconut milk), Chicken Tikka & Paneer (Tandoori roasted chicken in a creamy gravy of cottage cheese), and something with a Sri Lankan twist, the Hath Maluwa Curry Pie (Sri Lankan style vegetables cooked in thick and spicy coconut gravy). There will also be an a-la-carte menu consisting the classic range Beef & Guinness Pie, Shepherd's Pie and Chicken & Leek Pie.
In addition to the savouries the sweetest of them all is the Sweet Board which offers three different sweet pies: Bitter Sweet (dark chocolate fudge and Pecan nut in short crust pastry), Coconutty (Thick coconut custard and toasted coconut pie) and Banoffee (Fresh banana and dulce de leche in biscuit crust).
==============================
## Title: Pakistan Parliament run entirely on solar power
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Pakistan Parliament run entirely on solar power
PAKISTAN: The Pakistan Parliament yesterday became the first in the world to completely run on solar power, a venture supported by China with USD 55 million funding.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in a simple ceremony switched on solar-powered building of the Parliament in the capital Islamabad.
First announced in 2014, the venture has been funded by the Chinese government as an act of friendship, with the solar power plant costing around USD 55 million. "This the first time since independence (1947) that parliament has become self-sufficient in electricity through solar power. Other institutions in private and public sector need to follow it," the Prime Minister said in his brief speech.
The project to run Parliament on solar power was launched last year when Chinese President Xi Jinping visited and addressed the parliament.
China provided over USD 55 million to carry out the project. "This is another example of Pak-China friendship," Sharif said.
Chinese ambassador to Pakistan was also present during the ceremony.
According to speaker National Assembly, Ayaz Sadiq, the parliament solar panels will generate 80 MW power. He said 62 MW will be sufficient for parliament while 18 MW will be given to National Grid. Officials said that there are some parliaments like the Israeli Knesset which are partly run on solar power.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Religious extremism, unity and God
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Religious extremism, unity and God
The truths, expressed in the present writers ethnic harmony texts, comprises an honest orientation. That is to unite and unify all Sinhala, Tamil, Muslim and other communities of this wonderful land. All Lankans aspire to expedite transcendence and specially to succeed economic prosperity, for the attainment of which, the community harmony is a sine qua non. The exacerbation of the religious extremism of handful of fundamentalists, of whatsoever religion, is a wall, an impediment, a barrier, a hurdle, a wall, coming in the way, willed by the people. Hence, a discernible degree of the causation of clarity in the confused minds of Lankans, represents, not only a requirement, but an inevitable imperative. In inscribing these frank hermeneutical texts, the writer wishes to base himself on the rights, granted by the Supreme Law of Sri Lanka - The constitution, in its Chapter: 3, Article: 14, Para: 1 a.
Part 1 of this text was carried in Daily News on February 11, 2016.
Therein, it was emphatically stressed that only a very limited handful of fundamentalism are engaged in extremism and the majority of all communities in the globe, has no direct involvement in it. the writer discussed, the fruitfulness of the application of the aspect of human-being, the need to learn couple of lessons from Muslims, including the increase of the number of community heads, the imperative of occupying the trading fields with best lucrative profits, the Muslim feminine attire, its useful and prudent design and also the Suadi-arabization of Sri Lanka with its black colour, the Muslim methodicality in their communal organization, the futility of man-made labels, the extremism of fundamentalism and their limited member numbers, the happiness as purpose of life , powers gifted to humans by God, danger of blind belief, God, the God-willed community unity and the ease of unity with Buddhists.
Today, the intention of the writer is to elaborate several striking components of the submitted thematic context, which will help the readers, to learn, to pose couple of logical questions, when extremists endeavour to indoctrinate them, with the doctrines of hate, in the name of their Gods, to elevate themselves (readers), to the sublimation of a better qualitative mental clarity, to seed them in a magnifying psychic talent, not to be trapped in blind belief, foolishly believing in what others say, but, to cultivate in them, the power of introspective insightfulness, to make use of the vigour of intelligence, freedom of thought, freedom of choice, gifted by God. The textual reference is not to individuals personally, but to psychologies, which lead youth to the contamination of destruction.
Incomparable parable
The writer is pleased to be courageous to begin his socio-religious analysis, being abused by extremists of fundamentalism, with a small, yet very powerful parable, pertaining to the dispensation of the Wisdom of Buddha. Thus, during the time of the Buddha, there was a man born blind. He never believed in the existence of sun, moon, stars, ocean etc. Many people tried to convince him, but, failed. Then, his friends heard that the Buddha visited their village and thought to take him to the Buddha to explain him about the truth of the presence of above objects, since, Buddha had a reputation for omniscience. The blind man was taken to the Buddha and he was asked to explain the man about sun, moon etc. The Buddha said, I am not crazy to explain him about those matters. But, I see you have a problem and it should be resolved. Kindly take him immediately to an eye surgeon and cure his eyes. The friends, finally found a doctor who cured mans eyes, with which cure, the problem of the friends disappeared. But, the man wanted to thank the Buddha, since, it was thanks to His advice he was taken to a doctor. After four months of hard endeavours, the Buddha was found and he thanked him. But, the Buddha said, No, no, I do not deserve your thanks and commendations. It is somebody else whom you must be thankful to. The man was surprised in to shock. Who is he, asked in wonder. The Buddha compassionately said, It is you yourself, not anybody else. O my God, why me, Buddha said, You got your eyes back, because, you refused to blindly believe in what others say. You used your intelligence, brain and discretion. Thats why you got your eyes back. This is a powerful advice of compassionate the Buddha to the generation of universal youth, whom the handful of extremists are crazy of deceiving in to blind belief.
Creation
The majority of the world believes that it was God, who created the world, life and man. A rational thought and an intelligent analysis of all accounts of creation, would show, that God never created multi-racial beings, labeled as Americans, Russians, Sinhalese, Tamils and Muslims or Buddhists, Hindus, Christians and Islamists nor did God create any cast. God created only human beings. Therefore, man has every right to be unique and be united in to the beautiful singularity of the oneness of God. God treasures many examples for man everyday to understand this simple truth and for him to live in it. If we look at the vastness of the unending blue sky, in a pitch black night, what can be seen is the majesty of moon with cascading down silver rays, thousands of twinkling stars, floating clouds and most important, the enigmatic unity of all that resplendent diversity. Yet, people do not use their brains. Many of them kick out the unity of divinity and espouse the dividing diversity of extremism. This is very pathetic indeed.
Labelism
Then, how a man becomes a Sinhalese Is it by printing the label Sinhala on his identity card Can a human-being be born in to a so-called Tamil family and be a Tamil When one becomes a Muslim Is it when the label Muslim is printed on his passport or by printing a book of religious instruction, which writes that such and such a community belongs to Muslimity Did the Buddha advise his followers to become Buddhists Was the concept Christian, the final spiritual objective of Jesus Christ Did Allah create only Muslims When extremists come to teach their segregation doctrines, the youth of all communities, must pose these questions to them.
These questions, the extremists scream around and superficially, seeming to be stupid, yet, if insightfully glanced at, in introspection and with circumspection, contains an immense depth, pregnant with the potentiality to absolute intellectual growth. God created no labels. It is not only an insult, but also a sin, to declare that God crated Americans, Russians, Sinhalese, Tamils and Muslims and to befool spiritually uninstructed innocent people, in to the ignorance of labelism. Labels are needed as linguistico-communicative social tools. That is its limit, beyond which it contains no substance.
But, it is extremists, who are crazy of substantiating unsubstantiated labels. Why It gives them power to divide, and then dominate people and thereafter possess enormous wealth.
Impertinence of the Buddha
Now, the Buddha has to be dropped from the creation account debate. He taught that the beginning of the world cannot be comprehended and it is useless to talk about it, since, the talk of the beginning, is not conducive to the doctrine of dispassion, renunciation, giving up, to stopping, meditation and deliverance. God has done, what had to be done and now it is left for man to crush defilements and win the purity of mind, with the already available power faculties of intelligence, intellection, contemplation, concentration, freedom of choice and cessation.
The Buddha begins, after the creation, having no recourse to the antecedent and pre years of creation. It is other religions, which resort to creation theory proclaiming that God created the world and life. Hence, the Buddha is out from the debate.
Illogicality A
If the text is to begin in the actual chronological order of the emergence of religions, the most ancient among them, Hinduism elucidates that the great Brahma created the world and life. Now those, who follow that doctrine, have become Hindus. Then, the Son of God, with His immaculate birth, in the absence of a human father and being conceived by the Holy Spirit, yet, born as the son of man, Jesus Christ, declared that the world and life was created by another God, JHWH, Jehewah, creating His own community of followers. They dont believe in a Brahman. The contradiction begins. Here, there are two religious communities. One follows Hinduism, without believing in Jesus Christ. The second believes in Jesus and the God Trinity while does not accept that the world was created by the Hindu Brahman. Despite all that, both communities proclaim that their own God created the world and life.
The third God appeared in the sixth century CE. That was God Allah of the Muslim community. Their religious Teacher too proclaimed that the world and life was created by God Allah. Again, the Muslim religious community rejects other two Gods, Brahman and Jesus and the Christian God Trinity, as the creators of the world and life and continues to believe in Allah in absolute reverence. They stagger even further asserting that Jesus Christ was one of the Prophets of Allah.
Illogicality B
Now, it can be seen here, that three Gods, one human wisdom Teacher and multiplicity of communities have come to be in two contexts, to be more precise, religious and social. Religiously as Hindus, Buddhists, Christians and Islamists and socially, Americans, Russians, Tamils, Sinhalese and Muslim etc. The three Gods and Buddha seem not perturbed at all, whether which community belonged to which nationality or to which religion. Nevertheless, the extremists worry. The general public too is not disturbed.
Besides, in heaven, Gods dont seem to be fighting for the divine hegemony. They are in absolute peace and unity. Now, it is the beauty of the unity of the divinity, which descends down to humanity and powers the latter, to be unified in to oneness. Nonetheless, the fundamentalists are perturbed. They propagate division, which contradicts the divine commandment of unity. Naturally, they are doomed to Gods curse.
Gods are Almighty with all-pervasiveness, Omni-presence and omniscience. Were they not pleased, they were and are powerful enough to appear across the sky and threaten the ignorant humans that Look my silly children, I am your true God. Other Gods are false. They are manmade. Obey my Commandments from today itself and onwards or be ready to be flamed in the hell of burning sulphur.
I am sure, if one of those Gods would do so, everybody, the writer is included, would cry out in meek obedience and prostrate on the floor shouting Lord is great. Lord is Almighty, Hosanna in the highest. But, Gods are not disturbed and troubled at all Why Because, The True God knows that there are no Gods, but God and there is no multiplicity of communities as American, Russian, Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim etc, but, only one community-the humans.
The true God commands, You are one. The handful of extremists scream, We are many.
The true God unites. The fundamentalists divide. In the extremist division is the destruction. In the divine unity is the construction. This is what the youth of the globe must understand.
Illogicality C
Again, Buddhist majority do not believe in any God, as a creator. Their number amounts to billions. The most central factor of the beauty is, that Hindus and Buddhists were living in this world, before the birth of some religions, the Gods of which, are reported to be the creators of life and the world. The position of the Hindus is clear with Great Brahma. Then, if Brahma is to be set aside, was it another unrevealed God, who created Buddhists Or God created all communities at once, but He did not reveal Himself to Buddhists and waited for so long, for some other community to arise in order to reveal Himself In all the revelation texts of some religions, no mention is made about the creation of Hindus, Sinhalese or Buddhists. Nevertheless, Buddhists and Hindus are too large two communities, for, no mention to be retained of them, in any divine revelation. In concordance with truth, this is impossible. Yet, the chronology of the history, factually reveals, that there were Buddhists and Hindus, before the revelations of such religions. If so, the postulate, that the world and life was created by the Gods of certain revealed religions, has to be understood not absolutely, but relatively. Then, the almightiness of the Gods of extremist fundamentalism becomes dubious, instead of being absolute. This is an insult to the majesty of true God. This is what the extremists do. Naturally they are deemed to be punished by True God, with Gods wrath and curse.
The youth of the globe must pose these questions to the handful of extremists of fundamentalism, when they approach them (youth), with their theories of brutality, proposing to chop the fingers and behead the heads of the believers of other religions.
Illogicality D
It can be seen, that, as if, the extremists are trying to help God, by contaminating the minds of youth in to the animality of extremism and by destroying the believers of other religions, exclaiming in it, that the extremists are fulfilling a dutiful commandment of God and for such performance, the extremists divine reward will be heaven. Yet, what pragmatically can be seen is not their celestial reward of heaven, but, the suffering hell in this world itself, with their oozing out and shedding pools of blood, pain, death and banishment from the loved land of birth. This is what, the youth of the globe must rightly understand.
There are political leaders as Presidents and Prime Ministers, wealthy people as dollar billionaires, and other general public, living in this world freely, independently and richly as Hindus, Buddhists and Christians. They are born, grow up, employed, earn money, produce children and possess wealth etc. Brahma, Jesus and Allah do not curse them, nor, do they stop them from being so. In fact they are well blessed by God with His Bliss. That is why they are living in the void of blood, pain, death and destruction.
God is Almighty. It is God, who can bestow such comforts and privileges to all communities, Buddhists included. God is not label oriented. His direction of action is life itself and living people is His prerogative. If God wants to punish anyone, God needs no assistance from miserable human extremists and brutal fundamentalists. God can do it on His own. For example, Tsunami with so much power of destruction or famine or drought or anything of that sort, which poor humans cannot control. The powerful, willed wish of God, to unify all communities in general and Sinhala, Tamil and Muslim communities in particular, in to transcendence of oneness, is not decreed to be violated. In spite of that the transgression is possible with the freedom of voluntary choice God has bestowed. Yet, the Gods curse would follow the defilement of infraction. All Lankans must use their brains, treasured by God, not allowing themselves to be ensnared by blind belief, being promoted by fundamentalist extremists.
Illogicality E
God not only gifted the land of Sri Lanka to Buddhists, who have no faith in any God, but also willed Tamils and Muslims to live in it. It is the powerfully wished will of True God that commands Sinhala Buddhists and Christians, Tamil Hindus and Christians and Islamic Muslims, to live in this beautiful country together in peace, mutual understanding and harmony, consciously helping each other in to happiness and prosperity. It is possible, since it is the majestic wish of true God, Who made man and not of God, whom man made, according to mans form and shape. That is why, when Muslims came to this land at first, as traders, Sinhala Buddhists made them the citizens of their country, Sri Lanka and gave them their Sinhala-Buddhist daughters in marriage to be their wives.
The harmony was absolute. All must understand this very well. This wonderful oneness of our communities is being attacked by the God-contradicting handful of religious extremists, who try to seed the hatred of racism and religious fanaticism, rooted in the brutal violation of the wished Will of God. God will not allow this. He is Almighty. He is a Master-planner. The LTTE extremism tried to do this. What to say about what they gained from it, God caused them to lose even what they had.
==============================
## Title: Sharma sets up crushing win for India over Bangladesh
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Sharma sets up crushing win for India over Bangladesh
Dhaka, Wednesday: Rohit Sharma made a half-century as India crushed Bangladesh by 45 runs to get their campaign in the Asia Cup Twenty20 tournament off to a flying start in Dhaka on Wednesday.
Big-hitting opener Sharma smashed 83 off 55 balls to help India overcome a shaky start to score 166-6 before some excellent bowling by left-arm pacer Ashish Nehra and other medium pacers restricted hosts Bangladesh to 121-7. One-down Sabbir Rahman made the highest 44 off 32 balls for Bangladesh after an early innings jolt saw the home side lose both their openers Mohammad Mithun (one) and Soumya Sarkar (11) for 15 runs.
Bangladesh could never recover from the damage and kept losing wickets at regular intervals as experienced Nehra finished with 3-23.
Indians Jasprit Bumrah, Hardik Pandya and Ravichandran Ashwin claimed one wicket each, and all conceded 23 runs. Bangladesh earlier opted to bowl first on a rain-soaked pitch and made good use of the conditions to put India in trouble early in their innings at the packed Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium.
Al Amin Hossain bowled opener Shikhar Dhawan for two before skipper Mashrafe Mortaza got rid of an in-form Virat Kohli, who offered an easy catch to Mahmudullah at mid off for eight, putting India's formidable batting on the back foot.
With the first six overs yielding just 31 runs, India began to feel the pressure once Mahmudullah bowled Suresh Raina for 13 to leave the visitors struggling at 42-3.
Sharma and Yuvraj Singh steadied the innings with a 55-run fourth wicket partnership before Pandya, who scored 31 off 18 balls, joined the opener to provide India a much-needed impetus. Sharma was dropped by Shakib Al Hasan on 21 off Taskin Ahmed and he promptly made Bangladesh pay dearly as he hit two fours and a six in the next three balls of the over. -AFP
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka - classified as a developing country too long why
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Sri Lanka - classified as a developing country too long why
Nearly four decades ago, prior to the commencement of economic reforms and trade liberalization, the then Chinese rulers maintained policies, that kept their economy very poor, stagnant, centrally-controlled, vastly inefficient and relatively isolated from the global economy. After opening up to foreign trade and investment and implementing free market reforms since 1979, China became one of the world's fastest growing economies. It is now the world's largest economy and has emerged as a major global economic power - a manufacturer, merchandise trader and the holder of large foreign exchange reserves. Why did Sri Lanka fail having initiated economic reforms since 1978, one year before China
Increased production, exchange of goods and services, plays a key role in economic development and global integration. Due to languid and lacklustre performance of the public sector, our country is currently classified as a "developing country".
The delay in industrialization, inefficient public sector and corruption have been the primary causes for our overall failure.
At the time we became independent in 1948, Sri Lankans enjoyed the third highest per capita income in Asia after Japan and Malaysia. The economy based on three main crops - tea, rubber and coconut brought considerable amount of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, the industrial sector due to numerous reasons up to 1977 had its own problems because the past rulers failed to pursue a meaningful progressive plan for industrialization. International aid received for development purposes had been abused. Tax payers monies too plundered. Pompous ceremonies and various other empty rituals including luxury vehicles became more important than improving the lives of the people and taking the country forward.
Open economic policies
After a landslide victory for the UNP in 1977, JRJ government pioneered revolutionary changes. Introduced open economic policies and liberalized the economy which eventually had its own pros and cons. Since 1983, year after year, due to worsening economic conditions living standards deteriorated rapidly. The question is whether the majority of politicians used the war as an escape goat! Did they look after themselves without looking after the affairs of the people
Our politicians instead began delivering various financial and other perks to their own families, friends, relations and good wishers at an exorbitant cost to the Treasury and the poor citizen. Politicians deceived the people by simply granting them political goods. Fertilizer, schools books, uniforms etc. etc. were introduced. It is most unfortunate that these goodies have given the politicians far more unseen benefits than the citizen. What a pity!! The Buddha had preached: "If you knew what I know about the power of giving, you would not let a single meal pass without sharing it in some way".
This country has been destroyed beyond imagination due to misrule, fraud, corruption etc. The capable, educated and respected people could not compete in politics with the new breed of corrupt and self-centred politicos. They could not steer the country towards better economic conditions and achieve development. Our country's future depends upon the interest and the understanding we have about these complicated issues. We also must extend maximum co-operation to the present leadership to prevent conflicts, strengthen post-war peace building efforts and achieving development goals and economic stability. If not, we will be strengthening the hands of those corrupt self-centred politicians, who dragged the country to its present plight (having won the war), without solving numerous other tribulations. We must first extend support enthusiastically to put our house in order even after a long delay. A difficult task!
My argument is how did we nose-dive when China succeeded having opened up the economy This is purely because of bad governance, corruption and political bungling. Corrupt politicians and public officers instead of channelling government resources for development diverted all that for their personal benefit. These have ultimately added heavy costs in our society due to which establishment and development of effective institutions of good governance has become nearly impossible. Now that we have learnt bitter lessons, it is my firm conclusion nothing can be achieved unless the government takes a tough stance. It is encouraging media too as watchdogs of democracy is doing their best in combating corruption etc. In fact, fraud and corruption had posed serious threats to the public sector. Shouldn't we as responsible citizens think of our new role
Market-oriented policy reforms
China began market-oriented policy reforms that led to far reaching changes in the structure and performance of the production, employment and exports. Incidentally, both Chinese and Sri Lankan governments began numerous industries for export within the framework of a liberalised trading during the same period. We started export-oriented Industrial Zones dedicated to increase and compete with other exporting countries and failed. Why It is purely because of corrupt, inefficient and ineffective politicos and bureaucratic red tape. I came across several local and international industrialists who were planning to commence large scale industries and disappeared because they were not ready to grease the palms of politicians and bureaucrats under different governments.
Our politicians having introduced liberal economic policies, failed to take the trouble to come up with the necessary reforms to boost the performance of the public service. Nevertheless, Premadasa government made considerable attempts to increase the performance of the public sector in several ways by establishing organizational goals, monitoring progress towards achieving the goals, and also to come up with necessary modifications by reducing the excessive cadre to achieve the desired goals more effectively and efficiently.
I recall Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration (SLIDA) too introduced various training courses to measure the performance of government agencies by introducing key performance indicators (KPIs), Benchmarking, Continuous Improvements (CI), Total Quality Management (TQM), Management by Objectives (MBO) and Quality Control Circles (QCC).
Due to the untiring efforts of the late President Premadasa, there had been considerable progress in all public sector agencies. It is sad things have become even worse now. The public sector lost its focus when subsequent governments had expanded having recruited their stooges too. It is noteworthy when the President Premadasa began changes in the style of running of political machinery, the majority of corrupt and incorrigible politicos came up with the impeachment. It was crushed skilfully with confidence by the late President.
In Switzerland their development policy is enshrined in the Federal Constitution. The Federal Constitution provides that Switzerland "shall contribute, among other things, to giving relief to populations in need and to fighting poverty as well as promoting the respect for human rights, democracy, peaceful co-existence between peoples and conservation of natural resources." (Article 54 (2) of the Swiss Constitution).
Swiss example proves a stable economic framework is a fundamental necessity for the country's sustainable growth and a precondition for effectively fighting poverty. The present government is aiming at boosting the performance of the public sector while pursuing an effort to establish good governance, morality and integrity in the public sector employees. It is a commendable step that the government has decided to pay Rs. 25,000 and allow the unemployed youth to serve in the private sector for a period of four years to resolve a burning problem. We should be happy that the PM had decided not to dump them in the overloaded public sector.
Foreign direct investment
Why is that the government trying so hard to reduce corruption From an economic perspective, political corruption is one of the most unfathomable evils, an endemic cancer which reduces the government revenue, foreign direct investment, the quality of goods produced etc. Corruption no doubt had raised the prices the poor pay for goods and thereby raising the cost of living. From a political perspective, systemic corruption corrodes the legal system, turns the bureaucracy into a self-seeking entity that disregards the public interest, undermines representational democracy and reduces educational funding etc.
From a societal perspective, corruption breeds distrust, rage, despair, and factionalism, exacerbates, the emigration of skilled and qualified citizens, and promotes individual advancement above ethical concerns. All this could ultimately discourage foreign generosity to even grant financial assistance. Larger portions of international aid too seem to have been stolen and had not reached those in need. Rajiv Ghandhi, the late Prime Minister had once said that 85% of government spending on development in India never reached its intended beneficiaries but was robbed at every stage along the way.
It has been proved that due to corruption, the public sector has become ineffective. Weak institutions, high levels of corruption, poor law and order conditions due to manipulative rule of law have brought about frustration, disgust, hate and anger against corrupt public officers and politicians. My own experience is that competent and honest employees have suffered having reduced its capacity for integrity and effectiveness. Instances of dramatic outbreaks of violence too have been observed increasingly. Corrupt public officers have been mobbed by disillusioned general public. Given the pervasiveness of the issues of corruption, inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the total system, we now need to desperately consider new policies that could take the country forward.
The famous formula for corruption is an economic analysis that identifies three "ingredients" of corruption "monopoly + discretion - accountability" needed for a corrupt act to occur. The President and the Prime Minister, have now reached political consensus that rule of law and good governance are a fundamental necessity for our efforts to achieve sustainable development and economic growth - a winning formula when coupled with the political will to achieve the status - a developed nation. This undoubtedly cannot be done overnight!
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan scrabble team to be feted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Sri Lankan scrabble team to be feted
The ten-member Sri Lanka scrabble team that performed with distinction at the 10th World Youth Scrabble Championship in Perth, Australia will be felicitated at a ceremony by the Sri Lanka Scrabble League (SLSL) at the Organisation of Professional Associations (OPA) of Sri Lanka at Prof. Stanley Wijesundera Mawatha, Colombo 7 on Sunday (February 28) commencing 7 p.m.
The Sri Lankan youth team emerged the Best Team for the first time, beating stiff competition from New Zealand and Pakistan.
The 10-member Sri Lankan team comprised Migara Jayasinghe, Aabld Ismail, Janul de Silva, Vignesh Plrapaharan, Thavalakshman Yoganathan, Thirandl de Silva, Jahidhu Karunaratne, Hasindu Arumapperuma, Radinka Dissanayake and Lambhotharan Yogananthan.
In addition to winning the trophy for the best team, Sri Lankan youth managed to win six more trophies, as follows:
Overall Fourth Place- Janul de Silva (Royal College) Overall Sixth Place - Thirandi de Silva (Ladies College) Overall Eighth Place - Lambhotharan Yogananthan (Lyceum International School- Wattala)
Best Player - Under 14 - Janul de Sliva (Royal College) Highest Game Score (of 693) - Migara Jayaslnghe (Lyceum International School- Wattala) Best Player - Under 14 (Runner-up) - Vignesh Plrapaharan (S. Thomas - Mt. Lavinia)
==============================
## Title: A storm is brewing!
## Supertitle: [Hindsight]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
[Hindsight]
A storm is brewing!
Local government polls, the lowest level election contested by political parties in this country usually attract scant attention except in the major cities where prestigious mayoralties are at stake. This year though, these elections have taken on a larger than life significance mostly because of political events that are unfolding in the post-January 8 scenario.
Having had presidential and general elections in 2015, Sri Lanka is not due for a major national election at least until 2019, the earliest date the current Parliament can be dissolved under the terms of the Constitution. As such, Local Government elections, though not an efficient barometer of the political climate in the country, remains the only avenue available for the respective parties to test their strength vis--vis one another.
Presidential election
This becomes especially significant in the current context where the two factions of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP), led by President Maithripala Sirisena and former President Mahinda Rajapaksa are jostling for control of the vast reservoir of grassroots level votes the party commands.
It will be remembered that a similar situation existed in the run up to the general election last year. Relatively fresh from his defeat at the presidential election, Rajapaksa saw the general election as an opportunity to return to Parliament and enjoy at least a fraction of the power he once enjoyed. Egged on by the smaller parties of the United Peoples' Freedom Alliance (UPFA), he staked his claim in the Kurunegala district.
Rajapaksa returned to Parliament but the SLFP had lost and in any event, President Sirisena had made it abundantly clear that Rajapaksa would not be appointed Prime Minister even if the party won. Rajapaksa had to be content with being a mere parliamentarian. Facing increasing isolation in the SLFP as his previously loyal ministers rose to the bait of accepting Cabinet portfolios in the 'national unity' government headed by the President, Rajapaksa had to look for a 'Plan B': forming a separate political party for the purpose of contesting Local Government elections.
To his credit, Rajapaksa has kept fighting and has been able to retain the support of a 'hard core' group of parliamentarians. He must also believe that if he can demonstrate significant support for himself at Local Government elections, there will be a group who would switch allegiances once again to his camp, even before he asks them to do so. Such is the fickle nature of Sri Lankan politics.
A week ago, the formation of a new party where Rajapaksa would be the spiritual, if not actual, leader seemed imminent. Eagerly sought out by journalists for his 'voice cuts' whenever he leaves a court house, commission of inquiry or a temple, Rajapaksa repeatedly noted that, because the SLFP was part and parcel of the United National Party (UNP) led government and also because there was no 'real' opposition from either the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) or the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), the masses were crying out for a opposition worthy of its title. Hence there was a great need for another political force, Rajapaksa opined.
Local Government election
Being the seasoned politician that he is, Rajapaksa however realises that such a political entity needs a catalyst such as the Local Government election to propel itself to the electorate. Those who recall the events of over two decades ago will remember the Democratic United National Front (DUNF) which broke away from the mainstream UNP thrust itself into limelight using the provincial council elections. The Rajapaksa camp was hoping for a similar sequence of events.
It is not Rajapaksa alone who has realised this; advisors to the President have already cautioned him that the polls may provide the Rajapaksa faction with the much needed momentum to make its mark on the political landscape. Since then, there were mixed messages emanating from the government camp.
The minister who is purportedly in charge of the subject, Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government, Faiszer Mustapha has been repeatedly stating that every effort is being made to conduct the elections as soon as possible and that there was no intention of postponing the polls.
On the other hand, State Minister of Finance Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena is on record stating that the elections cannot be held as originally scheduled. Of course, the minister claims that this is because delimitation of the local councils is not yet complete and would in fact take several months more.
As a result, elections which were earlier slated to be held by March this year and then tentatively projected for soon after the Sinhala and Tamil New Year are now being tentatively earmarked for later in the year. Some forecasts estimate that the elections will not be held at all this year and may in fact be scheduled for early 2017!
The reluctance of the mainstream SLFP hierarchy to conduct the election as soon as possible is understandable. It controls almost all of the councils in the South of the country barring a few local government bodies in urban areas. With a UNP-led government in power, it will not be able to match that feat and President Sirisena can then be conveniently criticised by the Rajapaksa camp for being responsible for the diminished performance of the SLFP. If the Rajapaksa camp does campaign separately, it will be a bitter tussle between the two factions to avoid being relegated to third place, with the UNP almost guaranteed of being the winner.
However, with no election looming, Rajapaksa has had to adjust his strategy. He is still engaged in his campaign of wooing the masses at various events, some of them sponsored by dissident SLFP local councillors who are daring the party leadership to crack down on them. He is also singing a slightly different tune now. "Many are trying to chase me away from the SLFP and that will not be easy", he says.
Differences of opinion
Strategically, that makes perfect sense. Since it is a Local Government election and not a parliamentary poll that is being contemplated, there is no necessity for Rajapaksa to contest or be directly involved in the new political venture because, even if he is not, the new party will always look upon him as their de facto leader.
Besides, there are two other Rajapaksas waiting in the wings who could don that mantle: Basil and Gotabhaya. If they are at the helm, the former President can watch from the side-lines as the 'Rajapaksa' brand name will be able to carry the new party with it.
This is where some differences of opinion have emerged. Basil Rajapaksa was to Mahinda Rajapaksa what Felix Dias Bandaranaike was to Sirima Bandaranaike: the kinsman and the all-powerful minister who ran the political machine of the party. Basil is relatively junior in the party hierarchy and his influence on political decisions was the cause of much resentment among the Old Guard of the SLFP. There were also fears that he would become the heir apparent, by-passing more loyal and faithful servants of the party. All these concerns are bound to resurface if Basil Rajapaksa is to lead the new political party.
There are different concerns about Gotabhaya Rajapaksa's leadership prospects. He carries no political baggage, not directly being involved in politics until now. His track record as Defence Secretary and the man who masterminded the beautification of Colombo is exemplary. However, he is known as a straight talking military man, much in the mould of Sarath Fonseka and there are concerns that this perceived lack of tact would not serve him well if he were to become the leader of a major political party- just as much as it had disastrous consequences for Fonseka.
Thus, the local government elections are in limbo at least for now. Theoretically at least, that may be due to delays in delimitation but that has provided rival factions in the SLFP with time to retreat and regroup. The UNP meanwhile, is waiting in the wings hoping the polls would be sooner rather than later, because it must know that the goodwill an incumbent government enjoys also has an expiry date.
==============================
## Title: Target-oriented
## Supertitle: [Young Voices]
## Section: Features
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
[Young Voices]
Target-oriented
There are no overnight solutions. Yet, if you can dream, anything is possible says UNP Parliamentarian for the Colombo District S. M. Marikkar. "Young Voices from Diyawanna" spoke to this parliamentarian who works hard to make his dreams come true.
Early life
Marikkar went to school at Matale Rahula College and then started his career at MTV Maharaja Group. From an executive, he became a chief executive officer and finally an MBC board director.
During his tenure in MBC, he won the most prestigious award in the company, 'Executive of the Year.' For many years, he headed Sirasa FM radio station, a leading channel in the country.
Afterwards he entered politics and contested from the UNP for the Western Province, Colombo and became the first in the provincial council election from the UNP list from the entire Western Province. Then he took over as a UNP organizer for Kolonnawa.
"Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe invited me to politics. I never thought I would enter politics. The corruption during the Rajapaksa regime made me enter politics. I thought the Western Provincial Council elections would be the turning point to change the Rajapaksa regime. So I told the Prime Minister that I would contest from the UNP. During the parliamentary election I got 92,526 votes from Colombo district and secured my place," said Marikkar.
Secret to success
As an organizer, he is second to none. This has led to his rise in media and politics.
"I am a very committed person. A target-oriented person. If I want to achieve a target, I will first prepare a plan. Sirasa FM was the number four channel and I made it number one. I maintained the number one position for many years and we won many awards such as the Slim Nielsen Peoples Awards as a popular radio channel continuously for seven years. It was all about the commitment. When I entered politics, I became number one in the Provincial Council. Then my leader handed me the Kolonnawa electorate. So it was all about commitment. I believe in commitment," stated Marikkar.
Changes needed
There are no overnight solutions, but the target is there. Marikkar intends on doing his best.
"During the Rajapaksa regime, we have seen what they have done. We have promised a real change. For that my contribution is there to the maximum, especially when it comes to stopping corruption, implementing good governance with free and fair elections and media freedom. People should have a country to live in without fear. There must also be an economic growth whilst looking into the issue of unemployment of youth and giving job opportunities.
If you take Colombo, many people are living in the shanties and we have to look into that. So basically all this should happen within the democratic framework. After we elected Maithripala Sirisena as the President, we can see that there is democracy and no more white vans. Media freedom is there. You can't do everything overnight. My duty is to give my fullest support to the development of the country," pointed out Marikkar.
Ambitions in life
Kolonnawa is the goal and it is no easy task.
"In my profession when I was working in the private sector, I have achieved to the maximum. Nowadays my dream is to develop Kolonnawa. There are many issues such as drug issues, garbage issues, unemployment, education, sports, cultural and arts. I can't do everything overnight. I have taken the necessary steps for my plans to change Kolonnawa and uplift the people's livelihoods and lifestyles," maintains Marikkar.
Challenges
"Life is all about challenges. You have to take challenges in a positive way. It motivates you to achieve your target and give more commitment. Don't wait until things come to you. Do your best to achieve your targets and you will achieve it," stressed Marikkar.
Drugs and alcohol
"We must understand that Sri Lanka is a country which has a certain cultural background. But this is not a barrier. Some people have taken culture as a barrier. I do not take culture as a barrier. You need to go with the culture. Whether you like it or not, technology has come up in this world. So this has changed our lifestyles. Sometimes I think this has made us forget our values. First we must have a knowledge and idea of our culture.
When it comes to drugs, as a government we need to take necessary action to strengthen law and order. It is important to have rehabilitation centres. When it comes to the drug issue, it is very sensitive for me in Kolonnawa. If you strengthen law and order, the distribution link will break. So then comes in the rehabilitation programs. Who are most of the drug addicts Mostly unemployed and poor people. You have to develop education and uplift lifestyles. You need to develop the economy," argued Marikkar.
Confidence
The formula for fear is confidence. If you are confident, people feel confident around you.
"You have to have a dream about your life. You have to have a dream about what you are doing. If you have a dream, you will have a plan. If you have a plan you will have commitment. If you have commitment you will achieve," explained Marikkar.
Suicide rate
In some ways, suicide is a permanent solution for a temporary problem. "This is basically because of mental harassment. So this comes in many forms - sexual harassment, economical causes and a variety of other reasons. If our education system is excellent and people are well aware of society, if they are educated and if they are willing to face the challenges, this won't happen. If you have a problem you must be mentally strong enough to find the solution rather than trying to escape from the problem.
If you try and escape then that is when you commit suicide," clarified Marikkar.
Private medical colleges
If government universities cannot produce the necessary amount of doctors then what can you do But you cannot open medical colleges nowadays like the nurseries and international schools. So under the supervision of proper authorities, up to a certain level, with the requirement of the country you should allow these Medical Colleges.
Anticipate the coming storm
With the changing world we need to make provision for what could come into Sri Lanka such as the high school shootings in the West.
"Our country is now a middle income level country, so we are growing fast. The technology is coming very fast to Sri Lanka. If we are growing fast with technology, relevant authorities should seriously think about all these issues which we can expect to come into the country. In order to safeguard the country our authorities must be ready," he said.
So you have to be a moderate thinker. But if you do not have values how can someone else have value for your life People must have freedom. But if a kid has unlimited freedom then what will happen And if you block him completely then what will happen So you have to be moderate, warned Marikkar.
Combating crime
"Again I must point out that you cannot come up with solutions overnight. During the previous government there was no proper law and order. When there is no law and order, it is natural that crime will rise. Society will not be disciplined. You need discipline in your life. So the same thing can be applied to society," asserts Marikkar.
Books, songs and movies
"I mostly listen to Sinhalese songs of Nanda Malini, Victor Ratnayake as well as young singers such as Bathiya and Santhush. I lived with songs when I was heading radio stations. I also like to read books about history, politics and arts."
Leaders
"I admire two leaders. I admire Gamini Dissanayake and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. Gamini Dissanayake always took on challenges. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe is a brave leader. I like his patience."
(Pictures by Siripala Halwala)
==============================
## Title: Vienna ranked world's nicest city again
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Thursday, February 25, 2016 - 01:00
Vienna ranked world's nicest city again
AUSTRIA: Vienna is the world's best city to live in; Baghdad is the worst, and London, Paris and New York do not even make it into the top 35, according to international research into quality of life.
German-speaking cities dominate the rankings in the 18th Mercer Quality of Life study, with Vienna joined by Zurich, Munich, Dsseldorf and Frankfurt in the top seven.
Paris has tumbled down the league, falling 10 places to 37th, just ahead of London at 39th, almost entirely because of the city's vulnerability to terrorist attacks.
The study examined social and economic conditions, health, education, housing and the environment, and is used by big companies to assess where they should locate and how much they should pay.
Viennese-born Helena Hartlauer, 32, said she was not surprised at her city's top position. The municipality's social democratic government has a long tradition of investing in high-quality social housing, making Vienna almost uniquely affordable among major cities.
"I live in a 100sq metre turn-of-the-century apartment in a good area about 20 minutes' walk into the city centre. But my rent is just 800 (625) a month." An equivalent apartment in London would cost upwards of 2,000, and even more in New York, ranked 44th in the table.
US cities perform relatively poorly in the study, largely because of issues around personal safety and crime. The highest ranking city in the US is San Francisco, at 28th; Boston is 34th. Canadian cities, led by Toronto, far outrank their US rivals in the table.
"You don't realise how safe Vienna is until you head abroad," said Hartlauer.
"We also have terrific public transport, with the underground working 24 hours at weekends, and it only costs 1 per trip."
Vienna benefited enormously from the fall of the Berlin Wall, becoming the gateway to eastern European countries that often have historic ties to the former Austro-Hungarian empire.
"Our big USP is our geographic location," said Martin Eichtinger, Austrian ambassdaor to London, who lived in Vienna for 20 years. "The fall of the Berlin Wall helped define Vienna as the hub for companies wanting to do business in central Europe." According to the World Bank, Austria has one of the highest figures for GDP per head in the world, just behind the US and ahead of Germany and Britain, although quite some way below neighbouring Switzerland.
-AFP
==============================