## Title: All-Island Table Tennis at Kegalle
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
All-Island Table Tennis at Kegalle
The All Island Junior Table Tennis Championship for the Mahipala Herath (Sabaragamuwa Province Chief Minister) Challenge Trophy organized by the Kegalle District Table Tennis Association will be held at kegalle College indoor stadium on October 9,10 and 11.
Kegalle District MP and Kegalle District Table Tennis Associatiion president Kanaka Herath said that there will be more than 400 players representing 60 schools in action during this year's tournament.
The event consists of Under 10, 12, 15 and 18 categories for girls and boys. The opening ceremony will be held tomorrow with Chief Minister Mahipala Herath as the chief guest. Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara will be the chief guest at the awards ceremony on the final day.
==============================
## Title: Austrian President lauds peace and progress in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Austrian President lauds peace and progress in Sri Lanka
Austrian President Heinz Fischer said that he was pleased that Sri Lanka was going through a period of positive transformation under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, reiterating his hope that such an inclusive approach would help usher in lasting peace and prosperity to all Sri Lankans in addition to contributing to the healing of wounds.
The Austrian President made these comments when Sri Lanka's Ambassador to Austria A.L. A. Azeez paid a farewell call on him at Hofburg Palace in Vienna on October 5. President Fischer also expressed happiness at the enhanced level of bilateral relations between the two countries, which has led to an increase in the volume of trade, in the number of Austrian tourist arrivals in Sri Lanka, in the quantum of Austrian assistance for development, President Fischer said that he was confident that the bilateral relations would further expand in the near future with a wide range of initiatives currently being taken in the area of trade and economic cooperation. Ambassador Azeez apprised the Austrian President of the positive developments in Sri Lanka, including progress in reconciliation, peace building and development improved bilateral relations between Sri Lanka and Austria, and between Sri Lanka and other countries in the region, possibilities that exist in Sri Lanka for promotion of trade, investment and tourism, under the new Government.
Austrian Airlines launched weekly flights to Colombo from October 27, followed by an increased flow of Austrian investment as Sri Lanka continued its progress in peace building, was noted as a significant turn-around in bilateral relations.
==============================
## Title: Being home, still a dream
## Supertitle: Jaffna Muslims' unaddressed issue of repatriation
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Jaffna Muslims' unaddressed issue of repatriation
Being home, still a dream
A popular ballad sung by South Indian Music Maestro Illayaraja (which was ironically released in 1990 - the year of the Muslims' ethnic expulsion) can often be heard sung nostalgically by the Tamil Muslims of the North: "Sorgame endralum, athu nam oora pola varuma" (even if it's heaven itself, will it ever compare to our homeland)
This is also the one liner the Northern Muslims consistently refer to, to explain why they chose to come back to their homelands in the North despite the many barriers put up in their way. This month, October 30th marks the 25th anniversary of their forcible expulsion from the North by the LTTE. Since then, many of the Muslims have put down roots in other parts of the country, mainly in Puttalam and to a lesser extent other areas such as Anuradhapura, Galle, and Colombo. As is their right however, at war's end in 2009, those who were unable to feel settled in their newly settled areas have chosen to return to their homelands - a process that has not been facilitated for them by either the government or Tamil community, despite the irreparable wrong done to them 25 years ago.
The returnees have many experiences to report on the hardships of resettling in their homeland but supreme love for their motherland they say, overrides all other considerations, to make them persevere.
Of these, the Jaffna Muslims are the worst hit among all the Northern Province Muslims, in terms of receiving little to no repatriation help. Being a minor political constituency, they have neither Muslim nor Tamil politicians campaigning to address their issues. It's nearly six years now since many of them have resettled in Jaffna after war's end. In 2009-2010, they were reduced to living in the shelled out skeletal remains of their former stately homes.
There are still many such families continuing to live so but others have also moved into more upscale renovated properties being rented out in the area.
Some of the neighbourhood families living in Colombo have been able to repair their houses adequately and have given them out for rent.
These are however comparatively very few. And this excruciatingly slow process of Jaffna's Muslim quarters gradually regaining its neighbourhood tone has little to do with government facilitation.
Tamil politicians
The recurring refrain one hears from the community, is their disappointment at the Government and Tamil politicians, for not reaching out to help.
"In other districts, there are Muslim MPs to see to Muslim constituencies, but in Jaffna we don't have such a representative. The Tamil politicians play the communal card and do nothing to address our needs though from time to time they pay lip service to it," lament the Muslims resettled in Jaffna.
They are very careful however not to conflate Tamil politicians with the Tamil people. The Muslim people here, who to this day identify as Tamil-speaking people, magnanimously refuse to hold the Tamils responsible for the doings of either the Tamil politicians or the LTTE.
"In 1990, we were forcibly driven out by the LTTE, not the Tamil people."
"Even now, it is the politicians who are trying to set us off against each other. The Tamil people are our brethren and treat us well. We have nothing to say against them."
The above were some of the common refrains heard across the board when interviewing the Muslim returnees for this article. Whether we their Tamil brethren deserve so vigorous a defence however is open to debate.
They were evicted in 1990 at two hours' notice with only the clothes on their back.
Originally a prosperous business community of Jaffna, many of them were stripped of their land and property titles, jewellery (including what they were wearing; women recall their children's ear studs ripped off their earlobes) and all their cash before they left. They had been told that they could take Rs.500 with them but in some cases were stripped of even that, after which they were transported like cattle by the LTTE in trucks, to be dumped just outside Jaffna - and from there, told to walk all the way to Puttalam.
"They told us to stamp the dust off our feet as we left, that we could not take even that from their Eelam which belonged only to Tamils. They were that cruel," reported one returned Muslim lady. The shock of that extreme and unwarranted cruelty displayed by the LTTE is still fresh in the minds of the Muslims.
They had always perceived themselves as having cordial relations with the Tamils and so the sudden ethnic cleansing that was visited upon them took them completely by surprise. They still have no answer as to why this happened other than that the LTTE perhaps wanted to harvest their wealth.
"Due to our religious beliefs, we did not save our money in banks, we saved them instead in gold biscuits.
In one morning, they piled all our jewellery, cash and gold biscuits in front of us and gloated that they had gained the wealth of a mini Saudi Arabia," explained one former businessman who had three vehicles at his disposal in 1990, now reduced to driving a hired three-wheeler for a living.
25 years from the expulsion and six years since resettlement, disappointingly little has been done in terms of outreach and reparation by the Tamil community towards the Muslim community.
Double standard
While many of the Muslims refuse to call out the Tamils for this, at least one elderly man voiced his hurt on this issue as well.
"I am 68 years old now, I fear I will die without the issue of what happened to us in 1990 ever being addressed - and with my generation will die the pain and knowledge of all that transpired.
There will be no learning or restitution from it. Why though should we brush this under the carpet Why can't it be addressed
"You, the Tamils, ask for your lands returned in areas like Valikamam and Sampur. We support you, that is your right. But why don't you support us in our endeavours to get our lands back in the North Isn't that similarly our right
"You campaign to have July 1983's riots recognized as genocide. But if we say October 1990's expulsion of us was ethnic cleansing, why do some Tamil people reject this Some of these Tamil nationalists repeatedly make an outcry about all the wrongs done to them by the Government but if we try to raise the issue of what happened to us, they say we are repeating the same tired old refrain again and again. Why these double standards"
Poor infrastructure
We didn't really have an answer to give him. We thus put the question to our Tamil readers. Can you answer Why is there this double standard by the Tamil community towards the Muslim community, in the North Why do we seek reparations for the wrongs done to us as a community whilst endeavouring at the same time to brush under the carpet, the wrongs done to the Muslims as a community, by our community Why do we hold the central government and Sinhalese politicians to task for not addressing Tamil issues adequately but not hold the Tamil provincial politicians to task for not addressing Muslim issues adequately
Indian government
Why have we left our Muslim brethren alone to fight lonely fights, often losing fights, for their rights When they were evicted from Jaffna, many of the Muslims here were some of the wealthiest people in the land. Stripped of all their money and property before they left, they have returned to live in hovels in most cases.
Yet of the thousands of houses granted to war-affected people in Jaffna by the Indian Government, only 45 houses have been allocated to the Muslim community.
"The Tamil Government Officials in Jaffna are openly prejudiced against us. They make us run from pillar to post for every little thing, deliberately exhausting us in the process. In the case of this housing scheme, they initially allocated only 25 houses for our community. We had to campaign long and hard before they made it at least 45 houses. We were fed up with the amount of protests we had to carry out before achieving even this small concession. Now the scheme is over. They afforded us a few houses only in its last stages," says an activist in the J88 area of Jaffna, where many Muslims are resettled.
The government officials for their part give various excuses, such as the Muslims already having been given housing in Puttalam (though only a few of them actually were), and that many of the Muslims don't live permanently in Jaffna and are instead a floating population between Puttalam and Jaffna. There are various sociological and economic reasons for this floating pattern of existence which the Muslims have been reduced to, that are not being addressed as they should, and has instead become a convenient stick to beat them with. If there are not enough facilities in Jaffna to live permanently, and there are many family members left behind in Puttalam who have chosen to remain there, why would not the Jaffna Muslims be a floating population What the Muslims are employing for their social and economic survival is being negated as duplicity by the Jaffna officials who say that they do not deserve allocations and benefits from Jaffna if they are going to be residents of Puttalam. This conveniently does not address the fact that not enough has been done in Jaffna to enable families to feasibly settle permanently here.
Yet, despite all these odds there are about 3000 families permanently settled in Jaffna now, who have not received much benefit due to it. "A high ranking Tamil government official, in a bid to prove that we were not actually living in Jaffna as we said we were, came on a personal visit to check our houses. All those dwellings that were locked when she visited in the middle of the day were marked as unoccupied. The implication was that these residents had lied when they said they were living in Jaffna. This was one of the ways they reduced our numbers eligible for the Indian Housing Scheme. Did she not think that at that time, the man of the house would be out working, the children would be at school and the lady of the house marketing or on some other errand This same process was not carried out for Tamil households. How do they get to arbitrarily decide to treat us so differently" ask the Muslim community.
Not many job opportunities for women
Their families have lived in this area of town for generations, but they remember that even this was not where their ancestors originally settled. 1990 was by no means the first time expulsion had been forced on the Muslim community of Jaffna.
"Our ancestors used to live in Nallur and Musali from which they were driven out in 1838. That is when they came and settled in this area, which has now become part of Jaffna town," explained one of the community elders.
Living in the middle of town as they are, without adequate urban planning or facilities, they grapple with many frustrating problems that are not being addressed effectively either.
"It took years to get electricity and running water to this area though it is in the heart of Jaffna town," says one lady asked specifically on the issues women and children face while resettling, within the community. "There are not many job opportunities for women here. Wealthier members of the community who have repaired their houses have rented them out to us but this being a town area, we can't earn through rearing poultry or livestock. Meanwhile, in nearby abandoned properties that have been left to grow wild with shrubbery, snakes and mosquitoes are breeding and we fear for our children's safety."
The men of the community engage in small-time business or drive three wheelers to support their families. A few are government officials. "Most of our men have taken loans to buy motorcycles or three-wheelers to facilitate their businesses.
Now they are gone from early morning till late at night, trying to earn back enough money to pay off those loans. Many of our children are thus growing up without knowing their fathers.
The fathers are gone by the time they wake up and return only after they have fallen asleep, such is our lot," laments another woman.
Having come through all these hardships, some in the community are determined to stick it out but others are considering returning to the areas they had relocated to post their expulsion in 1990.
"We never felt at home in any of those places. We always remembered Jaffna as our homeland with so much nostalgia and returned after the war ended with so much hope. Now however, we are being slowly driven out. We have been made to feel as if we don't belong here either."
This is a sad reflection of what the Muslim people feel, along with what the Tamil people have made them to feel. 25 years since their expulsion, after all that our two communities have been separately through, have we the Tamils, nothing to offer in terms of solidarity to the Muslims
Courtesy: Samakalam Magazine
==============================
## Title: Bottled water contained grease and oil
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Bottled water contained grease and oil
The Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) officers in a recent raid confiscated bottles of water which were found to be contaminated with grease and oil, Consumer Affairs and Information Director Chandrika Thilakarathne told the Daily News yesterday. "The CAA confiscated the bottles of contaminated water during a random raid," Thilakarathne said.
"Chemical and microbiological testing were done to check the amount of chemical and micro biological parameter contained in the water. It was detected that water in the bottles were less than the standard Ph value," she added.
Thilakarathne said that CAA checks the standard by conducting frequent raids.
We have informed all the bottled water manufacturing companies that action will be taken against them if they do not comply with the provisions under the Customs Affairs Authority Act.
"The CAA has issued a gazette stating that the PET bottle manufacturers should comply with the relevant SLS standard and it will be effective from September 2016. Bottled water manufacturers, PET bottle manufacturers and Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) had a discussion with the CAA recently to make all the manufacturers aware of the standards and to maintain the quality of the water," she added.
==============================
## Title: Boycott US products, Nedumaran tells youth
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Boycott US products, Nedumaran tells youth
Tamil National Movement leader P. Nedumaran has called upon the youth and student community to boycott U.S. products in protest against the country's resolution in the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) against the interests of Sri Lankan Tamils. Addressing a meeting in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, Nedumaran, who was on his "Tamizhar ezhuchi payanam," said that the U.S. had moved a resolution in the UNHRC favouring internal inquiry into war crimes in Sri Lanka.
Alleging that two lakh Tamils were massacred by the 'Sinhala chauvinists' in the civil war in 2009, Nedumaran said that the Tamils would get justice only if an international probe was conducted. It was unfortunate that India had supported the U.S. in the UNHRC, he said. The authoritarian act of the U.S. could be ended if the younger generation boycotted its products, he said. "Only if we teach a lesson to the U.S., we could save the remaining Tamils in the island," he said.
==============================
## Title: Bushfires rage in Australia as 'Godzilla El Nino' takes affect
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Bushfires rage in Australia as 'Godzilla El Nino' takes affect
AUSTRALIA: Over 100 bushfires are blazing in the state of Victoria, Australia, with over 200 homes at risk. Unusually high temperatures and strong winds have fueled the fires, which are threatening areas about 80 kilometers northwest of Melbourne.
Firefighters are struggling to put out the blazes, with changing wind directions making their task even more difficult. Aerial water bombers have also been called in to provide assistance, as gusts of wind have reached over 100 kilometers an hour.
The Country Fire Authority (CFA) says that over 100 fires are raging north of Melbourne, while local politicians have been urging locals to take precautions.
"The 15/16 fire season is here now. It is absolutely on us and we need to understand that this is going to be a long, hot, dry, and dangerous summer and people need to be very clear and get your fire plan in order," Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews told ABC News. The unusually hot weather is being blamed on an extreme El Nino weather pattern that has been described internationally as 'Godzilla El Nino.'
Dr Andrew Watkins, the manager of climate predictions with the Australian Bureau of Meteorology, said that parts of Australia have already been experiencing high temperatures, while Melbourne was around 16 degrees above its average for this time of the year.
"We could probably attribute this to the El Nino event that we're seeing at the moment, those clear skies, dry soil, not much rain about to keep things cool and that weather, that hot weather, now feeding in over southeastern Australia," he said, as cited by ABC.
The heat wave has led to Victoria introducing its earliest total fire ban ever.
The blanket ban means that the lighting of any fires in the open air is prohibited, as is the use of incinerators and welding equipment, among other activities.
- RUSSIA TODAY
==============================
## Title: California adopts Bill ensuring equal pay for women
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
California adopts Bill ensuring equal pay for women
US: California on Tuesday adopted a Bill aimed at ensuring equal pay between men and women, a measure considered among the strongest in the nation and applauded by Hollywood.
"Sixty-six years after passage of the California Equal Pay Act, many women still earn less money than men doing the same or similar work," Governor Jerry Brown said in a statement after signing the bill into law.
"This Bill is another step toward closing the persistent wage gap between men and women."
The California Fair Pay Act was introduced by Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson following a study that found that women earned about 84 cents for every dollar earned by men.
The Bill builds on existing legislation by prohibiting an employer from paying any employee less for substantially similar work rather than equal work. "Today is a momentous day for California, and it is long overdue. Equal pay isn't just the right thing for women, it's the right thing for our economy and for California," Jackson said during the signing ceremony.
The bill was also hailed as a major breakthrough for women by several Hollywood actresses who had advocated in favour of wage equality.
"On behalf of the more than 19 million women and girls who call California home, I thank Governor Brown and the courageous members of the California legislature for showing that true progress to close the gender wage gap is possible," said actress Geena Davis in a statement.
Added Oscar-winning actress Patricia Arquette: "The (bill)received bipartisan support because women support families and drive our economy.
"It is a critical step toward ensuring that women in California are seen and valued as equals."
Arquette had made an impassioned plea for equal pay for women during her acceptance speech at the Academy Awards. According to Forbes magazine, Hollywood's best paid actor, Robert Downey Jr., last year earned 80 million dollars, nearly 30 million more than Jennifer Lawrence, the best paid actress who earned $52 million dollars.
The Washington, DC-based advocacy group National Partnership for Women and families, said Latina women in California earn 44 cents for every dollars earned by a white man while African-American women earn 64 cents for every dollars earned by a white man.
The US federal minimum wage is $7.25 per hour if the worker's employer covers their health insurance, and $8.25 per hour without medical coverage.
- AFP

==============================
## Title: Can Eating Bananas Really Help You Lose Weight
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Can Eating Bananas Really Help You Lose Weight
If an expanding waistline is your problem, experts say that eating more fruits and veggies is one of the best solutions. But does that include high-carb fruits like bananas
The short answer is yes! One medium banana has a mere 105 calories, 27 grams of carbs, 3 grams of satiating fiber and just 14 grams of naturally occurring sugar-not to mention a host of healthy flat belly nutrients. But beware: Compared to other fruits, bananas are slightly higher in calories and carbs, so no monkey business: stick to one five-inch portion a day. This ensures you'll reap all the fruit's benefits-without expanding your waistline.
Read on to discover why bananas should be a part of your weight loss diet plan.
1. They're the Perfect Fitness Fuel
A smart weight-loss plan includes regular exercise, and many fitness experts agree that bananas are an ideal source of pre- and post-workout fuel. The reason: They're rich in glucose. The easily digestible sugar not only provides optimal energy for your spin or Crossfit class, it also quickly replenishes energy stores that are depleted during a tough sweat session. Another reason bananas make for a great recovery snack They're rich in potassium, an electrolyte that wards off post-pump muscle cramps and dizziness, that's often lost through sweat. Pair the fruit with a source of muscle-building protein like a tablespoon of almond butter or a hard-boiled egg to ensure your tired body receives the recovery nutrients it needs.
2 & 3. They Boost Metabolism & Diminish Appetite
So long as you nosh on a green naners, at least! Prior to ripening, bananas are rich in something called resistant starch, which, as the name suggests, literally resists the digestion process. This feeds healthy gut bacteria, which suppresses the appetite and leads to more efficient fat oxidation. In fact, one study found that replacing just 5 percent of the day's carbohydrates with a source of resistant starch can boost post-meal fat burn by up to 30 percent! Since under-ripe bananas are a bit bitter, we suggest adding them into a smoothie with other fruits and veggies to mask the taste. Green bananas also taste great in a yogurt parfait with cinnamon, raspberries, chopped nuts and a touch of honey.
4. They're Natural Bloat Banishers
Constantly feeling like a blimp Reach for a banana. Researchers say the fruit is a good source prebiotic fiber, which helps to feed good gut bacteria and improve digestion. Bananas are also a good source of potassium, which helps diminish water retention. In fact, one study found that women who ate a small banana twice a day as a pre-meal snack for two months reduced their belly-bloat by 50 percent! If you decide to follow suit, just be sure to cut back on sugar and carbs elsewhere in your diet. Once you've kicked the bloat to the curb, your hard-earned abs are sure to shine through.
5. They're Low in Pesticides
Thanks to their thick peel, bananas typically carry very few pesticide residues compared to other fruits and veggies, according to a USDA study , which is good news for your health and your waistline. Researchers say that consuming pesticides can cause weight gain, likely because the toxins-which are stored in fat cells after consumption-interfere with the energy-burning process. Swap your daily apple, peach or nectarine (three fruits that almost always test positive for pesticide residue) for a banana to lower your exposure and start losing weight.
Yahoo
==============================
## Title: Celebrating your Intimate Self
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Celebrating your Intimate Self
Barnard in Shakespeare's 'Hamlet' was lucky. The password he had to remember was so simple. All he had to say was "Long Live the King", and he was through. So, too, Ali Baba of the 'Arabian Nights'. The password he overheard, and uses to open the cave of treasure, (later used in Popeye, and Bugs Bunny as well) had only two words: Open Sesame.
Things are not that easy anymore. If you are like most of us living on planet earth today, you would have been annoyed by passwords at some point in your digital existence. Especially if you have got dozens to remember - some of them unbelievably complex - and on any given day, as you read e-mails, write on your Facebook wall, and check your bank balance online, you are bound to forget one, or at least mistype it. You may even be one of those unfortunate people whose accounts have been hacked, all because the strength of your password was too weak.
Yet, until as recent as the last century most of us had zero passwords, and those of us who did have one were either spies, or simply Enid Blyton's Secret Seven fans, who pretended to imitate their adventures and was in awe of gang leader Peter, the creator and keeper of the passwords that would help us gain entrance to the secret meetings in the shed at the bottom of the garden.
We have outgrown those childish games today, and alas, we don't have guys like Peter in our adult lives who would help us create the perfect string of characters that would keep all our secrets as safe as though they were in a secret vault in a Swiss Bank.
When I said this to Joel Stein, journalist at Time magazine, USA, he said, "I figured out how to beat the password system of memorizing impossible letter, number and capital letter combinations: Every time I go to a website I type in, "I forgot my password."
This may work for Stein, but not for some of us who simply haven't got the time to answer the numerous questions that follow this confession. (What is your grandmother's name Who was your best friend at school What is your favorite food, etc).Why all this hype about strong passwords, though Won't any password do Apparently not. When I wrote to Larry Magid, technology journalist and Co-Director of ConnectSafely.org, asking him this question he said, it is important that we create strong passwords because, "A strong password is your first line of defense against intruders and impostors." The best way to do this, he advised, is "to Make the password at least 8 characters long. The longer the better. Longer passwords are harder for thieves to crack."
He also warned against sharing your passwords. "You should never give your password to another. Not even to your friends, even if they are really good friends. A friend can - maybe even accidentally - pass your password along to others or even become an ex-friend and abuse it."
The final word, when it came to making strong passwords, according to Magid, is that, "it is best to create passwords that are easy to remember but hard for others to guess. "
Now comes the surprise. Strange though this may seem, our passwords once created, can be the window to our soul. Sure, they are universally despised. They annoy us no end with the strain they make on our memory, with the endless demand to update them, and with their sheer number. But cheer up! There is more to passwords than their annoyance.
According to Rumsey Taylor and Josh Williams in their article "The Secret Life of Passwords" in the New York Times, when we create a password knowing that, we and, only we will remember it, we give our password a secret life of its own.
"Many of our passwords are suffused with pathos, mischief, sometimes even poetry. Often they have rich back stories. A motivational mantra, a swipe at the boss, a hidden shrine to a lost love, an inside joke with ourselves, a defining emotional scar..," says Taylor. "They derive from anything: Scripture, horoscopes, nicknames, lyrics, book passages. Like a tattoo on a private part of the body, they tend to be intimate, compact and expressive."
And playful, too. During his research, Taylor found that there were some people who used "incorrect" in their passwords, so that when they forgot it, the software automatically prompted them with the right one ("your password is incorrect").
Others were more serious. Like Mauricio Estrella who says he used passwords to overcome difficult situations in his life (in his article, "How a Password Changed my Life," ). To help get over his anger at his ex-wife soon after their divorce, he reset his password to "[emailprotected]" "It worked," he says, and soon after, because his office computer demanded that he change his password every 30 days, he moved on to other goals: "[emailprotected]" (successful, he wrote); "[emailprotected]" (successful); "[emailprotected]" ("it never worked, I'm still fat"); "[emailprotected]" ("it worked," he said, "I've started talking with my mom every week now").
Yet, in computer scientist Joseph Bonneau's view what is important is not the meaning or personal ambitions or values of passwords but their security. Worried about the fate of privacy as so much of life moves on line, he said to Taylor, "humans really are the weak link when it comes to data security."
But, luckily, precisely what made passwords so flawed is also what Bonneau said he found uplifting. "People take a nonnatural requirement imposed on them, like memorizing a password," he said, "and make it a meaningful human experience." Meaningful as well as affectionate, no doubt, for some of us. I know a friend who uses her late father's initials in her password because each time she types the letters she feels close to him, and I confess for three months after I lost my aunt I used her name as one of my passwords.
It was Andy Miah, a professor of science communication and digital media at the University of Salford in England, however, who said it best. Personalized passwords, he suggested, ritualize a daily encounter with personal memories that often have no place else to be recalled. We engage with them more frequently and more actively than we do, say, with the framed photo on our desk. "You lose that ritual," Miah said, "you lose an intimacy with yourself."
So, hold on to those secret strings of characters,that form an integral part of your existence these days. They will not only save your life but change it too.
Let me end with, "14344password!" Count the letters in each word to get what I mean. Got it Yes, I meant, "I Love You Very Much Password."
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Choose the next move!
## Supertitle: [Youth Guide]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
[Youth Guide]
Choose the next move!
If you are wondering and pondering about the next move in your life after A/Ls and even the O/Ls (there are plenty of students who stop formal school education at this point), there is no cause for worry: there are plenty of courses to follow and things to do. Actually, there are a few courses which you can follow even if you have basically failed these examinations and the certificates issued by the course providers are generally recognized by the industry. In this respect, it is important not to despair if you have not done well at one examination or both examinations.
But before you do anything else, it is important to brush up on your knowledge of the Queen's Language which is essential for every subsequent step of your life, including a career move. There are plenty of courses and books which can point you in the right direction, but nothing beats speaking in English with your parents, teachers, friends and relatives. Do remember that formal English tests are required by some higher educational institutions and employers, so a grammatical and spelling knowledge too will not go waste. Moreover, do improve on your vernacular (Sinhala and/or Tamil) language knowledge as well because most employers look for excellent interpersonal skills. I will focus on foreign education in another column, so this column will essentially focus on the steps you can take before mulling a local course, some of which can help you to get a job abroad.
Having gained a working knowledge of English, you can next look for a suitable course. The English knowledge you acquired comes in handy here as well, because most courses are now taught in English. The course that you will select generally depends on what kind of person you are.
Are you a hands-on person  Or would you rather work in an office  Perhaps you like to travel around  Or do you have a knack for a particular subject  All these aspects must be considered before you sign on the dotted line for a course, which might cost a fair amount of money that will most probably be provided by your parents. So it pays to be wise here before shelling out cash.
There are many courses to select from in today's education scene. You will get a fair idea of the range available if you go to an education or job fair.
These are held fairly regularly, so you will be able to attend one near your place of residence. It is also advisable to go through the Education Pages of Sunday English newspapers, which will also give you a very good idea of the courses available locally, sometimes with foreign tie-ups.
First, select a few options before deciding on one course or stream straightaway. To cite an example, you may select accountancy, law and motor mechanism. Then you can do some research on the shortlisted courses and vocations. First, talk to your friends and relatives who have done these courses and perhaps even found good jobs by now.
They will be able to brief you on the pros and cons of each course - there is always no guarantee that you will get a job at the end of the day, but you can probably find one if you persevere. Ask them about the different stages that have to be completed, since it may not be necessary "to go the whole hog" to get a job. Remember that some employers allow and even encourage you to follow the rest of the course, once you are in. This way, you can learn while you earn and hopefully gain a promotion too.
The other great resource for research is, of course, the Internet. You should first study the websites of the relevant institutions, which are usually very reliable sources of information on everything from the duration to the costs (including exam fees) of their various courses. You will also be able to download course modules, past papers and study aids so that you can gain a knowledge what is in store if and when you finally join the course. Do look for student forums where the students discuss their concerns, problems and frustrations on various courses.
This will give you an idea of what kind of problems to expect as you go along. Finally, do check whether any institution offers remote learning via the Web, which means you can be more flexible with time. This way, you might even be able to learn two course streams at once.
Whatever you do, recognition is very important - if your certificate or qualification is not recognized worldwide, it may not be worth your time and money, especially if you are thinking of foreign employment or migration one day. After thoroughly researching all these aspects, you will most probably be ready to choose the next move of your life.
==============================
## Title: Country betrayed through UNHRC resolution : Somawansa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 12:30
Country betrayed through UNHRC resolution : Somawansa
People's Servants' Party leader Somawansa Amarasinghe today stressed that the resolution adopted at the UNHRC would have an adverse impact on Sri Lanka. He further noted that his party can join hands with the National Freedom Front and Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna to fight against separatism, if these parties show a genuine interest and commitment against separatism. 
Addressing a press conference in Colombo, Amarasinghe said that he will form the widest front against imperialism asimperialists have not given up their nasty agenda of dividing the country.
The country has been betrayed through the UNHRC resolution, he said.
He further added that the UN resolution adopted at the UNHRC underlines the need of having a hybrid court. The present government itself is a hybrid administration, he noted. Somawansa noted thatall avenues for the public and the members of the think tank to discuss this resolution have been kept closed.

==============================
## Title: 'Dapper' Dan was a rugby dazzler
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
'Dapper' Dan was a rugby dazzler
Sri Lanka Rugby history can always vouch for a dazzling rugby player of the caliber of Dan Ratnam, who paved the way and took Havelock Sports Club rugby to dizzy heights in the late 1960's and early 1970.
He was in Kandy together with his club mate Hiran Fernando and Haresh Fonseka.They were the guests of D.C. And Jennifer Abeyartne.
Dan says that today the standard of rugby is good in Sri Lanka and likely to grow to great heights unlike in the past. He said that it was nice to see an abundance of facilities being offered to players, unlike in their days where there was no word called rugby facilities.
But there was amazing enthusiasm by all those who played the game at whatever level and this made rugby very popular. Therefore the need for additional facilities was never a requirement or a dire need for any requests. 'Some times this may work on a two way basis but over all the need to develop rugby and compete at a higher level with strength, power; speed and commitment to play to win require enormous endurance by players to perform',said dapper Dan.
Over here in Kandy he visited the Old Trinitians Sports Club and met his friends Nico de Silva the President and Alex Lazarus and also was seen at Kandy Sports Club. He was very happy and pleased to see the improvements at Nittawela, as he stepped on to this famous rugby grounds after several years. This club being the oldest rugby playing club and now in its 141st year. He said, when they played the pavilion side was sloppy and they ran downwards to score at that end. Today the club looks perfect and grand, more like an International Rugby Stadium. The reply from me was for this credit should go to Malik Samarwickrema and the committee who helped this club to look what it is today.
Dan who lives in California, for well over two and half decades is keen to come back to his motherland. He says today rugby is a fast moving sport in the USA. He is keen to come back and give whatever he can for the game which helped him attain stardom. He is a product of Carey College. During his time late Rev. Dr. W, G. Wickremasinghe was the principal and there was no rugby at Carey College. During his playing days Dan Ratnam was a fearless and dashing centre. He first played for NCC, in the inter club "B" division tournament from 1964 to 1966. In 1966 Kandy Lake Club who won the "B" division championship and were promoted to "A" division, lost only to NCC. From NCC he crossed over to the Park club in 1967 and ended his rugby career in 1973. Dan first played for Havelock SC under Gamini Fernando in 1967 the year they won the League and the Clifford Cup Knock outs. In 1968 under Noel Brohier became Clifford Cup Knockout champions, In 1979 under Jeyer Rodriguesz, 1970 under Jeff Ratnam, 1971 Tyrone Holdenbottle, 1972 Dan captained, 1973 Royden de Silva.
His father Vincent Ratnam a Thomian, never played rugger for school as there was no rugger during his time, but played for Havelock Sports Club.
Both Dan and his elder brother Jeff led the Park club, and played for the country together, in the famous All India tournament His nephew Shane Pinder too played for this club. Dan was also a good coach he coached the Issipathana College team in 1976, the year his brother Dan coached Thurstan College. Both these school in that year played for the Abdul Jabar Shield and Isipathana College were the winners.
Some of Dan's team mates at Havelock Sports Club were Derrick Keel, Hiran Fernando, Desmond Harridge, Shafie Jainudeen, Thajone Savangam, Tony Martin, Neomal Anthony, Lal Silva, Jeye Rodriguez, Tyrone Holdenbottle, L. Chelliah, Ana Sarnapala, Gogi Tilakartne, Cavern Gauder, Mark S Sudnaralingam, Randy Poetersz, Japana Jayewardene, Iiftikar Hamid, E. Hoffman, C.W.Chang, F. David, N. Brohier, Gamini Fernando, M.L. "Baba" Sourjah.
Dan first who migrated to USA in 1986 within his family, came over here to take part in his club's centenary year celebrations.
Dan, says one of the memorable cup finals for him was the 1970 one where his brother Jeff led the side and which team was made up of Jeyer Rodriguesz, C. Guader, Tyronne Holdenbottle, Chandralal Fernando, Desmond Haridge, Mark Sunderaligam,
Gogi Tilakratne, T.Svangham. Randy Pietersz, Glen Vanlangenberg, Jef Ratnam, Dan Ratnam, Lal Silva, Hiran Fernado and Sahfie Jainudeen. The Police side had Abdul Majeed, E.K.R. Wijewaerdene, T. Morseth, Edward Warnakulasuriya, R.P.Linton, K. Banda, Ibrahim Hamid, Daya Jayasundara, Anton Benedict, T.R. Samath, T.V. Buddhadasa, S. Samaraweera, S. Somachandra, Bandula Wijasinghe and Nizam Hajireen.
The scrum down had taken place on the 7th September at Longden Place, where the match ended in a six all draw. Police got their six points through, Nizam Hajireen's penalty and Ibrahim Hamid's try and for the Park Club it was Gogi Tilkartne and Glen Vangenberg's tries that gave them their six points.
Dayan, who migrated to USA in 1986 with his family, came over here to take part in his clubs centenary year celebrations. His brother Jeff too was there with many past players, Jeff left and Dan will leave in few days time.
==============================
## Title: Deja vu as Marcos jnr announces candidacy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Deja vu as Marcos jnr announces candidacy
PHILIPPINES: The son of the late Filipino dictator Ferdinand Marcos has announced he will run for vice-president at next year's elections amid concerns the political succession could derail one of Asia's fastest-growing economies.
Ferdinand Marcos jnr, 58, said he has decided to put his future "in the hands of the Filipino people" despite billions of dollars looted by his father before he fled the country in 1986 never having been recovered.
Modest estimates put Marcos snr's purloined wealth at about $US10 billion ($14 billion), less than half of which has been located by asset-recovery investigators.
The disgraced ruler who died in exile in Hawaii in 1989 was reviled by many Filipinos, including thousands of political opponents jailed under his repressive regime.
But the election of Mr Marcos jnr, who is known as "Bongbong", to the Philippines' second most powerful position would crown the Marcos family's return to power in a country that has been ruled by political dynasties for decades.
His 86-year-old mother, Imelda - famous for her extravagant lifestyle, including hundreds of pairs of shoes - was elected a Congresswoman in 1995 and again in 2010 and her eldest child, Imee, 59, is a provincial governor.
Announcing his candidature, Mr Marcos jnr railed against the "politics of personality" that he said had turned the Philippines into "a soft state where the rich become richer, the poor become poorer, graft is endemic ... injustice is the norm".
Mr Marcos did not mention his father, who ruled the Philippines for two decades before millions of people took to the streets in a "people power" revolution that forced him into exile.
He has rebuffed calls to acknowledge the abuses that were committed during his father's rule.
Mrs Marcos, who returned from her exile in 1991, has beaten all charges brought against her over the plunder of the country's wealth which some investigators put as high as $US60 billion.
Corazon Aquino, who replaced Mr Marcos as president, set up a quasi-judicial agency called the Presidential Commission on Good Governance, to recover the ill-gotten wealth accumulated by the Marcos regime.
But the agency was wound down in 2013 with what observers said was little inkling of the true value of the wealth. Stories have circulated for decades, some documented in court proceedings, of the elder Marcos seizing a massive golden Buddha from a treasure hunter in 1971 and hiding away other priceless spoils of the Japanese Imperial Army's World War II ransacking of south-east Asia.
Under the Philippines' constitution President Benigno Aquino, who is in his second term, cannot contest elections next May, opening the way to a field of figures from political clans and film celebrities.
Under Mr Aquino the country has seen economic growth of more than 6 per cent on average, its best five-year result in four decades.
He has also battled to curb endemic corruption.
President Aquino is the only son of the late Mr Marcos' nemesis, Benigno (Ninoy) Aquino jnr, who was assassinated in 1983.
A leading candidate for the presidency is first-term senator Grace Poe, 47, whose adoptive father, an action movie hero, failed to win office at an election more than a decade ago.
Mr Aquino in July anointed Interior Minister, Manuel Roxas, as his preferred successor.
- SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
==============================
## Title: Doorway to dream home
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Doorway to dream home
Designs make comfortable houses that are a joy to live in. Not all of us can afford multi- million dollar mansions like actor John Travolta who has two plane runways to his house.
Not all of us can afford the luxuries that Hollywood celebrities have, with splendid interior design - leather accessories that cost a fortune. Not all of us can have saunas, swimming pools and furniture that only celebrities and businessmen can afford, which are completely beyond our budget. But that doesn't matter. There are simple designs and tasteful decorations that can make beautiful homes which you can afford. These are homes where you can relax and live happily. Architect Dr. Nishan Wijetunge talks to T n' C Arch World on how to choose the right yet simple house plan.
Modern Architecture
Nowadays, more and more people are increasingly going for Modern Architecture. Perhaps, the significant growth of our media sphere over the past decade or so is responsible for this. In the age of globalization, more and more people are exposed to what is happening elsewhere in the world.
Modern architecture was something that started around the dawn of 20th century in Europe. This was in fact, the avant-garde of modernism that we still see in the Western world today - the white cubes, buildings on stilts, curtain walls, roof gardens etc.
Interior Design
Interior design is what makes our homes a matter of pride and makes it satisfying to live in. It is a special place for a family. It is where we can entertain our friends and relatives who appreciate the design and often compliment us on it. It is a where a girl can invite her boyfriend. Not all of us can have exteriors like John Travolta with two plane runways but we can manage with what we have!
Most People want modern and minimalist interiors. Some like hybrid versions. We always like to experiment. Even when it comes to exteriors the modern minimalist appearance is what most of them are after and what most of the architects are providing. People go for very simple landscaping. People are no longer interested in the 'Classical' or 'English' gardens. They don't have the time to maintain such gardens. Therefore, we try to provide very simple solutions - A single tree in a corner as against many trees. A single plant bed against many plant pots. Gravel against grass etc. A simple element placed under a tree. Simple outdoor furniture or water feature. We always try to achieve that 'Zen' quality.
International Trends
No country can live in isolation. We are invariably influenced by other cultures. We are invariably influenced by their ways and their trends.
Nowadays, international trends are arriving here. They go hand in hand with the new materials and accessories that are imported.
It is not wrong to say that our architectural profession is at the forefront of what is happening in our region. When you discuss the tastes of the Sri Lankan clients and examine what designs are most in vogue you will find that they are trying to become modern -sometimes blatantly modern even to the extent of completely going against regionalist trends that can help device hybrid versions that will work better in this country. Some need to have more open minds about these things.
In a way, going for modern architecture is better than trying to perpetuate the 'British bungalow', 'Neo-wallauwe,' the houses that take after Greek-Roman villa or pattern book architecture. At least this is a genuine gesture.
Different tastes
In any country there are 'the affluent upper class' and the middle class. They too have particular tastes. The upper class want modern and some want architecture that borders between the modern and 'neo-wallauwwe' or Greek-Roman villa. It all depends on the taste really. The middle class go for modern. Seldom do you find someone who is interested in traditional designs.
Be simple
Most clients want more than they actually need. Why would you want a five bed house when you can perfectly do with a three bed You need to know what your exact necessities and economic capabilities are. I personally hate to design something that would take ages to be completed. So, we try to advise such frivolous clients and convince them to cut down on the brief. Maybe, phase out the construction.
Social responsibility
We charge what is recommended by our institute. Nothing more. Nothing less. We need to upgrade our standards and uphold our professional integrity. There are some who only cater to the elite or the rich. They are in fact, proud to admit that. I personally have no barriers. As an architect, you have the social responsibility to cater to anyone.
Hybrids
Hybrids are designs that strike a balance between the modern and traditional. "In other words, designs that is both modern and regional. Both soft and rustic. That's my stylistic inclination. The location matters too. My ideal house will be on a hill top, overlooking the sea or a tranquil river, at a distance. Like the hotel Kandalama, it should be something to see from, rather than to be seen. I do not want a retinal-centric faade. It should blend with nature.
Keep it simple
Decorating the room all depends on the functional requirements of the room. Based on that the furniture layout is done and depending on that the electrical layout.
Whatever the use, we like to keep things simple and uncluttered. To make the house look attractive and homely it needs to have a lot of qualities. e.g Cleanly designed spaces, elegant furniture, matching accessories, color balance, contrast and texture, good lighting layout and natural lighting.
Corner House
'Corner House' is a unique interpretation of how one could design in a tight corner site of just 8 perches. Rectangular in shape, the site allows for the efficient placement of two main blocks. The house comprises two floors, where the solidity of the built up areas are contrasted wonderfully by the openness of the link and extensive glazing. A generous double-height space and soaring roof profile compliment the light structure.
The most interesting feature of the project is the treatment of the corner, whose subtlety can be attributed to the use of unframed glass for this curtain wall, creating the visual illusion of seamlessness.
The interior of the house is simple, spacious and functional, and earth coloured finishes add a rustic touch to the composition.
When lit up at night, the house glows like a gigantic lantern, illuminating not just the neighborhood corner; but also the much experimented concept of marrying the new and the old.
The Hull
This is 'The Hull', the design exploits the odd and pointed nature of one of the site's corners and delivers an impressive cantilevered glass corner faade.
It has been designed as a unique 3000 Sq. Ft. house consisting of two floors and a roof terrace level. From the access road, one first enters into a breathtaking triple-height space; before witnessing the unique spine-like staircase and rest of the minimalist modern interior. A distinctive balance between solid, semi-solid and void is achieved via the strategic use of walls, louvers and glass respectively.
A seamless glass faade at the sharp corner of the house (which would otherwise have been a jarring joint) blurs the boundaries between inside and out. A cantilevering concrete canopy above - what the Architect calls a 'shadow umbrella', lends critical protection from both sun and rain. In fact, this is what gives rise to the name of the house - the hull-like roof terrace, which when lit from underneath shines like the starlit deck of a majestic ocean liner.
The furniture, fittings and lighting all help create a sense of lightness and serenity, just like the much needed calm after the storm of a busy day at work.
Design Tips
Keep things simple and uncluttered
Assess your exact necessities and economic capabilities.
Go with the flow and upgrade yourself on the latest trends - the modern minimalist appearance
Go for designs that are both modern and regional/ designs that strike a balance between modern and traditional
Sometimes regional trends work better in this country
Sometimes simple solutions are the best
Maple trees for support!
Grandfather builds incredible three-storey treehouse in his garden:
Jay Hewitt - a Massachusetts grandfather many would wish for - has built a gargantuan 40-foot treehouse for his very lucky grandchildren.
Built with only four maple trees for support, and entirely out of scrap materials, this mammoth treehouse in Attleboro, Massachusetts has a spiral slide, electricity and even a ventilation system.
The idea for the treehouse came about before Hewitt's grandchildren were born, springing from conversation with his son. Hewitt told The Sun Chronicle that "At the time, I said I'd build the best treehouse any kid ever had."
Hewitt, a contractor and member of his local Planning Board, as well as being an assistant building inspector, told The Sun Chronicle: "I never dreamed that a treehouse would be anything like this. I had a treehouse when I was a kid, but it was basically a 4-by-8 sheet of plywood."
He's come a long way since then. On the ground floor is a "mud room", with stairs up to a large living room-style area.
It also has a flight of stairs to the loft on the top floor, with every step made entirely by Hewitt from New Hampshire birch trees.
It has an intensely rustic feel, with bare branches and trunks on show, to remind any visitor that they are cradled in the branches of a living tree.
While his 6-year-old grandson and 4-year-old granddaughter adore the treehouse - it is also the perfect entertaining space for Jay Hewitt and his family. -Telegraph
==============================
## Title: Fashionable, positive and perfect!
## Supertitle: [off the field]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
[off the field]
Fashionable, positive and perfect!
Sandun Herath is a promising young ruggerite who has excelled for Sri Lanka while representing the national team in a number of international tournaments at home and overseas. The dynamic wing three quarter and former schoolboy of St. Peters College has made vast strides on the field having mesmerised many opponents with his dazzling fast open rugby. Today Tn C Off the field get to know more about this talented youngster.
Q: What made you play rugby
When I was in grade five, one of the teachers in the school came and asked who are interested in playing rugby. So I told her that Im willing to play rugby and started to play for the junior rugby team. Since then, I have been involved in rugby.
Q: Who has influenced you the most
My Mother.
Q: What is the most important thing to you in life
Planning about my future activities and playing rugby.
Q: What are your favourite leisure time activities
Playing X-Box games, going for movies with family and reviewing my previous rugby matches.
Q: What is your greatest accomplishment in life
I was named captain during the centenary year of Havelocks Sports this year. Its a big achievement for me.
Q: What are the top priorities in your life
My family and rugby.
Q: Who is your role model
My Father.
Q: Are you fashionable
Yes.
Q: How would you describe your personal style
Im friendly and open minded. I like to build up new friendships with people.
Q: Who do you want to be in future
To become a lawyer.
Q: Who has supported you most
My Mother. She is a towering strength for me.
Q: Are you into music What forms of music are you into and whats your favourite song
Yes, but there is no specific kind of style for me. Mostly I enjoy English songs. My favourite is Cheerleader by OMI.
Q: Which historical figure do you admire and respect most
The Buddha.
Q: What is the best compliment you have ever received 
Man! You are great (by my teammates).
Q: Describe yourself in one word
Perfect.
Q: What motivates / sustains you in life 
Its positive thinking. Thinking about the good things I did.
Name: Sandun Herath
Hometown: Kurunegala
Status: Single
Birthday:27 may 1992
School: St. Peters College, Colombo
Passions: Rugby
Favourite Colour: Red
Favourite Cartoon: Ben 10
==============================
## Title: Fiji romp to victory amid historic Uruguay tries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Fiji romp to victory amid historic Uruguay tries
Uruguay scored their first World Cup tries for 12 years on Tuesday but could not stop Nemani Nadolo leading Fiji to a rampaging 47-15 victory to end their campaign.
Carlos Arboleya claimed Uruguay's first try in the tournament since Pablo Lemoine, now team coach, crossed the whitewash against England at the 2003 World Cup.
Agustin Ormaechea scored a second, sparking more wild celebrations by the South American underdogs. But he also became the first player sent off at the tournament as tempers flared.
Fiji claimed seven tries in a mainly flowing display of the running rugby they love. Nadolo, coming back from a one match suspension, scored the final try and also kicked six conversions.
Fiji claimed their first Pool A win after being beaten by England, Wales and Australia in one of the toughest 13 days any team could have known at the World Cup.
But it was the Pacific islanders who formed a guard of honour for Uruguay as they left the pitch at the end.
"I am very proud, it was fantastic that they finally got the tries," said Lemoine, now grey haired, who banged his fists on the window of the coach's lookout after Arboleya went over.
Fiji pushed ahead from the first whistle and got a penalty try after just 140 seconds.
Leone Nakarawa offloaded the ball to Lepani Botia who powered to the line but was upended by Ormaechea diving in with all shoulders but no arms.
Referee JP Doyle ordered the first of two penalty tries against Uruguay and sent Ormaechea off for 10 minutes.
The weakened South Americans fell further behind when Nemia Kentale escaped down the right wing from a scrum to dot down.
Nadolo missed the conversion and Uruguay forced their way back into the game when Ormaechea came back.
- First red card -
Alejo Duran hit a penalty and in the 17th minute blue shirts poured forward. Ormaechea put the ball through to hooker Arboleya, who pushed over near the Fiji posts sparking wild celebrations.
The Uruguayan wives and girlfriends screamed with joy.
The South Americans looked threatening at times but made crucial errors against the bigger Fijians.
Doyle awarded a second penalty try for a scrum offence in the 27th minute which Nadolo converted for 19-10. In a Fijian moment of magic, Nadolo broke away to the left drawing Uruguay players with him before slipping the ball inside to Leone Nakarawa, who sold a dummy and headed straight for the posts for the bonus point try.
Uruguay fans used football chants to encourage their team and Ormaechea's clever kick launched the offensive in which he eventually touched down for his side's second try. That made it 26-15 to Fiji and the game was not yet won.
AFP
==============================
## Title: Flavoured to perfection
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Flavoured to perfection
For a city hotel located right in the heart of Colombo's downtown, Cinnamon Red takes plenty of credit for its rooftop restaurant. However, its key dining restaurant, Flavoured has managed to capture the taste buds of those who want more than just a snack, with tantalising flavours from across the world offered, along with stunning city views and elegant, minimalist dcor that consist of clean lines and uncluttered spaces.
From a salad spread that presents a fusion of options and a buffet that promises multiple choices, Flavoured is an ideal location for a business lunch or that discreet meeting you want to have in quiet surroundings yet within reach of the office district. It doubles as the cosies restaurant to catch up with friends or family at night, with its offerings heightened by the twinkling lights of Colombo that blink from all sides of the room, creating a backdrop unlike what you've ever seen before! The signature cuisine for a hotel that gets the mix just right offers tremendous possibilities. It is exceptional because Flavoured is in the heartland of one of Colombo's busy intersections and presents the welcome surprise of excellent food, curated by Cinnamon Red's team of chefs and presented with the kind of hospitality that has come to signify Cinnamon as a uniquely Sri Lankan brand.
Sitting down to a meal at Flavoured is to step away from the hustle and bustle of the streets below - one can take a pick from the salad bar and the well thought out buffet that brings together a fusion of dishes that complement each other well.
Be it Eastern or Western dishes, the buffet will not disappoint as it offers a combination of firm favourites such as pastas, rice, vegetables and meat dishes to choose from. If you like your meat grilled or your pasta only prepared in a particular method, the kitchen exerts at Flavoured will whip it up a la minute as well. The fare is tasty and excellent. One can even pair his/her food with the extensive list of beverages, both the spirited and the fruity kind. The meal can end on a note of sweetness with the mouth-watering dessert spread available alongside the fresh fruits laid out for the health conscious.
The fact that Red has managed to make a lot out of small space speaks much for the hotel's location and dcor. Its less-is-more approach presents clean and clear lines that make the perfect setting whether for lunch or dinner.
Keep Flavoured on the list of must-visit restaurants - without a doubt, the cuisine and the setting will keep one wanting to go back for more. To top it all, there's ample car parking space with five floors dedicated just for that.
Picture courtesy : Akarsha Weerasooriya
==============================
## Title: Four wicket win for St. John's
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Four wicket win for St. John's
St. John's College Panadura pulled off a fine four wicket victory over Holy Cross College Kalutara after conceding a first innings win in their inter school under 19 cricket match worked off at Panadura.
Holy Cross batting first scored 156 runs with Kalana Harendra unbeaten on 45 runs and Thanuja Akalanka had a fine spell of 7 for 45. Johnians in reply skittled out for 102 runs with Situm Pramod scoring 70 runs and Malinda Jayod claimed 4 for 26 and in their second essay visitors declared at 205 for 5 with Romeshan Silva and Lahiru Kushan making 69 and 63 runs respectively. Johnians notched up the required score for the loss of six wickets with Kavindu Hashan 95 and Nadun Darshana scoring 54 runs.
Holy Cross - 156 - Saminda Ravinath 22, Lahiru Kushan, Kalana Harendra 45 n/o, Thanuja Akalanka 7/45 Rukshan Dissanayake 2/20 and 205/5 dec - Saminda Ravinath 18, Romeshan Silva 69, Lahiru Kushan 63, Pasindu Perera 36, Nadun Darshana 2/42.
St John's - 102 - Sithum Pramod 70, Malinda Jayod 4/26 Rehan Vas 3/22, Avishka Perera 3/20 and 260/6 - Kavindu Hashan 95, Sithum Pramod 30, Nadun Darshana 54, Pasindu Ishan 23, Ashan Dilhara 21 n/o, Rukshan Dissanayake 21 n/o, Malinda Jayod 3/75.
==============================
## Title: Free Cake and Discounts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Free Cake and Discounts
Colombo's best loved coffee house chain Barista Lavazza in celebration of International Coffee Day which fell on October 1, offered its valuable patrons a free slice of cake with every purchase of a hot or cold coffee off their extensive menu. Continuing the celebrations for a week after the special day, all purchases of hot and cold coffees received a 30 percent discount till October 7.
"Barista has always been about giving our loyal patrons a reason to come back for more. This International Coffee Day as much as we celebrate coffee as a beverage, we also want to celebrate our customers", Barista Lavazza's Brand Manager Lien Keerthisinghe stated.
Made available at Barista Lavazza outlets all around Colombo the delicious slice of chocolate cake was a welcome addition to the famous lattes, cappuccinos, espressos and frappes that the coffee house is known for.
International Coffee Day has been celebrated around the world for many years but the first official date was October 1, 2015, as agreed by the International Coffee Organization. It was launched in Milan as part of Expo 2015. International Coffee Day is an occasion that is used to promote and celebrate coffee as a beverage, with events now occurring in places across the world.
Barita Lavazza was the only Sri Lankan coffee house which joined hands with the world coffee organization in strengthening the International Coffee Day experience and helped to place Sri Lanka on the World Coffee Map. www.internationalcoffeeday.org identified Sri Lanka through the participation of Barista Lavazza and included the local caf chain's celebratory offers in to the world's coffee day events and offers.
Barista Lavazza is in the process of upgrading some of its strategic outlets and offering additional services to its customers. The recent addition of specialized meeting spaces for corporate clients and a revitalized menu designed taking in to consideration customer feedback also expands Barista Lavazza's customer base, while additional outlets spreading out throughout the country is taking the distinct brand to greater heights.


==============================
## Title: Hilarious tales from Ananda College hostel
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Hilarious tales from Ananda College hostel
Recalling the past in the life of some reputed people it is found that the college hostel or the boarding house had played a vital role in the moulding of their character as well as their attitudes to life. They are denoted as those who come from distant places to the more suburban colleges in order to achieve a higher and better state of education.
In this climate either they have to stay in the college hostel or in the houses of their nearer and dearer relatives. But it is found that the selection on the part of parents to lodge their children in college hostels is a result of the advent of a new colonial education as versus the age old phenomenon of going to school from one's own house which is known in the traditional system of education as 'gederin gurugedarata' (from the house to the house of the guru or the teacher).
The patterns of education change and as a result the children who so attend the schools from their parental residences are perhaps forced to stay in the school hostels as an alternative measure.
This may look a global phenomenon. Quite a number of books have sprung up in this set up of staying in school or college hostels. With the passage of time some of the books have turned into films of lasting interest. One such book made into a film is 'Goodbye Mister Chips' written by James Hilton. Then comes another work titled as Blackboard Jungle, the creator of the work sadly I don't remember now.
Whether written in the form of a novel or in any other form, the recollection of hostel events as jotted down in nostalgic manner may be of interest either as fascinating historic events of the past or as personal reminiscences transformed in order to recreate the memorable past as a series of memoirs.
Such a work came to me during the Book Fair season. The title of the book goes as Ananda Bodime Sangawunu Rasakatha (The hidden fascinating stories from the Ananda College hostel) authored by Devsiri P Hevavidana [Dayawansa Jayakody publication] of Galle. Running to thirty chapters, the writer Hevavidana who lives in England at the moment, and an engineer by profession, had found time to devote on this recollection of writing notes from time to time to periodicals in his birthplace Sri Lanka. He attempts to trace a wide gamut of events and experiences from the moment of how he entered Ananda hailing from Galle where he had the primary formal education.
He writes in the form of mini narratives all about his parental heritage and the influence on him with great gratitude and honour. Then he enters the realm of teachers and friends who happened to be his close companions all throughout.
They are brought to the forefront like in a series of dramatic episodes tinged in a sense of humour enabling the reader for a non stoppable premise. Most of the material had been published as newspaper columns perhaps making his expression clearer.
It is an age old method employed by most contributors to journals and newspapers to collect and preserve thus the features thus printed into a single publication which eventually goes to prove that the materialthus printed had not gone a waste and/or lost to the posterity. Devsiri Hevavidana remembers various names of his companions and the places from which they had come to be hostellers. He also remembers the various types of advantages of being a hosteller over and above.
Then he remembers the strictness as well as the lenience on the part of the teachers supplemented with examples. Some of the present day social stalwarts like politicians, administrators and business magnates as well as diplomats have been his fellow hostellers. They have been instrumental in bringing back smiles as well as tears on account of the gone by episodes. But the writer makes it a point that he writes in a positive manner allowing the past to live in the present. He sees at times the 'practical joke' concept utilised as part and parcel of youth hood perhaps as a pardonable factor.
One such example is the incident about the good old teacher who had the habit of driving his Bug Fiat to school and used to park in a place where anybody could see.
The teacher is portrayed as one who was so fond of his car that he kept it spick and span. But one hosteller who was a bright and intelligent fellow also had a queer character about him which forced him to push the car to a remote corner in the college premises. On finding that the car had disappeared, the owner had to inevitably undergo a mental pain beyond reason before the eyes of the others who rallied round him. He had been crying that his car is lost.
The hostellers had to go in search, with perhaps to all the visible areas in the college premises. Then they discovered that the car had been pushed by someone or a group to a muddy rut.
This becomes not only a surprise but also a punishable offence and a mystery. Who could be the culprit behind the scene And who to be punished, and how to detect the culprit to punish was a burning. This goes as a trick ending narrative where all the hostellers had been warned of the punishment issue. The innocent hostellers too may be the victims. Thus the scene develops and several suspects in the rush were taken to task.
Who pushed the teacher's Bug Fiat to this muddy rut happened to be the question. What happened in the end is the most interesting point. One hosteller came to the rescue of the others with a confession which is recorded as a mischief done with fun -all alone without much thinking about the consequences. Perhaps I presume that the reader is compelled to know a wee bit of psychology in order to understand this event.
There are moments in the life of hostellers who have seen phantoms and apparitions in the night/ The subject is taken seriously in order to create fun and thrill.
The advantages of being in company than in isolation are underlined in most pages. The challenges as well as skills encountered by young men of a particular period in their lives are recorded vividly bringing back to one's mind how down to earth events could have moulded and socialized in order to make a person fit into the future world.
Hevavidana envelopes quite a number of photographs that brighten the experiences in the pages.
==============================
## Title: Hurry with your apology and save a heap of worry!
## Supertitle: SAYING SORRY!
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
SAYING SORRY!
Hurry with your apology and save a heap of worry!
We all do and say silly things once or twice in a while. That would appear quite permissible, unless of course such actions hurt someone's feelings in the process. Often we are the purveyors of terse and snappy comments directed at our friends, colleagues, spouses or family members.
Without exception, at one time or another we all make the mistake of spewing out some careless remark or observation which could offend the listeners. Even some perfectly reasonable or harmless statement could well be misconstrued.
Remember that you are responsible for your actions. Think before you speak because careless words or actions may affect other people.
None of us is perfect and sometimes we are bound to make mistakes. As such, there will be several instances when we will have to apologise. A poor or half-hearted apology will only make a bad situation worse, but a good sincere apology would go a long way in defusing every recriminatory bomb.
Without a doubt, the most demanding concern for many of us is to admit that we made a mistake and apologise for it. We all are obsessed with a sense of arrogance that makes us feel that if we are apologetic for our hurtful words or actions we are displaying signs of weakness. Nothing could be further from the truth. On the contrary just the opposite would be an accurate assessment. Because it takes a person with strong, sound character to admit that he or she was wrong.
However, this is easier said than done. But the first step in this direction is to always admit to yourself that you were wrong, if you have blundered in any way. This is obviously the first and hardest step in the conciliatory process. But attempt to work on it before you move on. If you had mouthed something incorrect or that could be construed as gossip or insult think about what you should have said or left unsaid.
If you did something wrong, you must surely have been aware of it right away. There may possibly be times when you might have known straight away that you said or did something wrong. When this happens, stop your prattle, apologise immediately and change course. When you realise that you have cocked things up, address the situation promptly.
If emotions are running high, give the other person a brief cooling off period but be careful not to let too much time pass. It will seem as if you are thoughtless or don't care that you have hurt their feelings. Worse yet, ignoring it ever happened and not mentioning it again would be the most damaging way to handle the situation.
An apology is only valid when it is sincere. A half-hearted attempt with the sole intention to patronise the other person does more harm than good. An apology is only as powerful as the follow through and if it is not authentic, it will soon be obvious. Insincerity will only make the situation worse. Proper etiquette doesn't require excellence. It speaks more about the refinement of your character. An apology positively made shows good manners. However, you still might have a tough time letting the offended person know that you feel horrid about your actions or what you said.
Yet when we are hurt, we don't tend to think rationally. Anger can obscure our ability to forgive the same way that it blurred our judgement when we said or did the thing that got us into this situation. While we are aware we should apologise, we also know it's not always easy to offer one. Doing so opens us up to the possibility of being confronted with anger and resentment by the offended party.
Be tolerant of those who might not be ready to accept your apology. For some, hurt feelings die hard and patience must be exercised until that person is ready to accept your reconciliatory gesture. Some might remain so upset with your actions that they may need time to reconcile themselves to trust you again. That would be only natural because they may be justified in rejecting your move to even listen to your explanation. Even so, be prepared to accept the consequences.
Don't push or expect too much too soon. It may take some time for the other party to trust you again. This is a normal phenomenon. Give them the time they need and ask them to call you when they are ready to talk about it. You can also follow up in a letter. They may feel lesser resentment towards you after they read and digest your well thought out words.
Try to repair the damage. Don't be afraid to ask what you can do to correct your mistake or to help right the wrong that you have done. Often, there is nothing you can do, but you should still make a heartfelt offer.
Some people say the most stupid things and ask the most stupid questions. Some also mouth and raise the most incredibly spitefully stupid queries. Come to think of it, the entire number of daft and upsetting questions asked of us in a single day can be astounding. Certain catty remarks may be perceived as unforgivable. But such poisoned bitchiness comes from the mouths of the envious who consider themselves inferior to their targets.
The biggest test of your manners comes when you are in the company of others who do not observe the cultural societal norms you are accustomed to. A well-mannered person will ignore the slip-ups of others and will maintain his or her composure no matter how annoying the challenge. [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: India requested to move NTPC project to Foul Point
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
India requested to move NTPC project to Foul Point
Sri Lanka has requested India to move the proposed NTPC project from Sampur in Trincomalee to Foul Point area in the same district, which falls on the eastern side of Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka has reportedly asked India to change the location of a stalled US$500 million power project to be built by NTPC Ltd. This is the second time that Sri Lanka has requested for change of location for the project. The first was in 2007.
Any change in the project's location will require new studies to be conducted at the fresh site, potentially delaying the project by another two to three years, according to a financial newspaper.
The request was made by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe on his maiden overseas visit to India after assuming duties as Prime Minister.
IIFL
==============================
## Title: Indian SC sets deadline for New Delhi to come up with anti-pollution plan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Indian SC sets deadline for New Delhi to come up with anti-pollution plan
INDIA: India's Supreme Court has given New Delhi three days to come up with a plan to clean up the air in a city ranked by the World Health Organisation as the most polluted in the world.
Successive local governments in Delhi have failed to check pollution from industry and increasing traffic. This is not the first time the court has passed such an order - successive local governments have failed to solve the problem.
About 52,000 commercial vehicles, excluding taxis, enter the landlocked city each day, more than double government estimates, the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said in a report this week. Such vehicles account for about a third of the city's pollution.
"If we are able to have a strategy to address this commercial traffic, it will help clean up the air," said Anumita Roychowdhury, an executive director at the CSE.
- SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
==============================
## Title: IQ score highlights quality of education system
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
IQ score highlights quality of education system
Recently published reports on the average IQ test scores for countries across the world show that Sri Lanka's average score is very low in comparison to many other countries in Asia and elsewhere. The highest and the lowest scores reported are 108 (Singapore and Hong Kong) and 59 (Equatorial Guinea) respectively. Sri Lanka stands at 79, closer to the lower end of the spectrum. Among the Asian countries, Sri Lanka is ahead of only Nepal. Some of the Asian countries such as Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Japan have 108, 108, 106 and 105 respectively, the highest scores in the world. Only a few European countries score 100 or over. They are Switzerland, Austria, Netherlands, Norway, Luxembourg, Italy, and Iceland.
There is general agreement today that average IQ scores of countries are indicative of access to high quality education rather than innate intelligence of people.
Thus research evidence shows a very high correlation between level of educational attainment and scores in intelligence tests. In this regard, scores in maths, science and language are closely related to scores in IQ tests. So, a lower average IQ score is indicative of the quality of the country's education system, educational inequalities and access to quality education.
A study conducted by the national education research and evaluation centre (NEREC) of the University of Colombo in 2004 on educational performance of primary school students in the country showed that performance of a large proportion of primary schoolchildren in the country in such areas as maths, science and language was poor and this no doubt was indicative of the serious deficiencies of the education system of the country.
There has been so much criticism of our education system over the last several decades. While one of these has been our almost total preoccupation with memory testing examinations from Grade 5 right up to university level at the expense of providing children and youth with a more skill oriented, all round education that emphasized critical thinking, problem solving skills and life skills, logical reasoning, etc., the other has been on the growing educational inequalities within the country, leading to unnecessary concentration of a large proportion of children in a few privileged schools, both public and private and deprivation of many who attend poorer rural and urban schools.
Underprivileged schools
As is well known, the vast majority of secondary schools do not have facilities to teach subjects in the science stream at GCE AL. Moreover, many underprivileged schools do not have competent maths and science teachers. What should also be noted is that the quality of teachers has declined over time, forcing most parents to take children around to give them private tuition to make up for the deficit of school instruction.
Today most children spend many hours travelling back and forth from schools rather than concentrate on reading and other education or real life related activities.
In spite of the presence of serious issues within the country's education system, successive governments and national educational institutions have shown little or no interest in responding to these in a rational and systematic manner.
Meanwhile, we talk about the need to allocate more money for education, as if this is the most important problem in education, whereas the biggest challenge seems to be to liberate education from persisting political control.
As is well known, every newly appointed minister begins to pretend that he or she knows everything and educationists, if at all have to play second fiddle to him or her. This is a recipe for disaster because all those who know something about education take a back seat and enjoy life, without making an effort to point out that most education ministers, perhaps with the exception of the first Education Minister, Dr. C. W. W. Kannangara, did not know much about the complexities of education.
On the other hand, have been boasting about our achievements in education such as high literacy rate and near universal enrollment, gender parity in education, etc. We have been encouraged by international agencies such as the UN and the World Bank to do so. The result is that we became too complacent and less critical about the state of education in the country. Political leaders in general wanted not much more.
Those who could manipulate the education system for their own benefit, namely the elite and the middle classes, had few problems with it, as long as their children had access to decent employment and higher incomes. They get their children admitted to good schools, give them the paper qualifications and finally secure such employment in the formal sector for them. But the vast majority of people and the country suffer because a majority of children and young people leave schools and the universities with a poor quality education, often with almost no skills and capabilities. Many of them join the informal sector or the largely unproductive state sector or leave the country for unskilled employment in the Middle East, Italy or South Korea.
Skill driven development
Unless and until the educational deficiencies mentioned earlier are effectively remedied, the country will continue to rank low in world league tables on educational attainment which is reflected in the poor average IQ score of the country.
The countries that do well in this regard in Asia and elsewhere will naturally lead in innovation and skill driven development, leaving countries like ours far behind. This is not to suggest that development depends entirely on general intelligence which largely depends on educational attainment.
There are naturally many other factors which cannot be discussed here for want of space. But the fact of the matter is that a country like Sri Lanka which does no longer have its cheap labour advantage or massive natural resources like gold or oil deposits, has to concentrate on human resource development as a way out of the present economic predicament. It is important to bear in mind that the countries that are higher on average IQ of populations are among the most competitive in the global economy. Among these are many European countries like Switzerland as well as Asian countries like Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea.
What we need to learn from these countries is that the spread of general education alone is not sufficient to equip the younger generations with the skills, the world views and the capabilities necessary to fit into a complex and competitive world.
There is enough evidence to show that we, like many other countries in the developing world, are not up to this challenge. Many people in this country are steeped in myths, superstition and uncritical religiosity which are usually antithetical to logical reasoning and critical thinking.
Education in Sri Lanka today by and large prepares children for memory testing examinations at the expense of the knowledge of the link between what they learn from textbooks and the world out there. Sri Lanka's future in terms of development, peace and contentment depends to a large extent on how we deal with these issues. It is hoped that the political leaders who talk a lot about development today will not turn a blind eye to these obvious issues.
==============================
## Title: Japanese vehicle prices to soar
## Supertitle: New Customs duties
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
New Customs duties
Japanese vehicle prices to soar
New Customs duties imposed on Japanese motor vehicles would discourage the trend of importing old Japanese motor vehicles into Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka Customs spokesman Leslie Gamini said yesterday.
"The buyer must pay for the freight collect or freight charges which will be assessed based on the manufacturer's value of the motor vehicle, which we call the FOB, plus the transportation and the insurance cost," he added.
"There will be no reduction of charges in terms of its age. Charges are assessed solely on the basis of the manufacturer's value of the motor vehicle," he added.
"The cost is not going to be a problem for new motor vehicles, but for older ones," he explained.
"One can assume that this could raise the prices of motor vehicles in the market," he added.
Meanwhile, Co-Treasurer of the Vehicle Importers Association of Sri Lanka, A. G. Yaseer Arafath said that the increased duties imposed on Japanese cars by the government could affect their imports and the business.
"Japanese motor cars such as Toyota Aqua will go up by Rs. 700,000 - Rs. 800,000, Prius by Rs. 1.2 million, and Toyota Premio by Rs. 1 million due to new Custom duties," he said.
The Association is planning to discuss this situation with Finance Minister Ravi Karuananayaka and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
However, the situation has not affected the imports of Japaneses motor spare parts, spare parts importers said.
==============================
## Title: Jayamin guides Devans to victory
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Jayamin guides Devans to victory
Jayamin Muthukumarana's six wicket haul (6 for 11)guided Maliyadeva College Kurunegala to a 29 run win over Mawathagama National School in their inter-schools under 13 division three encounter played at Maliyadeva Grounds recently.
Mawathagama NS : 76 in 34.5 overs (Heshan Malinda 25, Chandima Priyadarshana 22 n.o, Jayamin Muthukumarana 6/11, Gayana Weerasinghe 2/11) 7 / 2 in 5 overs (Akash Rajapaksa 2/05)
Maliyadeva : 112/9 in 28.4 overs (Kalsara Sisira Kumara 30 n.o., Wageesha Amarajith 20, Danushka Sandaruwan 3/38, C.Priyadarshana 2/35, Dulshan Herath 2/15
==============================
## Title: Kelani river water sent for further lab tests
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Kelani river water sent for further lab tests
The water samples obtained after the incident of the Kelani river pollution on August 17, have been sent to the Government Analyst's Department, for further laboratory tests, Urban Development and Water Supply Minister Rauf Hakeem said in Parliament yesterday.
The minister was responding to a question raised by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake under Standing Order 23 (2).
The minister noted the National Water Supply and Drainage Board had made a complaint to the Biyagama police station soon after the incident and Biyagama police has filed a case against the Coca Cola Company at the Mahara Magistrate's Court.
The minister further stated that the chemical substance leaked to the Kelani river had been identified as furnace oil as per the reports of laboratory tests conducted by 'Bureau Veritas'.
He added the reports of the tests conducted by SGS company in India had not found '4 - Methylimidazol' chemical in the water samples.
The minister pointed out the Coca Cola Company had paid Rs 131 million to the NWS&DB, Rs 2 million to the Marine Environment Protection Authority and Rs 1.5 million to the Central Environmental Authority as compensation for damages and to recover the expenses incurred by those institutions following the incident.
The minister further observed that the CEA had informed that the Environmental Protection license (EPL) was temporarily restored as the company had satisfied conditions laid down by the CEA, adding that the CEA continues post monitoring on the bottling plant at Biyagama.
He noted the CEA has initiated a programme to monitor the activities of factories situated close to the river. The minister further observed the newspapers blew the issue out of proportion creating unnecessary fear among the public.
He guaranteed the quality of water supplied by the NWS&DB, adding that the water treatment plants at Ambathale and Biyagama as well as the accredited lab, where the water samples collected at 12 sample points of the river are being checked, have got ISO certification.
Following the response of the minister MP Anura Kumara Dissanayake further queried what compensation would be paid to the consumers who had to consume polluted water for days.
He also asked how could the people have faith on the quality of water distributed by the NWS&DB.
"Despite having all those ISO certifications, the water supply was suspended only after the public complaints," he observed.
==============================
## Title: Korean employment MoU signed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Korean employment MoU signed
The annual MoU regarding Korean employment was signed at the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment on October 5. Foreign Employment Minister Talatha Athukorala signed on behalf of Sri Lanka and Director Development Institute in Sri Lanka signed on behalf of Korean Minister of Employment.
At present nearly 28,000 Sri Lankan workers are employed in South Korea. A batch of 5,599 Sri Lankans left for employment in Korea during the last 9 months after passing the Korean language proficiency test held in 2014, the SLBFE said in a press release.
==============================
## Title: Lack of maintenance, main cause for expressway landslides
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Lack of maintenance, main cause for expressway landslides
The Road Development Authority (RDA) is engaged in immediate maintenance work on the drainage system of the Kokmaduwa-Imaduwa of section the Southern Expressway to prevent further landslides.
Two more locations with landslide risks have been identified. Preventive measures are being taken, said RDA Expressway, Operation, Maintenance and Management Division Director S. Opanayake.
The National Building Research Organization (NBRO) on October 1 issued a landslide risk warning for Nalagana Kanda close to the 114 km post of the Southern Expressway between Imaduwa and Kokmaduwa due to adverse weather conditions in the area.
The RDA will open the section for traffic within the next two days.
Negligence in maintenance work in the drainage system when the expressway was constructed has resulted in the current situation, NBRO officials who are investigating the issue said.
The authorities closed the seven kilometre section between Imaduwa and Kokmaduwa for vehicular movement since October 2. They have diverted the traffic through alternative routes which take an extra hour to cover the distance.
"A proper drainage system had been put in place when the expressway was built, but responsible agencies have not carried out maintenance or drainage clearing from the beginning," a source told the Daily News.
There were three streams carrying groundwater down the slope of hill. Many residents depended on natural spring water as Nalagana Kanda was rich with water resources. Unfortunately, these springs disappeared due to the construction of the expressway. We have to face hardships in finding water," a resident, I. Madurawathi said.
"The absence of a proper water management system in the area has caused this disastrous situation. There is a tower on that hill which was recognized as a landslide-prone area. Residents of three houses in high risk area have been advised to be vigilant and to shift to safe locations," H.G.Manoja, another villager said.
Many villagers said that there was no landslide risk in the area before the construction of the expressway.
The NBRO will provide a comprehensive report and recommendations for a permanent solution for the issue in two weeks, RDA Director S. Opanayake said. "We have not provided a permanent solution. But dewatering has been considered as the most cost effective mitigation option. We plan to install horizontal drains to reduce the pore pressure along the slide plane," he said.
Horizontal drains are commonly used in stabilising unsaturated residual soil slopes. This measure will lower groundwater levels and reduce the rate of slide movements.
Measures have been taken by the NBRO and the Disaster Management Centre (DMC) to reduce the landslide risk of the area following the decisions taken at the special meeting held at the Kokmaduwa intersection office on Monday, with the participation of the Heads of relevant government institutions, Opanayake said.
"We earlier predicted the possibility of two landslides in the area. One is active due to adverse weather conditions. However, we have managed to weaken the activation of the other landslide area," he said.
I. Madurawathi
H.G.Manoja
As the first step of the precautionary procedure, the NBRO proposed to establish an early warning system at the site.
The authorities have discussed the situation with the residents of the area.
"We have explained to them that there is no need to panic. The situation is under control," Opanayake said.
The NBRO has also recommended breaking large boulders in the hilly area using chemical explosions to minimise the landslide risk.
The decision to reopen the road for the public will be only after examining the outcome of these measures, Opanayeke said.
He ensured that the contractors of the Southern Expressway followed the instructions of the geotechnical experts seconded from the Moratuwa University.
"They have used soil nailing technique in this project. It is one of the best slope stabilisation measures in the world. The section that was treated with this technique is stable even now. The landslide occurred in the the upper part of the hill," Opanayake said.
Before major mitigation measures are carried out at the site, sub surface water has to be drained out as a temporary measure to slow down the movement of soil, NBRO Landslide Research and Risk Management Division Head R.M.S. Bandara told the Daily News.
"The NBRO has drained out sub surface water and installed an early warning system," he said.
Meanwhile, DMC Deputy Director Pradeep Kodippili said that the Disaster Management Centre has no role to play in the current situation as measures have not been taken to evacuate people.
==============================
## Title: Mahela and Sanga trail blazers...again!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Mahela and Sanga trail blazers...again!
The two god given cricketers to the nation MAHELA JAYAWARDENE and KUMAR SANGAKKARA are without doubt trail blazers. They were like conjoined twins, each complementing the other on or off the field and setting new highs.
Jayawardene and Sangakkara performed magnificently in their chosen fields and their mind boggling deeds, Jayawardene with bat, Captain and fielder, especially at slip and Sangakkara as batsman, gloveman and Captain are all writ in the books and will not be equaled or surpassed that easily.
Both led the country to World Cup finals. In addition Jayawardene led the country to the Twenty20 finals too. But that they could not achieve the ultimate was not the cricketing god's wish.
Both are out of the game
Both are now out of the game for the country. The writer makes bold to say that they did not over-stay their visas in the game, which is insensible thinking in certain quarters which want to avenge, alleging that the twosome scuttled the hurriedly arranged tour of England that crash landed. Both went out of the game when everyone was asking 'WHY' and 'WHY NOT'.
England it is said gave the game of cricket to the world. They bossed over it and dominated it for long. But with other countries taking to the game in earnest, England's fortunes tumbled and they were struggling to keep their greatness in the game alive. Now with their fortunes dwindling, comes the news that England have signed on Jayawardene as their Batting Consultant. Now all Sri Lanka must be proud of Jayawardene's achievement. Jayawardene was a rare straight playing batsman that the Sri Lankan game has produced.
Whoever thought that England would need a Sri Lankan to show them how to bat correctly. But that is how the game goes --and that shows the renown with which Jayawardene is held. He will surely show them how to play straight to achieve success.
Jayawardene technically sound
Jayawardena was one of the technically sound batsmen in world cricket. Batsmen who wield a straight bat don't come dime a dozen. In the past Sri Lanka had many technically sound batsmen who were treats to watch and rare examples. To name a few there was Michael Tissera, Anura Tennekoon, Roy Dias, Sidath Wettimuny, and Marvan Atapattu.
But sadly now with the 'hit out, or get out' game of limited over cricket given precedence over the established game - Test cricket - technically correct batsmen don't come that easy like beautiful damsels.
England seem to be raving over the signing of Jayawardene as Batting Consultant. The man who seems over the moon for this bit of good thinking by England is Ian Bell. Bell it must be stated was England's most technically correct batsman playing a straight bat. But of late his batting has been flawed and has been in a run drought.
First fling with England
Jayawardena's first fling with the England team will be in the United Arab Emirates where England is slated to play Pakistan in a Test series. Here's how Bell described the signing of Jayawardene- 'Brilliant' and I would badger the newly retired batsman for advice.
'The one thing we need to do is get better on the subcontinent, and he's one of the best ever. To have his input leading into the series and all the preparations, is going to be huge for us. I am really looking forward to that.
'He was certainly hard to get out in those conditions, so I'll be picking his brain all the way through if I can, probably badgering him a bit too much, but trying to get everything I can out of him to make my game better'. Great pride and honour for Sri Lanka, England's signing of Jayawardena as Batting Consultant.
SANGA propping up Surrey
While England are raving over the signing of Jayawardene, Sangakkara went great guns with English County Surrey, scoring tons of runs and taking the club's cricket to a new high.
With his retirement from the hard grind of Test cricket for the country, which is mental torment and physically taxing, the leftie seemed to be much relaxed as his approach to batting was showing and runs and centuries for Surrey came naturally.
He justified the confidence Surrey placed in signing him on and after a long time Surrey entered a 50-over final riding on the back of magnificently carved out 160 in the semi-final against Nottingamshire which attack included Stuart Broad who tormented Australia during the Ashes series. He made 60 in the final against Warwickshire and that they could not win the final, losing by a few runs was a travesty of justice.
Jayawardene and Sangakkara who are supremely fit cricketers have shown that they could have played and served the country for at least another couple of years if they wished. But being the caring players they went out early. Jayawardene and Sangakkara are still continuing with Jayawardene playing in Windies bash and now being signed on by Central Districts to play in Kiwiland.
Mandela - Gandhi Test series
'Two proud nations', 'Two super powers'. That is how 'STAR SPORTS' is forcefully advertising the South Africa Test series against India on TV due to begin shortly in India.
But what is heartening, welcome and an example is that the series has been labeled the Nelson Mandela - Mathama Gandhi series, with the Cricket Boards of both proud nations breaking away from the stereo type of playing Test series in honour or memory of past cricketing greats.
Australia and India play for the 'Border-Gavaskar Trophy'. Sri Lanka and Australia play for the 'Warne-Muralitharan Trophy'. Australia and West Indies play for the 'Benaud- Worrell Trophy'. England and Australia play for 'The ASHES URN'. And now West Indies and Sri Lanka will play for the Sobers-Tissera Trophy.
Heroes of democracy
Great that the heroes of democracy are being remembered. Gandhi helped India gain Independence from colonial rule without shedding a drop of blood. He is the father of India with Ahimsa as his hallmark. Gandhi is best remembered for his ideals of truth and non-violence and his philosophy of Satyagraha
Mandela (AKA) 'Black Pimpernel', suffered long in a jail for fighting to deliver his black people from the cruel, inhuman and dreaded Apartheid. That he finally succeeded in bringing the whites on their knees was great triumph and an example to the world. I can only guess that both these world leaders had sports in their DNA for all that they did was underpinned by the ideals of sportsmanship
Congratulations then to the Board of Control for Cricket in India and the South African Cricket Board for remembering these two freedom fighters and great statesman who were examples to world leaders. The world of today needs more Gandhis and Mandelas. India and South Africa are fielding two of the most formidable teams in world cricket and as such an electrifying series is on the cards for cricket fans. That spectators will flock all venues to watch these champions at play there will be no doubt. We hope there will be no bottle throwing incidents.
By the way enjoy life now. It has an expiry date on it.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Maldivian explosion pre-planned - Lankan sleuths
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Maldivian explosion pre-planned - Lankan sleuths
The four Sri Lankan detectives who investigated the Maldives speed boat explosion had found that the incident was pre-planned.
The Lankan detectives team arrived in the Maldives on October 1 to investigate an explosion which occurred in the Maldivian President Yameen Abdul Gayoom's speedboat on September 28. It was not happened due to any technical failure in the boat's engine, as claimed previously. The Sri Lankan investigative team comprising the Government Analyst, an STF bomb squad officer and two CID officers were in the Maldives to assist in the investigations on the explosion. The team returned to the Island on Monday.
According to the sources the explosive device had been planted in the VIP cabin of the boat, under the helmsman's seat and the Maldivian government had been conveyed this information verbally.
"We think this is not an assassination bid but a mere warning to President Gayoom. The final report of this investigation had been handed over to the Sri Lankan government on Tuesday for onward transmission to the Maldivian Government," the sources said.
According to the reports only the Sri Lankan team had completed the investigations on the incident though the officers of the FBI, Indian and Saudi Arabian sleuths have involved in the investigations to the explosion, the sources added.
==============================
## Title: Media reports; Secretary to the President clarifies
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Media reports; Secretary to the President clarifies
The attention of the Presidential Secretariat has been drawn to the media reports regarding the supplementary estimate to allocate Rs. 180 million to renovate and refurbish the official residence of the President.
Secretary to the President P. B. Abeykoon points out that the government had to rehabilitate and improve the residence of the President by joining two old houses to bring it to a proper condition which is suitable for the use of the President.
The supplementary estimate presented to the Parliament on Tuesday by the Mass Media and Parliamentary Affairs Minister, included the expenditure of several ministries and institutions, including the Prime Minister's Office, Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Plantation Industries, Home Affairs and Fisheries, Highways and Investment Promotion as well as the expenditure of the Presidential Secretariat.
In addition to that the government had to provide security to the official residence of the President and to provide accommodation facilities for the President's security personnel and also steps were taken to renovate garages at the premises.
The Secretary to the President said the renovation work was completed by the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau. If the President uses the President's House in Pettah, the government would have to spend more than Rs. 15 million per month for the utility costs of water and electricity in addition to the maintenance costs.
President Maithripala Sirisena declined to stay in the President's House due to its high maintenance costs, the Secretary to the President said.
Apart from Rs. 180 million, another allocation mentioned in those media reports for purchasing of a BMW car and BMW motorcycles for the Presidential Security Division were ordered in last October, 2014 under the previous government.
Accordingly, the BMW car was brought to the port of Colombo on January 8 and the motorcycles were brought to the port on February 21.
The Secretary to the President stated that these vehicles have been taken over by the government, as these vehicles could not be re-exported and the demurrage charges were increased on a daily basis.
==============================
## Title: MVA welcomes new President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
MVA welcomes new President
Top professional and leading personality in the country's corporate industry, Mangala Perera, the current Executive Director of C. W. Mackie PLC is well known for his immense contributions in raising the standard of the Mercantile Volleyball Association, during his tenure as its President.
On the October 4, Perera passed on his role as President to the Senior Vice President of the MVA, Colonel Sujith Jayasekera, the Head of Human Resources at Brandix Lanka Ltd.
During Perera's time as President the MVT saw prominent increase in their list of sponsors, including prestigious institutions in the Sri Lankan business sector such as, Bank of Ceylon, Sri Lanka Telecom, Mobitel, David Peiris Motor Company, Janashakthi Insurance, Link Natural Products, Brandix, MAS Linea Aqua, the National Lotteries Board, Expo Lanka and Sunquick. All thanks to Perera and the committee's strategic thinking and drive.
Further Mr Perera played a key role in the establishment of the official website of the MVA, the introduction of an 'A' division to the main mercantile tournament, the live transmission and recording of the final matches on television and the creation of a strong financial foundation for the association.
Perera also went the extra mile of ensuring the long-term stability of the MVA by working with the executive committee in establishing a sound succession plan, which introduced a new title, 'Senior Vice President' with the primary objective being to provide the chosen individual with the necessary experience of the duties and responsibilities of the President.
In a mere two years Perera has ensured that the MVA will forever maintain a distinguished place in the corporate industry of Sri Lanka and that the association will continue to go from strength to strength in the years to come.
==============================
## Title: New Customs duties to deter import of old vehicles : Customs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 16:30
New Customs duties to deter import of old vehicles : Customs
The new Customs duties imposed on Japanese motor vehicles would discourage the trend of importing old Japanese motor vehicles to Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka Customs spokesman Leslie Gamini told Daily News.
On being asked if the new duties would mean that the importers or the buyers of Japanese motor vehicles had to pay exorbitant sums of money as custom duty to get their goods cleared, Leslie Gamini said, to put it rightly, the buyer must pay for the freight collect or freight charges which will be assessed based on the manufacturer's value of the motor vehicle, which we call the FOB, plus the transportation and the insurance cost.
There will be no reduction of charges in terms of its age. Charges are assessed solely on the basis of the manufacturer's value of the motor vehicle, he said.
The cost is not going to be a problem for new motor vehicles, but for older ones, he explained. One can assume that this could raise the prices of motor vehicles in the market, he added.
Meanwhile, Co-Treasurer of the Vehicles Importers Association of Sri Lanka, A G. Yaseer Arafath said that the increased duties imposed on Japanese cars by the government could affect their imports and the business.
Japanese motor cars such as Aquas will see a price hike by Rs 700000 - Rs 800000, Prius by Rs 1.2 million, and a Toyota Premio by Rs 1 million because of the imposed custom duties, he said.
The Association is planning to discuss this situation with the Finance Minister Ravi Karuananayaka and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
However, the situation has not affected the imports of Japanese motor spare parts, motor spare parts importers said.

==============================
## Title: No games please!
## Supertitle: Each story has a reason, hers too
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Each story has a reason, hers too
No games please!
Parliamentarian Hirunika Premachandra believes everything happens for a reason. A self- confessed workaholic she admits that she is passionate about what she does. Over the years she has grown into a charismatic and highly popular politician. The Daily News brings to you this young lady who has won the trust of the people.
Student life
Hirunika went to Visakha Vidyalaya from Grade 1, and did her A/L in the Arts Stream. She followed political science, logic and economics. She got 2 As and 1 C and got selected to the Arts Faculty in Colombo University. But being passionate about politics and law she went to Kingston University in the UK and did her LLB there and completed her LLB in 2010.
"I am doing a Forensic Science and Forensic Medicine diploma. This is because my major is criminal. I am thinking of doing that and criminal law together, then it is easy for me to practice after my politics, because I feel that politics and all this fame won't last long. The education we have gained will last long. Maybe after politics if I don't have this fame anymore and power anymore I can switch into doing law and that is my plan," said Hirunika
Twist
Her father took care of everything in the household. Hirunika was very nave at the time of his death. "I remember after we got the electricity bill my mom asked me: 'where should I pay this' We didn't even know where the bill should be paid! We didn't even have that kind of knowledge! My father did everything. The only thing my mom had to do is to cook and be a good wife. And all I had to do was study! From being such a spoiled girl and then becoming this responsible woman took very little time because I always knew I had that responsibility within me. So I took the responsibility of head of the house."
Realized dreams
Hirunika says that everything happens for a reason. She is where she is now because she has overcome her challenges and achieved her goals. Getting into politics was one of her dreams and it has become a reality.
In the UK she worked as a nanny. Her father told her he would pay only for her education and not for her accommodation and expenses. So once she went abroad, she worked as a nanny to an autistic child and she worked in the library as well.
True story
She came back to Sri Lanka in 2010. In 2011 there was an advertisement in the paper for Ms. Sri Lanka and her mother applied on Hirunika's behalf. Subsequently Hirunika received a letter asking her to come for the interview. Her father saw the letter and he was really upset.
"He asked me if I were really serious about politics. And I said yes. And he said if I am serious about politics better not to go for this competition. And I asked him why He said that in these competitions they take different pictures in different outfits and you will have to pose for them. So he told me that people will take those pictures and turn them against you.
And I was laughing and asked him if he was serious and told him that this is the 21st century. Anyhow I went to the competition and I was the Ms. Sri Lanka for Ms. International, and I was supposed to contest for Ms. International Competition on October 19. My father got killed on October 8. And after his assassination the media threw my pictures everywhere on the Internet saying that I was a model and based on one of the pictures they tried to say that I was a very bad person."
Love story
Hirunika and Hiran got to know each other a year ago. He was in an on and off relationship. And he was not sure about that. And then it broke up. Having talked to each other, they got connected as they had a very good relationship as friends. After a while Hiran said that he had feelings for Hirunika. By that time she was also really fond of him. They are Buddhist s and the horoscopes matched.
After schooling she had a boyfriend. And he is the one who she was supposed to get married to. And after her father's death it broke off. Hirunika believes that if something is not meant to be it is not meant to be. She went on a few dates, lunches and dinners but nothing serious happened. Many guys asked her out, but she never gave them a word. But when Hiran asked her out, she knew that this was it!! She now has a wonderful husband. "I am so glad I found him because he is the perfect match for me."
Serious thoughts
Hirunika believes that when getting married, it is not about how big your wedding is. It is how you love each other and how you treat each other and respect each other. Hiran too is likeminded when it comes to this. They both wanted the relationship to be very secretive. They wanted to invite well- wishers who are the family and relatives, cousins and friends.
Communication is their formula for a successful marriage. They take a lot of time to talk to each other. Hirunika says that this physical attraction will go away in a few years. She says at the end of the day it is all about communicating and that most couples split up because of lack of communication. "We always manage to eat at least one meal at home because we both are busy. So all these things strengthen our relationship. As a wife I have a dream of having a lot of kids and my husband loves kids as well."
Do not play games with her!
Straightforwardness is her defining attribute. She learnt early that women have to learn to say 'NO' to people who are asking for advantages. Hirunika always makes sure that she is very clear about what she says. Most people may think she is very rude, but actually it is not rudeness at all, it is just that she is very straightforward.
Hirunika is a true friend to those who are genuine with her. But do not play games with this lady! She hates liars and cheats.
Leaders whom she admires!
Hirunika admires mainly four leaders. She admires Margaret Thatcher, who like Hirunika was very straightforward and who did well in her roles as woman, wife, mother and a ruler.
She calls President Maithripala Sirisena one of the most intelligent leaders in history having achieved his goals without violence. She believes we can learn patience from the Prime Minister and that as a politician 'patience' is the main thing. And she admires Martin Luther King for his humanity.
Passion for reading!
Hirunika likes to read adventures and thrillers. At the moment she is reading a book called 'Blink.' It is about how you face life and its challenges, written by Malcolm Gladwell.
Her favorite singer is Adele, and she likes the song 'Set fire in the rain.' She listens to all of Adele's music saying that the songs have a soothing effect. She listens to a lot of Sinhala music and she also likes Michael Buble and Maroon 5.
Movie fan
She has been watching Hindi movies from the age of 10! And from the English movies she thinks 'Gone girl' is amazing which she recommends for any woman saying it is very intense.
Success Tips
Hirunika advises the youth never to give up on education. She feels that you have to learn how to change this country. Her message is that the youth have to get together to change this country. The youth need to learn how to care about other people and always stand up for the truth. People trusted her. They gave her the chance to become a provincial counselor and now a parliamentarian. In conclusion Hirunika wants to keep that trust forever saying that most politicians fail because of the lack of accountability and that you have to have that transparency with people.
==============================
## Title: Old wounds reopened
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Old wounds reopened
Fresh from its success at the sessions of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva in thwarting a resolution that would be inimical to Sri Lanka's interests, President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe have demonstrated that, whatever the differences of opinion within their political parties, they have the capacity to work together in times of crisis.
Nevertheless, a national government between the two major political parties, the United National Party (UNP) and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) is a political experiment that has never been attempted before in this country and is a tenuous concept at best in the local political climate. That is because, apart from the higher echelons of leadership in the two parties, there are sharp political biases towards one's own party at the expense of the rival party, even at Cabinet ministerial level.
These appear to be coming to the fore in the aftermath of the UNHRC sessions, with sections of the SLFP voicing their discontent at the passage of the resolution in Geneva and Sri Lanka's decision to be a co-sponsor to it. If these opinions gather momentum, they could provide a significant challenge to the authority President wields over the SLFP once again.
Central Committee
The party's official position vis--vis the resolution is yet to be enunciated. In what appeared to be a strategy aimed at prevarication, the party's highest decision making body, the Central Committee, last week appointed a committee to study the resolution and make recommendations as to the party's stance on it. It is significant that a resolution fully endorsed by President Sirisena who publicly claimed credit for it and for 'saving former President Mahinda Rajapaksa from the electric chair', was not being unanimously endorsed by his own party.
Meanwhile, SLFP stalwarts have been having their say. As expected, former President Rajapaksa - who assiduously adopted a confrontational approach towards the UNHRC during his tenure which resulted in several resolutions against Sri Lanka being sponsored by the United States and being adopted by the UNHRC - as expected condemned the decision to support this year's resolution in Geneva.
Perhaps more significantly, former Leader of the Opposition and now Minister of Transport Nimal Siripala de Silva was to voice his discontent stating that the implementation of the resolution would be very problematic under the present Constitution of the country. It is well known that Silva was once approached to be the opposition's common candidate against Rajapaksa but he was not courageous enough to take the plunge. Then, finding himself as Leader of the Opposition during the short lived government from January to August he nursed prime ministerial ambitions because the SLFP had a majority in the Parliament at that time. Now relegated to the Ministry of Transport, Silva is licking his political wounds and would be keen to steal the limelight.
Rajapaksa loyalists
President Sirisena is only too aware of the difficulties he faced with the SLFP in the lead up to the general election. Parliamentarians were openly defying him and the General Secretaries of the SLFP and the United Peoples' Freedom Alliance (UPFA), Anura Priyadarshana Yapa and Susil Premajayantha were, towards the latter stages of the campaign, blatantly siding with Rajapaksa and promoting him as a prime ministerial candidate, should the SLFP emerge victorious at the poll. That was not to be and now Rajapaksa loyalists have been forced to eat humble pie as the President packed the National List with those who stood by him, at the expense of Rajapaksa nominees who were hoping to enjoy a free ride to the legislature.
Therefore, there is still much discontent within the SLFP and the wounds of political rivalry between the two factions haven't healed completely. Waiting in the wings to exploit this situation are the smaller parties of the UPFA, most notably the National Freedom Front (NFF) and the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) led by Wimal Weerawansa and Udaya Gammanpila, a duo who are not shy to express their nationalist sentiments, if they believe it would be politically advantageous to them.
The SLFP-or the UPFA- would face its next major challenge at the Local Government elections. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe is on record saying that these polls, long overdue, will be held shortly. They are also likely to be held on the first past the post system, as recommended by the parliamentary committee headed by Dinesh Gunewardena which reached this conclusion several years ago. This would pit the UNP directly against the SLFP- and would test the popularity of the SLFP. It would also be a challenge for the President because Local Government bodies particularly have been packed with grassroots level Rajapaksa loyalists over the past decade.
Sections of the party are meanwhile, trying to ingratiate themselves with the President. Their strategies could however boomerang on the President. When the President returned to the country after addressing the United Nations General Assembly in New York, he was accorded a hero's welcome at the Katunayake airport. On hand to welcome him were mostly SLFP ministers, the only exceptions being John Ameratunge and Champika Ranawaka. The airport was filled with people waving the national flag, although there was hardly a reason for such a spontaneous eruption of patriotism.
What is evident is that the SLFP appears to be keen on reclaiming the spotlight from the UNP which holds most of the key ministries that influence government policy. The party feels that although being part and parcel of a national government, they will be compelled to live in the larger shadow of the UNP right until the next election which could be disastrous for the SLFP.
SLFP stalwarts
However, their attempt to extricate themselves from that did not yield dividends as social media- which played a crucial role in President Sirisena's election last January - pounced on the fact that the arrival ceremony smacked of a tamasha that cost millions of rupees and was reminiscent of the Rajapaksa era. In trying to boost their own images in the eyes of the President, SLFP stalwarts may have unwittingly cost the President some damage in the popularity stakes. The President, already suffering from embarrassment at the inclusion of his son in the official delegation to the UN, could have done without such a distraction.
Tuesday's arrest of former Minister Janaka Bandara Tennekoon on charges dating back to 1999 will also stir the SLFP pot. Tennekoon, it will be recalled was expected to be among the first to defect from the Rajapaksa camp and almost did so, crying in Parliament while making what appeared to be a cross-over speech.
However, he then remained with the Rajapaksa camp and maintained a high profile, even worshipping Rajapaksa publicly as if to ask for forgiveness for his indiscretions.
When President Sirisena made that famous address to the nation categorically stating that he did not endorse Rajapaksa running for Parliament or the Premiership, Tennekoon was one of the first to voice disapproval. Whether Tuesday's arrest is just desserts for that or whether it is in keeping with good governance tenet of non-interference with the duties of the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary will be a matter of intense speculation within the SLFP in the days to come.
With the hullabaloo in Geneva over - at least for the time being- Sri Lankan politics is reverting to its usual shape: familiar rivalry between the SLFP and the UNP. President Maithripala Sirisena has the unenviable task of dealing with this, and being a leader to one party while also leading a government dominated by the other party.
==============================
## Title: Police Headquarters on our lead story says...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Police Headquarters on our lead story says...
Referring to our lead story yesterday, titled IGP ordered to pay compensation to two JVPers, Police Headquarters said that IGP N. K. Ilangakoon was not the head of the Police when the incident occurred in 2009.
As our lead story carrying a picture of the current IGP, the Police headquarters say it may convey a wrong message that IGP Illangakoon is personally responsible.
A statement from the Police adds that the court order refers to the designation (Inspector General of Police) and not any individual.
==============================
## Title: Practice match postponed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Practice match postponed
The three-day practice match between the touring West Indies and Sri Lanka board president's XI which has been scheduled to commence today has been rescheduled for October 9, 10 and 11 due to the inclement weather condition and will take place at the same venue (SSC).
==============================
## Title: Prof. Chandana Jayaratne to probe Polonnaruwa UFO story
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Prof. Chandana Jayaratne to probe Polonnaruwa UFO story
Astronomer and Head of the Colombo University Physical Science Department Prof. Chandana Jayaratne has decided to conduct investigations regarding the unidentified flying object observed in the sky over the Polonnaruwa Sacred City recently.
The object which appeared from the direction of the Dimbulagala Mountain around 9 and 10 pm passed through the sky like a star emitting green, blue and orange rays, with the reflection caused by the moonlight. Such UFOs were observed in the Polonnaruwa sky during the months of August, September and October last year too.
==============================
## Title: Queen of style
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Queen of style
From eggy yellow dresses to pointless handbags, there's more to dressing like a monarch than meets the eye. Ours avoids chic and makes sure she doesn't clash with grass. Though she did once sport a polka-dot turban
Her governess, Marion Crawford, once said of the young queen that "Lilibet never cared a fig" for clothes. And insofar as we can deduce anything about a public but unknowable person, this still feels true. In 63 years of appearances as a monarch, personal vanity has never seemed to take up much bandwidth; what the Queen cares about, instead, is the art and science of being Queen. But she understands perfectly how clothes pay a key role in this. As she once put it: "I have to be seen to be believed."
Style
The Queen is as instantly recognisable as Coco Chanel. Writing about her style around the diamond kubilee of 2012, the New York Times noted that "the pastel rectangle of her customary coat and the bright disk of a matching hat, the black oblong of her handbag and the generic low-heeled pumps are almost Warholian in their pop simplicity". She appears on Vanity Fair's international best-dressed list. In 2008, Dolce & Gabbana created an entire collection in homage to her August-in-Balmoral look, complete with kilts and silk headscarves. Donatella Versace calls her a style icon; Stella McCartney is on record saying that she would love to design for her. ("If she would have me, absolutely, I'd love to.")
Her silhouette is Lego-brick boxy, rather than willowy or elegant; the rainbow palette is too matchy-matchy for true sophistication. Sir Hardy Amies, her dressmaker for many years, was known to despise the Launer handbags she insisted on carrying, which he felt ruined the flow of the outfits he had designed. (He had a point.) Yet the Queen's wardrobe works, because it is less about fashion than it is about theatre. There is a particular shade of eggy yellow that she often chooses for special occasions - Prince William's wedding, for instance - which is too sunny to be chic, but has a crayon-brightness that makes her look a little like a storybook character come to life. The Easter bunny, say, or a minor superhero from a forgotten comic; someone you hadn't quite believed was real.
Princess Diana and others
Other star characters around her on the royal stage - Princess Diana, the Duchess of Cambridge, and before them, Princess Margaret - have made their own physical beauty, personal glamour and fashionable status a key part of their public image. The Queen, by contrast, uses clothes, hats and colour to make rather formal public statements, instead of using fashion or feminine wiles to make an emotional impression. (There is an echo here of the sweet, feminine public image of her mother, the late Queen Mother, an image that was adopted at least in part in opposition to the skinny, feline, racy fashionability of Wallis Simpson.) The strategy behind the Queen's wardrobe is effective because it is simple and unencumbered by vanity: head-to-toe colour to ensure she stands out in a crowd. She must provide a ceremonial focal point, like the star on a Christmas tree.
Her clothes are constructed like stage outfits. The armholes are cut extra deep, so that the royal wave does not cause her coat or jacket to ride up and spoil the line. Weights are sewn into the hems of dresses if a wayward breeze is even a remote possibility. (In 63 years, the Queen has never had a wardrobe malfunction.) Backdrop is taken into account, by the team led by longtime royal dresser Angela Kelly: if an occasion is to take place on a lawn, she will wear a colour that contrasts with green. If she is visiting a school or children's centre, the hat will feature flowers or stiffened silk twirls, as these help keep the children's attention.
Handbags
"I don't think she feels chic clothes are friendly," Amies once said. "There is something cold and cruel about chic clothes, that she wants to avoid."
The handbags which he so hated serve no apparent practical purpose, for a woman never more than a few paces from a lackey. Any handbag bigger than an iPhone 6 is a glam-killer of the first order, and would never, ever be spotted on the red carpet.
By carrying one, the Queen adds a tiny hint of ordinary-Nana to her image. (Royals have always done this, specifically in order to mess with our heads. One minute they are special, the next they are just like us. It's a time-honoured anti-republican strategy.) The handbag and those comfy low pumps remind us that being Queen is, in its own way, a job, and that it is hard work.
Elizabeth II is unlikely ever to match up to the best of queenly image-makers, Elizabeth I. Her image, as captured in portraits and poetry, was almost magical, a queen as semi-divine. Elizabeth's sensuous, Botticelli Venus colouring was grandly wrapped in velvet, her pale skin given the gleam of a pearl or a unicorn.
That school of image-management is impractical, in the era of the cameraphone, so Elizabeth II has devised a more practical image with just the right amount of theatre, and a shrewdly upbeat tone. (She may have only just shaded her on length of reign, but Elizabeth surpassed Queen Victoria on the style front some time ago. Despite the success and expansion over which she presided, our lasting images of Victoria express just a sombre power, and very little of the glory. We picture Victoria in profile, as if stamped on a coin; a bleak forcefield of sadness emanates even through the grain of late 19th-century photography.)
Fashion plate
The look that Elizabeth II has forged during the past three decades is so indelibly inked on our minds that it is easy to forget the years in which she was something of a fashion plate. At a visit to Liverpool Street station in 1958, a chartreuse coat with matching hat and leopard print stole is positively Mad Men. In the 1960s, she was fond of hats made up entirely of tiny silk blooms that sat snugly over her hair, a style also favoured by Liz Taylor at the time. A state visit to Mexico in 1975 saw her in a startling yellow polka-dot turban.
As she matured into the role of monarch, her outfits for public appearances became more formulaic. These days, the occasions on which the Queen looks most glamorous are the ceremonial ones.
A white cashmere, fur-trimmed throw, huge pearl earrings, bracelet and glittering tiara at the state opening of parliament, for instance: this is an outfit to remind those in the audience who might think themselves powerful what true grandeur looks like.
When on display to the ordinary people, by contrast, she dresses with deliberate modesty. Compare her clothes at the Order of the Garter - velvet and feathers, navy and scarlet - with the simple pastel coat and dress (and handbag) she chose for William and Kate's wedding, and it is clear the image of the cheery, working queen is an entirely deliberate one.
-Guardian,Co.Uk
==============================
## Title: Reading Macbeth  The Riddles of The Witches
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Reading Macbeth  The Riddles of The Witches
Macbeth is one of Shakespeare's shortest plays. There is no sub-plot. Shakespeare has constructed it with great structural economy even without introducing the main characters. Shakespeare wrote Macbeth during the last quarter of his writing career.
He probably wrote it in 1606 and it comes amid other tragedies including King Lear, and Anthony and Cleopatra after Hamlet and Othello and before Coriolanus, the last of his tragedies before he moves to the romantics (Smith, 2013).
The year 1606 was a turbulent one in early modern England with James VI of Scotland succeeded Elizabeth I on the English throne. Shakespeare became the chief dramatist of the king. Shakespeare turned his attention on royal interests. Macbeth in one sense is a regicide play like Richard II (1595) and Julius Caesar (1599) though the contexts are different.
Macbeth also contains a story of deposition like in As You Like It, The Tempest and Hamlet. Shakespeare analyses the mind of a political assassin in Macbeth. In Hamlet, he scrutinises Hamlet's revenging ego. But in Macbeth Shakespeare deals squarely with Macbeth's burning ambition.
The greatest weakness of Macbeth was that he failed to understand the metaphorical language used by The Witches. This caused his downfall. He completely misjudged their prophecies. What their poetic language articulated and connoted, Macbeth misunderstood whereas Lady Macbeth seriously pondered.
Act 1 Scene 1 presents the three Witches in an open place in a thunder storm on the moorland before sunset. It is in Scene 3 that the witches encounter Macbeth and Banquo who were on their way home after their war victory.
While reading the text the readers are often attracted to the poetic language used by The Witches:
When shall we three meet again
In thunder, lightening or in rain
When the huryburys done,
When the battle's lost and won. (1.1.3-4)
These syllabic, short lines in blank verse are iconic, rhythmic and packed with imagery and mystic power. The opening scene of Macbeth produces rich audio visual effects upon the audience when the witches mention about the clap of thunder, the flash of lightning and the pitter-patter of pouring rain; thus creating a stormy future atmosphere.
These Wearied Sisters (The Witches) greet Macbeth thus:
All hail Macbeth! Hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!
All hail Macbeth! Hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!
All hail Macbeth! That shall be king hereafter. (1.3.48-50)
In this verse there is repetition of same words (anaphora) used as a rhetorical term in the beginning of the lines.
Macbeth very well knew that he was already Thene of Glamis through inheritance caused by Sinal's death. But how could The Witches know it His greatest astonishment was the other two prophecies of The Witches, in particular the predication of him becoming the future king. About becoming Thane of Cawdor, Macbeth was aware of the execution of Cawdor through the king's message.
But Macbeth becoming the future king too has been professed by The Witches. This prophesy too should be correct. But there is already King Duncan on the throne and Macbeth is not the legal, royal, traditional heir. This fact vexed Macbeth tremendously. Initially he left this third prophecy to be fulfilled perhaps by chance. Macbeth was perturbed, surprised and frightening over the last prediction. But he was afraid of Banquo who was with him when The Witches stated these prophesies. No doubt an Oedipus effect began to torment Macbeth's train of thoughts at the end of the first meeting with The Witches. This effect was nursed, encouraged and ignited by Lady Macbeth's strategic interventions by persuading Macbeth to commit murder. Again the power of The Witches is revealed in Act 1V Scene 1. When Macbeth arrives to consult them, The Witches were preparing a foul broth and arranging their spell. They create three apparitions in order an armed head who warns Macbeth against Macduff; a bloody child who informs him that he cannot be harmed by one borne of woman, and a crowned child carrying a tree who guarantees Macbeth's safety until Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane Hill.
As a response to Macbeth's question about Banquio's descendants, The Witches show him eight Kings ushered in by the spirit of Banquo. The Witches vanish when Lennox brings the news of Macduff's flight to England. Macbeth decides to murder every member of Macduff's family.
The Witches do not make promises. They utter riddles. Macbeth in his weakness interprets in his own ambitious interest. He is not deceived by the Witches, but by his ill-founded reliance on his own interpretation (Macrae, 1980). Shakespeare reveals that Macbeth until the end has been clinging to the prophesies of The Witches. The prophesies have been correct. But Macbeth has been misled.
References:
Macrae Alasdiar D.F (1980) Macbeth, Longman York Press, Essex, England
Smith Emma (2013) Macbeth-Language & Writing, Bloomsbury, London
==============================
## Title: Romania stun Canada
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Romania stun Canada
Romania coach Lynn Howells ordered his team to "pull your socks up" at half-time and the East Europeans pulled off the biggest comeback in World Cup history against Canada on Tuesday.
Romania captain Mihai Macovei got two tries in the final 28 minutes as his side fought back from 15-0 down to beat their stunned Canadian opponents 17-15.
Howells team could just sneak third place in Pool D and an automatic qualifying place for the 2019 World Cup if they beat Italy on Sunday.
Canada, on the other hand, ended their World Cup with four straight group defeats for the first time. Captain Jamie Cudmore said the dressing room atmosphere was "horrible". The Canadians could not believe their luck after DTH van der Merwe scored a try for the fourth straight match, joining an elite group, including All Black legend Jonah Lomu, who have scored in every group match at a World Cup. Romania were reduced to 14 men for part of the first-half when Catalin Fercu was sin-binned for taking out Nick Blevins in mid-air.But Van der Merwe finished off an excellent play created by wing Jeff Hassler's surge through the Romanian defence to touch down.
And despite Howell's rocket, Canada came out straining at the leash in the second period. Hassler got a deserved try of his own in the 44th minute, Nathan Harayama making the initial inroad. Then the Romanian storm hit. Their first try stemmed from their scrum rocking their opponents back on their heels and over the line. Macovei claimed the try and Florian Vlaicu converted.
Canada might have held out but for a moment of madness by Jebb Sinclair when eight minutes from time he became the third Canadian to be yellow-carded in the tournament.
Two minutes later Macovei peeled off a scrum for his second try.
-AFP
==============================
## Title: SLBFE workers suspended for helping human smugglers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
SLBFE workers suspended for helping human smugglers
Four employees of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment (SLBFE), who were alleged to have helped human smugglers, have been suspended with immediate effect on the orders of Minister Thalatha Athukorala. According to a bureau spokesman, the SLBFE officers who were suspended from duty had been working at the Katunayake airport.
The four officers were alleged to have helped racketeers runing a lucrative human smuggling racket where Sri Lankans, especially women had been sent overseas on employment with the aid of visit Visas.
The incident came to light when 11 Sri Lankans who left for Kuwait seeking employment on tourist visas on October 1 were deported to the country by Kuwaiti authorities.
The group were nabbed by Kuwaiti authorities following the perusal of their documents.
The 11 were residents of Matara, Valachenai, Padaviya, Kalutara, Avissawella and Rakwana areas. Preliminary investigations by the SLBFE has revealed that some of the job seekers have children under the age of five and they had not received training before leaving the country for employment.
The SLBFE has banned mothers having children under five years from leaving the country for employment. In addition those who seek employment overseas as domestic workers have to undergo a compulsory pre-departure training conducted by the SLBFE.
==============================
## Title: Sri Palee beat Sri Sumangala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Palee beat Sri Sumangala
Sri Palee College, Horana beat Sri Sumangala College, Panadura by 13 runs in their inter-school under 13 division two tournament cricket match played at Horana.
Sri Palee batting first made 64 runs with Charuka Kavihara and L.M. Madushanka claiming 3 for 1 and 3 for 9 respectively.
In reply Sri Sumangala collapsed for 51 runs and Dinujaya Sudaraka 3 for 6 and Chamath Chamupathy 3 for 11 and and at stumps Sri Palee were 5 for 39.
Sri Palee - 64 in 30 overs (Dinuka Anupama 19, Lahiru Mindada 16, L.M. Madushanka 3/19, Charuka Kavihara 3/1) and 39/5 (Chamath Chamupathy 12, Mavindu Nimsith 3/14).
Sri Sumangala - 51 in 36 overs (Chamath Chamupathy 3/11, Dinujaya Sudaraka 3/6).
==============================
## Title: Tell 'Tail'! All in a wag!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Tell 'Tail'! All in a wag!
What do your dog's tail wags mean Emotional sensor could help owners understand their pet's feelings
$90 sensor attaches to dog's tail and measures movement and speed
Dubbed TailTalk, device relays data it collects to an app via Bluetooth
Left wagging indicates aggression and right wagging suggests happiness
Creators hope sensor will help owners understand what upsets their pets
Now a new gadget claims to translate these wags into emotions so that owners can record the highs and lows of their pet's day.
Dubbed TailTalk, the sensor attaches to a dog's tail and works in a similar way to a Fitbit to measure both movement and speed.
The way dogs wag their tail can tell you a lot about how they're feeling. Now a new gadget claims to translate these wags into emotions so that owners can record the highs and lows of their pet's day
The way dogs wagtheir tail can tellyou a lot abouthow they'refeeling.
Left wagging (when facing the direction the dog is looking) suggests negative feelings such as anger or aggression.
Right wagging is indicative of happiness or excitement, according to recent research.
Broad wagging suggests a dog is happy and isn't threatening you. A slight wag-with each swing of only small breadth is often a tentative 'hello'
A slow wag with tail at 'half-mast' shows the dog is feeling insecure. Small, fast movements suggest the dog is about to either run or fight. Left wagging, according to its creators, often suggests negative feelings such as anger or aggression. Meanwhile, right wagging happiness or excitement.
But because dogs move around so much, this bias in direction often goes unseen by humans. The gadget, invented by New York-based firm DogStar Life, is designed to pick up on these subtle cues from a tail wag.
'It basically combines an accelerometer and a gyroscope much like the Fitbit, but it's picking up on the way the tail is moving,' DogStar Life COO and co-founder Mike Karp told Yahoo News. 'The idea is to capitalise on all the research that's been done in the last two to three years on what tail movement means, and translating that into emotion.'
Its creators say the speed of the wag indicates how excited the dog is and, the breadth of each tail sweep can also reveal the dog's emotional state. -Daily Mail, UK
WHAT A DOG'S TAIL WAG MEANS
Left wagging (when facing the direction the dog is looking) suggests negative feelings such as anger or aggression.
Right wagging is indicative of happiness or excitement, according to recent research.
Broad wagging suggests a dog is happy and isn't threatening you.
A slight wag-with each swing of only small breadth is often a tentative 'hello'
A slow wag with tail at 'half-mast' shows the dog is feeling insecure.
Small, fast movements suggest the dog is about to either run or fight.
==============================
## Title: There is a greatness in the outdoors
## Supertitle: [In depth] Animal protection education is part of humanitarian education
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
[In depth] Animal protection education is part of humanitarian education
There is a greatness in the outdoors
The following is a public talk delivered by attorney-at-law Senaka Weeraratna on World Animal Day at the Dharmavijaya Foundation, Colombo.
The primary purpose of education is to make an individual a better human being. One aspect of that is to be in close contact with nature and appreciate nature. This was how the aim of education was viewed in the bygone age.
Today the ethos in the educational system has radically changed. Focus is on to prepare students in subjects that will be useful to gain employment.
The curriculum is directed towards technical and job oriented education, while neglecting the humanitarian side. It is a lopsided education producing children that have relatively speaking little understanding of life  which is the original and essential purpose of education.
An enlightened human being cannot arise purely on the basis of instruction in technical subjects.
Once upon a time the living world was physically close to human beings. It was rural in outlook and a rural atmosphere enveloped the world. The inhabitants interacted with nature, plants and animals on a daily basis. There is a decided shift today. An artificial virtual world has made deep inroads into our lives through new technologies uprooting the child. There is a greatness in the outdoors. Ninety nine percent of children who live in big cities have little knowledge of nature. A Chinese Ambassador to Sri Lanka in the recent past has been reported to have said that her child saw a frog for the first time only upon their arrival in Sri Lanka.
Those who live in concrete jungles cannot see even the sky properly. But the sky and the heavens above have always been a source of inspiration and awe to humankind.
Buddhist Economics
There has to be a greater public debate on where we are going and our true destiny. The uncritical copying of structures more suitable for other cultures and development of concrete jungles that we see in South East Asia at the cost of a green tree based environment may not be the best answer to Sri Lankas social and economic problems. Bigger is not always better. Small is beautiful, said Dr. E.F. Schumacher advocating small appropriate technologies that can empower people more.
Schumacher propounded a philosophy of "enoughness" appreciating both human needs, limitations and appropriate use of technology.
It grew out of his study of village-based economics in Burma, which he subsequently named as Buddhist Economics.
Humanitarian Education
To break or arrest this trend towards producing children who have little empathy for nature, animals and even other human beings, there is a new system of education gaining ground. It is called Humanitarian Education. Animal Protection Education is a part of humanitarian education. Taiwan is one region that has successfully introduced Animal Protection Education into schools. We also see that happening in some parts of India such as Gujarat.
Primary School Education in Sri Lanka
In Sri Lanka in our Primary schools from Grade 1  5 four main subjects are taught, namely
1) Maths
2) Languages
3) Environment Related Activities (ERA)
4) Religion
ERA has 12 themes integrated into it, such as safety, transport, family and natural environment including animals.
Dharma Voices for Animals
The DVA (Sri Lanka  Colombo Chapter) will be formally inaugurated on October 18. Once formed it will add to the growing calls both within and outside the country for improvement of the lives of animals that are captive, stray and living in the wild in Sri Lanka.
DVA  the parent organisation was formed in 2011 by Bob Isaacson and Patti Breitman in San Diego, California, USA. It is an international movement of Buddhist practitioners engaged in advocacy for the rights of all animals to live in freedom.
It is represented in over 40 countries. It has 17 Chapters altogether mostly in USA, Europe and Latin America. Taiwan being a part of China has a Chapter of DVA. Our mission basically is to campaign for animal rights, promote animal welfare, conserve wild life and maintain ecological balance and spread vegetarianism and veganism.
Furthermore we aim to protect animals from being captured and while in captivity, from abuse, abandonment or slaughter through the process of legislation and education. We shall promote the noble ideas of reverence for all life, respect for animals and peaceful co  existence between man and animal.
DVA in Sri Lanka
DVA would like to help the Department of Education in the foreseeable future by helping to develop animal protection education through the adoption of a number of strategies:
a) The core purpose will be to help develop concern for animal rights and welfare in lesson planning for children.
b) Research shows a vicious cycle of violence. The child that abuses animals in the home environment is likely to be a bully at school, beat family members or spouses, and even commit crimes in society.
c) Teenage children who are abused by elders in turn abuse companion animals and other animals.
DVA will strive to influence the education system to
i) develop an environment in schools to promote teachers and childrens understanding of the meaning of animal protection and help them recognise the inter  dependence and inter  subjective relationship among human beings, animals and mother nature.
ii) help programmes that lead children to establish positive relationship with animals and strengthen their ability to emphathise with animals.
iii) promote the concept of respect and affection for animals and their habitats and generate humane and caring values and the power to act
iv) If students are made to understand that animals like humans also have the ability to feel pain, they can then develop the endearing traits of benevolence and sympathy.
v) Advocacy of Animal Protection Ideas  Todays Children will become the future leaders of Sri Lanka.
DVA will develop and assist programmes that will encourage children and teenagers to become a conduit in conveying the ideas of animal protection to the public which will in turn help them to gain the ability to interact with people and develop effective communication skills.
vi) DVA will help children and their teachers understand the unpalatable truth behind animal shows and zoos (which in reality are animal prisons though euphemistically called zoos) and empower them to think critically and engage in resolute action including even refusing to visit a zoo as a place for enjoyment and merry making.
Children must be taught to emphathise and speak on behalf of caged animals in zoos who have been given a punitive life sentence without committing an offence.
Our children should be encouraged to share their birthday treats with animals and birds including zoo and stray animals among others.
Furthermore, our children must be reminded of the Buddha's words quoted in the Dhammapada:
He who does not inflict injury on beings, whether feeble or strong, does not kill nor cause to kill, him I call a Brahmana.
vii) Sri Lanka is a country with a lot of wild life. It is the human being who is encroaching into the natural habitats of our elephants. Their territory is getting reduced by the day.
We are invading their territory without an iota of guilt feeling. They have a right to live in their natural habitats undisturbed by human encroachment. This is a message that children must carry with them to prevent further aggravation of the human  elephant conflict.
vii) Teachers must be trained to provide children with opportunities to choose a set of values different from mainstream values. Allow children to have lifestyle options such as avoiding products that are basically slaughter products or combined with slaughter products e.g. furs, animal skins, reduce meat consumption and choose a vegetarian or vegan diet.
Meat is a product of a huge injustice caused to animals. We prematurely end their natural span of life and then rob their body parts for our use and consumption. No amount of religious script based excuses or defense can hide this shameful bitter truth.
James Cameron, famed director of Titanic and well-known climate change activist, has a message for the masses: go vegan to fight climate change.
Cameron, who has been vegan for four years, has said in a recent interview with the Fortune Magazine as follows:
 [T]he thing that became abundantly clear to us when we met with the experts who are working in nutrition and energy sustainability and climate change is that we cant actually meet our emission goals if we dont address animal agriculture, and thats the thing thats been left out of the conversation.
This message is crucial because many people who care about the environment still have no idea that raising animals for food is so incredibly destructive.
Consider some of these facts:
 It takes 2,500 gallons of water to produce just one pound of beef
 80 percent of land deforested in the Amazon is for raising cattle
 Factory farms grossly contaminate rivers and ground water
Future Plan
DVA Sri Lanka Chapter would like to initiate a campaign to promote animal protection education and see it take root in our system of school education.
An unique programme operating in schools in Israel has found that animal welfare education leads to a host of other benefits including sensitivity to the needs of others, personal responsibility and prevention of violence. In respect to primary school education, young children particularly up to the age of seven years are recognised for being receptive towards forming positive attitudes to animal welfare that will carry them through to adulthood.
We must remember that children are generally very receptive, their minds are inquiring and active and they have huge supplies of natural enthusiasm.
The messages they receive at school run deep. A caring child will turn out be a caring adult. DVA will also help in establishing Animal Protection Clubs or Associations in schools and Universities.
These clubs will serve as a platform for students to exchange resources, share information, discuss issues, and make animal protection plans more practical and local.
DVA will campaign for the introduction of Animal Law as part of legal studies in high school and tertiary education i.e. Law Faculty. DVA will issue legal proceedings and enter public litigation when required to save lives or defend the interests of innocent defenseless animals in our courts.
The study of philosophy both Eastern and Western must be re-introduced into our educational system with a view to expanding the intellectual horizons of our school and university students.
People in Sri Lanka in the pre-colonial era were called Arya Sinhala or Aryavansa  noble race by fellow Asians because of our animal friendly cultural heritage and compassion towards animals.
DVAs ultimate goal is to help build a caring and compassionate society in Sri Lanka that fits in with the Buddhist Civilisational Goals of achieving peaceful co  existence between man and animal. We can then become a true role model for the world like Bhutan has become in respect to the preservation of its rich natural environment.
Senaka Weeraratna is the Chapter Leader of Dharma Voices for Animals (Sri Lanka  Colombo Chapter)
==============================
## Title: UK business tycoon embroiled in Lanka's hunt for stolen assets
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
UK business tycoon embroiled in Lanka's hunt for stolen assets
A UK based tycoon has been linked to investigations being conducted over billions of dollars allegedly stolen from Sri Lanka by associates of the previous regime, BuzzFeed News reported.
An investigation conducted by BuzzFeed News said that the offshore empire of the Lycamobile tycoon Subaskaran Allirajah is facing investigation as part of a sprawling international probe into allegations that billions of dollars were stolen from Sri Lanka by associates of the former government was effectively forced to pump around $10 million into a "completely flawed" venture owned jointly by a person linked to a powerful political family and a key offshore company in the Lycamobile business network.
Senior Sri Lankan government and police officials told BuzzFeed News that the newly inaugurated financial crimes division of the police is launching a probe into the venture, Sky Network, which they suspect was a "shell company" that the relative of the famous political family used to enrich himself through a "shady transaction".
Allirajah has strongly denied allegations about his association with the previous regime. But now BuzzFeed News has obtained conclusive evidence - from corporate documents, insiders, and government officials - that his empire did business with some members of the powerful political family. Company filings in Colombo show that Sky Network was 95 percent owned by a key arm of Lycamobile's corporate web and the former President's nephew, who sat on the board alongside the telecom giant's then chief executive.
The revelations will pile further pressure on David Cameron to sever his ties with Allirajah, whose company has donated more than 1.3 million to the Tories.
The party has previously brushed off explicit warnings about the donor's links to Sri Lanka's political family and continued accepting gifts running to more than 500,000 in this year alone.
The prime minister is already facing calls to hand back the money after BuzzFeed News yesterday revealed secret footage of three Lyca bagmen depositing rucksacks stuffed with hundreds of thousands of pounds in cash at Post Offices all over London.
The company said it was a cash-rich business and that the deposits were just above-board "day to day banking" but experts including the former director of public prosecutions Lord MacDonald said they were "deeply suspicious" and called for an urgent investigation.
There is no evidence to suggest that the corruption claims in Colombo are connected to the company's unusual cash deposits in London, but they raise further serious questions about the way the Lyca group conducts its business.
The firm, which declared 1.1 billion in global turnover last year and is rapidly expanding in the United States, has avoided UK corporation tax for years by moving revenues out of the country through a complex offshore network. Some of that money ends up in Hastings Trading e Servios Lda - the Madeira company that acquired 95 percent of Sky Network, with the President's nephew retaining the other 5 percent.
BuzzFeed News interviewed two former executives at Sri Lanka Telecom (SLT) who said the majority state-owned firm was all but forced to pour millions of dollars into Sky Network and got nothing in return.
A senior detective in the Sri Lankan police force said it had "started the legal process of investigation" into the deal, and the country's deputy foreign minister confirmed that the new probe was part of the wider international hunt for assets allegedly stolen during Rajapaksa's decade of Presidency.
Searching for Sri Lanka's embezzled billions is a daunting task for the new regime, which came to power when former President Rajapaksa was finally ousted by voters in January this year, especially because it presides over a country still emerging from decades of civil war.
Cabinet Spokesman Rajitha Senaratne told BuzzFeed News that investigators believe the political family under question had gone to extraordinary lengths to hide stolen assets from the state.
In total, the new government estimates that the bigwigs and associates of the previous regime have hidden at least $10 billion through a web of offshore accounts, various associates, and business ventures around the world.
They believe $5.31 billion was taken out of Sri Lanka in 2013 alone. And they are determined to find the money and bring it home. (Buzzfeed news)
==============================
## Title: Warne, Tendulkar taking cricket to the US
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
Warne, Tendulkar taking cricket to the US
Australian Shane Warne and India's Sachin Tendulkar will captain two All-Star sides in a three-match Twenty20 series in the United States in a bid to spark interest in a sport alien to most Americans.
The ICC-sanctioned matches will be played on drop-in pitches at major baseball fields in New York, Houston and Los Angeles in November, with plenty of superstar talent on show.
Among the throng of cricketing greats signed up are Brian Lara, Courtney Walsh, Curtly Ambrose, Muttiah Muralitharan, Wasim Akram, Jacques Kallis, Ricky Ponting, Matthew Hayden, Glenn McGrath and Brad Haddin.
"We've signed all the top players you'd ever want to see," spin king Warne, who initiated the idea with Tendulkar, told cricket.com.au.
"I'm excited for cricket fans in the United States to be able to see these amazing players for the first time."
A portion of proceeds from the series will go to the ICC for the development of cricket within the US with the organisation's chief executive David Richardson saying it "would help cricket to reach its significant potential in the USA".
"We therefore wish them well and thank them for their enthusiasm to develop cricket outside of its traditional boundaries," he added.
Batting great Tendulkar said he was excited about the prospect of taking the sport to a country more used to baseball and basketball.
AFP
==============================
## Title: We are just brothers! - Brady
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, October 7, 2015 - 19:30
We are just brothers! - Brady
It was a strange offseason for the cannon-armed, football-playing cyborg known as Tom Brady.
In addition to dealing with the Deflategate scandal, Brady found his personal life all over the tabloids for a number of bizarre reasons.
Several media outlets are still clinging to the story that Brady and Gisele Bundchen are headed for divorce, despite the fact that she's been publicly supporting her superhuman husband's quest for another ring, just as she always does.
Of course, the weird, non-football-related Brady stories don't end there. After Brady's four-game suspension was overturned in court prior to the start of the season, he found himself with an unexpected supporter. Presidential candidate/human throbbing forehead vein Donald Trump congratulated Brady and sent the QB one of his signature "Make America Great Again" hats that look not unlike something that Ashton Kutcher would've worn during his Punk'd days.
Brady proudly displayed the hat in his locker, and when asked if he supported Trump, he muttered some non-committal nonsense about the Donald putting a putting green on the White House lawn.
Tom probably figured it was a clever way of dodging the question, but the press ran with it and claimed that Brady is full-on Trump supporter. Brady took the opportunity to dial those comments back during a radio interview on Monday:
"Even an off-handed comment like that, like you said, that people may run with; and I understand why people do run with it because you get the clicks and that type of stuff," Brady said. "It's just people doing their job. I try to have fun with certain things.
I mean, look, I've known him for a long time. He's been a fun guy that I've had a lot of time around. One way or another, it's so far away from when the election will be.
"Whatever I vote is going to be my own personal choice based on how I feel. I don't even know what the issues are. I haven't paid attention to politics in a long time. It's actually not something that I really even enjoy. It's way off my radar." Normally, we'd make fun of a grown adult with a lot at stake who claims he doesn't "enjoy" politics and "doesn't even know what the issues are," but Tom's got an awful lot on his plate these days. TMZ
==============================