## Title: UN Resolution could advance justice
## Supertitle: International participation, monitoring crucial for reforms
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
International participation, monitoring crucial for reforms
UN Resolution could advance justice
The United Nations Human Rights Council should adopt a resolution ensuring a robust international role in Sri Lankas justice mechanism for abuses during the countrys civil war, Human Rights Watch said yesterday.
The resolution, expected to be adopted on October 1 contains a number of strong provisions but will need to be thoroughly implemented for victims to obtain genuine justice.
This resolution makes it clear the time has come for the Sri Lankan government to act, Geneva director at Human Rights Watch, John Fisher said.
The resolutions endorsement of a judicial mechanism with international participation is an important recognition of the need for an international role to ensure justice for victims.
The resolution draws on the new report by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights detailing numerous abuses by both sides in the conflict, and the governments failure over decades to hold those responsible to account. Among the reports concrete recommendations is the establishment of a special court integrating international judges, prosecutors, lawyers and investigators with an independent Sri Lankan investigative and prosecuting body. While the proposed resolution does not specifically call for a hybrid national-international justice mechanism, if fully implemented it offers a greater hope for justice than past failed promises by the Sri Lankan government on justice for human rights abuses.
Unlike in past years, Sri Lanka has agreed to co-sponsor the resolution, which was presented initially to the Human Rights Council by the governments of the United States, United Kingdom, Montenegro, and Macedonia. Overall, the new Sri Lankan government, voted into power in January 2015, has acted in a more cooperative manner with the international community. It has, however, resisted including an independent, international prosecutor and a majority of international judges, which would create the greatest chance of success for justice.
The new Sri Lankan government, through getting on board with this resolution, is making important promises to all the victims of Sri Lankas war, Fisher said. However, meaningful foreign participation and international monitoring will be needed to prevent local pressure and intimidation from interfering with a fair judicial process.
The Sri Lankan government has accepted many recommendations to improve the human rights situation, including a repeal of the draconian Prevention of Terrorism Act and reforms to the Witness and Victim Protection Law, both long called for by victims rights groups. The government has also agreed to accelerate the return of lands confiscated by the security forces; to end the divisive military involvement in civilian activities in the countrys North and East; to investigate allegations of attacks on civil society, media, and religious minorities; and to work towards devolution of authority from the centre in line with the 13th Amendment to the Constitution.
The resolution is a far-reaching call to address pressing needs for reform, Fisher said. An early test of the governments sincerity will be if the Prevention of Terrorism Act is repealed and not simply replaced by another bad law with another name.
Human Rights Watch expressed concern about inadequate provisions for international oversight of implementation of the terms of the resolution. The resolution only calls for an oral update from the High Commissioner during the Councils 32nd session in June 2016 and a written implementation report at the 34th session in March 2017.
The government will also need concrete proposals to ensure compliance with international law in addressing grave abuses, including command responsibility, so that charges brought reflect the gravity of the crimes and target those most responsible.
If implemented, the Human Rights Council resolution on Sri Lanka could prove to be a milestone for addressing past and ongoing human rights abuses, Fisher said. The burden now rests with the government to fully honour its pledges and with UN members to see that it does so. This is not a time to cross Sri Lanka off the list of countries requiring scrutiny. For real progress, now is the time to work with the government to ensure reforms are real and lasting.
==============================
## Title: 65 years in the making
## Supertitle: Nepals new Constitution
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Nepals new Constitution
65 years in the making
After years of debate, Nepal is celebrating a new constitution. Out of the 598 members of the Constituent Assembly, 507 voted for the new constitution, 25 voted against, and 66 abstained in a vote on September 16, 2015. Some small parties of the Tharu and Madhesi ethnic communities organized protests against the constitution, leading to widespread violence in southern Nepal. More than 40 people have died in the violence, half of whom were members of Nepals Police and Armed Police Force.
President Ram Baran Yadav will promulgate the new constitution on September 20, 2015 in a ceremony expected to be attended by members of parliament, Cabinet members, members of constitutional bodies, high ranking officers of Nepals security forces, and members of the diplomatic community. Once the constitution is promulgated, Nepal will have completed a 65-year-old quest.
The Constitutions principles
The new constitution embraces the principles of republicanism, federalism, secularism, and inclusiveness.
The Interim Constitution of 2007 ended the monarchy and made Nepal a republic, but this constitution finally ended the chances of a monarchical revival. The constitution passed despite diplomatic efforts by former King Gyanendra Shah, who visited India last month.
Under the constitution, Nepals new federal structure will see the country divided into seven provinces, with clear lists of legislative powers for the central, provincial, and local bodies. The Tharu and Madhesi groups had contended that provinces should be demarcated based on the concentration of ethnic populations, which are spread east to west in the southern part of the country. The three major parties, the Nepali Congress (NC), Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) (CPN-UML), and the United Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) (CPN-M), objected to this idea, arguing that fulfilling such a demand would cause other protests and violence demanding still more ethnically-based provinces.
The country with the largest Hindu majority will continue to be a secular state with a special definition of the term: respecting pre-historic traditions and religious and cultural freedoms. Hindu fundamentalists hosted protests against secularism until the end. They expressed dissatisfaction both to India  which some Hindu groups thought would intervene at the last minute to make Nepal a Hindu state  and to leaders of the main three political parties.
The other main characteristic of the new constitution is inclusiveness. The existing state structure is dominated by one particular community; others are deprived proportional representation, including in the elected bodies, in the current unitary structure. Changes to this structure began in 2007 with the promulgation of the Interim Constitution and the new constitution emphasize the continuation of inclusivity, keeping in mind the rights of women, the disabled, sexual minorities, and other similar groups.
Tharu and Madhesi critics demanded that the constituencies of the Legislative-Parliament be divided on the basis of population alone. Nepals three main parties denied this request, stating that representation must be based on both population and geography, in order to include the vast hilly and mountainous areas that have a low population density. Their proposal is that, of the 165 directly-elected seats in the Legislative-Parliament, one seat will belong to each of the 75 districts and the remaining 90 will be divided based on population. The other 110 seats of the Legislative-Parliament, which will have a total of 275 seats, will come from the proportional votes to the parties and should grant priority to women, the Janajati and Madhesi ethnic groups, and other marginalized communities.
The new constitution also provides a long list of fundamental rights, including economic, social and cultural rights, with the possibility of progressive realization. These rights can be claimed at the provincial high court and district courts as part of the right to remedy. Further, after popular demands from marginalized communities, specific constitutional commissions (such as the Women Commission, Dalit Commission, Janajati Commission, Madhesi Commission, Tharu Commission and Muslim Commission) were created along with the National Human Rights Commission. These commissions have a mandate to receive complaints or recommend changes in the laws, policies, and practices of areas that discriminate against or deny rights to their respective communities.
The last minute changes in the citizenship provisions authorizes women to confer citizenship to their children, on par with men, but women groups and the Madhesi community still argue that further change is necessary lest the provisions make women second class citizens. The main three parties argue that the geopolitical situation, and the large populations of neighbouring countries India and China, compels them to restrict unwanted population growth.
Political in-fighting
The successful vote to adopt a constitution ends a seven-year legislative process. The first Constituent Assembly, elected in 2008, failed to deliver a constitution in 2012 as its tenure expired. The Supreme Court did not allow an extension, and the second Constituent Assembly was elected in 2013. That assembly had already passed an unofficial one-year deadline for delivering a constitution, due to major contentions among the main three parties.
In June, a 16-Point Understanding was forged among the four major parties, the NC, CPN-UML, CPN-M, and the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum (Democratic). The latter party, which has a predominantly Tharu base, has since absented the Constituent Assembly process, citing differences in the demarcation of Nepals provinces. The main three parties are reportedly working with Madhesi Janadhikar Forum (Democratic) leader Bijaya Gachhadar and other Tharu organizations to bring them back to the mainstream. In particular, they have offered to address some of the Tharu demands in the first amendment to the new constitution.
So far, the three main parties have made no such efforts to reach out to Madhesi leaders, despite an call for more dialogue from Sushma Swaraj, Indias external affairs minister, on September 14 and several comments by the Indian ambassador to Nepal, Ranjit Ray. However, India, the United States, and the United Kingdom have officially welcomed the process, pretending that Nepals new constitution will be inclusive to all.
The three main parties argue that it may be entirely impossible to include all aspirations from all groups at this moment. Any delay in the process might cause differences within the main three political parties and thus potentially threaten the republic.
Nepals new government
Under the new constitution, Nepal will have a parliamentary form of government with a president elected by a collegium of both central legislative houses, the Legislative-Parliament and the National Assembly, as well as the provincial legislative body. The prime minister will be elected by the Legislative-Parliament based on a majority. The Constitutional Council will nominate the chief justice and head and members of the constitutional commissions. The Judicial Council nominates the judges of the Supreme, High, and District Courts; the judicial system is an integrated one.
Despite public consultations, both on the preliminary text and after adopting the draft constitution, most of the provisions are carried forward from the previous constitutions that Nepal had  six of them (not counting the new constitution) since 1950. Some of the basic features of federalism were incorporated and most of the ideals of the parties  from the right to the extreme left  are incorporated in the preamble and directive principles of state policies. Now the verbal battle of the main three parties will be over how to interpret socialism based on democratic values.
The future of Nepals new constitution depends on how the main three parties include the Tharu and Madhesi parties in the mainstream by offering amendments after the promulgation of the constitution. In terms of amendment, the new constitution is flexible, as a two-thirds majority can amend any issues except sovereignty. The success of the constitution will also depend on how Nepal handles the legitimate concerns of its two big neighbours, India and China.
The success of this constitution will also be judged on how the new government carries out continued reconstruction after the April 2015 earthquake, and how it tackles the extreme poverty experienced by the vast rural population. The leadership will have to decided how to handle the agendas and activities of both the extreme right and left.
(Hari Phuyal is an an advocate in the Supreme Court of Nepal.)
- THE DIPLOMAT
==============================
## Title: Afghan forces plan fightback after Taliban overrun key city
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Afghan forces plan fightback after Taliban overrun key city
AFGHANISTAN: Afghanistan on Tuesday massed troops for a counter-offensive to take back Kunduz, a day after Taliban insurgents overran the strategic northern city in their biggest victory since being ousted from power in 2001.
Afghan security forces have retreated to the outlying airport, leaving the Taliban effectively in control of Kunduz after they stormed the city on Monday, capturing government buildings and freeing hundreds of prisoners.
The stunning fall of the provincial capital, which has sent panicked residents fleeing, has dealt a major blow to Afghanistans NATO-trained security forces and spotlighted the insurgencys potential to expand beyond its rural strongholds.
New forces have arrived in Kunduz... A big operation is due to start, interior ministry spokesman Sediq Sediqqi told AFP.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: The alien in us all
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
The alien in us all
If I'm going to out myself as a science fiction fan in front of the rest of my profession I might as well do it properly. That means turning to what is arguably the nerdier end of the SF canon: Star Trek.
Despite its recent sexy reboot, Star Trek has never developed the same patina of cool as Star Wars, but it does try harder to hold a mirror up to the human condition through the melting pot of alien races that make up the Federation and its foes.
While the Klingons, Vulcans, and Romulans all offer a lens on humanity, as a psychologist I believe it is the Borg who provide a richer metaphor for many of humanity's more defining psychological characteristics.
Created for the 1990s Captain Picard era Star Trek, the Borg became the defining nemesis for the Enterprise and her crew. The Borg are a race of cybernetic organisms, bodies augmented by technology and emotions suppressed. The Borg are aggressively expansionist and cannot be negotiated or reasoned with ('resistance is futile').
So far, so Cybermen, but the Borg added darker qualities than the Dr Who enemy. Rather than invade and occupy, the Borg would forcibly assimilate other races in a quest to attain physical, technological and ideological perfection. Individuals from other races would be subjected to a terrifying assimilation process, involving the replacement of body parts with Borg implants and the erasure of all individuality. The outcome of assimilation was that the individual became another drone connected to the Borg hive mind (the Collective). All independent thought and emotions removed.
At a sociological level the Borg touched upon contemporary anxieties such as the loss of cultural distinctiveness in the drive towards globalisation. At an individual level the Borg resonate with psychological concepts such as deindividuation, social identity and groupthink. Narratives featuring Borg assimilation survivors would focus on the PTSD effects suffered by those rescued from the Collective.
The Collective nature of the Borg, with every individual interconnected and all thoughts shared, represents the apex of group cohesiveness. The pooling of intellectual resources and the elimination of dissent in favour of harmony and single-minded purpose gave the Borg the edge over their human adversaries, whose fundamental flaw was intra-personal conflict and the cult of the individual. The terror of assimilation, beyond the physical depredations, was the loss of self, the repression of personality and powerlessness to break free from the tyranny of the group.
As an occupational psychologist, when I first encountered the Borg I was fascinated with the way it chimed with contemporary organisational theory. The Borg modelled key 1990s organisation design (OD) themes, such as flat organisations, team-based processes and the removal of hierarchies. The Borg were able to harness the power of their collective organisation to adapt quickly to any new threat or technology they encountered. This mirrors concepts being promoted in OD at the time around the learning organisation and change management. This adaptability gave the Borg another advantage over humanity, which was stuck with the unfashionable command and control model.
As the Klingons represented the Western cold-war anxiety about the Soviet bloc, the Borg articulated late 20th-century fears about the superiority of Asian economic and leadership models. Borg decision making operated in an analogous manner to the Japanese ringi system, where decisions are made consensually by the entire workforce. Many Western manufacturing facilities were assimilated into these new ways of working while the Enterprise continued its fictional fight with the Borg to preserve humanity's culture, individuality and ways of thinking.It is not clear whether the Star Trek writing team had any interactions with the British Psychological Society. The Psychologist
==============================
## Title: Bill defends Hillary on Email controversy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Bill defends Hillary on Email controversy
US: Former US President Bill Clinton defended his wife Hillary, the Democratic presidential frontrunner who has come under attack for using a private email server while serving as Secretary of State.
The former president said he has never seen so much extended on so little.
In an interview aired Sunday on CNN's Fareed Zakaria GPS, the 42nd president pegged the scandal as overblown hype, saying such affairs have been a regular feature of all of our presidential campaigns.
The other party doesn't want to run against her. If they do, they'd like her as mangled up as possible, he said.
Hillary Clinton has been dogged for months by revelations that she used a private email account and home server in lieu of the official government email system while she was Secretary of State from 2009 to 2013.
Clinton said his wife, who has seen her lead in national polls narrow, was the target of competitors attempting to whittle away her frontrunner status.
They thought the only way they could make it a race was a full-scale frontal assault on her, Bill Clinton said.
And so this e-mail thing became the biggest story in the world. I actually am amazed that she's borne up under it as well as she has, he said.
The State Department, to which Hillary Clinton already turned over 30,000 official emails in late 2014, has publicly released thousands of them in the interest of transparency.
Many contain information that has been retroactively classified, raising questions about whether Clinton was inappropriately sending and receiving highly sensitive material, and whether sufficient security measures were in place to protect her server from hackers.
At the beginning of the year, she was the most admired person in public life, Bill Clinton said.
I think it will be all right, he added.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: CD of Buddhist songs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
CD of Buddhist songs
A CD containing Buddhist songs by Ven.Godauda Ariyadamma Nayaka Thera will be released on October 2 at Sri Sudharmaramaya, Maligawatte at 4 p.m. to coincide with the Ven.Thera's birthday. The event will be graced by invited guests.
The songs, of which lyrics and music composed by Sameera Subhasinghe, are sung by child singer Upeksha Udapadi Abeysinghe.
==============================
## Title: Chemistry institute launches special Issue
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Chemistry institute launches special Issue
The Council of the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon has launched a special issue of "Chemistry in Sri Lanka", its highly esteemed quarterly publication, dedicated to Prof. JNO Fernando as a mark of honour to this great teacher and scholar.
The event will be inaugurated on October second, at 3.00 pm at Institute of Chemistry Ceylon Adamantane House, Rajagiriya.
Participation of his family members, K.R.Dayananda, President of the Institute, Professor S. P. Deraniyagala, Honorary Rector of the College of Chemical Sciences and MRM Haniffa President Elect and Dean of the College of Chemical Sciences and the members of the Institute.
This special occasion will be graced by Professor Nalini Ratnasiri Emeritus Professor of the OUSL as the Chief Guest and Eng. B.R. Oclean Fernando as the Guest of Honour.
==============================
## Title: Choral concert
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Choral concert
A choral concert of classical sacred songs with over 400 student choristers will be presented at the St Joseph's College, Chapel, Colombo 10 on October 3 at 6.30 pm.
The choirs of St Joseph's College St Peter's College, St Sebastian's College, Good Shepherd Convent, St Bridget's Convent, Holy Family Convent and St Lawrence's Convent will participate.St Cecelia's chair of St Joseph's College will open the event with selections from Mozart's Requiem and the Laudate.
There will be compositions from Beethoven, Verdi, Wagner, Vivaldi, Handel, Palestrina and Lotto and each school choir will make presentations.
The 400 singers will conclude the event with Mozart's exquisite composition Ave Verum Corpus. It is open to the public free.
==============================
## Title: Cleaning up the Augean Stables
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Cleaning up the Augean Stables
Lack of judicial independence and political appointments crippling the judiciary were no alien topic to Sri Lankan media over the past 20 years. When former Attorney General Sarath N. Silva was elevated to the position of the Chief Justice under former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Victor Ivan, Editor of a radical vernacular newspaper at the time, said it was final nail in the judiciarys coffin. But, the last five years of the Rajapaksa administration took this issue to a whole new level with the Executive President becoming the sole authority when it came to appointments of apex court judges. There was criticism that those who had political and personal affiliations with the former first family were handpicked to hold top offices in the judiciary while sidelining those who safeguarded professional integrity and ethics. The culmination of this process was the appointment of former Attorney General Mohan Pieris as the Chief Justice of the country, after the flawed impeachment of Shirani Bandaranayake in January, 2013.
Political interference in the Sri Lankan judiciary became a hot topic among key members of the international community who said the country was heading towards constitutional autocracy. Certain judicial appointments also came under question as some of the appointees had direct affiliations with the top echelons of the government. Although the 10-year long Rajapaksa rule ended on January 8, this year, the system he constructed remained in the absence of necessary remedial measures by the new government. So did the high-ranking judicial figures appointed by the previous rule.
It was against this backdrop that the UNHRC Chief and the OHCHR report called for a hybrid judicial mechanism to investigate into alleged war crimes during the final phase of war. While announcing this, they openly raised doubts over the Sri Lankan judiciarys ability to inquire into mass scale crimes of which members of the Sri Lankan military forces were accused. Some sections of the international community raised concerned that the protectionist attitude adopted by the Sri Lankan government on security forces would come into play when the country conducting a completely domestic war crimes inquiry.
Hard bargain over hybrid court may lead to key changes in judiciary
When bargaining over the hybrid mechanism on the sidelines of the 30th session of the UNHRC in Geneva, the Sri Lankan delegation had to convince the international community that the Sri Lankan judiciary was undergoing transformation especially in the light of constitutional provisions such as the 19th Amendment. They had to stress that Sri Lankan judges were capable of conducting impartial and transparent inquiries into the conduct of the members of its own security forces. However, as a result of this hard bargaining, the Sri Lankan delegation and the UNHRC member nations arrived at an agreement on a compromise over the recommendation pertaining to a hybrid system. They finally settled for an inquiry process owned by Sri Lankan with the active support and involvement of international stakeholders, including commonwealth and other foreign judges, and prosecutors.
While such negotiations were taking place in Geneva, the government was exploring the possibility of cleaning up the Augean Stables of the countrys judiciary. The government is expected to adopt a two-pronged approach in this regard. One aspect is likely to be fulfilled with the introduction of a new constitution. The President and the Prime Minister have already expressed confidence that a new constitution will be introduced in 2016. As the national unity government wields 2/3rd majority in Parliament, they will have enough Parliamentary strength to ensure the passage of a new constitution within the next two years.
Prominent legal bodies, such as the Sri Lanka Bar Association, have requested the government to introduce a mechanism based on Latimer House Principles to regulate appointments and removals of judges. The introduction of a new constitution will be an ideal platform for a reform of that nature. At the same time, there are serious concerns over some of the apex court judges who are presently holding office in spite of criminal charges leveled against them.
It was against this backdrop that there was speculation about a possible impeachment of a Supreme Court judge. It was in the grapevine that a Supreme Court judge who faced criminal charges in the recent past would face the risk of an impeachment in the near future. However, it is questionable as to how an impeachment process will come into play as there is an ongoing court case in the connection with the charges against the judge. Some sections of the legal fraternity believe such a measure will not stand in line with the basic tenets of good governance although there are serious concerns about the judge under question.
At the same time, some parties are already pushing for action against the controversial judge in spite of the ongoing court case against him.
The question is whether that person to suitable to hold the office. That is the main question that will come into play during an impeachment. The Parliament, however, can proceed with such a process irrespective of the court case, a senior lawyer, speaking to the Daily News, explained, adding that there was a need for a major clean-up in judicial appointments as the process was completely politicized by the previous regime, especially over the past five years.
It is important to make sure that the remedial measures are taken in a constitutional manner and without leaving spaces for political appointments. It solely depends on the political will of the government, the senior Lawyer added.
However, there is no constitutional barrier for the government to proceed with an investigation against the judge. The Constitution says that an appellate court judge shall not be removed except by an order of the President made after an address of Parliament An impeachment motion would have to be supported by a majority of the total number of Members of Parliament (including those not present) and has to be presented to the President for such removal on the grounds of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
President has three strategically important meetings in New York
On the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, President Maithripala Sirisena had discussions with some key stakeholders of the international community who will work closely with the Sri Lankan government within the next one and a half years, within the framework of the domestic investigation process. President Sirisenas first important strategic meeting was with South African President Jacob Zuma with whom the Sri Lankan government had talks on forming a Truth and Reconciliation Commission. South Africa is expected to play an important role in the domestic inquiry process as Sri Lanka has already proposed to form a Truth and Reconciliation Commission, following the South African model. It was against this backdrop that discussions took place between President Sirisena and South African President Jacob Zuma on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly.
President Sirisenas next important strategic meeting was with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon who, at the meeting, strongly encouraged the President to advance the dialogue on a political settlement.
He told President Sirisena to seize this opportunity to lay the foundation for long-lasting peace and stability. This was stated in the communiqu issued by the UN Chiefs office following the meeting between Ban Ki-moon and the Sri Lankan President.
The Secretary-General discussed recent political developments, congratulated the President on the elections, and commended his message of national unity, reconciliation and good governance.
He encouraged the President to advance the dialogue on a political settlement and seize this opportunity to lay the foundation for long-lasting peace and stability.
The Secretary-General, during the meeting with the President, welcomed the High Commissioner for Human Rights recently released report on Sri Lanka. He was pleased with the governments positive and constructive engagement with the UN on the report, and he hoped that the President would implement its recommendations. This remark was a key indication that the UN was keen to see a proactive approach from Sri Lanka when it came to the implementation of the recommendations of the OHCHR report.
The Secretary-General reiterated his strong commitment to Sri Lanka and pledged the UNs continued support. He looked forward to working closely with the President, the government and domestic stakeholders during this critical time. The Secretary-General also encouraged the President to incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals into the national development agenda.
Meanwhile, a statement issued by the Presidents Media Unit on the same matter quoted the UN Chief as saying the Sri Lankan President has won the trust of entire world and as a result a lot of countries have come forward to help Sri Lanka.
The President had said the 19th Amendment and the independent commissions were introduced with the aim of propagating and strengthening the concepts of Good Governancewithin the country. Responding to the UN Secretary Generals remarks on the OHCHR reports recommendations, the President had said his government would act in an appropriate manner with regards to the Geneva proposals. The President had added that his government always remained committed to create lasting reconciliation among all communities.
Kerry explains US position to President Sirisena
President Sirisenas meeting with US State Secretary John Kerry also positioned Sri Lanka in the positive light. The US Secretary, during the meeting held in New York on the sidelines of the General Assembly, commended the bold steps taken by the new Sri Lankan government to restore democratic freedoms at home and to renew its engagements with the United Nations and other key partners abroad.
He noted the United States support for a credible domestic process for justice and reconciliation in Sri Lanka -- one that is led and owned by the Sri Lankan people and is conducted in cooperation with the UN and with international support.
The Secretary and President Sirisena also discussed ways in which the United States can support Sri Lanka in pursuing clean energy initiatives, improving cooperation on climate change efforts in the run-up to the COP 21 meeting in Paris, and working toward open government goals.
President Maithripala Sirisena withUN Secretary General Ban-Ki-moon
The highlight of the meeting was the US State Secretarys pledge to support a credible domestic process. This came after Sri Lanka decided to a co-sponsor the US initiated resolution presented to the 30th session of the UNHRC. It ruled out the proposal over a hybrid court made by the OHCHR report and the UN Human Rights Chief. Technically, the proposal for a hybrid court has now been replaced with one for a credible and domestic investigation with the cooperation and support of international stakeholders. This can be construed as a significant victory from Sri Lankas perspective.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, during a meeting with newspaper editors and media heads on Sunday, further explained the mechanism and specific features of the domestic investigation. The meeting was, more or less, an extension of the previous meeting held at the official residence of the President with the participation of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. In addition to Prime Minister Wickremesinghe, Minister Rajitha Senaratne and Deputy Minister Harsha de Silva who also exchanged their views with media heads and newspaper editors.
The Truth Commission will have another segment called Compassionate Council. Though it will be headed by a layman, a panel of clergymen - that will include Mahanayakes, Bishops of the Christian and Catholic churches, high priests from the Muslim and the Hindu clergy - would be drawn to form the Compassionate Council. 
He said the Missing Persons Office would be a permanent one dealing with relevant complaints. The Special Counsels office, according to the Prime Minister, will be Sri Lankan and it will decide on the investigations and the cases that should go directly to the judiciary or to the Truth Commission.
He was optimistic that many cases will end up in the Truth Commission and the Compassionate Council.
Foreign prosecutors may join according to the situation that would arise from time to time. We have spoken to the US about the formation of the judicial mechanism and it is up to Sri Lanka to formulate new laws, he added, stating that the Special Counsel might, from time to time, obtain the assistance of international lawyers for the smooth functioning of the office.
In Sri Lanka we have only a few capable officers to handle this kind of work. I have already spoken to the Bar Association of Sri Lanka on this matter, he said.
The Prime Minister emphasized the fact that the process of truth seeking should be short. We will have day to day sittings and only one appeal against orders. The Supreme Court will decide whether foreign defence counsel would be allowed. I told the Bar Association to formulate a mechanism for this too.
President Mahinda Rajapaksa brought it foreign counsels to assist the Paranagama Commission. They sat along with the judges of the commission, the Prime Minister said adding that new laws of will be formulated under article 13 (6) paragraph 01 of the present constitution, which refers to the Freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention and punishment, and prohibition of retroactive penal legislation
It says, No person shall be held guilty of an offence on account of any act or omission which did not, at the time of such act or omission, constitute such an offence, and no penalty shall be imposed for any offence more severe than the penalty in force at the time such offence was committed.
Nothing in this Article shall prejudice the trial and punishment of any person for any act or omission which, at the time when it was committed, was criminal according to the general principles of law recognized by the community of nations.
It shall not be a contravention of this Article to require the imposition of a minimum penalty for an offence provided that such penalty does not exceed the maximum penalty prescribed for such offence at the time such offence was committed.
This clearly indicates that the parametres of the Sri Lankan inquiry mechanism are different from hybrid mechanisms adopted by several other countries to deal with their conflict related matters.
East Timor mechanism
For instance, in East Timor, the UN acted as transitional authority in East Timor between the end of the Indonesian occupation in 1999 and independence in 2002. This UN Transitional Authority in East Timor (UNTAET) installed the Special Panels for Serious Crimes (SPSC) in Dili, East Timor. The panel commenced its activities in 2000 after the UN Investigative Commission ended its job, reporting killings, destroyed property and evictions. Concerning jurisdiction, the Panels covered serious international crimes (including genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and torture). The Panels consisted of one national and two international judges, thus creating a hybrid tribunal. The Tribunal had primacy over national courts with respect to crimes within their exclusive jurisdiction. At the time the Special Panels were established, the UNTAET also founded a Public Prosecution Service, including a Serious Crimes Unit (SCU), separately from the national judicial structure. This Unit was not part of the Special Panels but operated quasi separately from the Court, which was part of the national structure of the Dili District Court. International staff dominated the SCU. After the independence of East Timor in May 2002, the SPSC and SCU continued until May 2005, when the UN support was withdrawn and the operations indefinitely adjourned.
Kosovo model
The UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) initiated a hybrid tribunal to investigate into those responsible for crimes committed in Kosovo in 1999. The UNMIK made it possible for international judges to serve together with domestic judges in existing courts in Kosovo, as well as for international prosecutors and defense lawyers to help out their Kosovar counterparts. The international judges however made up the minority on the panels.
The Special Court for Sierra Leone (Special Court, SCSL) was another hybrid tribunal installed by agreement between the United Nations and the Sierra Leonean government pursuant to Security Council Resolution 1315 in 2000. The Court as appointed to prosecute persons who bear the greatest responsibility for serious violations of international humanitarian law and Sierra Leonean law committed in Sierra Leone after 30 November 1996 and during the Sierra Leone Civil War. The court had offices in Freetown, The Hague, and New York City, and the Prosecutor issued 13 indictments in 2003. Two of those indictments were withdrawn in December 2003 due to deceases. The tribunal completed the trials of three former leaders of the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC), two members of the Civil Defence Forces (CDF) and of three former leaders of the Revolutionary United Front (RUF). On 26 September 2013, former Liberian President Charles Taylor was convicted on appeal, the first African head of state to be convicted for war crimes.
Lebanese hybrid court
The Special Tribunal for Lebanon (STL) or Hariri Tribunal was an international criminal tribunal mandated to prosecute those responsible for the killing of late Lebanese President Rafiq Hariri on 14 February 2005. An Agreement between the United Nations and the Lebanese Republic established the STL pursuant to Security Council Resolution 1664 (2006). The STL, which was formed as an independent judicial organization, had its main office in Leidschendam, near The Hague (the Netherlands), with a field office in Beirut, Lebanon. The Court had jurisdiction over persons responsible for the attack on Hariri as well as over persons responsible for related attacks that possibly occurred between 1 October 2004 and 12 December 2005. The Lebanese Criminal Code was applicable at the STL and international law was used for reasons of interpretation. The hybrid court had concurrent jurisdiction with national courts.
Cambodia tribunal
The Cambodia Tribunal or Khmer Rouge Tribunal (Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia) was a court set up by agreement between the United Nations and the Cambodian government in 2003. The ECCC is still part of the Cambodian court structure and receives assistance through the UN Assistance to the Khmer Rouge Trials (UNAKRT). Because there are both local and foreign judges on the bench, of whom local judges form a majority, it was considered a hybrid court. The mandate of the ECCC was to try senior leaders of Khmer Rouge and those most responsible for the crimes and serious violations of Cambodian penal law, international humanitarian law and customs, and international conventions recognized Cambodia, that were committed during the period from 17 April 1975 to 6 January 1979. This meant the ECCC had the power to bring suspects to trial for homicide, torture, religious persecution, genocide, crimes against humanity, grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, destruction of cultural property and crimes against internationally protected persons. (Source: International crimes database)
==============================
## Title: The Coffee marvel
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
The Coffee marvel
Coffee is actually very healthy. It is loaded with antioxidants and beneficial nutrients that can improve your health.
The studies show that coffee drinkers have a much lower risk of several serious diseases.
1. Coffee Can Improve Energy Levels and Make You Smarter
Coffee can help people feel less tired and increase energy levels.
This is because it contains a stimulant called caffeine, which is actually the most commonly consumed psychoactive substance in the world.
After you drink coffee, the caffeine is absorbed into the bloodstream. From there, it travels into the brain.
In the brain, caffeine blocks an inhibitory neurotransmitter called Adenosine.
When that happens, the amount of other neurotransmitters like norepinephrine and dopamine actually increases, leading to enhanced firing of neurons.
Many controlled trials in humans show that coffee improves various aspects of brain function. This includes memory, mood, vigilance, energy levels, reaction times and general cognitive function
2. Coffee Can Help You Burn Fat
Cup of Coffee And Coffee Beans
Did you know that caffeine is found in almost every commercial fat burning supplement
There's a good reason for that... caffeine is one of the very few natural substances that have actually been proven to aid fat burning.
Several studies show that caffeine can boost the metabolic rate by 3-11%.
Other studies show that caffeine can specifically increase the burning of fat, by as much as 10% in obese individuals and 29% in lean people.
However, it is possible that these effects will diminish in long-term coffee drinkers.
3. The Caffeine Can Drastically Improve Physical Performance
Dumbbells
Caffeine stimulates the nervous system, causing it to send signals to the fat cells to break down body fat.
But caffeine also increases Epinephrine (Adrenaline) levels in the blood (15, 16).
This is the "fight or flight" hormone, designed to make our bodies ready for intense physical exertion.
Caffeine makes the fat cells break down body fat, releasing them into the blood as free fatty acids and making them available as fuel.
Given these effects, it is not surprising to see that caffeine can improve physical performance by 11-12%, on average.
Because of this, it makes sense to have a strong cup of coffee about a half an hour before you head to the gym.
Bottom Line: Caffeine can increase adrenaline levels and release fatty acids from the fat tissues. It also leads to significant improvements in physical performance.
4. There Are Essential Nutrients in Coffee
Coffee is more than just black water. Many of the nutrients in the coffee beans do make it into the final drink.
5. Coffee May Lower Your Risk of Type II Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a gigantic health problem, currently afflicting about 300 million people worldwide.
It is characterized by elevated blood sugars in the context of insulin resistance or an inability to secrete insulin.
For some reason, coffee drinkers have a significantly reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
The studies show that people who drink the most coffee have a 23-50% lower risk of getting this disease, one study showing a reduction as high as 67%.
According to a massive review that looked at data from 18 studies with a total of 457,922 individuals, each daily cup of coffee was associated with a 7% reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes. - Authoritynutrition.com
==============================
## Title: [DN Diary - (30-09-2015)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
[DN Diary - (30-09-2015)]
Buddhist talk
Ven. Olande Ananda Thera will deliver a public talk in english on "Well-being through Miondfulness" on October 3 at Maithriya Hall, No. 36, Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya at 4.30 p.m.
*******-----
Annual Olcott Oration
The Annual Olcott Oration will be held at 7.00 p.m. on October 7 at Holiday Inn - Express Hotel - Airport Road. Anandian and former minister Imthiaz Bakeer Markar will be the speaker.
*******-----
Seminars cancelled
Dinamina  Sithumina GCE OL seminars due to be held today at Richmond College, Galle and at St Thomas College, Matara tomorrow will not be held on account of heavy rains experienced in these areas. New dates will be announced later.
*******-----
Symposium on Vaccines
The Vaccine Forum of Sri Lanka will hold the 6th Annual Symposium on Vaccines from 8.00 a.m. on October 4 at Medical Research Institute Auditorium, Colombo 8 (MRI).
Eminent speakers from overseas and Sri Lanka will share their expertise in this important area. Some highlights include: Advances in vaccinology (Dr. Anil Dutta, Vice President, GSK Biologicals, Belgium), Cervical Cancer and HPV vaccines (Dr. Anuj Walia, Regional Director, Asia Pacific, MSD), Changes in National Immunization Policy (Dr. Paba Palihawadana, Health Ministry Chief Epidemiologist), Measles Rubella & Congenital Rubella Syndrome elimination (Dr. Deepa Gamage, Consultant Epidemiologist) and Influenza Vaccination (Dr. Ananda Amarasinghe, Consultant Epidemiologist), Malaria Elimination in Sri Lanka (Dr. Risintha Premaratne, Director, Aniti Malaria Campaign) and the Vaccination of Special Groups (Dr. Lilani Rajapakse, Consultant Veneriologist; Dr. Rajiva de Silva, Consultant Immunologist; Dr. Omala Wimalaratne, Consultant Vaccinologist)
*******-----
Child rights march
An awareness raising march will be held by the Youth Club Federation of Bibile today at 10.00 a.m. at Bibile town. Around 200 youth has organised the march to make the public aware of child rights and the safety of children. The march will proceed from the Bibile Divisional Secretariat to the town centre, assisted by Bibile Police and government agencies.
*******-----
SLRC programmes for Children's Day
The Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation (SLRC) will telecast a series of programmes to mark the Universal Children's Day tomorrow. An Indian family film Chandu will be telecast at 10.10 p.m. tomorrow. This film weaves its story on the themes of motherly love, facing challenges and generosity. Athula Ransirilal who heads the SLRC's dubbing division has written a Sinhala theme song for this film.
*******-----
AGM
The annual general meeting of the 1967 batch of Peradeniya University Arts faculty followed by by a get-together will be held on Saturday at Galbangalawa (Rock House) Mahakanda from 9.00 a.m. for details contact Secretary Ariyaratne on 0714495143.
*******-----
Int'l Children's Day programme
The Methodist Church Sri Lanka will hold a "Silent Show of Solidarity with All Children" tomorrow from 4.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. to mark International Children's Day. About 100 people will be standing on the Galle Road and along Station Road, Kollupitiya, holding banners and placards as a silent show of solidarity within the Methodist Church, about the care and safety of all children.
*******-----
Keuneman commemoration
A commemorative ceremony to mark the 98th birth anniversary of late Communist Party General Secretary and Minister Pieter Keuneman organised by the Pieter Keuneman Commemorative Committee will be held near the Keuneman Statue Maradana on October 3 at 9.00 a.m. Colombo Mayor A. J. M. Muzammil will be the chief guest. State Minister A. H. M. Fowzie, Parliamentarians Vasudeva Nanayakkara and Chandrasiri Gajadheera, communist Party General Secretary D. E. W. Gunawardena, LSSP General Secretary Prof. Tissa Vitharan and Commemorative Committee Secretary M. A. Rizvi will also be present.
*******-----
Trinity OBA dinner dance
The 107th annual dinner dance of the Trinity College Old Boys Association, Colombo branch will held at Hilton Colombo on Saturday, October 3. For details contact Chandran on 0777240215.
==============================
## Title: Encroaching King Tut's tomb
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Encroaching King Tut's tomb
Nearly a century after the rediscovery of King Tut's tomb ignited a worldwide craze for Egyptology, new findings could turn out to be almost as stunning.
On Monday, after a group of Egyptian and foreign archaeologists examined the famous tomb, Egypt's antiquities minister confirmed that they found evidence suggesting the existence of two previously undiscovered rooms.
"This indicates that the western and northern walls of Tutankhamun's tomb could hide two burial chambers," minister Mamdouh Eldamaty told the Egyptian state press.
"To be honest, I feel numb," Nicholas Reeves, the archaeologist who first proposed the existence of the hidden rooms, said in his Luxor hotel room, after inspecting the tomb. "This has been part of my life now on a daily basis for more than a year."
Earlier this year, Reeves published a paper in which he claimed that the tomb of Tutankhamun, an 18th-Dynasty pharaoh who died around 1323 B.C., includes two doorways that were plastered and painted over.
In Reeves's theory, these doorways are among several clues suggesting that the tomb was originally built for another ruler-Nefertiti, the principal wife of Akhenaten, who is believed to have fathered Tutankhamun with another wife.
Reeves believes that Nefertiti and her grave goods may even lie intact behind the hidden doors, which were never penetrated by ancient robbers or modern archaeologists. But until Monday his theory had not been supported by a physical examination of the tomb itself. (Read more about Reeves's theory.)
Lines of Evidence
"First of all, we saw that on the ceiling itself there's a distinct line," Reeves said, after returning from visiting the tomb with Egyptian archaeologists and officials. He explained that in the room that contains Tutankhamun's sarcophagus, the line on the ceiling perfectly matches the section of wall that appears to have been plastered over. "It suggests that the room was indeed a corridor," he said.
The archaeologists also noticed a marked contrast in the materials that cover different parts of the same wall. "What my Egyptian colleagues discovered is that there is a distinct difference in the surface of the surrounding wall and the central part that would be covering the door," Reeves said. "The surrounding wall is a softer plastering. At the point where I suspect there's a doorway, it's quite gritty."
This gritty material matches fragments that originally covered another blocked door opened by Howard Carter in 1922. Carter, who excavated with a meticulousness that was highly unusual for his era, collected the gritty material, and it's still stored in a side room of the tomb, where Reeves and the others were able to examine it.
While Carter was obsessively thorough-he spent nearly a full decade excavating and documenting the tomb-he couldn't have imagined the kind of tools that are available to today's archaeologists.
Reeves first began developing his theory after studying laser scans of the tomb made by Factum Arte, a high-tech team of conservators and artists who built a precise replica of the tomb in Luxor. As part of that project, which was completed earlier this year, Factum Arte posted all of its data online, including a series of scans that show the tomb's walls in unprecedented detail.
These scans reveal clear, straight lines that lie beneath the surface of the paint and plaster, suggesting the outlines of two doorways.
The material has been available to anybody with even a casual interest in Egyptology- but probably nobody has studied it as closely as Reeves. Over the years, he's gained a reputation as a scholar who makes breakthroughs by re-examining material that is publicly available.
"He's always been a very clever and creative guy in the sense that he looks at stuff in ways that a lot of people wouldn't," Donald P. Ryan, an archaeologist at Pacific Lutheran University, who has excavated for years in the Valley of the Kings, said in a telephone interview.
Tut's Treasures-Fit for a Queen
Ryan referred to one project that began when Reeves visited the Egyptian Museum in Cairo and simply stared hard at one of the most famous artifacts on Earth- Tutankhamun's golden funerary mask. Over time, Reeves began noticing details that suggest that parts of the mask may have been repurposed from the burial goods of another ruler. "Reeves made a brilliant argument that the face mask of Tutankhamun was originally made for a woman," Ryan said.
"For the last few years, I've been looking at the objects," Reeves said, referring to the treasures found in Tutankhamun's tomb. "I came to the conclusion that an estimated 80 percent of the burial equipment had been made for somebody else, for a woman." Reeves believes that this woman was Nefertiti, and that she ruled as pharaoh under the name Neferneferuaten-a mysterious figure who has been the subject of much debate among Egyptologists.
Reeves acknowledges that many other archaeologists have vastly different views of the 18th Dynasty and its rulers. This is one of the most fascinating periods in ancient Egyptian history, but it's also one of the most controversial, and it has always attracted extreme views and theories. Even Reeves admits that he has entered his recent work with great trepidation.
"I was nervous about this because it looks as if there's something here, but let's face it-it's ridiculous!" he said, laughing. "Carter was a fabulous archaeologist. He was suspicious. He was thorough. He wasn't going to miss a trick. But again, there are developments in technology that weren't available to him."
Peering Behind a Priceless Painting
The next step, Reeves hopes, is to conduct a further examination with radar equipment and thermal imaging, both of which could reveal more clues as to what lies behind the possible doorways. He anticipates that this may be done in late November, depending on Egyptian authorities, who thus far have been highly supportive of Reeves's work. And the Antiquities Ministry will decide what to do if there is further evidence of hidden rooms. This would represent the biggest challenge of the project, because one of the proposed doorways is covered by a priceless wall painting.
- National Geographic
==============================
## Title: Is the five-second food rule really true
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Is the five-second food rule really true
Have you ever heard this phrase "Eat it, just only five seconds" It happens to me every time when I or my friends dropped snack on the table or floor.
Someone told me that bacteria, mold and virus can't see food or they move too slow to come to your food in five second. You can eat that food like nothing happened. So I am very interested in this phrase. It is true or false and what happen if you eat it. However, this is considered scientific myth that "Is five - second rule real" I will show you the result from my experiment.
Before I show the result, I will tell you my hypothesis. In my opinion, I have one hypothesis. I think food must be contaminated when it touches table for five second. People who eat it can be sick, stomachache and diarrhea because the table surface has many microorganisms and dirtiness that could make you sick. Although housekeepers have already cleaned table, the microorganisms still exist. Some come from air and people so my hypothesis is five - second rule is wrong from my reason above.
To prove five seconds rule I did experiment in KMUTT laboratory on 5th floor of Pilot Plant Development and Training Institute. First, I found some liquid food and finally chose ice-cream for my experience because it is easy to drop and I like it very much. Then I divided ice-cream in to two situations;
A.) Pure ice-cream that come from pack
B.) Ice-cream that drop on the table for 5 seconds
After got ice-cream from two situations, I add bacteria in to broth (liquid bacteria food). Two days later, I transferred them into agar-agar (solid bacteria food). And looked for their colony in agar-agar. Next I tested ice-cream from two situations by using gram - straining technique to specify type and density of bacteria by sample random sampling of ice-cream. Finally, I compared results between two situations by using microscope and proved five - seconds rule.
The results from experiment show that there are 3 colonies and 2 kinds of bacteria in first situation and there are 5 colonies and 4 kinds of bacteria. Both situations have Bacillus subtilis and Clostridium botulinum. The second situation has two more kinds of bacteria Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica which were not found in first situation.
Bacteria found in both situations are normal bacteria that live in air and ingredient.
These bacteria don't cause any illness. But in second situation, E. coli and S. enterica are pathogenic bacteria that cause diarrhea. In 2011, E. coli spread in German and Europe and cause diarrhea in people and died for 21 people. Although WHO noticed the warning of diarrhea and make sure that your food is clean enough to eat.
My conclusion is food that falls on the table is contaminated by bacteria that live on the table surface and in air. So five - second rule is not wrong at all because the food able to eat because number of bad bacteria in environment is very little.
If you eat in time that the number of bacteria are not increase too much. Although bacteria can grow in your body and make you sick if you have weak health and being sick. So just too sure, not eating dropped food is the best way to avoid illness and stay healthy.
www.dssmythbuster.blogspot.com
==============================
## Title: Govt buys highest ever paddy stock
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Govt buys highest ever paddy stock
The government has purchased the highest paddy harvest so far - over 150,000 mt - spending Rs. 6,000 million during the current Yala season, Paddy Marketing Board (PMB) Chairman M. D. Dissanayake said.
He said the government expects to increase the quantity of paddy purchased from farmers upto 170,000 mt in this season.
"We hope to increase the allocated funds upto Rs. 8,500 million," he said. Dissanayake said the highest ever paddy harvest in the Yala season in Sri Lanka's history has been recorded this year.
"The government's paddy purchasing programme is being carried out successfully. The PMB is engaged in buying standard paddy produced by farmers despite efforts made by the Opposition to sabotage the programme by misleading farmers," he said.
==============================
## Title: Heavy rain displace 475 families
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 08:30
Heavy rain displace 475 families
475 families displaced in 11 garama seva divisions of the Matara Sathara divisional secretariat due to torrential rain fallen consecutive 4 days in the area.
Therefore cooked food have been supplied to the people displaced in the area since 27th September
==============================
## Title: Houses for landslide victims
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Houses for landslide victims
Permanent houses will be built for persons who lost lost their houses in the landslide within three months, Upcountry New Villages, Infrastructure and Community Development Minister P. Digambaram said.
The minister visited the landslide affected area at Lily Estate Kotmale on an inspection tour on September 26. He said he will build houses for those who lost them in the land slide. These houses costing Rs. 1.2 million will be built on a plot of land obtained from the same estate on the recommendation of the Building Research Institute, he said.
Seven houses were completely damaged in the landslide and the Building Research Institute had ordered the eviction of families residing in 10 other houses facing an imminent landslide threat. Accordingly 17 new houses will be build under the first stage of the housing programme.
Seven persons died in the landslide and 193 persons belonging to 44 families were displaced.
Minister Digambaram also visited the displaced people accommodated at the Ramboda Tamil Vidyalaya to look into their needs.
==============================
## Title: Increased access to higher education
## Supertitle: Under Education National Plan
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Under Education National Plan
Increased access to higher education
e-Education centres for undergrads
With the aim of facilitating undergraduates to access the latest in advanced and novel knowledge available in the world, e-education centres would be established in every university by next year, University Education State Minister Mohan Lal Grero said.
In line with establishing e-education centres, each reading room in universities would be provided with Wi-Fi facilities next year. The Higher Education Ministry would allocate the necessary funds for the project in due course, he added.
Besides moving to the latest of advancements in the education sector, it has been planned to establish a central national digital library through which lecturers, undergraduates, or other parties could access the library, the Minister said.
On a governments policy decision, the room for accessing higher education would be significantly increased during the next five year period under the national plan for higher education, State Minister for University Education Mohan Lal Grero said.
He said so after he met the university academics at the University Grants Commissions yesterday.
He noted that more students should be recruited to universities, allowing more students to access the higher education sector. Similarly, undergraduate courses should be transformed with a view of producing employable graduates.
Without considering the trends and demands in the job market, our universities produce graduates. Once these graduates enter the job market, they lag behind in finding employment as the qualifications they possess, are not what the job market expects. In other words we are attempting to produce squire pegs to fit into round holes, he said.
Moreover, the Minister said it has been planned to establish a unit in every university, called the industry advisory council for each trade. The unit will design degree programmes, which are would be favourable to job market as well as industries and we could be able to get advice from industries to design degree programmes through this advisory committee.
As a move to produce employable graduates who would be a resource to the job market, a Technology Stream as the fifth stream for the Advanced Level was introduced in 2013.
Now the idea is to reduce the number of students who are opting to read art streams in advanced level curricular. But I would have to mention that out of 334 DS divisions in our country, there are no 1AB school in 72 DS divisions which offered maths and science streams until 2013, revealing that there was a huge issue in the distribution of resources for the general education system of this country, Minister Grero added.
The government would also facilitate the increase or the intake. It had been aimed at increasing the intake by 10 percent annually, so as to reach the target within a 5 year period by 2020.
When you consider the quality of undergraduate courses, we need to establish a quality assurance unit in each university to have internal quality audits. My proposal is to establish a quality assurance and an accreditation council, an independent council which is answerable to the Minister and the UGC, so that they could do an external audit on the quality of universities in future, he said.
==============================
## Title: India mulls Lankan model
## Supertitle: Human - jumbo conflict
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Human - jumbo conflict
India mulls Lankan model
India is now exploring the Sri Lankan model of palmyra tree fencing around human habitations to check the increasing cases of human-elephant conflict which, on an average, results in 400 human deaths annually in India.
The Indian Environment Ministry will be interacting with Sri Lankan authorities to see if the tree fence model can be replicated in India, following its success in Sri Lanka.
According to a senior official in the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests, Sri Lanka has succeeded in bringing down cases of conflict by preventing elephants from entering human habitation, using the low-cost solution of tree fence.
Palmyra trees are grown in a zig-zag manner with a five-foot gap in between them and eight feet gaps between the rows, which creates a 40-feet barrier between humans and elephants, said an Environment Ministry official, adding that the sharp edges of trees would help in keeping the elephants away.
While the talks are at a very nascent stage, the MoEF official believes it can be implemented since it is cost effective, sustainable and creates tree cover.
The trees also provide fruits for elephants and generate income to the local people. Sri Lanka held field trials at four places and found it successful and a better solution than the electric fences.
Worried over rampant incidents of elephant herds straying into human habitats and damaging crops, the Union Government earlier this year suggested to all elephant range States to follow the African model of using bee fences and chilly fences to deter elephants from raiding crops and to avoid human-animal conflict. Kerala has already begun trials using chilly fences.
Besides, the Ministry has also mooted a proposal for collar-tagging elephants, as being done for tracking tigers, to study their movement. The idea is get a pattern of elephant dispersal and migration across the country and use that for avoiding human animal conflicts.
India has the largest population of Asian elephants, with the 2012 census putting the number between 25,000 and 30,000 in 16 States.
India launched Project Elephant in 1992 to protect the pachyderms, their habitat and corridors, besides addressing man-elephant conflict. Elephants have been straying into human habitations in search of food as large forest areas are being destroyed for development and urbanisation.
Over 200 elephants have been killed in the last three years due to poaching, electrocution, train hits and poisoning.
Courtesy: The New Indian Express
==============================
## Title: iPhone 6S: bent, scratched, dropped and dunked in water - how durable is it
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
iPhone 6S: bent, scratched, dropped and dunked in water - how durable is it
Every new smartphone is meant to be better than the last, but hardiness is often not included in that upgrade. Now the iPhone 6S has been dropped, bent, scratched and now submerged in water, how tough is it
Last year users complained about the iPhone ending up bent after trips through user pockets.
Testers then took their thumbs to various other large and thin smartphones, including Samsung's Galaxy Note series.
This year saw Samsung claim a 1.7 times strength increase within its Galaxy S6 smartphones to try and stop bending.
Apple also switched to a stronger aluminium for its iPhone 6S and 6S Plus, which it claims is harder, but is it and will it bend Vlogger Christian from FoneFox put it to the test.
The iPhone 6S Plus seems to be more resilient. Requiring two people to actually bend it indicates users are unlikely to do it by accident. Chalk this one up to positive consumer action from last year's bendgate.
Dropping and scratching
Bending isn't quite in the same consumer-issue league as dropping smartphones. The harder aluminium used in the new iPhone helps it survive drops on to its edges and back better than last year's iPhone 6S, with fewer marks and deformations in the frame. Dropping it on to the screen still has a predictable effect, according to vlogger David Rahimi:
Apple claims its X-ion glass screen is the hardest in the business, and while it will stand up to keys, knives, grit and sandpaper are not the iPhone 6S's friend, according to vlogger JerryRigEverything:
Samsung's Galaxy S6 with its Corning Gorilla Glass 4 can apparently survive a Stanley knife blade, for comparison, but neither screen is a match for sandpaper or grit in the pocket.
Taking a bath
Apple doesn't claim that the iPhone 6S is waterproof, but it seems that the phone is a lot more capable of surviving a dip into water than last year's iPhone 6 and most other non-waterproof or water-resistant smartphones.
The phones survived an hour of submersion in water, and continued working without issue. Even the exposed Lightning and headphones ports worked fine after the dip, and continued to do so 48 hours later, according to vlogger Zach Straley.
Another vlogger was not so lucky with his testing, showing neither smartphone surviving unscathed after a 30-minute submersion, however. Both the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus are heavier and thicker than last year's iPhone and it seems Apple's claims that they are more durable with harder aluminium frames stands up to testing. But whether they are waterproof seems to be up for debate.
- The Guardian
==============================
## Title: Its reed indeed!
## Supertitle: Rejuvenating a dying craft
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Rejuvenating a dying craft
Its reed indeed!
Picking patterns and colours by visualizing the creation is really a moment of pleasure for Chandani. It gives her a sense of calmness and peacefulness. And she does not hesitate to call it meditation.
This lady belongs to the generation of craftspeople blessed with creative minds and well adapted fingers to weave precise patterns of the traditional reed mat. Pan Padura - as it is popularly known in Sri Lanka - is on the verge of extinction with the ceasing number of skilled craftsmen.
But Chandrani Padmalatha tries to buck the trend. Hailing from Kosgoda, Chandrani claims to have been weaving mats for the past 10 years. It has been her hobby. It has been her leisure.
Sadly the present generation goes for instant things. They have no idea on how things were done in the past. Modern technology has badly affected the traditional artistic, Padmalatha observed.
She produces wall hangings, hand bags, table mats, purses and pencil cases out of Gal Laha Pan (Cyperus corymbosus) and supplies them to hotels and Laksala outlets. Even when she wants a little rest, she turns to weaving for a while.
Then I feel refreshed, said Chandrani, because creating things with fingers is an age-old tradition and will never fade away. Whether it is pottery, metalworking, lacquer working, lace making, handloom textiles, cane works, jewelry, woodworking or any of the many other forms of arts and crafts, it fills me with a sense of satisfaction and accomplishment.
Achala Tharangi, a 26 year old from Bentota area, works in Wetake Training Centre in Bentota with 20 others. They manufacture various crafts from Wetake and Gal Laha Pan and supply them to Laksala and some private firms.
Traditional Pan Pedura is one of the greatest artworks of our traditional craftspeople and the conservation of past practices and traditions in the process offers us an idea of where they have come from, and how far they have reached.
Crafts For Centuries, Dumbara valley of the Kandy district has been famous for its production of mats with Distinctive design and colour schemes.
Since ancient, mat weaving used to be practised by rural women at home and Pan Pedura was considered a necessary domestic accomplishment and was used to sleep, share meals and so on.
Old Sinhalese verses hint as to how our village women were engaged in weaving mats.
Pandarama Gos Pan Vila Dekala
Yan Wela Thibu Pan Udurala
Man Balana Se Athapatha Gala
Heen Heen Pan Thibuniya Leela
Ekata Piyuma La Pedure Puranna
Payata Piyuma La Pedure Puranna
Medata Rata Eth Path Thiyanna
Konata Sathara Mul Ara Daha Wiyala
Traditionally, groups of women would go to the paddy fields, river banks and marshes to harvest the reeds. They would then cut the reeds with a catty. Dried reeds are cleaned and tied into bundles and boiled with dye and dried in the shade. They use reeds of the same length for their weavings. Pan paduru are woven by hand, by keeping it on the floor.
During the ancient time rural villagers were used materials such as slender reeds of the Havan Pan, Gal Laha Pan, Thun-hiriya , Gatapan, Wetakeyya and Pothukola. They add various patterns to their mats. Nelum (lotus), namal (Na flowers), hansaputtuwa (intertwined swans), wankagiriya (mountains), lanugetaya (rope), lanuwa (plait), the swastika, and the mal gaha (flowering plant) are some of the most common designs used. They also use natural dyes obtained from plants such as patangi for red, venivel for yellow, katarolu for purple colour and bulu for black colour black.
Today, pan paduru has advanced away from its beginnings to become a cottage industry practiced by males and females. Pan is woven into more than matting, in items such as bags, wall hangings and table mats.
Pictures by Wimal Karunatilaka
Weaving has become a dying craft now due to the lack of interest that younger generations have in the craft of their forefathers. The most talented workers are retiring, and the young people are not drawn to this field, according to Pubudu Rukmani, Training Instructor of Wetake Training Centre, Bentota (run under the purview of the National Crafts Council).
Assistant Secretary of the National Crafts Council Ananda Jayasinghe said that the government has taken various measures to uplift this dying industry by attracting more young trainee craftsmen for handicrafts training programmes conducted at island wide training centres of the Crafts Council.
The main objective of conducting training programme is to attract more and more youth to the industry. Our training programmes start every January. The Crafts Council also provides a monthly allowance of Rs.1000 for each trainee during the first six months of the training programme. After a six-month training, they will be able to earn a good income by selling their crafts, he said.
At present the National Crafts Council has 120 training centres across the island. Our training programmes are conducted by using raw materials found commonly in the area.
For an example, our Training Centre in Bentota conduct weaving programmes by using Wetake and Gal Laha Pan which can be easily found from their immediate environment. So craftsmen who train under this training centre can find raw materials for their products at a low cost or even free of charge. So there will be no production cost added to their products.
Since craftsmen invent new designs and products, the demand for this industry will never decrease. So the modern mat-weaving craftsmen, to keep up with contemporary requirements, have introduced innovations in producing hand bags, purses, table mats, etc, he said.
==============================
## Title: Muttuhettigama case postponed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Muttuhettigama case postponed
Baddegama Magistrate Chandima Edirimanna, ordered the postponement case in whichDeputy Minister Nishantha Muttuhettigama is charged with the burning of the Wadurambastage where Maithrpala Sirisena is scheduled to be addressed on the last Presidentialelection. The Magistrate had to adjourn proceedings due to the legal framework of thecase not been completed. Waduramba Police presenting the case in court, informed courtthat they had not received the relevant legal information of the case so far. However, theorder not to enter into the eight Police Stations was still in effect. The accused NishanthaMuttuhettigama was present in court along with his six leading lawyers. Picture by LANKINDANANAYAKKARA, Imaduwa Group Corr
==============================
## Title: Nepal may ban disabled climbers from Everest
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Nepal may ban disabled climbers from Everest
NEPAL: Nepal is considering banning severely disabled climbers and those deemed too old from Everest and other mountains in an attempt to improve safety, the head of its tourism department said Monday.
The proposals come five months after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake killed 18 people at Everest base camp and are aimed at improving safety, but they are also likely to spark accusations of discrimination.
We don't think we should issue permits to people who cannot see or walk or who don't have arms, tourism department chief Govinda Karki told AFP.
Climbing Everest is not a joke... it is not a matter of discrimination, how can you climb without legs Someone will have to carry you up, he said.
We want to make the mountains safer for everyone, so we have to insist on some rules.
Karki said the government was also mulling issuing permits only to Everest climbers who first scale another mountain above 6,500 metres to prove they can handle the world's highest peak.
Hundreds of climbers abandoned their bids to ascend the 8,848-metre (29,029-foot) mountain after the April disaster, marking a second spring season with virtually no one reaching the summit.
An avalanche the year before killed 16 guides and triggered global debate about the huge risks borne by Nepalis who fix ropes and repair ladders to help climbers with varying levels of experience.
But Everest has in recent years drawn multitudes of climbers wanting to overcome their disabilities and achieve the formidable feat.
New Zealander Mark Inglis, who lost both his legs to frostbite, became the first double amputee to reach the top of Everest in 2006.
Blind American Erik Weihenmayer scaled the peak in May 2001 and seven years later, became the only visually-impaired person to summit the highest mountains on all seven continents.
Kathmandu-based mountaineering expert Elizabeth Hawley dismissed the government's proposals, calling them unjustified.
I don't think the government is in any position to judge someone's capacities or draw that line for mountaineers, Hawley told AFP.
Erik Weihenmayer is an exceptional climber who is consciously setting an example for blind people, showing what they can do. It is inspiring, she said.
Karki also said the government was considering a new requirement that anyone who wants to climb Everest should first climb another mountain with a height of at least 6,500 metres to prove they can handle the world's highest peak.
Officials were also keen to limit access to all of Nepal's top Himalayan peaks to climbers aged between 18 and 75, he said.
Nepal does not grant climbing licences for Everest to anyone under 16 but has never imposed an upper age limit.
Japanese adventurer Yuichiro Miura, 82, currently holds the record for the oldest climber to summit Everest, at 80.
Mountaineering is a major revenue-earner for impoverished Nepal, home to eight of the world's 14 peaks over 8,000 metres.
The April 25 earthquake which killed nearly 8,900 people raised fears for the immediate future of the tourism industry.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: No SLTB buses to be repaired in private garages - Transport Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
No SLTB buses to be repaired in private garages - Transport Minister
Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva yesterday, said that no Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) buses and other vehicles would be given to the private sector for repairs from now on.
He further said that it was a crime to get SLTB buses and other vehicles repaired at private sector garages, when the SLTB was having plenty of regional workshops across the country.
The minister said that the SLTB possessed skilled engineers and technicians who could perform this task well," he said.
Minister de Silva made these remarks during an observation tour of the SLTB's Medawachchiya Regional Workshop.
Minister pointed out that the SLTB has regional workshops scattered throughout the country in places such as Medawachchiya, Kurunegala, Matale, Kaludeewala, Gintota, Pettigala, Gampaha and Keppetipola, where a large number of workers are attached to them.
"Successful results could be achieved if these regional workshops are centralized into a single location. Then we could make use of the facilities and personnel there in a better way," the Minister said.
Many SLTB workers the minister said, were attached to these regional workshops and are idling today without any significant work to do. They do not have spare parts since the SLTB was incurring losses. The SLTB today depends on the Treasury. The Treasury was in the habit of advising us to retrench excess workers. It is much cheaper to repair SLTB buses and other vehicles in its own workshops rather than going to the private sector. Therefore, I hope to centralize all regional workshops into one place which would help save the money within the SLTB.
==============================
## Title: Obama and Putin meet on Syria, remain divided on Assads fate
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Obama and Putin meet on Syria, remain divided on Assads fate
UN: Russian President Vladimir Putin and his US counterpart Barack Obama met Monday on the crisis in Syria but failed to resolve their dispute over the future role of Bashar al-Assad.
In dueling speeches before the UN General Assembly, Obama branded the Syrian leader a child-killing tyrant while Putin said the world should support Assad against the Islamic State group.
The Russian leader urged UN General Assembly members to unite to fight the jihadist group and warned that he plans to step up support for Assad's forces and has not ruled out air strikes.
The US and Russian presidents clinked glasses and shook hands at lunch with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon after their addresses, but nothing could disguise the gulf in their positions.
Putin and Obama later met for 90 minutes for talks the Russian leader dubbed constructive and business-likes and a senior US official called a business-like back and forth.
Putin appeared pleased that Obama had agreed to Russia having a role in the debate, and said: In my opinion there is a basis to work on shared problems together.
Both leaders agreed there should be a process of political transition in Syria but, the US official added, they fundamentally disagreed on the role of Assad.
I think the Russians certainly understood the importance of there being a political resolution in Syria and there being a process that pursues a political resolution, the official said.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Oil hub talks gather momentum
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Oil hub talks gather momentum
India plans to set up its first overseas petroleum hub, along with a refinery and power plant, in Sri Lanka.
The move is expected to spur Indian investment in Sri Lanka.
A delegation of oil and power ministry officials along with representatives of Indian Oil Corporation and NTPC will soon visit Sri Lanka to push through the much-delayed project.
The two nations want the project to start before the signing of the Indo-Lanka Economic and Technological Agreement, expected in May-June 2016.
During Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe's visit to New Delhi earlier this month, both sides discussed the setting up of Trincomalee oil tank facility in a joint venture along with an oil refinery by Indian companies and a thermal power plant.
State-run Indian Oil Corporation is keen on a refinery having a capacity of 6 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) in Lanka, its first such overseas project.
At present, Sri Lanka has a single refinery of 2.5mtpa capacity, with demand for petroleum products double the capacity.
In 2014-15, Lanka IOC's turnover increased 9 per cent to Rs 8,180 crore, and profit after tax rose 65 per cent to Rs 480 crore.
Lanka IOC is the only oil company other than state-owned Ceylon Petroleum Corporation that operates retail petrol and diesel stations. At present, it has 179 fuel stations in the country.
India is keen on developing Trincomalee as a regional petroleum hub as it is located on a shipping route between oil exporting Gulf nations and energy-starved Asian consumers. It will also provide a ready source of crude to New Delhi at a much competitive price with lower freight charges.
Lanka IOC, a subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation, operates 15 storage tanks out of 99 in Trincomalee. The Sri Lankan government wants to develop the rest to increase the country's storage capacity. Each of the storage tanks has a capacity of around 12,000 tonnes.
The 500 megawatt (MW) thermal power plant at Sampur in Trincomalee, which has been delayed for years, is set to pick up pace as the leaders of the two nations have shown keen interest in the project.
NTPC and Ceylon Electricity Board had signed an agreement in 2011 to set up a coal-based power project.
Courtesy: The Telegraph
==============================
## Title: Over 1,700 people displaced
## Supertitle: Floods in Galle
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Floods in Galle
Over 1,700 people displaced
A total of 1,746 persons of 475 families in 11 Grama Seva divisions were displaced due to floods that occurred after four days of rain in Kadawath Sathara area in the Galle district.
Dangedara East, Maligaspe, Milidduwa, Deddugoda South, Attiligoda South, Gintota West, Piyadigama, Welipitimodara, Kurunduwatta and Bobe North were the most affected areas.
Kadawath Sathara Divisional Secretary W. A. Sathyananda said steps would be taken to provide the displaced with food.
Sathyananda added that Moragoda stream development project would commence to eradicate the flooding problem in the areas.
==============================
## Title: Over 300 million elderly not receiving long-term care: ILO
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Over 300 million elderly not receiving long-term care: ILO
SWITZERLAND: More than half the world's elderly lack access to long-term care, the International Labour Organization said in a report Monday, condemning the deplorable situation facing a rapidly ageing population.
A new report from the UN agency showed that some 300 million people over the age of 65 cannot easily access long-term care when needed.
Despite the ballooning need of the elderly for long-term care, Monday's report showed most countries were ignoring or under-prioritising their needs.
This deplorable situation is reflected in the very low public LTC (long term care) expenditure, which amounts to less than 1.0 percent of GDP on average globally, study author Xenia Scheil-Adlung said in a statement.
The ILO report charged that discrimination and negative attitudes towards older persons were a big part of the problem.
Ageism is a global phenomenon that is sometimes even laid down in regulations and legislation, for example higher costs or unfavourable conditions of certain insurance policies for older persons, or being refused for specific medical services due to age, it said.
Only 5.6 percent of the world's population lives in countries, including Germany and Japan, that provide universal long-term care.
A full 48 percent of the global population meanwhile is not protected by national legislation on long-term care, while another 46.3 percent are largely excluded from coverage due to narrow regulations that limit benefits to the poorest.
In Africa, more than 90 percent of the elderly have no access to long-term care when they need it.
But even the most generous countries, found in Europe, spend only two percent or less of their GDP on long-term care, the ILO report said. This forces many older people living in even some of the world's richest countries to pay for up to 100 percent of their care from their own pockets. Persons in need should not face financial hardship and an increased risk of poverty due to the financial consequences of accessing care, the report said.
The study showed that the world would need 13.6 million more care workers to cover the needs of the elderly.
The current shortfall is largely made up for by unpaid female family members, who often are forced to reduce the time they spend at a paying job to care for elderly relatives, putting the entire family at risk of sliding into poverty, the report said.
The ILO study dismissed as ageism fears that care for the elderly is becoming unaffordable as populations grow older.
Instead of fretting over the cost of caring for the elderly, countries should realise it is in their own interest to expand long-term care, the report said, pointing especially to the job creation potential in the field.- AFP
==============================
## Title: Part of Southern Expressway interchange inundated
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Part of Southern Expressway interchange inundated
Weligama-Kanake road which is the exit road from the Kokmaduwa interchange of the Southern Expressway has been inundated for a distance of about one kilometre from the exit gate due to heavy rains.
Traffic movement on the Southern Expressway has not been affected, a Southern Expressway spokesman said. Motorists have been advised to use alternative interchanges such as the Imaduwa or Pinnaduwa roads until the flood waters recede.
==============================
## Title: A policy cannot be implemented the day an Act is passed - Rajitha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
A policy cannot be implemented the day an Act is passed - Rajitha
Responding to a comment made by the national organiser of the Professor Senaka Bibile Commemoration Organisation Dr Jayantha Bandara on the National Drug Policy, Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne told the Daily News that the person who commented does not know anything about the implementation of a policy, governance, etc.
There will not be an implementation on the following day of passing an Act, he said.
Minister Senaratne said the Act should be first passed in Parliament and then the Authority should be created.
We have already done both. Then we had to bring regulations to create the Authority, furnish the
place etc. The powers had to be given and the Cabinet decisions had to be taken. We did all those, he said.
Minister Senaratne said after the general election, the second stage of the process has already commenced to gazette the regulations.
Only after gazetting the regulations that we can take action against drugs. This is not an easy task. We need to recruit 100 pharmacists to carry out this operation. This will be similar to the Consumer Affairs Authority.
Minister Senaratne pointed out that thousands of pharmacies scattered all over the country need to be inspected to find out whether they follow rules and regulations.
This is a huge task. Qualified persons have already been appointed to the Authority. They are now moving forward, he said.
In the Act, temporarily, we allowed to use the trade name of the drug within brackets. We need to set up the quality assurance laboratory. The Chinese government granted the lab after my coordination. Those things also had been done in addition to the other tasks, but the persons who speak do not know anything, the minister added.
==============================
## Title: Public inconvenienced due to road construction
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Public inconvenienced due to road construction
Residents and travellers on the A06 Road in the Galewela town area are inconvenienced due to road construction activities. Respiratory diseases are increasing in the area due to dust, health officials said.
Police said vehicle accidents have also increased in the area due to the construction activities.
Residents say relevant authorities have not taken steps to mitigate the problem. If authorities could spray water along the construction site, the spread of dust would lessen.
They request the government to take immediate action in this regard.
==============================
## Title: Rage of the World War I
## Supertitle: Governor Tales
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Governor Tales
Rage of the World War I
Manning town is today an integral part of the city, so are Manning flats and Manning Market. Was sir William Manning their architect
No. He was far too embroiled in politics, especially steering his way through many an outcry for reforms in the colony, to have time for side occupations. Rather strangely, three years had lapsed after the 1915 riots but the bitterness seemed yet to stay on, providing also a provocation for more representation for the locals in the legislative council. It was a cry that had been raised almost since its inception.
To the bio data of William Manning now
Born on July 1863 to Henry Manning and his wedded mate and then educated at Cambridge very soon he found himself knee deep in the wars that were aimed at establishing British suzerainty in Asia and Africa.
In 1888 he joined the Indian Army and fought in the Burmese wars .and then on to British central Africa commanding many an expedition. It was the period climaxing British power in the Dark Continent while the first world war raged.
Later Manning after having proved himself very able, was appointed governor of Jamaica and held this post through out the first world war. Soon he was regarded as a fitting ruler for the colony of Ceylon where agitations for self govt had begun simmering as aftermath to the effects of the 1915 riots. So far the demands of the Ceylon Reform league had gone unheeded . But now voices were crying out for greater understanding between the rulers and the ruled , voices as those of D.B.Jayatileka ,sir James Peiris and Sir Ponnambalam Arunachalam. A much higher representation for the locals in the Legislative Council was a constant cry and echoes of what happened in 1915 still resounded .Yet Manning at the beginning was slow to react and respond to outcries for many a liberal gesture. The Ceylon National Congress was forging ahead and much strengthened due to Sinhala Tamil amity.
Eventually better relations were established between the governor and those demanding further reforms. Sir P. Arunachalam was elected first President of the Ceylon National Congress.
Relations between Manning and the local big wig politicians improved after Mannings wedding in Colombo. He is the only governor who had got married in the island. ( only one death and one wedding in governors Tales in the island.)Lady Manning herself became a very popular figure in Colombo society, perhaps gladdened by the throng of gifts received at the function.
A celebrative period seems to have commenced with many Opening functions such as that of the Victory Column , the home for the Colombo YMCA in Fort and the Colombo Public library.
Lake House developed its activities with the purchase of the Ceylon Observer by DR Wijewardena.
A big victory was won by those clamouring for reforms when the secretary of state approved the recommendation regarding the employment of Ceylonese in the higher ranks of public service.
Manning retired in 1925 after tenure of six and half years in which he gradually built up good will with the Ceylonese. He retired to take up the call of a magistrate in his own country ie. Kent and passed away at age, 68 in 1932.
Just an afterthought, most of these governors seem to pass away this side of the 70s.
==============================
## Title: Row over Malabe private medical college
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Row over Malabe private medical college
Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) President Prof. Carlo Fonseka has expressed concern over the recent recruitment of over 40 medical students to the Malambe private medical college, South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITAM).
"All is not well there," he said.
The SAITAM was approved by the Higher Education Ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC) during the Rajapaksa regime.
However, the SLMC recently informed the President, Prime Minister and the Health Minister in writing that it will not recognize the Medical Degree offered by the SAITAM.
The Council had taken this decision after considering several facts such as inadequate clinical training in all sections, non availability of relevant required facilities etc.
The decision had been made after an inspection of the institution by a 10-member team of scholars including professors, doctors etc. chaired by Prof. Rizvi Sheriff.
Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said the report formulated by the SLMC special committee on the Malambe private medical collage has now been sent to the SAITAM.
The first batch is scheduled to pass out from the SAITAM in January 2016 but they will not be permitted to practice in Sri Lanka due to not having the six month clinical training at state hospitals.
From the beginning the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) called the government not to recognize the Medical Degree offered by the private medical collage as they alleged it does not maintain required standards.
"Since then we warned parents and children not to get caught to this trap and waste their hard-earned money," GMOA Assistant Secretary Dr. Nalinda Herath told the 'Daily News'.
The SAITAM was established in 2009. At present, nearly 900 students study there.
The total cost of obtaining a Medical Degree from this institution is Rs. 8.5 million.
==============================
## Title: Separate unit a must for Womem and Child Affairs section - NCP Chief Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Separate unit a must for Womem and Child Affairs section - NCP Chief Minister
North Central Province Chief Minister Peshala Jayaratne Bandara, said that it was a very essential requirement that a separate independent police unit be set up, instead of the present Women and Child Affairs section performing in police stations on the basis of President Maithripala Sirisenas concept of the formation of a child society winning the world.
The Chief Minister said so explaining the formation of child protection committees in the North Central Province at village level. He said that he had convened a conference on the subject at which teachers, principals, police officers, state officials, civil society representatives and the clergy would participate for the exchange of ideas, proposals and views on the subject of child protection on September 28, at the Chief Ministry Auditorium.
Today, in a police stations in the Women and Child Affairs Unit, it had been a requirement that a male police officer be detailed for receiving complaints, though normally the Officer in Charge (OIC) was also a male police officer. It is my view that there should be a separate mini police station under the control of a female Assistant Superintendent of Police in every police jurisdiction. There should also be female officers in charge of these proposed police stations as it has been ascertained that women and female children who are being victimized mainly in rape and abuse cases hesitate to provide details of the crimes committed to a male police officer, the Chief Minister.
He said that he would take steps to allocate more funds from the PC budget 2016 for the promotion of childcare and protection and urged that such child protection committee members should dedicate their lives to serve the purpose.
==============================
## Title: Sixth Annual Symposium on Vaccines
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Sixth Annual Symposium on Vaccines
The Vaccine Forum of Sri Lanka is holding their 6th Annual Symposium on Vaccines on October 4 at the Medical Research Institute (MRI) Auditorium, Colombo 8.
Eminent speakers from overseas and Sri Lanka will share their expertise in this important area. Some highlights include : Advances in Vaccinology (Dr. Anil Dutta, Vice President, GSK Biologicals, Belgium), Cervical Cancer and HPV vaccines (Dr. Anuj Walia, Regional Director, Asia Pacific, MSD), Changes in National Immunization Policy ( Dr. Paba Palihawadana, Chief Epidemiologist, Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka), Measles Rubella and Congenital Rubella Syndrome elimination (Dr. Deepa Gamage, Consultant Epidemiologist) and Influenza Vaccination (Dr. Ananda Amarasinghe, Consultant Epidemiologist), Maria Elimination in Sri Lanka ( Dr. Risintha Premaratne, Direcotr, Aniti Malaria Campaign) and the Vaccination of Special Groups ( Dr. Lilani Rajapakse, Consultant Veneriologist; Dr. Rajiva de Silva, Consultant Immunologist ; Dr. Omala Wimalaratne, Consultant Vaccinologist)
==============================
## Title: SL chosen as venue for ADB international meeting
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
SL chosen as venue for ADB international meeting
Sri Lanka has been chosen as the venue for the Asian Development Bank's international annual meeting to be held in 2018, ADB Vice President Wencai Zhang said when he met Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake at his ministry on Monday.
During the discussions the ADB delegation led by Wencai Zhang pointed out that mutual confidence between Sri Lanka and the ADB had strengthened by leaps and bounds in recent times prompting the ADB to almost treble its financial assistance towards Sri Lanka. They said the ADB President would undertake a tour of Sri Lanka next year to further boost existing ties.
Karunanayake expressing his happiness about the positive attitude shown by the ADB towards Sri Lanka said the country has drawn worldwide attention due to the policies of good governance which have come into force.
Finance Ministry Secretary Dr. R.H.S. Samaratunga was also present during the discussion.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka expresses concern to Maldives
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Sri Lanka expresses concern to Maldives
MDP calls for probe
The Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) in a statement called for an investigation into the incident that occurred aboard the official speed boat carrying the Maldivian President and the First Lady to Male.
The MDP is extremely concerned by the dangerous incident that occurred aboard the Presidential Launch Finifenmaa, while the President and the First Lady, along with some senior Government Official were travelling to Male.
The statement issued by MDP spokesperson Hamid Abdul Ghafoor said such a dangerous incident occurring on board the vessel specially earmarked for Presidential travel is a matter that needs to be immediately investigated and calls on all relevant State Institutions to take swift action against those parties responsible for this negligence.
**********-------------
Acting Foreign Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva during a telephone conversation on Monday with the Acting Foreign Minister of Maldives Mohamed Hussain Shareef expressed Sri Lankas concern on the explosion which took place on September 28, 2015 on the boat carrying Maldivian President Abdulla Yameen Abdul Gayoom and First Lady Fathimath Ibrahim.
He conveyed the best wishes of the Sri Lankan Government and people for the speedy recovery of the First Lady of the Maldives and for the good health and well-being of the President of Maldives.
At the Maldivian Acting Foreign Ministers request, Acting Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva assured Sri Lankas assistance to the Maldivian Government with the forensic investigation, where necessary.
==============================
## Title: A Storied Stay for Literary Lovers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
A Storied Stay for Literary Lovers
One of my weird obsessions is Anthony Melchiorri's Hotel Impossible.
I love a good reality TV show (okay, and bad ones too), and this one, where Melchiorri goes into struggling hotels in order to find ways to make them better in a realistic and sustainable manner, pushes all my buttons.
He's not particularly nice, but at the end of the day, his hard work and effort and care about the hotel and its owners and guests shows.
It got me thinking about how great a book or library themed hotel would be, which led me down the path of looking up the different hotels around the world which feature books or literature in some capacity.
Turns out, there are quite a few.
Here's a round-up of some of the most interesting bookish hotels where you can spend a night or two.
Eloise at The Plaza
Fifth Avenue at Central Park South, New York, NY 10019
Speaking of Melchiorri, this fun Eloise-themed hotel was his creation. He was a young manager at The Plaza Hotel when a young girl came in asking where Eloise (based on the Eloise books) was, since in the story she lives on the top floor of The Plaza Hotel. He wondered why the hotel wasn't taking advantage of this opportunity to create magic and he spearheaded the creation of the Eloise tour for the hotel.
Those who take the Eloise tour at The Plaza can enjoy story time, watch their favorite Eloise clips, play dress up, enjoy tea, and more.
The Batman Room at The Eden Motel
No. 1685, Yucheng Road, Gushan District, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan 804
Ever wanted to stay the night in a Batman-themed hotel room If you can get yourself to Taiwan, then you can live the dream. There's not only a thematic bed, but you will have the opportunity to soak in a Batman-themed tub, enjoy some bat cave walls, and watch some television on Batman-themed TVs.
Crime and Punishment Radisson Sonya Hotel
Liteyny Prospekt, 5/19, St. Petersburg, Russia, 191187
There is a boutique hotel in St. Petersburg, Russia, that's styled entirely after Fyodor Dostoyevsky's classic, Crime and Punishment. The hotel boasts that it "allude[s] to story's era and place, creating a sense of timelessness." The suites in this hotel feature Napoleonic decor, connecting to Raskolnikov's love for Napoleon, and standard rooms are filled with "rich accents and intricate Russian patterns" fitting with the book.
The Wizard Chambers at The Georgian House
35 - 39 St George's Drive, London SW1V 4DG
So who wouldn't want to stay in a Harry Potter-themed hotel room in London The Wizard Chambers are gothic themed, with potion bottles and caldrons and the hotel itself is located just a skip and a jump from the official Harry Potter tour.
The Commons Hotel
615 Washington Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414
From the outside and from the website itself, The Commons Hotel, which is located on the campus of the University of Minnesota, looks like your standard nicer-end hotel. But what makes this one worth noting is that there's a gorgeous library inside which invites guests to read and borrow books from its shelves.
And wait - not only is there a library here with classics and bestsellers, but there's a Book Butler on call who will deliver books to your room if you need something to read. Imagine getting both breakfast and books sent to your room for your stay That sounds like a perfect reason never to leave your bed.
- The Book Riot
==============================
## Title: Sustainable Development Goals adoption welcomed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Sustainable Development Goals adoption welcomed
UNDP Administrator Helen Clark welcomed the adoption of Sustainable Development Goals by member States.
"I welcome this momentous decision by Member States to adopt the Sustainable Development Goals which will guide development for the next fifteen years, offering a chance to meet the global citizenry's aspirations for a more peaceful and prosperous, and sustainable future," she stated.
Her statement added: "Sustainable development in the 21st century is not something which happens to somebody else, somewhere else. We all have a stake in it -- and every country has work to do to progress towards it.
"The good news is that our world has more wealth, more knowledge, and more technologies at its disposal than ever before. The challenges we face are mostly human induced. We can tackle them, but not if we keep doing business as usual and expecting different results.
"Ours is the last generation which can head off the worst effects of climate change, and the first generation with the wealth and knowledge to eradicate poverty. For this, fearless leadership from us all is needed.
"If the global community collectively is prepared to step up to the challenge of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, then there's a chance of achieving sustainable development - and with it better prospects for people and our planet."
==============================
## Title: Thambirajah obtains PhD from Colombo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Thambirajah obtains PhD from Colombo
Director-Consultant at Diamantaire Holdings Thambirajah Mahendran has completed his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from the Faculty of Graduate Studies (FGS), University of Colombo.
As a business leader and an academic, having understood the importance of firm's CEOs leadership style in achieving performance in an organization, he conducted a Doctoral research on the same area in Sri Lankan context and submitted thesis on "Transformational Leadership Style and Breakthrough Performance in Sri Lankan Firms" was accepted by Senate of the University of Colombo.
He was awarded the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) for the contribution he has made to the domain of research in transformational leadership (TFL) style and organizational performance, especially on breakthrough performance (BTP) at firm level in Sri Lankan context.
Dr. Mahendiran's research has contributed in advancing the body of knowledge pertaining to the relationship between the firms' CEOs transformational leadership (TFL) style and organizational performance (overall) particularly breakthrough performance (BTP) of the firms in diverse industries at firm level in the Sri Lankan context.
His research study is an early effort and looked at the practice of firms' CEOs transformational leadership (TFL) style in achieving breakthrough performance (BTP) at the firm-level in the Sri Lankan context.
Dr. Mahendiran is a Fellow Chartered Management Accountants (FCMA), also holds his Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from PIM, Sri Jpura University.
He also possesses few other professional qualifications to his credit. Dr. Mahendiran is a Certified Professional Marketer (CPM-Asia) and a member of Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (MSLIM) as well.
He has been also a visiting lecturer of Faculty of Graduate Studies, University of Colombo.
Dr. Mahendiran, as an Accountant by profession started his management career at Cargills (Ceylon) Plc, as Management Accountant in December 1990
Previously he was the Director Operations and Finance at Excel Global Holdings.
==============================
## Title: That's it...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
That's it...
When Prashani Rambukwella won the Gratiaen prize for Mythil's Secret, it drew a plethora of responses. For some it indicated the inevitable deterioration of literary standards. Some observed it as a positive trend: the young talent is recognised. And some looked down on the judgement: how can a fairytale book clinch the Gratiaen attention Whatever said and printed, that is now history. In this litchat, Sachitra Mahendra inquires her about other literary matters.
Q: Why do you write
A: This is a difficult question to answer. I suppose I write because I have stories zooming around in my head and they won't stay still unless I pin or write them down - so I suppose I write to have some peace of mind. I also write and try to convince others to write because I don't think the world has enough Sri Lankan stories by Sri Lankans in English that talk about our experiences. When the story of a boy who thought he could see yakas popped into my head I knew I had to start writing. And when I finished the first book - Mythil's Secret - the characters didn't go away. They stayed on and I knew there was a second book swooping around in my head. That's what turned into Asiri's Quest. I think there's a third story gliding around too but I am in no hurry to start writing it just now. It is only just testing its wings as yet.
Q: What is your muse
A: My muse is the person who is different. The little girl who gets big red crosses on her dictation book because she was too busy dreaming to pay attention in class. The boy on the fringe of the circle hoping he won't be the last one to be picked for the game - again. The young woman in office who despairs when her team vetoes her idea - and then praises her male colleague who makes the same suggestion five minutes later. The main characters in both Mythil's Secret and Asiri's Quest are people who look at their communities from the outside. They're inspired by people I meet and situations I find myself in.
Q: What kind of books do you like to read most
A: When I was growing up I couldn't get my hands on a lot of good young adult (YA) fiction. Today it can be a lucrative niche for a writer - as long as you're not a Sri Lankan writer, writing in English! So I quite enjoy dipping into YA books - I think in some ways they are more imaginative than books for adults. I also like magico-realist books and fantasy fiction. In years past when I had more time on my hands I wasn't very selective about the kind of books I read but these days I have to be simply because being a full-time mum in full-time employment doesn't leave you with a lot of time for reading.
Q: What are your favourite books
A: Generally I am quite omnivorous when it comes to books and it is difficult to pin down favourites. Some of the books I have been reading or rereading recently are by Cornelia Funk, Diana Wynn Jones, Jonathan Stroud, Sally Prue and Ursula le Guin but this is an incomplete list. If I had time to kill I would not be bored if I had Turn of the Screw, Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, Sam's Story, God of Small Things or Unhooking the Moon with me - again, not an exhaustive list of favourite books by any means.
Q: What have you got to tell the worst critic of yours
A: Please first read my books - don't just judge them by their covers. Now tell me how I can do better next time because I do really want to know. Constructive feedback is very important to me. Before both Mythil's Secret and Asiri's Quest were published (in 2009 and 2013 respectively) I first sent the manuscripts to a trusted inner circle of friends and experts for their comments. Then I sifted through the feedback and made adjustments based on what I felt were valid points. No matter what profession you're in I think there's always more to learn - more the world and its weird and wonderful inhabitants can teach you.
Q: Looking back, do you wish if you could edit your first book a little more
A: I am forever fine-tuning the copy when it is in manuscript form - until the publisher says, 'That's it! No more changes!' But after that I consciously avoid looking at it critically. My thinking is -I can't change it any more after it is published so I might as well let it be. The only way to move forward is to write a better second or third book! Mythil's Secret won the Gratiaen Award but in many ways the second book, Asiri's Quest is a more complex story involving two narrators and a step back in time to 1940s Ceylon.
Q: What is your opinion about literary awards
A: I think they are fantastic and necessary simply because they get us thinking about what makes a good book - or at least that is what they should be doing. If we're just rooting for a book that was written by someone we know or we're angrily denouncing a book because it was written by someone we didn't know we're defeating the purpose of an awards festival. I think Michael Ondaatje said it best. He envisioned the Gratiaen Awards as an opportunity to, "...celebrate and test and trust ourselves. To select and argue about the literature around us. To take it seriously, not just to see it as a jewel or a decoration."
Q: Out of the award-winning books and popular books, which category do you prefer
A: There are many award-winning books out there that I love and others that I really can't get into - not because I think they were ill-judged but simply because no two people see the world/a story in exactly the same way. So I enjoy stories that are award winners, best-sellers and also obscure and unheard-of - stories that resonate with me.
Q: Have you got any special reading habit -- like reading while eating
A: When I was younger I had a habit of slipping a storybook into the middle of a text book so that it looked like I was studying... but other than that no special habits I can think of. Reading Enid Blyton books always made me hungry. She would put so many details about the kind of picnics or midnight feasts her characters were having (of course she was writing during and immediately after WW II when good food was scarce so this was understandable) - that I found it impossible to read without some kind of snack. But books like Toni Morrison's Bluest Eye or Thomas Hardy's Tess of the d'Urbervilles or Jude are so bleak that no matter how compelling they are I just want to read through them quickly. I read when I can. Sadly I cannot read in a moving vehicle as it makes me feel quite sick, so I enjoy the scenery instead.
==============================
## Title: Top 8 Diesel-Powered New Cars
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Top 8 Diesel-Powered New Cars
If you're interested in saving money at the pump, then you've come to the right place. We've listed eight excellent new cars (and two used alternatives) that offer diesel engines, so the cars on this list are able to squeeze more miles out of a gallon of fuel than a typical gasoline-powered vehicle. While it was once hard to find diesel fuel stations, diesel-powered cars -- and diesel pumps -- are becoming a lot more popular, meaning that you'll never have trouble filling up your new gas-saver.
Audi A3
The newly redesigned Audi A3 brings a compact car back to Audi's lineup after a short absence.
The latest A3 is a sedan, however, instead of a hatchback, but like the old model, it still offers two enticing engines: a sporty 4-cylinder and a frugal 2.0-liter diesel.
Jeep Grand Cherokee
Chevrolet Cruze
It's the diesel that especially catches our eye, as it touts 150 horsepower, a muscular 236 lb-ft of torque and an impressive fuel economy rating of 31 miles per gallon in the city and 43 mpg on the highway. Pricing is also reasonable, as the 5-passenger A3 2.0 TDI starts around $33,600 with shipping -- and there's even an all-wheel-drive option for shoppers in cold-weather climates.
BMW 3 Series
The entry-level 328d is now BMW's most affordable diesel-powered model, thanks to a starting price of around $39,800 with shipping.
Powered by a 180-hp 2.0-liter turbodiesel engine, the 328d may not seem especially muscular -- until you consider its brawny 280 lb-ft of torque. Don't think that the 328d doesn't conserve fuel, though: It offers gas mileage ratings as high as 32 mpg city/45 mpg hwy.
The 328d also boasts a wide range of standard equipment and safety features, along with impressive interior build quality. Best of all, it's offered in three forms: There's a rear-wheel-drive sedan for performance-minded drivers, an all-wheel-drive version for drivers who have to contend with snow and an all-wheel-drive wagon that adds a little more practicality to the model's lineup.
Chevrolet Cruze
Although the newly released Chevrolet Cruze Diesel may start at a lofty $25,900 with shipping, the frugal sedan actually offers impressive bang for your buck.
One reason is its powerplant: In addition to producing an adequate 151 hp, the Cruze Diesel boasts an excellent 27 mpg city/46 mpg hwy.
The Cruze Diesel also comes with an impressive array of standard equipment, including 18-inch alloy wheels, keyless access with a push-button starter, leather upholstery, heated front seats and Chevrolet MyLinkinfotainment system. Consider the Cruze Diesel to be an alternative toVolkswagen's popular Jetta TDI.
Jeep Grand Cherokee
Audi A3
Mercedes-Benz GLK
The recently updated Jeep Grand Cherokee has added a frugal 240-hp EcoDiesel engine to its powertrain lineup. Fuel economy is a strong suit, as the engine boasts up to 21 mpg city/30 mpg hwy -- an increase of 4 mpg city/6 mpg hwy over the gas-powered V6. Standard equipment is also a strong point, as all Grand Cherokee EcoDiesel models include a remote starter, a power lift gate, heated front seats, a heated steering wheel and 18-in alloy wheels. Unfortunately, the Grand Cherokee EcoDiesel's biggest drawback is cost. At nearly $42,000 with shipping, the Jeep rivals some premium SUVs from luxury brands.
Still, we think that the Grand Cherokee EcoDiesel offers an excellent way to add a little fuel efficiency to the world of the midsize SUV.
Mercedes-Benz GLK
We like the idea of a fuel-efficient SUV, since it combines carlike gas mileage with SUV capabilities and added practicality.
That perfectly describes theGLK250 BlueTEC, which offers the same 2.1-liter turbodiesel 4-cylinder as the E250 BlueTEC -- an engine that makes around 200 hp and a strapping 369 lb-ft of torque.
It also offers standard all-wheel drive and fuel economy that reaches as high as 24 mpg city/33 mpg hwy. Best of all, pricing isn't too high -- especially for a Mercedes-Benz. The GLK250 BlueTEC starts around $40,000 with shipping.
www.autotrader.com
==============================
## Title: Unfriending colleagues on Facebook is bullying, rules court
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Unfriending colleagues on Facebook is bullying, rules court
UK: Can trimming out someone from your Facebook friends' list land you in the dock In Tasmania it did, where a tribunal has ruled that 'unfriending' someone on Facebook amounts to workplace bullying.
The Fair Work Commission decided chopping someone out of your news feeds is tantamount to risking a colleague's health and safety.
The case came up when two women fell out while working for a real estate agent's office. After a flurry of disagreements one, Mrs Bird, deleted the other, Roberts, as a Facebook friend.
As Roberts suffered with depression and anxiety the tribunal ruled in her favour, claiming it showed "a lack of emotional maturity and is indicative of unreasonable behaviour", Telegraph reported.
Plans for an anti-bullying order for the employer are now in the offing. Separately, a study done by a University of Colorado doctoral student found 40 percent of people would avoid in real life anyone who unfriended them on Facebook. Women were more likely than men to get offended by the gesture.
Perhaps a safer option is 'hiding' updates by the irritating "friends".
- IANS
==============================
## Title: Zen art of dancing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 29, 2015 - 19:30
Zen art of dancing
Keely Garfield is a dancer and choreographer whose dances are a lot like life itself, with unexpected moments of strange, emotional beauty, abrupt transitions, awkward interactions, snippets of music, and lots of costume changes.
They do not look like ballet (not at all, though she does use some ballet conventions, if only to puncture them); to her credit, her dances don't look like anyone's work but her own.
Her work has never fit neatly into a category: it is postmodern dance, but it's driven by music and emotions, not just concepts and ideas. She is not loyal to any predecessor, role model, or dance style, and each of her works explores new territory. The dances are not easily described because they contain and manipulate so many influences, from vaudeville comedy routines to popular music and hip-hop.
This wide-openness to materials is part of her creative process, which time and again over her 30-year career has resulted in dances that are widely praised for their astonishing power and unpredictability. Now working with a small, rotating group of dancers and musicians, Garfield is creating work that's increasingly informed by her meditation practice and her experiences as a yoga teacher, hospice caregiver, and Urban Zen integrative therapist, which combines yoga therapy, breath awareness, Reiki, aromatherapy, and meditation. A member of the Village Zendo in New York City, she completed jukai [receiving of the precepts] with the Zendo's abbot, Roshi Pat Enkyo O'Hara.
"There are so many things I've learned at the zendo from teachers and practitioners that really opened my eyes," Garfield said. "Much of my life, especially my work, is about being gregarious and colorful, wild and out there and free, but I'm grateful to have recognized that I need something plainer, simpler, in my life. . . . I certainly know how to get naked and swing from the chandelier and be the life and soul of the party. What I don't know so well is how to sit still and shut the fuck up. So I'm finding out." Keely's latest dance work, presented at the Brooklyn performance space Roulette in June, is called Pow, not to be confused with Wow, the piece last year the New York Times called "bizarre, hilarious, enthralling, confounding, and cathartic."
Pow, Keely said, is "a Frankenstein of a dance in which elements of other dances I have made are radically reconfigured, sutured, and amplified."
The piece, like much of Garfield's work, also has a hard-edged, agonistic aspect that seems to represent an existential struggle: against habitual prejudice and inequality, or against patriarchal capitalistic heteronormativity-or something else. There's a lot going on, even in the simplest dance gestures. "It is definitely informed by one of the koans in the Blue Cliff Record where the student asks, 'How is it when the tree withers and the leaves fall' and the master replies, 'Body exposed in the golden wind,'" Garfield explained.
"I like to think that my dancing body is always exposed to the golden wind, which means there's no protection."
- Tricycle
==============================