## Title: Budget 2016 will further strengthen good governance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Budget 2016 will further strengthen good governance
The 2016 budget has intricately inked economic development with the concern of further strengthening of good governance and democracy, Provincial Councils and Local Government Deputy Minister Karunaratna Paranawithana said in Parliament on Saturday.
Radical and world-changing innovations in several fields should be made for long term development and reviving economy which was collapsed due to the mismanagement, corruption, massive volume of debts and corrupt tender procedure during the former regime, he said.
We have presented several controversial proposals through this budget. But all of them are not to enhance government privileges but for the betterment of the country.
The Deputy Minister was participating in the debate on the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (Budget) 2016. He said a new mechanism for systematise the public fund administration will be introduced to provide maximum benefits to the public.
The government has no intention to privatize the any state property and it is not our policy, he said.
National Policies and Economic Affairs State Minister Noroshan Perera participating in the debate on the Second reading of the appropriation bill (Budget) 2016 said that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe recently presented a set of policy guidelines for the governments fiscal management and 2016 budget is based mostly on realising these objectives. The health sector has received a huge allocation with the aim of creating a healthy nation.
UPFA MP Bandula Gunawardene said instead of creating one million jobs the country is experiencing a situation where more jobs are being lost. The reduction of gas prices by Rs.150 is only a temporary relief and the people soon see its bad impact a little later.
JVP MP Sunil Hadunnetti said even though the government promised many reliefs to the people through this budget no such thing has happened.
The nation building tax was introduced during the time of war and it is no longer need now.
Why is the government not abolishing it. This budget has imposed heavy penalties on vehicles. Rs.10,000 fine will be imposed in the case of accidents. If a dog collides with a vehicle there is a question whether the fine will be levied from the driver or the dog.
==============================
## Title: Northerners trust in govt will never be betrayed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Northerners trust in govt will never be betrayed
The government will never forget the trust the Northern people placed on the it, Public Enterprise Development Minister Kabir Hashim said.
He made this observation in Parliament on Saturday in response to TNA MP Sumanthiran during his speech joining the second stage debate on the budget proposals.
The government could win the international community within 11 months, the minister said and added that the government will place special focus on reconciliation.
The minister said that the government would not mislead by making false statements on the economy. He added that he has divulged the genuine status of the economy which was paralysed by the previous government.
This budget can recover the paralysed economy Hashim said. We would create opportunities for employment. A responsibility of a government is not to create employment but to create employment opportunities.
This budget has proposals to create more employment opportunities,he said.
Hashim said the budget indicates the direction of the economy of a country and added that the budgets presented by the previous government since 2007 were photo copies of a same document.
Mahinda Rajapaksa said that he did not understand anything in the government. That was the reason which led him to go home before the expiration of two terms, Hashim said.
The minister said the economy of the previous government was strengthened by casinos, ethanol and gambling.
The former regime also submitted false statistics. According to those figures the per capita income was USD 4,000 and the poverty was reduced to 6.5 percent, he said.
The minister questioned as to when the malnutrition increased to 23 percent how could the poverty be reduced to 6.5 percent.
They allocated 60 percent of budgetary allocations to a single family, minister said. But this government has allocated money to the people.
==============================
## Title: Ambassador swims Nile for Facebook bet
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Ambassador swims Nile for Facebook bet
SUDAN: The Dutch ambassador to Sudan swam across the Nile in Khartoum on Saturday in a stunt that began as a bet to win more "likes" for her embassy's Facebook page.
Clad in an bright orange swimsuit bearing the embassy logo, Ambassador Susan Blankhart swam several hundred metres (yards) across the Blue Nile with six other Dutch women and seven Sudanese women, cheered on by dozens of supporters on the riverbank.
"It was lovely, it was beautiful. I would recommend that everyone swims across the Nile," Blankhart said laughing, back on dry land after the crossing.
She had originally said that she would swim across the river if her embassy's Facebook page received more than 10,000 likes.
After she hit the target, the 63-year-old organised the swim with two charities to raise awareness about safe swimming in the Nile. The group was watched over by a team of Sudanese lifeguards in kayaks and boats as they swam through the muddy water.
The swim was also aimed at promoting women's empowerment in Sudan, Blankhart said.
- AFP

==============================
## Title: Anantaya festive season begins with traditions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Anantaya festive season begins with traditions
Anantaya Resorts and Spa, Chilaw, part of LAUGFS Leisure, started the festive season with the traditional Christmas cake mixing ceremony, amidst much enthusiasm and merriment.
This ceremony is a great opportunity to share delightful memories with both guests and staff alike. For our staff, the hotel is a home away from home and it is important that the sense of family and togetherness is shared, especially in the festive season. For our guests too these simple moments are memories they would cherish on their stay with us, Roshan R. Perera, CEO of LAUGFS Leisure said.
Led by the Resident Manager, Dev George, the guests and staff gathered at the Resort restaurant where heaps of chopped and dried fruits, nuts and spices were laid out. Dozens of eager hands joined in as ingredients including cherries, plums, sweet ginger, orange peel, and cashews were mixed along with brandy, red wine and rum.
The delicious aromas were a potent promise of the celebrations to come. The fruit was set aside in casks to mature before being used for the 200 kilos of cakes, puddings and other scrumptious delicacies to be made for the season.
Anantaya Resort and Spa, Chilaw is the first of a chain of resorts under LAUGFS Leisure, a subsidiary of LAUGFS Holdings. The hotel offers infinite luxury and tranquility coupled with breathtaking views of the lagoon and sea, making Anantaya the ideal getaway during the festive season. Having commenced operations in 2014, the hotel has already been recognized internationally with various awards and accolades including the TripAdvisor Travelers Choice ofTop 25 Luxury Hotels in Sri Lanka and the Booking.com 2014 Award of Excellence.

==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (23-11-2015)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (23-11-2015)]
Admiral Clancy Fernando:
A true Son of Mother Lanka
The 23rd death anniversary of Admiral Clancy Fernando, the 11th Commander of the Navy fell on November 16. His name is etched in history as the highest-ranking military officer to make the Supreme Sacrifice for his motherland. He was a man of fiery enthusiasm and total commitment for his country.
Admiral Fernando was assassinated on November 16, 1992 along the Galle Face Centre Road in the heart of Colombo when a LTTE suicidal cadre rammed an explosive laden motorcycle into his vehicle.
It was a bright sunny day and I called the Admiral at Navy House to explain how a series of strange events prevented me from joining him on the drive from his official residence to Naval Headquarters. By then, he was getting ready to leave and said: Thank you, Ill be there and replaced the receiver, not knowing that it was the last telephone conversation in his life.
After a few minutes, I switched on the communication set to monitor his movement. Suddenly, I heard confused exchange of messages and my office telephone started to ring. On line was Admiral Fernando's wife and she could only say Shemal. Within seconds, I whisked off in my vehicle and as I drove past the old Parliament along Galle Road, I saw it all.
As I approached the scene many things crossed my mind. Until I saw Admiral Fernando lying face down as if asleep sprawled diagonally across the seat in a pool of blood inside the car which had turned turtle, I did not believe that he was dead.
Admiral Fernando had been killed instantly by the blast. He could never have known what had happened to him. To die with no time for fear or regrets, doing what he enjoyed as a brave Naval Officer to end not with a whimper but with a bang that reverberated around the world - that truly was the fate he would have chosen for himself.
That was my recollection of the assassination of Admiral Clancy Fernando. I deem it a privilege to have known him, received his wise counsel and enjoyed serving him as his Aide and Personal Secretary throughout his tenure of office, which spanned from August 1, 1991 to November 16, 1992.
I wish to comment on his career briefly and especially the qualities that struck me most about him during the times I spent under him firstly in the Naval Dockyard in Trincomalee in 1988, 1989 and 1990 and then at the Naval Headquarters in 1991 and 1992. He was born on October 10, 1938 as Wannakuwatta Waduge Erwin Clancy Fernando and had his education at Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa.
Clancy Fernando decided that a life under the ocean wave was his manifest destiny. And he joined the then Royal Ceylon Navy on December 17, 1957.
Most of his early days in the then Royal Ceylon Navy were at Trincomalee, Tangalle and Karainagar besides his long spells at sea. He had served on board HMCyS Aliya and HMCyS Gajabahu, a Frigate which was the then Flag Ship. Also, he commanded HMCyS Diyakawa, SLNS Ranakamee and SLNS Samudra Devi, the Flag Ship of the Sri Lanka Navy in 1980.
He attended the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, India in 1977. He was promoted to the rank of Commander on March 1, 1978. He held the appointments of Commanding Officer of SLNS Tissa in the East, Commanding Officer of SLNS Elara in the North and as the Master of the Ceylon Shipping Corporations M/V Lanka Kanthi.
On June 30, 1983 he was made the Director Naval Operations and with his promotion to the rank of Captain on January 1, 1984 he was appointed as the Commandant of the Naval and Maritime Academy and made invaluable contributions towards moulding young officers and men.
He was elevated Commodore on July 1, 1986 and held key appointments of the Commander Western Naval Area, Commander Eastern Naval Area and Security Forces Commander for Trincomalee District where he aptly proved his strengths as a competent and an efficient administrator. Then, he was elevated to the position of the Chief of Staff on April 4, 1990.
He held memberships of the British Institute of Management, the Nautical Institute of UK and Royal Naval Institute of Navigation, UK. He possessed a Masters Degree in Defence Studies and had been conferred with the Master Mariner Certificate. He was the first President of the Sri Lanka Branch of the Nautical Institute, UK. He was promoted Rear Admiral on March 29, 1991.
He was in good stead when career took its next and decisive turn and he was made Acting Commander of the Navy on August 1, 1991. This ultimate promotion consoled him for some, at least, of the pains and fortified him for the struggles that lay ahead. It did, but until the official letter arrived he did not allow himself to be certain that he had achieved the ambition of his lifetime to reach the helm of the Navy.
First Day as COMNAV was his diary entry for Day 1. From the word go, I saw him work, work and work towards betterment of the Navy. Everything seemed to take off the ground all at once. For his 50 odd years, he displayed an energy and enthusiasm that would shame a younger officer.
In what his greatness laid is harder to define. What he could do with superlative aplomb was to identify the object at which he was aiming, select the method, which was most likely to achieve it, and force it through to its conclusion.
A powerful, analytical mind of crystalline clarity, a superabundance of energy, great persuasive powers and endless resilience in the face of setback or disaster rendered him the most formidable of Commanders.
His was a dynamic personality blended with a personal charm and magnanimity all his own but it was his quality of gentleman leadership that always stroll the show. Wherever he went, whatever he did, he blazed the trail for others to follow. Undoubtedly, he inspired all who served and sailed under him.
During this time, he played an active role in all military operations and was a familiar sight on the frontlines. In Vettilakeni, Pooneryn, Nagativanturai and Elephant Pass and even regularly travelling on small Naval craft on the Kilali Lagoon. He took enormous risks to boost the morale of his men and exhort them on.
He was a dedicated leader of his men who gave his total commitment to defending the national cause of peace, unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. He rendered splendid logistic support to the successful joint operations that were carried out in the North. It was the Naval backing that enabled the forces to expand the forward defence line in Jaffna. His courage, energy and determination were unimpaired. Reluctant or not, he took considerable pride in his performance. I still remember him walking across the unclear pathway leading to Elephant Pass within minutes after the siege was broken.
His patience, integrity and devotion to duty struck me as being beyond normal. He was unfailingly courteous and considerate. His tolerance was extraordinary; his readiness to respect and listen to the views of others was remarkable throughout his life.
He strode the Navy like a colossus during his tenure of office giving of his best. For achievements he never took credit alone - but spread applause thick, sharing it with his peers and colleagues, but blame and criticism was received by him and him alone. He attended the prestigious National Defence College in New Delhi, India in 1987.
As a good Buddhist he displayed the quality of equanimity to its fullest. I was amazed when at times he faced both triumph and disaster alike. Similarly, he accepted any defeat and he faced many in his day with a sense of stoic calm.
It was Admiral Fernando who revived and formed Buddhist, Christian, Muslim and Hindu Councils in the Sri Lanka Navy. This resulted in conduct of religious events to commemorate the Navy Day annually and to bestow blessings on the Navy, Naval personnel and their families since 1991.
Admiral Fernandos idea of relaxation was to turn to his pastimes. He took a keen interest in Naval history and displayed his scholastic skills by publishing several articles. His book on Customs and Etiquettes of the Services depicts his vast experience and knowledge of the subject. By devising first ever cryptographic system SINHALE in the Sri Lanka Navy, he exhibited the miracles of modern communication. It replaced the Royal Navys Britese System.
He took a lively interest in the affairs of the retired Naval personnel as well. One significant event he personally organised with great pride was the Sea Burial of ashes of the 4th Commander of the Navy, Rear Admiral Royce de Mel. Also, it was him who initiated action to construct a monument in honour of the war heroes of the Sri Lanka Navy in Welisara in 1991.
He was the brainchild of the Navys President Colours and Staff. His enthusiasm towards tracing the history of Naval guns and canons was noteworthy and the same paved the way for the establishment of the Naval Museum in Naval Dockyard, Trincomalee. Also, he was instrumental in introducing the new look Navy List in 1991.
Admiral Fernando was an all round sportsman and rendered yeoman services to uplift sports in the Navy. Someone once asked him which he preferred - tennis, shooting or golf. After a moments reflection he replied, Well, golf, after all, is a professionals game. He was in the early fifties when he embarked on golf but he really enjoyed it.
His was a place for family reunion: a few friends were asked to stay but only if it was known that they would fit in happily with the established patters of existence. To his family and close friends Admiral Fernando was the wisest, the most honourable of men.
His was a Naval family and his happiness centred on it.
This tribute is an attempt to retain Admiral Clancy Fernandos life and ideals fresh in our minds. Indeed, the fragrance of his memory remains green in the minds of the vast array of Sri Lankans who were privileged to make contact with him.
The whole Nation bade farewell to him with full Naval honours and with heavy hearts. The epilogue of the funeral oration still lingers in my memory, Sir, though you have departed from us, your name and service shall be remembered by us forever as a great Patriotic Officer and a Gentleman, a true Son of Mother Lanka who has made the Supreme Sacrifice in defence of our country. As you fade away beneath the waves, we will steer your course with all guns blazing.
Rear Admiral Shemal Fernando
Rex de Silva:
Bouquets and teardrops for an Editor
Editor Rex de Silva taught us all the intricacies of journalism, but he did not prepare us to write about our feelings when he is gone.
Editor of the SUN and WEEKEND newspapers of Independent newspapers, Rex de Silva also wrote under the pen names of Norexa and Don Mithuna. His international columns reigned in the newspaper world in that era. Later, Rex de Silva became editor of the Borneo Bulletin (from 1990  2001) where he won new hearts. He was also a foreign correspondent for the dpa, Deutsche Presse Agentur, and a revered journalist in that land too.
But on that Sunday in November 2015, as news happened, this editor lay still on a hospital bed surrounded by his family  his wife Ranjini, sons Nishan and Dilantha, sister Arlene and brother Darryl were among them.
That day he lay almost still breathing softly. His eyes were closed. I remembered the many years when he was awake through the day until 10 every night, going through the pages of a daily newspaper the SUN, and the WEEKEND.
His hands were still. I remembered how he used to wave at us as he climbed the sunlit staircase at the Dawasa building and walked into office, carrying his backpack, wearing his blue denim suit, his dark sunglasses, and a smile.
His fingers were quivering slightly: unlike the time he used to hit away at his typewriter, typing at perhaps 40 words-a-minute with just two fingers.
I spoke to him and he did not answer: I remembered the time when all we heard was his baritone voice urging us to finish reading the pages or calling out to us by our names
If ever Rex de Silva has been unkind in word or deed it is when he used to point his index finger in the form of revolver, make a shooting sound and fire us - on days we were late to work. Emanating love, good nature and a warm compassion for all human beings, Editor-in-Chief Rex de Silva was truly a textbook boss.
Rex de Silva  editor, photographer, lay out wizard, cartoonist, painter and foreign correspondent was one human being excelling in different art forms and outshining in the greatest of them all  in being humane.
Editor Rex de Silva taught journalism to hundreds of cub reporters.We all learned the hard way, akin to learning driving in a Morris Minor. He pushed us all and made us realise that there are no limits to brilliance, and this he led by example.
Rex de Silva applauded our successes, laughed with us as we laughed, and was moved to tears during our difficult and sad times. He got me to write many letters but not one of them had been a letter of termination or a letter suspending a journalist. Calling for explanations, making life difficult for those who worked for him and creating problems for people were never heard of during the times of this great editor.
Though he was smothered with work day and night, he always urged us to take a deep breath and forget it when we went to him with a problem. He had time for us, time to console us and encourage us. Rex de Silva knew everyones secrets and had so much information that he could have worked for the intelligence service.He was everyones confidante and a friend of a life time. All his journalists were precious to him in a special way and he enjoyed a special bonding with each and every one of us. This is the nearness, the concern and the following he had that made him special. To him, we were still his team, still to be looked after.
Then came this day in November, our dear Editor Rex de Silva who taught and nurtured a hundred journalists and more, lay still. His soft breathing, and the clock near his hospital bed ticking by, taught me a key lesson in life  to cherish the moments that we have with people.
On that Monday in November, it seemed like someone had pressed the pause button in the world of journalism.
Media giants, veteran editors, media desk heads and several successful writers were at a loss for words as they felt a great sadness. Charles Rex de Silva breathed his last as the sun broke away from the dark clouds on Monday morning in Colombo.
As we look around today we see the fragrance of a legacy of professionalism left behind by this great literary giant Rex de Silva. We see co-editors who have worked with Rex de Silva - genteel people as Sinha Ratnatunga, Editor-in-chief of The Sunday Times, Lakshman Gunasekera, Editor of The Sunday Observer, and Lalith Alahakoon, Editor of the Ceylon Daily News, award-winning Defence Correspondent and Editor Iqbal Athas, and Prasad Gunewardena among others.
We see other media giants such as Arjuna Ranawana, Tyron Devotta, Faizal Samath and award-winning writers and section heads as Kumudini Hettiarachchi, Renuka Sadanandan, Zanita Careem, Anthony David, Sanath Weerasooriya, Louis Benedict and Ameen Izzadeen.
We see our SUN/WEEKEND family members take forth their successes from their desks at the SUN and WEEKEND newspapers to the international arena  journalists as Dinoo Kelleghan, Raine Wickrematunge, Trevine Rodrigo, Dirk Tissera, Lawrence Machado, Lawrence Heyn, Rohan Gunaratna, Daleena Samara, Thilak Seneviratne, Joe Van Langenberg, Roy Denish, other successful people as Lyn Ockersz, Kshama Ranawana Chris Dharmakirti, Jumar Preena, Alvin Sally, Sarasi Wijeratne, Minoli de Soysa, Daleena Samara, are also among the fine journalists who reflect Rex de Silvas leadership success.
Editor Rex de Silvas era at the SUN had many people coming and going  If the SUN newspaper was a military academy  then there would have been about 25 intakes and more. And there would have been medals and decorations too.
In fact, the late editor of The Sunday Leader Lasantha Wickrematunge, who became one of the greater investigative journalists and editors of our time was interviewed and handpicked by Rex de Silva. Senior journalists the late Eustace Wijetunge, late Y.G. de Silva, the late Kenneth Amarasekera, the late Anil Atapattu always shared a laugh about some event or happening, with our Editor Rex de Silva before they set about their daily work.
Independent Newspapers Limited was a gigantic publishing house at that time. Chairman Percy Gunasena and Managing Directors Sepala Gunasena and Director Mano Gunasena comprised the management. Editor Rex de Silva was the link between the journalists/sub editors and the management, for we seldom got to meet the management.
The list of journalists was long  and Editor Rex de Silva was able to nurture the special talent in each one of us  Raine Amarasinghe, Nirmali Hapugoda, Palitha Samarajiwa, Lasanda Kurukulasuriya, Anoma Tillekeratne, Jenniffer Henricus, Dexter Crusz, Delerine Wijeratne, Aruna Kulatunga, Sakuntala Navaratnam, Gaya Gamhewage, Kishali Pinto Jayawardena, Leon Berenger, Nayomini Ratnayake, Roshan Karunatilleka, Lasantha Alwis, Jayalakshmi, Ranjan Amarasinghe, Sunil Wijesekera, Rohan Abeywardene, Christine Nadarajah, Maryanne Perera, Jack Herft, Maryanne Noyahr, Jenniffer Barthelot, Saroj Perera, Shyamala Selvaratnam, Khema de Silva, Sharmini Dias Nagahawatte, Charnika Munasinghe, Kumari Gunasekera, Christine Fernando, Rehani Moraes, Piarina de Lima, Hemmamali de Silva, Dulani Tampoe, Kendall Hopman, Melanie John, Leary Beekmeyer, Winston de Valliere, Malkanthi Leitan, Chandani Kirinde, Milinda Rajasekera, Percy Mayadunne, M.H.M Manasique, Asoka Rajapaksa, Larry Campbell, Siva Ilankesan, Kapila Bandara, Duminda Ariyasinghe, Ameen Izzadeen, Zacki Jabbar, Riyaz Nadeem, Shiran Wijesinghe, Harry Jayachandra, T.B. Rahaman, and internationally acclaimed cartoonist the late Mark Gerreyn and late Amitha Abeysekerawere but a handful of the talent team.
Editor Rex de Silva had many friends but his social life was limited to telephone conversations or atete-a-tete in office. He had special friends whose writings he admired as Ilika Malkanthi Karunaratne, Suren Peiris, Premil Ratnayake, Chandra Perera, Felicia Sorensen, among others. Rex de Silva had no time to socialize. He walked into office at 8 a.m. and stayed on till 10 p.m. Along with his wife Ranjini and little sons Nishan and Dilantha, Rex had another family  a family of journalists, each one waiting for him to come to office to take a problem, have a heart to heart or sometimes cry on his shoulder. Rex was able to comfort them and solve the most gnawing problems. They always left his room with a smile.
As if this army of journalists were not enough, Editor Rex de Silva led a team of dedicated photographers. It was not an era of clicking and uploading. Photographers had to take the photos and go to the studio to get them printed, while we waited with our copies in hand for the photographs to arrive.
As news happened Rex de Silva took full command of the team of photographers  among them the late Berty Mendis, Gamini Wickremesinghe, Dunstan Wickremaratne, Lakshman Gunatilleke, Anura Gunasekera, Pushpakumar Matugama, Thilak Seneviratne, Gemunu Wellage, Padmasiri Gamage, Dhammika Nimmalasuriya, Upul Handunge
Editor Rex de Silva made us laugh with his good-natured jokes. He made the world laugh with his witty Ibson cartoons depicting a tortoise. At first I was slow to understand his obsession about this tortoise, and then he told me about all his star tortoises at home and showed me exclusive photos of the private life of frogs taken in the middle of the night.
Despite his popularity, power and position he was a soft-hearted human being. I managed to give him two kittens I found on the road, without any effort, simply by saying that their mother was killed in a road accident.
Rex de Silva had a strange affinity with the universe - the kingdom of birds, bees, the planets and alien life, the world of flowers and trees  made Rex de Silva blend with the universe in a very special way.
Today, the flowers, trees, birds, the tortoises and the sea and life beneath, all remind us of him - of this great life we lost. Yet these chirping birds and colourful flowers also remind us of the great bouquet that he left behind.
We can only be thankful that he has given the world two representatives in the forms of his successful sons Nishan and Dilantha de Silva. As our thoughts go to them and to his ever-loving wife Ranjini, his brothers and sisters, we feel a deep and painful sadness and an emptiness within.
All journalists great and small are today searching for words and are trying to focus our tear-filled eyes to continue in our chosen professions. For only teardrops have become the kick-off to a very personal story written at a time when dark clouds hover over the memories of the times spent at the SUN.
Ranee Mohamed
==============================
## Title: Avoiding a tangle on the walkway jungle!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Avoiding a tangle on the walkway jungle!
People in Sri Lanka no longer know how to walk suitably on the walkways. On the streets of Colombo and suburbia there are jaywalkers, baby walkers, dog walkers, cell-phone talker- walkers, slow walkers, fast walkers, group walkers and drunken walkers. Unfortunately, all of these walkers most of the time are walking into one another.
There was a time when any seasoned Colombo dweller had a built-in sonar in terms of walking down its streets. Yes, every Colombo dumbo then could skilfully manoeuvre down the most crowded pavement without ever bumping into a fellow pedestrian.
In a crowded capital city that is forever rebuilding itself, sometimes it is impossible to be a graceful walker. And not all our pavements are equally paved. Pedestrian etiquette is the general courtesy expected from those walking among other pedestrians. It involves staying out of the way of fellow pedestrians and not hindering their mobility to travel. Doing this prevents collisions that may potentially cause injury or damage to what you or the other person is carrying.
Still, strollers say that many problems could be avoided if some basic rules were followed. Bear in mind that walking rules are like driving rules. Yes, and always remember that in marked similarity to driving where selfish individuals at the wheel are referred to as road hogs, walkers with no consideration for others are called pedestrian pigs. Not a nice term at all but quite deserving when you forget your pavement manners.
All right then, let me point out a typical pavement discourtesy which we all are guilty of at one time or another. When we are in a group we take up the entire pavement, forcing approaching pedestrians to step into the street.
Stay to the right is the golden Number One rule. But that is easier said than done from a practical point of view at times. I am talking about times such as when a bull-like walker approaches you from the opposite direction. So a dance step would come in handy unless you want to be flattened by the opposing jumbo-like juggernaut charging in your direction.
Pedestrian etiquette isnt all that complicated, so come on. Here are some basics: Dont walk in the middle of the pavement. Some pedestrian in an infernal hurry may want to pass you. And if he is aggressive he will do it in the shove-off bull-stampede sort of way.
If you happen to be strolling along with a group, instead of forming a giant wall, break into smaller formations to walk together. Dont take up the entire walkway. Its annoying. And watch where youre going. If you do have to text and walk at the same time, pay attention to everyone else so youre not an obstacle that everyone else has to avoid. Or better yet, stop on the side for a second to send your text and make everyone happier.
Certainly many people dont give much thought to walking, although it's such a simple, straightforward activity. Obviously there isnt much to it on the surface at least. But that's until you encounter people with poor walking etiquette.
They come in all shapes and forms. Most distinct are those who walk too fast or too slow for you to keep up. Somehow they are oblivious to the fact that different people may enjoy different speeds of walking. It's mostly the fast walkers who do this. If they looked to the side for a minute they would see you taking giant strides trying not to fall behind.
But even if they look, it's one of those disapproving looks which relays the unspoken message: Could you pick up the pace a little bit you think The fast walkers are easily identifiable. They always have a purpose to their walking. These aren't the people who go window shopping. No they keep their eyes fixed on their destination. No change of course being made here. Time to them obviously means money.
On the other side of the equation you have the slow walkers. And this isn't about physical ability or endurance. These people just refuse to speed up no matter what the situation is. It would seem as if going faster would be in conflict with their religious beliefs. And sometimes you need to pick it up a little, when you have to get somewhere on time.
Too fast or too slow, that's fairly obvious all things considered. But that's not all, there are certain variations of these trends. More annoying yet are people who refuse to align with you for any reason at all. If you're walking for more than 30 minutes, inevitably at some point one person will stop for some reason. The excuses are many, tying shoelaces, looking at something you pass by the road among other sidetracking actions.
Allow other pedestrians as much space as you can and give corners of buildings a wide berth to avoid colliding with someone coming around the other side. Always apologise if you accidentally brush or bump against someone. Use common sense when jaywalking. Even if it is legal in your locality, it can still be dangerous. And don't be a heel stepper. Nothing infuriates a sandal-wearer more than when a heel stepper clips the back of her sandal, knocking it off her foot and causing her to become a sudden stopper. They are almost as bad as the cell-phone talker-walkers who appear oblivious to everything around them as they are in a connected universe of their own. But you had better keep an eye out for them because they can be typically misguided missiles.
While observations of pavement behaviour aren't scientific research, they can certainly tell us a lot about cultural morals and values. And they can be used to help us question those same values and make more conscious choices about what's important and what's just plain selfish.
Unnatural obstacles can also spoil a stroller's rhythm. So it would be a good thing if every one of us follows this guide. That would mean taking public walking etiquette in our stride!
==============================
## Title: Cholesterol, the word feared by all!
## Supertitle: [HEALTH WATCH]
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
[HEALTH WATCH]
Cholesterol, the word feared by all!
Heart disease is a main non communicable disease that affects many Sri Lankans. Increased high cholesterol level can lead to heart diseases. In an interview with Health Watch, Director of National Poison Information Centre of the Colombo National Hospital Dr. Waruna Gunathilake talks about what you need to know about cholesterol.
Q What is the use of Cholesterol
Cholesterol is used by the body for producing hormones, protecting nerves, building new cells, and other important functions. The amount of Cholesterol in your blood comes from what is made by your liver and from the food you eat. If your Cholesterol level is too high, it can cause heart disease.
Q What are the desirable cholesterol levels for a normal person
For a healthy individual, your blood lipid (comprising Cholesterol and triglycerides) levels should be as follows.
The total cholesterol level should be less than 5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dL). The HDL level should be more than 1.0 mmol/L (40 mg/dL). The LDL level should be less than 3.4 mmol/L (130 mg/dL) and the Triglycerides level should be less than 2.3 mol/L (200 mg/dL).
You can find low density lipoprotein (LDL), high density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides in your blood.
LDL is bad Cholesterol because too much LDL in your blood can cause your arteries to become narrow and hard (atherosclerosis). HDL is good Cholesterol because it prevents excess Cholesterol from building up in the blood vessel. Triglycerides are fast in your blood that is used by your muscles as energy. Excess or high levels will put you at greater risk of heart attack.
Too much Cholesterol in your blood can lead to heart attacks and strokes. This happens because the excess Cholesterol is deposited in blood vessels and can cause them to become narrow and hard.
Q What is the connection between food and cholesterol
Trans fats increase LDL (bad Cholesterol) and lower HDL (good Cholesterol.) Most of the trans fats we eat come from processed foods (e.g. pastries, cakes, deep- fried food, cookies, biscuits).
Saturated fats increase LDL and total Cholesterol in your blood thus increasing your risk of heart disease. Many foods that are high in saturated fat are also high in Cholesterol (e.g. fatty meat, skin of poultry, dishes containing coconut milk/ cream, deep- fried food). Polyunsaturated fats are good for your health and can help lower blood Cholesterol. Omega-6 and Omega- 3 are polyunsaturated fats that reduce the risk of blood clots and stroke (e.g. salmon, sardine, walnuts, vegetable oils)
Monounsaturated fats lower LDL and increase HDL. They are good for your overall health and are typically high in vitamin E, an antioxidant (e.g. avocados, almonds, cashew nuts, olive oil).
Sort margarine has less trans fats and saturated fat than hard margarine and butter and is therefore a healthier choice. Look for soft margarine with the Healthier Choice Symbol.
Q How can cholesterol levels be reduced
Having too much Cholesterol increases your risk of heart attacks and strokes. The good news is that you can manage your Cholesterol levels through exercise, healthy eating, weight loss, and, if necessary, medication. Here are some tips for managing your Cholesterol.
1. Maintain a healthy weight through exercise and a healthy diet.
2. Engage in moderate- intensity aerobic activity over 3 to days and accumulate 150 minutes throughout the week. Each session should last at least 10 minutes. Examples of moderate- intensity aerobic activities include brisk- walking, recreational swimming and leisure cycling.
3. Engage in muscle- strengthening activities that work all major muscle groups (arms, abdomen, shoulders, chest, legs, hips and back) at least twice a week. Take a rest for at least 48 hours before your next session.
Examples of muscle- strengthening activities include body weight resistance exercises, using resistance bands/ tubing and weight lifting.
4. Avoid foods that are high in trans fats, such as deep- fried food, pastries and cakes.
5. Use monounsaturated fats, like olive oil, instead of saturated fat (butter, ghee, and palm oil) when you cook.
6. Limit Cholesterol- rich foods such as organ meats, shellfish, and eggs.
7. Eat more fiber, such as whole grain food, vegetables, fruit and beans.
8. Enjoy fish rich in Omega- 3 fatty acids like sardine, long tail shad (terubok) and Spanish mackerel (tenggiri papan) two to three times a week.
Q What are the symptoms of high Cholesterol
There are no symptoms that will tell you if your Cholesterol is getting too high. Most people find out they have high Cholesterol from a blood test during a check- up or when they have already suffered a heart attack or stroke.
This is why it is important that you get a Cholesterol test every three years starting from age 40 if you have not been diagnosed with high Cholesterol.
Q Any message for the persons who are already taking cholesterol lowering drugs
A - You should always have a healthy diet. Cholesterol- lowering drugs cannot replace a healthy lifestyle. Remember to take your medication as advised by your GP or family doctor. People who are thin can also have high blood Cholesterol. Although being overweight significantly increases a person's risk of high Cholesterol, anyone who eats too much saturated and trans fats can have too much Cholesterol in their blood stream.
If you are over 40, you should have your Cholesterol tested every three years or more frequently as advised by your family doctor, regardless of your weight. You may have a family history of high Cholesterol. Eating a healthy balanced diet and doing regular physical activity can help keep your Cholesterol under control.
==============================
## Title: Dinesh, Shehara and Dilan continue their dominance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Dinesh, Shehara and Dilan continue their dominance
Mobil Brand Ambassadors Dinesh Jayawardana, Shehara Jayawardana and Dilan Seneviratne finished off the season in style with all of them securing podiums.
It was a cloudy and extremely wet Sunday, as thunderstorms hit the CEAT SLARDAR  AMRC Championship hard. Nevertheless, the event went on as planned, and we witnessed some spectacular driving and riding by the competitors.
Shehara Jayawardana started off the proceedings for the day by starting 3rd on the grid in SL-H up to 1600cc and comfortably held onto the position all the way to the end, with the help of a brilliant start, she challenged the leaders into the first corner. Shehara, drove a well controlled race in wet weather to secure yet another podium, in the SL-H up to 1600 class.
As the much awaited Super Car event was about to get underway, the first thunderstorm hit Pannala for the day.
Dinesh Jayawardana, who qualified in the front row next to pole sitter Ashan Silva had an unfortunate mechanical failure and was unable to get off the line.
From the time the race began, every single moment was filled with excitement, as cars were sliding and spinning all over the track, as conditions were almost impossible to drive in.
With all the action unfolding ahead, Dilan Seneviratne, who suffered in qualifying and started the race from the back of the grid, was slowly but surely making his way up the order. In the end, Seneviratne who stayed away from all the drama that unfolded,drove brilliantly using his years of experience, to take the flag and win the race ahead of Pasindu Peiris and Ushan Perera, who finished second and third respectively.
Finally, Dinesh Jayawardana closed the proceedings for the day in style as he came from the back of the grid in Race 2 to finish third with a brilliant drive to give the Mobil Powered cars a 100% podium ratio.
==============================
## Title: Evolution of the Justice System in Sri Lanka since Olcott's arrival
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Evolution of the Justice System in Sri Lanka since Olcott's arrival
Reproduced below is the first part of Colonel Henry Steel Olcott Memorial Speech delivered by Attorney General Y J W Wijayatilake, PC at Ananda College on November 21. The second part will be published on November 25.
Returning to Ananda College always evokes fond memories of a happy childhood and a fine education and, so, it gives me great pleasure to be back here. Therefore, I thank the Ananda College OBA for making that possible by inviting me to deliver this year's Olcott Oration.
Given my professional background, the topic I have chosen to speak on this evening will surely not come as a surprise to you. Of course, this is not the first time that law and religion or indeed law and Buddhism in particular have been linked together. In fact, there is a historically unresolved jurisprudential debate between the Natural Law school of thought which recognizes a higher or divine source of law and the Positive Law school of thought which expounds only man-made law as Law. At the centre of the debate is the intersection of religion, morality and law. To add to this, there is growing scholarship on Buddhist Jurisprudence, where its proponents seek to interpret law through the principles of Buddhism. Within this area of study, human rights and other concepts which are generally affiliated with modern and West-centric thinking have been traced in King Asoka's royal edicts of ancient times.
However, rather than assert that law can be interpreted through Buddhism, which would invite a complex, jurisprudential inquiry of an academic nature, I prefer to share with you some thoughts on a more comprehensible subject. It is linked with the great Buddhist Revivalist in whose memory we are gathered here today, Col. Henry Steel Olcott and is also one which I hope would be of more appeal to the diverse audience before me. That is, how the justice system, especially the laws in this country, have evolved from the period of Olcott's arrival, with particular reference to the manner in which Buddhism is reflected in the laws of Sri Lanka. I see this reflection from a dual perspective: 1. because of the similarities between the moral philosophy of Buddhism and expressions or practices of the law and 2. because Buddhism has been given special status by law.
There is another reason why selecting law as the basis of my topic would not be out of place in an Olcott Oration. For, among the many hats that Olcott wore, he was actually a lawyer by profession. For those less familiar with his biography, it would be of significance to know that, before his arrival in Asia and his establishment as a theosophist, he was an attorney in America who specialised in insurance, revenue and fraud. He investigated accusations of fraud against spiritual mediums and was even an investigator of President Abraham Lincoln's assassination. And in Ceylon, he played a major role in seeking to bring to justice the perpetrators of the 1883 Buddhist-Christian riot, more famously known as the Kotahena riots. Though unsuccessful in initiating a criminal trial, Olcott's repeated and strong appeals to the British authorities makes him stand out as a champion of legal rights on behalf of the Sinhala Buddhist community in Ceylon at the time. He is viewed as a legal reformer and ultimately a universal reformer who engaged in a search for order. Therefore, I find additional impetus to focus on law in my oration.
Buddhist moral philosophy
I now turn to briefly introduce the structure of this presentation. As I mentioned earlier, my approach to the subject has a dual perspective. So, in the first part of the oration, I use extracts from Olcott's most famous publication, The Buddhist Catechism to draw on aspects of Buddhist moral philosophy and then refer to examples of substantive and procedural law which mirror those philosophical aspects. In the second part, I deal with a more overt reflection, where Buddhism as a religion is given express recognition and protection by our laws. However, in this latter context too, it is important to note that the tenet of tolerance which is fundamental to Buddhist philosophy and also present in Olcott's outlook is always assured in our justice system, so that, despite the prominence given to Buddhism, the legal framework guarantees freedom and tolerance of other religions. In the end, both perspectives come together as manifestations of Buddhism in the laws of this country.
Since I rely upon The Buddhist Catechism as a thematic foundation, it is appropriate to first introduce this work. Originally composed by Olcott in 1881 and added on to in the 40 editions which were published in his lifetime alone, the author explains the book as follows: "The unpretending aim in view is to give so succinct and yet comprehensive a digest of Buddhistic history, ethics and philosophy as to enable beginners to understand and appreciate the noble ideal taught by the Buddha, and thus make it easier for them to follow out the Dharma in details." Therefore, using a textual form originally found in Christian religious instruction, more particularly in Roman Catholicism, Olcott sets out by question and answer, the life of the Buddha, the doctrine of Dhamma, the role of the Sangha, a brief history of Buddhism, its Councils and propaganda and, finally, some reconciliation of Buddhism with science.
Part I: The moral philosophy of Buddhism as reflected in the law
To begin with, at the heart of any religious or philosophical doctrine is a code of conduct or behaviour which its followers should practice. Similarly, the law of a country or indeed international law sets out a code of conduct that the community which is governed by that law should follow. Therefore, a religion or, in the case of Buddhism, a philosophy-based code of conduct, as well as a law-based code of conduct will have at their core some fundamental do's and don't's. One of the main differences, though, is that law will include do's and don't's which have no moral equivalent such as the duty to observe traffic lights, the duty to pay tax or the duty to refrain from putting up posters during an election campaign. As evident, positive or active duties and negative or passive duties are both included in the code of conduct under law. Catechism No.148 demonstrates that Buddhism too includes both types of conduct as condoned behaviour:
Q. Do these precepts show that Buddhism is an active or a passive religion
A. To "cease from sin" may be called passive, but to "get virtue" and "to cleanse one's own heart," or mind, are altogether active qualities. The Buddha taught that we should not merely not be evil, but that we should be positively good.
This is based on the answers in Catechism No.145:
Q: Has not the Buddha summed up his whole doctrine in one gatha or verse
A: Yes.
Q: Repeat it
A: "To cease from all evil actions,
To generate all that is good,
To cleanse one's mind,
This is the constant advise of the Buddhas."
As a further example of Buddhism's inclusion of the passive and the active, I urge you to compare the five precepts and the Noble eight-fold path. While the former is couched in negative language where one must refrain or abstain from some act, the latter is espoused in positive or active terms. I quote from Catechism No.125 in this regard:
Q. What is this Noble Eight-fold Path
A. The eight parts of this path are called angas. They are: 1. Right Belief (as to the law of Causation or, Karma); Right Thought; Right Speech; Right Action; Right Means of Livelihood; Right Exertion; Right Remembrance and Self-Discipline; Right Concentration of Thought. The man who keeps these angas is mind and follows them will be free from sorrow and ultimately reach salvation.
Therefore, another common strand between the moral philosophy of Buddhism and expressions of law is the mixture of active and negative or passive types of conduct which form their codes of behaviour.
But it is Catechism No.170 which sums up why it is easy draw a link between the moral philosophy of Buddhism and the law and, therefore, why the codes of conduct found in both would not be very different from each other.
Q: If we were to try to represent the whole spirit of the Buddhas doctrine by one word, which word should we choose
A: Justice.
So let us see how elements of the code of conduct and the concept of justice postulated in the Buddhas doctrine, the Dharma, also known as the Law of Righteousness, is reflected in our laws. For purposes of my presentation, I draw examples from two aspects of law: substantive law where rights and duties of persons are defined and procedural law where the manner in which rights and duties of persons should be determined is laid out.
a) The Dharma in substantive law
The fundamental moral philosophy of Dharma is the Pancha Sila and it is these five precepts which define a Buddhist. To illustrate, consider Olcotts Catechism No.4.
Q: Would you call a person a Buddhist who had merely been born of Buddhist parents
A: Certainly not. A Buddhist is someone who not only professes belief in the Buddha as the noblest of Teachers, in the Doctrine preached by Him, and the Brotherhood of Arhats, but practices His precepts in daily life.
None of us in this audience needs to be reminded of the five precepts of Buddhism, but I nevertheless refer to them one by one so that the task of identifying their counterparts in the law is made easier. Catechism No.153 sets out the five precepts as follows:
Q: What are the five observances, or universal precepts, called the Pancha Sila, which are imposed on the laity in general
A: They are included in the following formula, which Buddhists repeat publicy at viharas (temples):
1. I observe the precept to refrain from destroying the life of beings.
2. I observe the precept to refrain from stealing.
3. I observe the precept to abstain from unlawful sexual intercourse.
4. I observe the precept to refrain from falsehood.
5. I observe the precept to abstain from using intoxicants.
The first four of the five precepts find parallels in the legislative enactment which sets out the bulk of criminal offences in Sri Lanka, the Penal Code Ordinance of 1883. Let me commence with the first precept, to refrain from destroying the life of beings. Its equivalent in law is to be found in sections 293 and 294 of the Penal Code which recognize culpable homicide and murder as offences. Of course, it is important to note that the first precept is not limited to the destruction of human life. The word used is beings and not human beings. Therefore, although the law does not have a blanket prohibition on killing of animals, provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ordinance of 1907 set out that the causing of unnecessary pain and suffering whilst keeping, transporting and, even slaughtering, of animals amounts to an offence. Furthermore, provisions of the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance prohibit the killing of endangered species of animals.
Restrictive regulations
The second precept, to refrain from stealing, is also echoed in the Penal Code. Under sections 366 and 379 of this Ordinance, theft and robbery constitute criminal offences.
Sections 360A to 365B of the Penal Code reflect the third precept, to abstain from unlawful sexual intercourse. Accordingly, procurement for illicit sexual intercourse, sexual exploitation of children, rape, incest, unnatural carnal intercourse and grave sexual abuse are all criminalized.
The fourth precept, to refrain from falsehood, is found in a number of Penal Code offences where different manifestations of dishonesty are present. For instance, perjury (section 188), criminal misappropriation, (section 386), criminal breach of trust (section 388), cheating (section 398) and forgery (section 452), are criminal acts which involve some sort of falsehood. Similarly, misrepresentation would attract damages under contract law.
Finally, the fifth precept, to abstain from using intoxicants can be found in laws relating to alcohol and illegal substances. For instance, the National Authority on Alcohol and Tobacco Act of 2006 prohibits sale of alcohol to underage persons, free distribution of alcohol and advertisement of alcohol, as well as imposes other restrictive regulations with the aim of discouraging alcohol consumption. Likewise, the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance of 1929 criminalizes the manufacture, possession and consumption of illicit drugs. The Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act of 2007 and the Conventions Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 2008 are also self-explanatory of the legal position with regard to intoxicants.
I now turn to another aspect of Olcotts articulations of the Buddhist moral philosophy. Catechism Nos.224-226 demonstrate the non-discriminatory principles in Buddhism, particularly where gender and caste are concerned:
Q: What is the spiritual status of woman among Buddhists
A: According to our religion they are on a footing of perfect equality with men. Woman, says the Buddha, in the Chullavedalla Sutta, may attain the highest path of holiness that is open to man  Arhatship.
Q: What does a modern critic say about the effect of Buddhism on women
A: That it has done more for the happiness and enfranchisement of woman than any other creed (Sir Lepel Griffin).
Q: What did the Buddha teach about caste
A: That one does not become of any caste, whether Pariah, the lowest, or Brahmana, the highest , by birth, but by deeds. By deeds, said He, one becomes an outcast, by deeds one becomes a Brahmana. (See Vasala Sutta).
The right to equality has been recognized under both our Republican Constitutions. In the 1972 Constitution, which set out Fundamental Rights of Citizens for the first time, though without any recourse to remedy in the event of their violation, Article 18(1)(a) read as follows: all persons are equal before the law and are entitled to equal protection of the law. Progressing even further, Chapter III of the 1978 Constitution guarantees a number of Fundamental Rights, including the right to equality, but which are now justiciable in law. Not only is it that Article 12(1) echoes the provision on equality under the 1972 Constitution. Article 12(2) guarantees that no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion, place of birth or any one of such grounds, while Article 12(4) allows for special provision being made, by law subordinate legislation or executive action, for the advancement of women, children and disabled persons. Therefore, our laws are consonant with Buddhist teaching that all persons are equal and that no one should be discriminated on the basis of gender, caste or any other similar ground.
Before I move on to the next area of law, I admit that critics may say that all religions have a common moral code and laws being only an extension or enforceable version of a universal moral code, it is no surprise that the two accord with each other or that the examples I have drawn from the substantive laws of this country are a reflection of universal laws and have nothing to do with Buddhist moral philosophy. For instance, some of the Ten Commandments in Christianity being similar to the some of the precepts of Buddhism, our penal laws may be a reflection of that religion as much as it is one of Buddhism. Or that the right to equality is merely a derivation from the human rights movement of Post-Enlightenment Europe and globally accepted since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. But my intention has not been to assert that there is any intentional influence of or derivation from Buddhist philosophy in our law, but merely to highlight the intersection of core legal values with core religious values, and in this case, from the point of view of Buddhist values as articulated by Olcott. It is also relevant that all of the laws which I have referred to were enacted during the period spanning from Olcotts arrival in Sri Lanka to the present day.
b) The Dharma in procedural law
As recently as two weeks ago, I had the occasion to read an enlightening article on how the Eight-fold Noble Path should inform the judicial process, written by an expert in the fields of both Law and Buddhism, former Senior Judge of the International Court of Justice, C. G. Weeramantry. In this part of my presentation, I too focus on the procedural aspect of law, how to dispense justice, keeping in mind some fundamental principles of Buddhist moral philosophy, once again relying on Olcotts catechisms. I begin with Nos.194 to 196:
Q: Are there any dogmas in Buddhism which we are required to accept on faith
A: No. We are earnestly enjoined to accept nothing whatever on faith; whether it be written in books, handed down by our ancestors, or taught by the sages.
Q: Did he himself teach that noble rule
A: Yes. The Buddha has said that we must not believe in a thing said merely because it is said; nor in traditions because they have been handed down from antiquity; nor rumours as such; nor writings by sages, merely because sages wrote them; nor fancies that we may suspect to have been inspired in us by a Deva (that is, in presumed spiritual inspiration); nor from inferences drawn from some haphazard assumption we may have made; nor because what seems analogical necessity; nor on the mere authority of our own teachers or masters.
Q: When, then, must we believe
A: We are to believe when the writing, doctrine or saying is corroborated by our own reason and consciousness. For this, says he in concluding I taught you not to believe merely because you have heard, but when you believed of your own consciousness, then to act accordingly and abundantly. (See the Kalama Sutta of the Anguttara Nikaya, and the Maha Pari Nirvana Sutta.)
And where would we find guidance for our reason and consciousness Catechism No.149 offers the answer:
Q: Who or what are the Three Guides that a Buddhist is supposed to follow
A: They are disclosed in the formula called the Tisarana: I follow Buddha as my Guide: I follow the Law as my Guide: I follow the Order as my Guide. These three are, in fact, the Buddha Dharma.
I dare to say that nothing better exemplifies better than these expositions the correct approach to dispensing justice. For, it is reason and consciousness which should and should alone guide our decisions as to whether a man should be prosecuted and equally whether an accused should be convicted. And, similar to the Three Guides in Buddhism, we can find three sources which guide reason and consciousness in law: Those are legislation, judicial decisions and, most importantly, evidence. Buddhism clearly denounces acting upon blind faith, rumour or uncorroborated material. And yet, unfortunately, it is that very approach which has been rejected by the Dharma that misguided and ignorant masses appear to expect the justice system to apply.
At this point, I deliberately draw a parallel with recent and continuing media and public outcry demanding that the Attorney Generals Department arrive at particular decisions which pander to popular belief. However, it has to be unequivocally said that, just as much as the Dharma, the law of evidence requires Law and Judicial Officers to take into account in the decision-making process, cogent evidence which appeals to reason and consciousness, not faith, rumour or popular belief. In fact, the whole structure of the Evidence Ordinance of 1895 is such that hearsay is meant to be excluded in judging a civil or criminal case, and only a few exceptions to the rule against hearsay are found in sections 17-39. Furthermore, the standard of proof in a criminal case is one beyond reasonable doubt. Although the Evidence Ordinance itself does not set out the degree of proof required in civil and criminal cases, English law applies on this point. Accordingly, it has been held by our courts that the prosecution must establish beyond reasonable doubt the essential ingredients of an offence. Therefore, it would be against a fundamental rule of law and indeed principle of justice if the Attorney Generals Department was to initiate or maintain a prosecution in the absence of evidence which matches such a high degree of proof.
Even the hallmark saying Justice is Blind is based on the need to maintain objectivity, impartiality and independence of judgment.
==============================
## Title: EXTERMINATORS awarded at SLIM Brand Excellence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
EXTERMINATORS awarded at SLIM Brand Excellence
EXTERMINATORS (Pvt) Ltd, Asias first Carbon Neutral certified pest control company awarded at SLIM Brand Excellence 2015. The company won an award for the sixth consecutive year under the SME brand category.
THE EXTERMINATORS stepped into this fierce but amazing Pest World with just one man with spray gun, but with more force, drive and passion it has become Sri Lankas premier pest control company today winning 38 awards for business excellence, brand excellence, industrial excellence. EXTERMINATORS have launched more than 100 high quality innovative range of global products and brands from United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Portugal and South Korea for control, prevention and management of rodents, cockroaches, ants, flies, mosquitoes and a range of washroom & hygiene products for the hotel industry from PELSIS-UK. These products come with an unmatchable after sales service and an international product guarantee.
EXTERMINATORS opened the new city office/showroom at Reid Avenue, Colombo-07. A wide range of pest management products are available at this premier location and also at Battaramulla and Kandy.
==============================
## Title: Fairway National Literary Award: Shortlist on November 27
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Fairway National Literary Award: Shortlist on November 27
The shortlisted entries of the Fairway National Literary Award 2016 will be announced on November 27 at the Hilton Residencies, Colombo 2. Shortlisted entries are for the three language categories. The distinguished and highly acclaimed panels of judges for each of the three languages will also be revealed on the day.
The Fairway National Literary Award Ceremony will be held in Galle on January 15 for the first time to coincide with the Fairway Galle Literary Festival.
The festival will be held in three cities from this upcoming edition in an effort to take it to a wider audience. The festival will be held on January 8 to 9 in Kandy, 14 to 17 in Galle and 23 to 24 in Jaffna.
Three to five publications from each language will be shortlisted for this award and the best novel comprising the most excellent and creative work from each stream as per the decision of the panels of judges will be eligible for a cash award of Rs. 500,000. Every book that has been shortlisted will be rewarded with Rs. 100,000 each.
==============================
## Title: Films To Mark 400th Anniversary of Shakespeares Death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 00:45
Films To Mark 400th Anniversary of Shakespeares Death
Shakespeares Globe theatre is to mark the 400th anniversary of the bards death by turning Londons South Bank into a huge pop-up cinema showing 37 new films  one for each of Shakespeares plays.
Some 2.5 miles (4km) of the Thames path between Westminster Bridge and London Bridge will be given over to 37 screens placed in order of when the play was written.
Although each film will only run for 10 minutes  repeated on a loop throughout 23 and 24 April  viewing the entire collection would take over six hours, not counting coffee breaks and walking from one screen to the next.
The new scenes will be filmed on location: Hamlet will be shot in Elsinore (Helsingr) in Denmark, Cleopatra in front of the Pyramids in Egypt, and Romeo and Juliet in Verona in Italy  though Shakespeare almost certainly never set foot in any of these countries, and may never have left England. The films will also feature archive material, animation, and shots from Stratford-upon-Avon, where Shakespeare was born in 1564 and died in 1616.
The outgoing director of Shakespeares Globe, Dominic Dromgoole, said the events planned for the St Georges Day weekend which traditionally marks both Shakespeares birth and death  as the last great adventure of my time here at the Globe.
The 37 films have not yet been cast, but Dromgoole is already eyeing potential locations, including Hampton Court Palace. He said the project was looking for actors with great Shakespeare chops  fortunately were not short of them in England.
Dromgoole conceded some spurious connection between Shakespeare and Stratford-upon-Avon, but insisted that London made him a playwright and was threaded through his life and work.
There may be problems, however, with a few of the potential filming sites.
The forests of Arden and Windsor will prove no trouble, and locations for the Two Gentlemen of Verona and The Merchant of Venice are self-evident; but scholars still argue whether there ever was a sea coast of Bohemia  part of modern Czechoslovakia, which may have had a sliver of coastline centuries before Shakespeares day  where part of The Winters Tale is set.
Dromgoole said several actors in the frame for parts are already strongly arguing for sun-drenched Barbados to stand in for the island in The Tempest.
He described the Londons South Bank, the setting for the 400th anniversary project, as one of the greatest cultural walkways in the world,running not just past the Globes doorstep, but that of of a string of venues, including the Royal Festival Hall, the BFI, the National Theatre and Tate Modern.
Back in the Globe theatre itself, the record-breaking production of Hamlet will be returning from its completist world tour for four performances over the St Georges Day weekend. Hamlet still plans to visit every country in the world, although North Korea is still refusing to let the production in, and the companys tour of some African countries was postponed to next spring due to the Ebola outbreak.
www.theguardian.com
==============================
## Title: Gas prices down from today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 11:45
Gas prices down from today

The Litro Gas prices have been reduced with effect from today (23) as per the provisions made in Budget  2016 presented by the Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake.
Accordingly, the price of the 12.5 kg Cylinder of domestic Gas will be Rs 1346.00 within the Colombo area. Prices of the 5 kg and the 2.5 kg Cylinders will be Rs 572.00 and Rs 273.00 respectively.
==============================
## Title: G.L Peiris called to appear before FCID
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 14:00
G.L Peiris called to appear before FCID
Former Foreign Minister G.L Peiris has been called to appear before the Police Financial Crimes Investigations Division (FCID) to record a statement.The Former Minister is reportedly to be questioned regarding several malpractices that occurred at the Foreign Ministry during his time as the minister.

==============================
## Title: How serious are we about the economy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
How serious are we about the economy
We have spent the whole of this year talking about democracy and good governance. This is understandable. The semi-authoritarian rule that preceded was characterized by widespread corruption, nepotism, misallocation and wastage of public funds, etc. Many people lost any hope of a decent future. The growing nexus between business and politics frustrated decent entrepreneurs and discouraged many foreign investors. Investments in R& D remained incredibly low for a country with a lower middle income status.
The continuing brain drain led to the depletion of highly skilled human resources, making it virtually impossible to promote technology intensive industrialization. Now that democracy and good governance restored to a considerable extent, many people expected the new government to focus attention on economic development. In order to do so, it was necessary for the leaders to get a thorough economic analysis of the domestic economy done in order to identify the possibilities and challenges and formulate a rational plan of action. Yet, except some disjointed comments and pronouncements by several leaders, we have not seen anything like a well formulated action plan to get the economy out of the present mess.
Local and foreign investors
An unambiguous policy framework indicating investment priorities and the kind of structural changes envisaged would have given local investors and potential foreign investors the signals that they want before making long term investment decisions. Given the fact that a high level of accumulated public debts precludes large public investments, productive private investment is critical for the development of various sectors of the economy. On the other hand, it is doubtful whether the so-called national government that comprises a highly diverse group of politicians could agree on a common policy framework that can provide the basis for consistent decision-making on development priorities including critical public investments.
Though Sri Lanka is no longer a low income country, economic and social conditions under which a large majority of people live are much to be desired. While their disposable incomes are low, making it difficult for them to satisfy the basic needs of their families, given the low productivity levels, it is virtually impossible to increase their incomes without creating considerable inflationary pressure on essential consumer goods. For instance, hundreds of thousands of employees added to the state sector over the last decade contributed little to labour productivity and production of goods and services but the wages paid to them have to be paid by the taxes levied on consumer goods and higher incomes. What is also significant is the large size of the informal sector, accounting for about 45 percent of the employed population.
As is well known, work in the informal sector is generally precarious and does not provide any social protection during or after employment. But, unless more lucrative and regular employment is generated in the productive sectors through new investments, the situation of employees or the self employed in the informal sector cannot be improved. In other words, a large part of the country's population remains vulnerable and can be easily persuaded to vote against the incumbent government at a future election.
Pressing economic and social issues
For people who are under economic and social pressure, good governance might be of secondary importance in comparison to pressing economic and social issues such as cost of living and poor public transport. But these issues cannot be resolved without creating productive employment. So, the soundness of the economy is the most critical factor in creating social and political stability which in turn is a prerequisite for economic development.
The ongoing political controversies within the government, irrespective of their merits or demerits, show that the leaders have so far failed to iron out their differences and establish unity among constituent sections of the government. Some Ministers have openly expressed their doubts about the stability of the present government. So, the prevailing situation is certainly not conducive for investment decisions, particularly by foreign investors. This is particularly so in the present global economic environment where export markets for manufactured goods are not rapidly expanding.
As is well known, decades of political instability in the country resulted in many lost opportunities leading to the present state of the economy and society. Recent political changes created a sense of hope in the minds of many people. But these political gains cannot be sustained unless they are accompanied by tangible economic and social benefits to people.
The only way to provide such benefits to people is to increase agricultural and industrial production for local and overseas markets leading to higher levels of stable and decent employment and incomes for low income groups. Against this background, present contentious political divisions within the government are more than likely to hinder not only much needed economic development but also political stability itself. Though the divisions within the coalition government were not wholly unexpected, the political and economic fallout of greater instability can be far more damaging to the present and future prospects of a majority of people.
Given the serious economic and social issues they face today, their tolerance level cannot be too high. In a country where people have been living with corruption and abuse of power for many years, continuing hair splitting on one case leading to serious loss of confidence in the regime can have serious political repercussions. In any controversy, there are two sides but there can be only one truth.
Do we have a credible arbiter to uncover that truth and resolve the matter Why can't we get that arbiter to resolve the issue once and for all and save the country from another disaster
==============================
## Title: Improving from within
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Improving from within
Knowledge is power and education is priceless. A solid foundation to enhance both is absolutely essential. The International Schools of Sri Lanka (TISSL) is the umbrella organization that seeks to facilitate this. The TISSL assists collaboration among schools to meet the needs of the next generation, as youths would require communication and critical thinking skills to meet future demands.
The third Annual International Conference for heads of schools organised by the TISSL was held from November 13-15 at Ahungalla.
The doors of this conference are open to all schools in Sri Lanka  State, private and international. We live in an era where there is much debate on the future of schools and how schools should transform to meet the needs of the next generation. Among the many skills spoken of, there is one skill that takes centre stage. That skill is the ability to collaborate, said TISSL Chairman Dr. Harsha Alles.
Collaboration is key and one cannot think of a better place than a school where there is much opportunity to collaborate.
Collaboration can take place both horizontally and vertically. Horizontally, from student to student and teacher to teacher while vertically from student to teacher and teacher to school head. The theme of this conference is Improving schools from within. This means that even though we perceive that some schools are good and others are not so good, what matters more is not the school that you attend but which classroom you go to in a particular school, Dr. Alles said.
The vision of the Minister of Education in making the nearest school the best school, demonstrates the fact that he is not looking for the usual quick fixes to the countrys needs in education. Irrespective of where a school is located, if school heads and teachers can work together for the common progress of all students, such schools would experience not only growth but also achievement.
We at the TISSL believe that we are all on a learning journey. The international conference that we organize every year is a result of our desire to constantly upgrade ourselves. In August 2016, the heads of all the TISSL schools will attend a weeks residential training programme at a prestigious university in Malaysia, Dr. Alles added.
Dr. Harsha AllesDr. Elizabeth Tudball
The key to minimizing the inequality of standard within a school is by good collaboration within the school community. However, in doing so, it is important to remember that while a top down leadership can get things started, to keep improving and moving forwards, schools need to work from inside out.
In his address, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said, international and private schools play an important role in the Sri Lankan education system providing English medium primary and secondary education which is in high demand in the current global, social and economic context.
These schools follow the national or international curriculum. A total of 217 international schools and 80 private schools are functioning at present. Schools which follow the international curriculum give the opportunity for migrants to obtain their education. The country receives foreign exchange as school fees, the minister pointed out. However, there are disadvantages as a lot of money goes out of the country as examination fees. In addition, students are encouraged to follow higher education courses at foreign educational institutes making the situation worse with regard to foreign exchange. However, it is heartening to note that some international schools are slowly but steadily adopting the national curriculum, Minister Kariyawasam said. Private schools which have the national curriculum provide a valuable service. One of the burning issues of the government is the difficulty in accommodating students at popular government schools. However, private schools fulfill this need of parents and students.
Private schools save the government a great deal of expenditure. However, it has become mandatory to monitor schools to maintain the quality of education. The countrys future depends on the childrens education. Therefore, it is imperative for the government to take steps to monitor these schools to ensure the quality and uniformity of education to achieve national educational goals rather than adopting a pessimistic attitude towards private schools, the minister said. Director of Undergraduate Programs in the Faculty of Education, Monash University Dr. Elizabeth Tudball also raised pertinent questions as to what should or could the focus be to improve schools from within.
What does research tell us about successful school improvement strategies in the 21st century What processes can be developed to improve schools So much depends on the school context, on needs and priorities, the needs of teachers and students. Is your focus really on student learning and achievement she asked.
You cant do it all and improve everything in one quick go. It takes time. There will be things that are more strategic for you as leaders or for you as senior teachers in your school community. The important thing is to work out what area needs improving. Is it an area of well-being and engagement This is increasingly a critical issue for us in Australian schools where we find young people caught up in the digital age, Dr. Tudball said. What should be the focus for you in your schools Dr. Tudball asked. Is the focus on teaching, learning, assessment and innovation Being clearer about what young people know and understand is important, she said. How to use digital technology effectively and the importance of teachers' quality need more attention, she added.
Dr. Tudball cited Wooranna Primary School in Melbourne, a multicultural school with 38 different nationalities and Balwyn High School to point out school improvement strategies. In Australia, every government school must go through a continuous school improvement review and they have to set goals which are highly statistical, evidence-based and data-driven.
I was amazed how Wooranna Primary School improved from within. There are 420 children and every child chooses a passion project once a year which is very interesting. It is a differentiated curriculum.
It is individual learning but also collaborative with extraordinary partnerships between parents, teachers, learners and community.
Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam
The students have the opportunity to be learners who embrace culture, think critically, communicate clearly and work collaboratively, utilizing connectivity and developing creativity, Dr. Tudball said.
At Wooranna, it is about learning to learn, meet diverse needs, learning collaboratively and maximizing learning. Sometimes it is interdisciplinary learning, flexible use of time and space and including student and parent voices.
Dr. Tudball stressed that it cannot happen at once and that the challenge is to work out what matters most to you and your school  when, who, where, what, how much it is going to cost and what is required.
Choose things that matter to you and what you believe in, and it is likely to happen.
At Balwyn High School, the key areas are rigorous and differentiated curriculum to cater to individual learning needs, improving literacy outcomes for all students, developing a whole school literacy plan with accurate and consistent approaches to assess individual students, she said.
==============================
## Title: iPhone 6s comes to Sri Lanka with Dialog
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
iPhone 6s comes to Sri Lanka with Dialog
The iPhone 6s is officially here, as Sri Lankas authorized partner network for Apple iPhone, Dialog, launched the latest Apple device islandwide.
The iPhone 6s is the new and improved version of the iconic iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus, and comes equipped with 3D Touch  the next generation in multi-touchscreen technology offering more functionality than ever before. The models are available in popular Gold, Silver, Rose Gold and Space Gray colours and operate on 4G LTE. The iPhone 6s boasts a 12 megapixel iSight camera, a 5 megapixel FaceTime HD camera and 4K video quality, promising the best in media experience.
Dialog is presenting the first 25 customers of the iPhone 6s and the 6s Plus with free selfie-sticks, whilst the next 25 customers will receive Apple-branded t-shirts. All pre-order customers with Dialog will also receive valuable iPhone accessories, whilst one lucky customer out of the first 100 will receive an additional iPhone absolutely free.
The iPhone 6s will deliver burst speeds of 40Mbps on Dialogs state-of-the-art 4G network, whilst the company also offers the best in after sales service with warranty for Apple iPhone in the country and comprehensive solutions for the discerning Apple customer.
We are privileged to launch the Apple iPhone 6s in Sri Lanka, presenting the ultimate in mobile devices to Apple enthusiasts locally. The countrys premier telecommunications service provider, and only authorised partner network for Apple, Dialog, grants an unparalleled service experience to users island wide, and we invite our valued customers to discover the Apple promise of innovation on every level with the iPhone 6s, together with Dialog, said Asanga Priyadarshana, Head of Business, Mobile Telecommunications of Dialog Axiata PLC.
The iPhone 6s is fitted with a A9 64-bit ARM based system-on-chip (SoC) designed by Apple, which currently stands as the most advanced and fastest chip made for smartphones, working in perfect sync with the iOS 9 operating system.
==============================
## Title: Japan backs US South China Sea operations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Japan backs US South China Sea operations
Japan: Japan on Sunday backed the United States sailing warships close to disputed land in the South China Sea but said it had no plans to send its own maritime forces to support the operation.
Last month Washington infuriated Beijing when the USS Lassen guided missile destroyer sailed within 12 nautical miles of at least one land formation claimed by China in the disputed Spratly Islands chain.
Chinese authorities monitored and warned away the vessel, but did not otherwise intervene, although Beijing later summoned the US ambassador and denounced what it called a threat to its sovereignty.
Reports last week said Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told US President Barack Obama on the sidelines of the APEC summit in Manila he would consider sending his country's ships to back up American operations in the area. But Defence Minister Gen Nakatani played down the suggestion after bilateral meetings with Australian counterpart Marise Payne and Foreign Minister Julie Bishop in Sydney.
"We have actively been trying to contribute to stability in the region but as far as we are concerned there is no plan to be a part of the freedom of navigation operation of the United States," he said.
"At the US-Japan summit (in Manila), I believe Prime Minister Abe conveyed this stance to President Obama."
Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida appeared less decisive, saying "nothing has been decided yet, no decision has been taken". "The international community must work in concert to respond to the situation," he said, speaking immediately before Nakatani.
"For the US, conducting operations to ensure the freedom of navigation, this is strictly based on international law ... and Japan is supporting the US in this regard."
Tensions have mounted since China transformed reefs in the South China Sea into small islands capable of supporting military facilities, a move the US says threatens freedom of navigation in a region through which one-third of the world's oil passes. China insists on sovereignty over virtually all the resource-endowed South China Sea, which is also claimed in part by a handful of other countries.
Washington has repeatedly said it does not recognise the Chinese claims.
In a communique after the talks in Sydney, Japan and Australia called on "all claimants to halt large-scale land reclamation, construction, and use for military purposes" in the South China Sea.
They also "urged claimants to exercise restraint, take steps to ease tensions and refrain from provocative actions that could escalate tensions".
Two-thirds of Australian trade passes through the South China Sea and Bishop said freedom of navigation in the area was imperative.
"We have a very deep national interest in maintaining peace and stability in that region," she said. "We don't take sides on the competing territorial claims in the South China Sea, but we have acknowledged that land reclamation and construction activity that's undertaken by China and other claimants raises tensions in the region.
"We're particularly concerned at the prospect of militarisation of artificial islands and structures."
- AFP
==============================
## Title: JAT Holdings wins award for Sayerlack at SLIM Brand Excellence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
JAT Holdings wins award for Sayerlack at SLIM Brand Excellence
JAT Holdings of the Bronze award for Sayerlack as the B2B brand of the year at the recently held Sri Lanka Institute of Marketings SLIM Brand Excellence held at the BMICH for the 14th year.
SLIM has been promoting marketing excellence and elevating the status of marketing in the country. The award ceremony recognizes the outstanding efforts of exceptional marketers and encourages best practiced in the area of branding thereby raising local brands to global standards.
Aelian Gunawardene, Managing Director of JAT Holdings, stated we are proud and blessed to have been recognized for our brand efforts towards marketing Sayerlack in Sri Lanka. This is also a tribute to our dedicated staff, loyal customers and distributors for their unstinted trust and support given to us throughout the years, without whom none of this would have been possible.
The company was recently recognized by Brands Finance Lanka as one of the top ten Strongest Conglomerate Brands in the country. JAT went on a few months later to clinched two gold awards, a silver award and a bronze award at the SLIM National Sales Congress (NASCO) Awards 2015, showcasing par excellence of its sales force.
Over the past 10 years operations have successfully expanded to an international scale as well with presence in countries such as India, Bangladesh, Maldives and Seychelles.

==============================
## Title: Jehan Aloysius A man who dons many hats
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Jehan Aloysius A man who dons many hats
He has written and acted in countless plays in and outside Colombo, and hasnt just stuck to that  he also sometimes designs costumes and sets, lectures at institutes and lends his skills as a voicing artist. His drama company CentreStage Productions is constantly churning out fresh new feasts for theater enthusiasts, like last weeks Pyramus & Thisby, a vibrant, creative Sri Lankan take on scenes from the Shakespearean classic A Midsummer Nights Dream.
The playwright, twice shortlisted for the Graetian Award, is currently getting his team ready to represent Sri Lanka at the esteemed Bharat Rang Mahotsav in India, the third largest theater festival in the world. We managed to catch a break with him in the midst of his busy schedule, to talk about his journey as a dramatist and his contributions to Sri Lankan art and culture.
How did your love of theater first begin
It began in school at St Josephs College, with me participating in Shakespeare drama competitions and at the British Council, in the early 90s. Directors like Scott Richards and Frank Barry were brought down at the time, which introduced me to the Western paradigm of directing and performing. It was the magic of escaping into other worlds that attracted me to theater. I was quite fat and a loner when I was young  so when I was alone I enjoyed creating scenarios and play-acting.
Has it been difficult climbing to the top of the English drama scene in Colombo
I dont know if Ive still got to the top  the moment you think you have, then you stop moving forward. Im still on the journey and will be to my last breath. Theater does not pay at all. So Ive had to develop new skills, and expand them for an evolving audience  I dont just act and direct, but also have had to design costumes, compose and mix music, and so on. Ive had to wear many hats. It hasnt been an easy journey, and Ive had to turn myself into a diverse, creative person. I also expect this expansion of skills in my actors. Weve also done things like forum theater, bilingual theater - and social theater for disabled people as well, because inclusivity is important. Its been a challenge, turning negatives into positives. I believe drama comes out of conflict, between your objectives and the obstacles you face when you go after them.
What has been the most memorable production of your career
I think Rag was my most memorable one. Its about university ragging, based on my experiences at the University of Colombo. I worked on it for 14 years, and the music was done by my good friend Avanti Perera. It was published on BBC and covered by Katmandu News and so on  its the one closest to my heart. But to some  our first performance of Pyramus and Thisby in 2006 was unforgettable! It was outdoors, I had chicken gunya, my cast had dengue, and we still went ahead and performed  in the rain!
What are the challenges you face as an actor in Sri Lanka
There is a lack of training for actors here. And actors are usually chosen based on what theyve already done, rather than their ability to develop. We need to develop young talent. Training is not available to most actors today. They need to learn to diversify their skills. Also, theater and cinema do not pay. Even Sinhala language drama does not pay on its own  you need to do other things to pay the bills. English language productions here are amateur, not professional. You have to do it for the love of it, not for the money. You have to have a passion to please your audience.
Pyramus and Thisby has been performed in Colombo since 2006, and its a big hit with theater audiences. What about it makes it stand out
Pyramus and Thisby borrows two sub-plots from Shakespeares play. I set the scenes in Sri Lanka, and it is a celebration of Sri Lankan theater and folk dance. Youll see folk theater traditions, some thovil, kolam and fusion dance  and this is combined with the beauty of Shakespeares verse. The high hilarity of the kolam dance goes with the bawdiness of some of Shakespeares comic characters. There is a variety of talent in the production, and its one play that my cast is always eager to perform again. It is one of my most studied plays  so many students are doing dissertations on it now. It doesnt stick to one language  there is the Sinhala language, the faery language, and then theres also dance. The audience is an absolute part of it  there is no fourth wall  so they are made to interact, interpret and interpret, and finally are integrated into the production.
What is next for you in, say, 10 years
It will be the 20th anniversary of Pyramus and Thisby in ten years! I plan on doing a new version of Rag. And also Id like to develop repertory theater, where we work from a repertoire of work. There will be new plays coming up, like our version of Frankenstein, and a new adaptation of Romeo and Juliet. Every bit of music and costume we have is created specifically for the show its in. I feel this approach is more valuable than duplicating performances. This is how Sri Lankan literature and Sri Lankan identities are made. Its more about the impact of the production, not how big the production is.
Which do you love best  acting, playwrighting or directing
I really cant choose. I love being a dramatist. Im my own boss, and Im harder on myself than anyone else. I wouldnt give it up for anything.
Who are some of the artistes in theater that you most admire
In Sinhala drama I truly admire Dharmasiri Bandaranaike and Jith Pieiris  the first person who believed in me. These two had the most impact in my life, while Scott Richards influence when I was young was pivotal.
What do you feel the future of Sri Lankan drama will look like
We need to cut people away from their cable TVs, their Playstations and mobile phones. Its a problem everywhere, all over the world, where people cant stay away from these things. In theater we want to give you a real experience, as opposed to a virtual one. Also theater in Colombo today is not treated as the main event  its either after coffee or before dinner. Theater has to adapt, to find new ways to survive. I cant really predict the future, because everything is always in flux.
What signature advice would you give actors studying under you
Sounds clich, but I would say follow your dreams, make it your passion. Find ways to keep that passion in your job and your life. I believe everyone has to have that element of art in them  whether painting or acting or anything, it gives you an escape, a release, which is important.
==============================
## Title: Kandy district  CP womens hockey champions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Kandy district  CP womens hockey champions
Kandy District womens team became Central Province womens champions in the ladies inter-district hockey championship by defeating Matale District Womens Team 2-1 in the finals of the tournament organized by the Ministry of Sports of the Central Province and played at Edward Park, Matale.
==============================
## Title: Know your level of stupidity!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Know your level of stupidity!
WHAT ARE THE THREE TYPES OF STUPIDITY
Confident ignorance - This is when what someone things is their ability to do something outweighs their actual ability to do it. This, the research found, was associated with the highest levels of stupidity.
Absentmindedness - This can also mean 'lack of practicality', perhaps because they weren't paying attention or weren't aware of something.
Lack of control - This is when someone just can't help themselves. They feel, on some level, that they have to do something, or they have lost the ability to do otherwise. For instance, this can describe someone who cancels plans to go out with friends to keep playing video games at home.
How not to look stupid: Psychologists reveal the three types of foolish behaviour
* The first and worst type of stupidity is confident arrogance, study claims
* The other types of stupidity are lack of control and absentmindedness
* These were ranked as less offensive, according to a survey of 150 people
Scientists have discovered there are three types of stupidity - and one is much worse than the others.
To work out the different categories, scientists gathered a sample of 180 stories from blogs and forums, and interviewed 150 people about which ones were stupid.
The first, and by far the worst type of stupidity, according to the study is something known as confident arrogance.
This is when what someone things is their ability to do something outweighs their actual ability to do it.
The second type of stupidity was lack of control, when someone just cant help themselves.
They feel, on some level, that they have to do something, or they have lost the ability to do otherwise.
For instance, this can describe someone who cancels plans to go out with friends to keep playing video games at home.
The final type of stupidity is absentmindedness which can also mean lack of practicality, perhaps because they werent paying attention or werent aware of something.
Professor Balazs Aczel from the University of Budapest said, The stupidest thing someone can do is overestimate themselves.
What that tells us is that you dont have to have a low IQ, in peoples eyes, to act stupidly. You just have to misperceive your abilities.
The other two types of stupidity werent ranked nearly as harshly.
This suggests that if you want to avoid appearing stupid
In other words, the research reveals that if you want to avoid appearing stupid, in other words, dont be overconfident.
If you dont want to do something stupid, you probably dont want to have higher expectations of your abilities than you should, said Aczel.
The worst thing someone can do is act confidently, and seriously, and still not act rationally. Thats as stupid as it gets.
-Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: Land fraud, land loss and land rights  Part I
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Land fraud, land loss and land rights  Part I
The following is the first part of the article which highlights the issues in the current land registration system in Sri Lanka, the lacunae in the law enabling fraud and how much progress has been made in rectifying the problem. The second article will aim to address information that is crucial for land owners and buyers, the reforms that need to take place and land dispossession in Sri Lanka. While addressing the issue of land fraud in Sri Lanka it is important to understand that there are several different legal systems in play, such as Thesawalamai law, Muslim law and Kandyan law, thus any reform that takes place needs to attempt to harmonize all legal systems.
1. How the system could aid fraud
In an interview with experts on the matter it was pointed out that, shockingly the rules governing registration for land and the notarial practice are discretionary rules, allowing deeds to be registered even if the rules are not adhered to; meaning all it takes is a negligent notary who fails to check someones identification thoroughly to cause a land owner or buyer to lose millions. Another problem is the way the documents have been stored in the Land Registry, poor maintenance, theft, years of decay and nature taking its toll has left the documents deteriorating, as a result it allows room for entries to be changed in the folio and to introduce forged deeds.The current land registration regime in Sri Lanka is not subject to the rule of law, loopholes and shortcomings in the law in combination with negligence by some authorities have created a system where defrauding someone over a piece of real estate has become possible. Systems that were put in place to supposedly uphold the rule of law have subsequently become Public Enemy No.1 and with very few land buyers doing their due diligence, it has led to several people becoming an accessory to a crime committed against their own self.
The legal system concerning the registration of deeds in Sri Lanka has been such that it invited fraud, the Notaries Ordinance provides that registration is not even mandatory. Registration does not amount to ownership in Sri Lanka; registration of a deed is proof of the transaction but if legally defective does not make the sale effective, which results in a lack of certainty. The officials in question have no duty to check if the seller does not have the right to sell, nor do they have the competence to do so. Hence this allows for the infiltration of the registry by fake deeds. A report by the CID stated that the Land Registry does not maintain a list of deceased notaries nor do they take charge of seals, which allows for fake deeds to be registered using the name of a notary who is deceased.
The system has obvious flaws, the pace at which it is being addressed is not sufficient to combat the present issues. Reforms need to be brought in not just at a legal but also a policy level. Moreover the necessary laws and policies need to be implemented alongside the appropriate tools that allow for their efficient functioning. For the time being it is necessary for the general public to understand how the system works and that their position is rather precarious.
2. How land fraud is committed
With the land titling system so vulnerable, it is not surprising that land fraud is so widespread in Sri Lanka. Listed are several popular ways land fraud is committed in Sri Lanka:
1. Impersonation is fairly easy; it is simply a matter of creating a forged deed using a copy of the original deed and creating a fake identity card. Then buyers are found either through paper advertisements or brokers and once the lawyer of the buyer is satisfied with how genuine the deed is, subsequent to a search in the land registry where it has been correctly entered in the folio, the impostor sells the Land using the forged NIC.
2. It is also possible to sell the same piece of land twice or more times; Once a sale is made it takes some time in the Land Registry to alter the relevant folio, thus the seller can take advantage of this delay and sell the land to a second buyer, who will be satisfied that the seller still remains the owner after a search in the Land Registry. A longer delay enables the seller to deceive more buyers.
3. A slightly harder method than impersonation is to actually transfer the ownership of the land and then sell. This is done by collecting a copy of the deed either via a broker or someone attempting to sell, then creating a forged deed in the fraudsters name using the name of a deceased lawyer and getting the forged deed registered in the Land registry, and then selling the land appearing as the original owner.
4. Another way is to execute a deed of declaration, without actually having 10 years of continuous possession, and registering the deed in a new folio as a deed of declaration. This in turn will cause the original owner to not be accepted as the original owner which enables the land to be sold to a buyer by a fraudster. This happens often where deeds are executed for government lands or temple properties on trust.
5. An unexpected method is by filing a partition action to obtain a court order through forgery. This can be done by first executing a deed of declaration by falsifying facts and pretending to be in possession for 10 years of an unused piece of land, and then introducing another person, to whom a portion of the land is transferred in the presence of a lawyer, this person thus becomes the co-owner. The partition action is filed, a decree is obtained from the court to divide the land, and this judgement is registered in the Land Registry, which enables sale to a third party. All this while the original absolute owner is unaware of these transactions, but when he goes to court, he will get ownership leaving the buyer without land or money.
With several gaps in the system land fraud almost seems inevitable, leaving you wondering; how safe are your own assets in reality.
3. Is the future of land registration bleak
In an attempt to rectify the problematic land registration system in Sri Lanka, a title registration system is being implemented right now, commonly known as the Bim Saviya and supported by the World Bank; it has been implemented in 18 of 43 Land Registries at present. This Act provides land title free of land fraud and eliminates the procedure of searching predecessors to title 30 years in the past. The Bim Saviya also provides an indefeasible title to land, this is a judicial term coined to mean that the entries in the title registry are conclusive and cannot be questioned by a court of law. This means that the buyer if registered as the owner in the registry and has possession will be able to exclude all those with rights even if the seller did not have the right to sell.
Unfortunately the rigidity of this law means that several innocent land owners are in a position to lose their land, if fraud takes place. The loophole in this act is that, the original owner can only retain their title if the buyer has knowledge of the fraud taking place and was party to it. However this loophole serves no purpose as it is near impossible to prove that the buyer had the intention of fraud.
In addition to being a title registration system, the Bim Saviya is also implementing an E-Land registry, while this is actually extremely necessary in Sri Lanka, what is problematic about this is that it is being implemented without the appropriate client identification tools, there is no identification process, or biometric system in place to identify the person being entered into the land registry as the owner, which can have disastrous consequences.
The real problem is not the law itself, but the lack of appropriate tools to support it. Another shortcoming within the system is that the offences committed by notaries are either not made punishable or even where the offences are punishable there is no prosecution. Having interviewed lawyers and professors who are researching the subject, it was pointed out that it is important to understand that in a country like Sri Lanka where different legal systems operate, a one size fits all policy will just not do, and we have placed ourselves in a position where the World Bank had to intervene. Land in Sri Lanka is not treated the same way as anywhere else, life here is more communal meaning people respect the right of way or a lien on land, thus a system of title registration which excludes all other rights may not be feasible in Sri Lanka.
Even though the government is attempting to bring in changes, progress is extremely slow, legal reform in land law is not seen as a hot button issue, there needs to be a drastic change in attitudes toward this, land fraud needs to be seen for the debilitating issue it is.
Email: [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Lights! Curtains!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Lights! Curtains!
What do you mean you don't get PAID for being on stage
I sigh at being asked the same question umpteen times before. If I had a rupee for every time someone expressed shock at the fact that most actors in the local English theatre arena are unpaid, I'd be Oprah.
I mean just that. I like it that way.
Cue diplomatic silence accompanied by a perplexed stare, shake of head and that all-too Lankan tch phonetic. It's hard for a non-thespian to comprehend. I don't blame them. Not everyone is insane enough to literally bleed, sweat and toil into the wee hours for months on end for the sake of a few nights romp on a stage in return for a few claps. But we're actors. We thrive on insanity and you can't put a price on madness.
Perhaps the inability to understand why we voluntarily sacrifice our time, families and good sense in favor of theatrics and no monetary compensation, stems from not seeing an actor's journey towards that final curtain. And so, I'm going to help you out with a little sneak peak, mainly because I'm really tired of explaining myself to everyone who asks THE question. Ladies, gentlemen and newspaper germs, I give to you the Diary of a Dramaqueen (cue drumroll and grandiose clash of cymbals) -
It all begins on that first day of auditions. You could be an absolute newbie or an old hand in this business it doesn't matter how many times you've been to one, an audition can still make you want to run to the toilet in terror every five seconds. Even the cockiest of us still have much to prove or live up to in that room filled with judgmental eyes. But you squeeze your quaking legs together in prayer and close your eyes to visualize everyone in their underwear - a trick we actors use to battle the nerves. It works, momentarily. Deep breath, and you begin to recite. Before you know it, you're done and you've been cast, because as most Sri Lankan theatre productions go, there isn't much of a pool to pick from. So all those nerves on audition day are really just because you're being a Dramaqueen - and rightly so. You can now strut around like a newly-pardoned Thanksgiving turkey, telling all and sundry which role you're playing, whether they ask you or not.
In the next few months you will forget you ever had a social life, or any life at all for that matter, and give every waking moment to learning lines or lyrics, training your voice, improving your stamina and flexibility and procrastinating at your day job while you dream of legendary stardom. This is the time during which your colleagues at the office are treated to spontaneous bursts of ma ma ma ma maaaa scales and ascending arpeggios in the washroom. Because we actors tend to take things overboard, you'll also find us explaining haughtily to the management that the gynormous brightly colored scarf we've wrapped around our neck and face like a Middle-Eastern terrorist is to keep throats warm, since nobody was considerate enough to shut off the central air-conditioning for our benefit. We're attention seekers that way. You can always spot an actor in an office environment; they'll be the ones draped sideways over the boardroom armchair, quoting Lady Macbeth to the spot on the whiteboard.
The rest of the body goes through a workout that's no less ridiculous. Like any athlete, actors put themselves through rigorous training in preparation for a show. Rehearsing for a musical Then by Jove, you will be commanded to do planks while singing your song, in order to strengthen your tummy muscles. Those of you who, like me, never really had a single muscle in that region, will curse the day you ever signed up for the production.
But the curses are soon forgotten when rehearsals begin, because along with the tribulations of physical exercise comes the one thing that forms the addiction we theatre people just cannot kick - the cast bonding. The cast of any theatre production is a very special bunch of individuals (special can be defined in many ways, and most of those definitions apply to theatre people). In all your years of being misunderstood and criticized because of your penchant for drama, you have finally found the warm sunny embrace of like-minded nutjobs who delight in your eccentricities and differences, no questions asked. Truly, theatre groups are the way to world peace.
Before you know it, it's opening night. The butterflies in your stomach have butterflies. The corridors of the theatre are filled with mirth and merriment as excited actors run about in stockings and wigs, experimenting with make-up and laughing at each other. Good luck cards and flowers are received, making you feel rather chuffed and special (this time, there's only one definition that suits). You then take your place behind the curtain and strike your pose. The music begins, the audience hushes, the lights fade on and the curtains are about to part.. and you suddenly have to pee. A wild, furtive glance around you gives you the comforting assurance that everyone else on that stage is also struggling to keep their nervous bladders intact. However, the toilet will have to wait, for the show has just begun. You close your eyes, imagine the audience in their underwear and then you transport yourself into another being.
The rest, as they say, is history. Dazzle or disappoint, the show goes on, and you have been a part of it. At the end of it all you rush into each others arms and weep once more (yes, we actors do a lot of that) because you really don't know what to do with yourself now that you no longer have to turn up for rehearsals every evening. Cue the phenomenon known amongst the thespian community as PPD= Post Production Depression - months upon months of wanting to do it all over again. That is, until you see a notice about an audition coming up and you hear those familiar heartstrings tuning up.
It's not easy to explain to someone who doesn't understand why you don't get paid for being a stage actor. How does one put a price on passion
They'd have to pay me to stay away from it.
==============================
## Title: With Love, love love...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
With Love, love love...
Someone once said that if a modern version of Sri Lankan cinemas legendary romantic hero, Vijaya Kumaratunga, could be rejuvenated in modern times Hemal Sachindra Ranasinghe would fit the bill! Armed with charismatic looks, the passion to dedicate his life to the reel and inborn talents to excel in the field, it is no wonder that he is also dubbed as the actor who is likely to turn a new page in local cinema history.
His debut movie, Super Six was one of the highest budget films in Sri Lanka. It also made it to theaters in India. His second movie, Pravegaya gave him an opportunity to carve a niche for himself. His third cinematic venture, Aadaraneeya Kathawak (A Melody of Love) is a musical.
Hemal has also made a name for himself as a top model and had walked the ramp at many national and international level fashion shows. He won the Male Model of the World 2009 title at the Best Male and Female Model of the World competition held in Spain. He also represented Sri Lanka at the Mr World 2010 pageant held in Korea. Hemal is also versed in martial arts and dancing.
Q: If you could be someone else for a day, who would you like to be Why
A: One day is not a long span for me to do much with my new avatar! I think I would like to be myself to dedicate one more day towards doing something good on behalf of the society.
Q: Have you ever been compared to other well known people
A: Yes. People tend to compare well known personalities with me. There are too many names to mention.
Q: Which historic character would you like to give life to
A: King Ravana. I actually got the opportunity to play his role in a movie but unfortunately that project got held up. If I was given a choice I would choose to play him because he played a significant role in our history. We first got to know about our countys existence through his tale. Though he is known as the demon king, I believe that he too is a hero belonging to the bygone era. I first heard the tale in my childhood and I never tire of hearing it.
Q: Action hero or romantic heartthrob Why
A: I like to be known as a versatile actor some day. So both please...
Q: What is your most treasured possession
A: (pauses for a while) I had a possession which I treasured some years ago. But I lost it. I do not like to think about it today.
Q: What is the best acting advice you have gotten
A: Take a deep breath! Then proceed. Mahendra Perera gave me that advice. He is one of the veterans whom I respect most in the industry.
Q: Who would be your Bollywood leading ladies if you were asked to act in a romantic drama, action thriller and comedy
A: (Laughs) Gosh, I need time to think that over... ok, for the romance I would choose Shruti Haasan. I would pick Deepika Padukone for the action thriller and Priyanka Chopra for the comedy.
Q: Do you have any nicknames
A: My close friends call me Sachi or Sachee.
Q: What is your favourite food
A: Anything my mother cooks. I love home cooked meals.
Q: Are you an animal lover
A: Yes. Though I cannot keep pets in my residence in Colombo we have two rottweilers at home in Matale. They are Jade and Cheo.
Q: Who are you closest to in life
A: My mother.
Q: What are the qualities that you are looking for in your future partner
A: Love, love, love.
==============================
## Title: New York, Paris: united by trauma 14 years apart
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
New York, Paris: united by trauma 14 years apart
FRANCE: United by the trauma of terrorism, 14 years apart, New York and Paris have exhibited the same fortitude and determination to overcome the tears and fears with love, life and laughter.
Experts say this is the best possible response to such horrors.
Psychologists who have studied the effects of the 9/11 attacks on New York say that most people, including those directly exposed, will be ok and few experience prolonged symptoms of trauma.
But in the very short term, the vast majority of people directly exposed to this kind of event will show considerable distress, said George Bonanno, clinical psychology professor at Teachers College, Columbia University who heads the Loss, Trauma and Emotion Lab.It doesnt mean the person has gone crazy or even has a disorder or has PTSD, said Douglas Mennin of Hunter College.
Trauma normally dissipates in a couple of weeks or months. For only a small percentage of people -- fewer than 10 percent -- difficulties are more serious and last longer.
On the bright, pristine morning of September 11, 2001, some 2,700 people were killed when Al-Qaeda hijackers flew two passenger jets into the Twin Towers in Manhattan, destroying the buildings.
Hundreds more were killed when planes were hijacked and crashed at the Pentagon just outside Washington and in Pennsylvania.
Afterward, 10,000 people were diagnosed with post-traumatic stress.
In the Paris gun and suicide attacks, 130 people were killed and several hundred others wounded.
In New York, those who lived close to the World Trade Center, the first responders, family members of the victims or those with a good view of the skyscrapers, even at a distance, were the worst affected.
Thats where you found higher incidents of depression and anxiety following these events, said Anne Marie Albano, director of Columbia Universitys Clinic for Anxiety and Related Disorders.
But other than those directly affected and those who suffered from pre-existing disorders we didnt find... new cases of psychiatric illness like new cases of depression or PTSD or anxiety, she said.
This will be likely the same in Paris. New York experts praise the resilience of Parisians, the spontaneous vigils and determination to carry on normal life.
They also praise the French authorities for keeping them well informed.
People need clear, accurate information and they need to trust this information, said Bonanno.
Flowers, candles, photographs, memorials and ceremonies can be very healing, said Albano. Bonanno agreed: People need each other.
Albano said there were a whole host of initiatives in New York after September 11, including in schools.In the United States after 9/11, it was thought best to talk, relive the memories as quickly as possible in order to conquer them.
Experience shows it is counterproductive, and possibly even dangerous, to fuel anxieties that may not even be real.
Human beings are profoundly resilient, said Bonanno. New York continues to commemorate September 11 on each anniversary, reading out the names the victims and shinning beams of light from the site of the lost towers into the sky. But New Yorkers have moved past the trauma, said Mennin. The Twin Towers were part of our skyline, of our identity. We moved on, and incorporated the event in our narrative. I do believe Paris will do the same, he added. We have a healthy respect for that day, it keeps our awareness, that yes theses things can happen, said Albano. But we also have a healthy respect for living life, and not giving into terrorism.
- AFP

==============================
## Title: Not our baby, says Higher Education Ministry Secretary
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Not our baby, says Higher Education Ministry Secretary
The Higher Education Ministry has no authority to interfere in the matter regarding the private medical faculty managed by the South Asia Institute of Medicine and Technology (SAITM), Higher Education Ministry Secretary, D. C. Dissanayake claimed.
The degree awarding status was given to SAITM first by the UGC and later by the Higher Education Ministry. According to regulations set out to recognise any private degree awarding status as per Gazette No 1842/21 issued on August 22, 2013, institutes "which offer study programmes leading to Degrees in Medicine, Engineering, Architecture and other similar professional degrees shall obtain compliance certification from the relevant Specified Professional body," a regulation which Dissanayake is not aware of.
"I haven't referred to that gazette yet," he claimed, stating that the matter is a complex issue which needs careful handling.
"The Higher Education Ministry gave SAITM a degree awarding status and apart from that the ministry has no connection with the issue," Dissanayake said.
The ministry cannot take any legal action against the administration of SAITM for failing to get the compliance from SLMC. It is a problem with SAITM, it is their responsibility to meet the standards in order to get the certification from SLMC. The students at SAITM will be considered as medical graduates but they will not be allowed to practice as doctors in Sri Lanka without the certification of the SLMC, he claimed.
Dissanayake also highlighted that as the gazette was issued under the tenure of the former government and the present government has not taken any decisions with regard to the issue so far.
==============================
## Title: Obese pregnant women risk babys health in infancy
## Supertitle: [HEALTH WATCH]
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
[HEALTH WATCH]
Obese pregnant women risk babys health in infancy
Women who are obese when they become pregnant are at twice the risk of their baby dying before the age of one, experts have warned. Losing weight prior to trying for a baby, and only gaining a healthy amount of weight while expecting, significantly reduces the risk of the baby dying in infancy.
Experts say the findings highlight the need for a comprehensive approach to reducing obesity among women of a reproductive age.
They say weight counselling before conception and during pregnancy, could be key.
Lead author of the study, Dr Lisa Bodnar, an associate professor at the University of Pittsburgh, said: One in three women start pregnancy at an unhealthy weight and more than half of women gain either too much or too little weight during pregnancy.
While more research needs to be conducted, we are hopeful that this study can be used to start a dialogue between physicians and women on the importance of not only gaining a healthy amount of weight while pregnant, but also reducing excess weight before they become pregnant as a potential way to improve infant survival.'
Every year, around 24,000 infants die in their first year of life in the US.
The rate of infant deaths in America, of 6.1 deaths per 1,000 live births, ranks 26th in the world, despite a 20 per cent decline in the US infant mortality rate from 1990 to 2010.
Dr Bodnar and her colleagues examined records from more than 1.2 million live births in Pennsylvania from 2003 to 2011.
Among them were 5,530 infant deaths - defined as the death of a baby before his or her first birthday.
The mothers were all classified as underweight, normal weight, overweight or obese, which was divided into three grades, based on their pre-pregnancy body mass index.
In each weight group, the researchers also examined the impact on infant mortality when women gained significantly more or less weight during pregnancy that Institute of Medicine guidelines.
The guidelines, for example, recommend a weight gain of 25 to 35 pounds for normal-weight women and 11 to 20 pounds for obese women.
In all the weight groups, except the most obese, gaining less than or much more than recommended weight increased the risk of infant death.
However, even when obese women gained the optimal weight during pregnancy, their risk of infant death was still about twice as great as that of women who began pregnancy at a normal weight.
Study co-author, Dr Katherine Himes, an associate professor at Pitt's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, said: Obesity and infant mortality are among the most critical public health issues today. Our study highlights the importance of discussing weight loss with obese women prior to pregnancy because losing weight during pregnancy may increase the risk of her baby dying.
We hope this information empowers providers, including obstetricians, family doctors and primary care physicians, to discuss the benefits of preconception weight loss with all obese, reproductive-age women.' The findings are published online and will appear in the February issue of the journal Obesity.
The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health.
(Dailymail)
==============================
## Title: Parliment adjourned for ten minutes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 11:00
Parliment adjourned for ten minutes

The Parliament was adjourned for ten minutes due to atense situation that arose with regard to the circulation of two booklets of the budget proposals.
The situation occurred when several opposition MPs raised questions on the circulation of two versions of the budget proposals. The MPs of the opposition questioned as to which version contained the correct budget proposals.

==============================
## Title: [People and events]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
[People and events]
Bangladesh HC lauds PM's vision
Bangladesh High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Tarik Ahsan paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at Temple Trees on November 19.
During the meeting, the Bangladesh High Commissioner conveyed the greetings of Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to Prime Minister Wickremesinghe.
The High Commissioner lauded the vision and commitment of the Prime Minister for reforms in the political and economic domains of Sri Lanka. He sought the support of the Prime Minister in the ongoing efforts for advancing bilateral cooperation between Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
He focused on the areas of cooperation in trade, investment, shipping, fisheries, culture and people-to-people contact. He also recalled the excellent record of cooperation between Bangladesh and Sri Lanka on the multilateral plane. He described Bangladesh as a bridge between South Asia and South East Asia, something that Sri Lanka can utilize as its gateway to the region.
The Prime Minister extended regards to his Bangladesh counterpart. He thanked Bangladesh for her support in the recent election of Sri Lanka to Executive Board of UNESCO. He assured the High Commissioner of full cooperation of his government in his efforts for deepening the bilateral relations. Expressing satisfaction at the existing friendly relations, he viewed that the natural affinity between the two peoples based on commonalities of history, culture, values and ethnicity should be carried forward for enhancing meaningful cooperation. He expressed interest in further consolidating economic relations with Bangladesh from a regional perspective also.
The meeting acknowledged the need for regular exchange of high-level visits as well as holding of meetings of consultative mechanisms existing between the two countries. The importance of concluding negotiations on a number of agreements under process was also recognised.
Gampaha Rathnavali old girls honour teachers
The 1972 - 80 old girls of Ratnavali Balika Vidyalaya, Gampaha held a ceremony to honour retired teachers. The ceremony was held in Gampaha on November 15.

==============================
## Title: Ranjith Colombage  a cricket coach par excellence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Ranjith Colombage  a cricket coach par excellence
Ranjith Colombage, one of the finest Junior Cricket Coaches in the Hill Capital is an old boy of St. Sylvesters College, Kandy and he learnt his cricket under an Old Rajan Berty Nillagoda, former Principal of St. Sylvesters College, Kandy. He represented St. Sylvesters College, Kandy CC and Kandy Municipality for a number of years as a right arm medium pace bowler and a right hand middle order batsman. While representing St. Sylvesters Ranjith was selected for Central Province Schools under Jayantha Monnekulame. He opened bowling with Mahinda Pethiyagoda, former Dharmaraja College paceman, for Central Province Schools when the Australian Schoolboys visited Kandy under Robert Golding and captured two wickets in 2 overs. Graeme Yallop who represented the Australian Test cricket team in later years. also was a member of the Australian team.
He followed a Cricket Coaching Award Course conducted by the Board of Control for Cricket of Sri Lanka under W.A.N. Silva, Ranjith Fernando, Abu Fuard in 1984.
While getting a good knowledge in cricket coaching he was able to coach his Alma Maters Junior Cricketers and St. Anthonys Junior Cricketers and is presently coaching the senior and junior cricketers of Sri Sumangala Vidyalaya, Kandy. He has produced top class cricketers such as Chaminda Rajapaksha, Sankalpa Gunasekera, Arnolda Bros. Duncan and Julian, Anura Dange and Chanaka Colombage from St. Sylvesters to name a few. When he was coaching St. Anthonys under 13 team they became all island champions for four consecutive years from 1995 to 1998 which may be a record. He produced top cricketers like Nipuna Ratnayake, Prasad Ranawake, Samson Burke, Amila Pinnaduwa from St. Anthonys College, Katugastota.
At Sri Sumangala, Kandy he has produced Lahiru Kumara who is in the Sri Lanka under 19 cricket team at present.
Soft spoken Ranjith Colombage is very happy of his achievements and silently involved in his coaching career.
==============================
## Title: SAITM, SLMC tug-of-war takes new turn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
SAITM, SLMC tug-of-war takes new turn
The tug-of-war between the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM), countrys only private medical college and Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) took a new turn last week when the latter publicly announced that the medical degree issued by SAITM will not be recognised by them.
SAITM too issued a public reply to SLMC announcement. The Higher Education Ministry, Health Ministry and the University Grants Commission maintain deadly silence over the matter despite calls by students, professional bodies including Government Medical Officers Union for the authorities to intervene, while the future of close to 1,000 students hangs in balance.
Dr. Nevil Fernando accuses Sri Lanka Medical Council of double standards in dealing with state and private medical faculties. Pictures by Gayan Pushpika

Questions have also been raised regarding what the exact criteria of accepted standards for medical faculties to obtain SLMC approval. In the debate over SAITM, standards of some of the medical faculties in the state universities such as Rajarata University and Kotalawala Defence University are also being questioned now.
SAITM maintains that SLMC is duty bound to register the institution as it has been already recognised by the UGC and approved by the Higher Education Ministry claimed SAITM Chairman, Dr. Neville Fernando.
Next year students of SAITM plan to take matters to their own hands, Dr. Fernando explained.
Each student will file a fundamental rights case against SLMC if they fail to register the students. They would not hesitate to go to courts to get registered, he said alleging that SLMC is maintaining double standards in treating local private universities.
SLMC registers foreign universities without proper guidelines whilst they impose all the regulations on SAITM.
The UGC approved the medical degree offered by the SAITM in 2011 in a gazette notification issued on August 30, 2011. Later after powers of recognizing private degree awarding institutes were reassigned to the Specified Authority or the Higher Education Ministry Secretary, SAITM was given degree awarding status again. However, there is a catch. In both gazettes a number of conditions have to be fulfilled by the institute for the degree to be recognised.
Stable investment was one, improving the library facilities was another, and most importantly provide a commitment, which is continued and uninterrupted, to make available the facilities to be put in place relating to the conduct of clinical training by the faculty either at its own teaching hospitals or an agreement with any other teaching hospitals; improving clinical exposure for the students. This is the same condition SLMC claims that the institute has not been fulfilled.
A team of experts appointed by SLMC visited SAITM on July 13, 14 and 15 on an inspection tour, with the intention of assessing the new private medical college prior to registering it with the SLMC.
This was done with the authority vested on the SLMC under section 19A of the Medical Ordinance, SLMC member Dr. Upul Gunersekara said. It was scheduled following a request made by SAITM Chairman, Dr. Neville Fernando.
He wrote to inform that Dr. Neville Fernando Teaching Hospital (NFTH) had fulfilled all the conditions stipulated in the relevant gazette notification for due recognition, Dr. Gunesekara explained.
According to the Medical Ordinance, the SLMC has powers to maintain the standards of medical education including standards relating to courses of study, examinations, staff, equipment, accommodation, training and facilities at the universities and other institutions which grant or confer any qualification allowing a person to obtain registration under the Medical Ordinance.
This was put in place to ensure that public receives safe and qualified medical care, from well-trained and skilled doctors, Dr. Gunesekara explained.
However, following the inspection, the team forwarded a report to the Health Minister recommending that the degree awarded by the SAITM should not be recognised for the purpose of registration under the Medical Ordinance.
This is not the first time the SLMC assessed the institution, the SLMC claims. The SLMC along with the UGC visited SAITM in 2011. We assessed the documents which were submitted by the institution. The SLMC members were not satisfied with the UGC findings. But UGC ignored the views of SLMC and recognised them as a degree awarding institute, Dr. Gunasekara explained.
Dr. Fernando maintains that the review committee was satisfied with the progress of the institution and they were willing to give the registration to the students.
It was an additional individual to the nine members chaired by Prof. Rizvi Sheriff who has an issue, he claims.
The Professor came for the inspection late and he had a different view about the institution. He did not visit the premises nor did speak to the administration, Dr. Fernando said.
He is confident about the report submitted by the nine member committee but suspects that the objections would have come from the additional member.
Contrary to Dr. Fernando's view, SLMC report observes several deficiencies in SAITM.
The report points out the major issues, inadequacy of clinical exposure to trauma in surgery, common surgical and obstetrics and gynaecology emergencies as well as exposure to emergencies in adult medicine and paediatric care are lacking.
The SLMC recognizes that SAITM has attempted to overcome this deficiency but at the time of inspection the measures taken had been insufficient to rectify this serious deficiency.
In a letter to the Health Minister forwarding the report, the SLMC states that general inadequacy of clinical exposure in all the areas in terms of the number of case mix to the medical students of SAITM is of grave concern while highlighting that exposure to trauma in surgery, common surgical emergencies and obstetrics and gynaecology as well as exposure to emergencies in adult medicine and paediatric care are lacking.
According to the SLMC, the medical faculty also lacks facilities for training in practical clinical forensic medicine and highlights a deficiency in exposure to preventive care services in the state sector.
SAITM is quick to defend their position on the matter stating that the students of the institute are given clinical practice in not only in their teaching hospitals but also at other private hospitals such as, Nawaloka Hospital, Asiri Hospital, Oasis Hospital and Nine Wells hospital.
The SLMC team of inspectors has raised concerns over the course of study provided, stating that it does not conform to the standards required by the SLMC. However, this course of study was approved earlier by the UGC and Ministry of Higher Education.
When accrediting a medical degree the SLMC follows a rigorous process, first curriculum, course structure and criteria are evaluated by SLMC members, followed by a visit to the university in question. After the visit, the team will submit a report to the Council.
The decision will be taken considering the report submitted, Dr. Gunasekera claimed.
SAITM is accredited to the Campus of Nizhny Novgorod State Medical Academy (NNSMA), a university in Russia. The University in Russia is approved by the SLMC. But a branch of that institution has to get the approval separately, he said.
GMOA concerned about the inadequacies highlighted by SAITM, appealed to President Maithripala Sirisena to appoint a Presidential Committee to investigate the matter.
The government should take necessary measures for the students to gain the skills needed to practice in Sri Lanka, GMOA Media Spokesperson, Dr. Navin De Soysa said.
Government should intervene, say students
The first batch of 25 students will graduate from the SAITM medical faculty in January 2016. Whether they will be able to practice as doctors in Sri Lanka remains uncertain in light of the current situation.
Final year medical student at SAITM, Dilshan Fernando.

I am disappointed by the progress of SLMC, even we want to pass out as good doctors, claimed Dilshan Fernando, a final year a medical student at SAITM.
We do not like to hinder the progress of the government hospitals but if there are deficiencies why cannot they guide us in the right manner, he asks.
Fernando believes that in an era where private education is important in a country like Sri Lanka this is a way forward. The state universities do not accommodate all the talented students. Nearly 400 students go abroad for medicine every year. It is very disappointing that our country is not willing to move forward but taking a step back by trying to eliminate the private institutions, he said.
I know many students who are foreign graduates; the spectrum of diseases they see is different to what we see here. The students who go to Russia or China do not get all these tropical diseases we get in Sri Lanka. That's one disadvantage they have
When they are allowed to practice in Sri Lanka, why cannot we, he questioned.
Fernando highlighting that they have been trained by senior lecturers and professors from state medical faculties, claimed that the school maintains strict quality controls over the course. The administration is very concerned about producing doctors with better standards, he said.
Questioning the impartiality of the SLMC report, if SLMC is not satisfied with the level of training we gain in the forensic medicine, why cannot they support us.
But he is confident that the government will intervene to give them a solution soon.
I have faith in the government, they have promised to provide us a better solution. And the institution will work out something for us, he said hoping to pass out from SAITM as a doctor who could practice in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Sports star Rashmi does Mahamaya proud
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Sports star Rashmi does Mahamaya proud
Fourteen-year-old Rashmi Minesha Niyangoda of Mahamaya Girls College, Kandy is an outstanding tennis player and also a promising cricketer and athlete.
She started her tennis career in the year 2009 and won the championship in her age group and continued till 2014. She had a minor injury in the year 2014 but with her courage and determination she regained her old form and again started her sports career in 2015 after a lapse of a few months.
Rashmi became runners-up at the Junior Tennis Championship which was held at Mahaweli Reach Tennis Courts early this year. She lost in the finals to Kavisha Supunsara of Hillwood College, Kandy in a closely contested game. She is a member of the Mahamaya Cricket Team as a medium pace right arm bowler and a right hand top order batswoman. She helped her school to victory in their cricket match against St. Anthonys Girls School, Katugastota when she scored an unbeaten 34 runs.
Rashmi Minesha Niyangoda is a girl with a lot of stamina who completed 400 metres race and 4x400 relay events and won both at Under 15 level at the Inter House Athletic Meet of Mahamaya. She has a bright future especially in tennis and cricket.
==============================
## Title: Stressing over Facebook friends
## Supertitle: [HEALTH WATCH]
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
[HEALTH WATCH]
Stressing over Facebook friends
The more friends a teenager has on Facebook, the more stressed they are likely to be, which may increase their future risk for depression. This is according to a new study published in the journal Psychoneuroendocrinology.
Social media use among teenagers has grown rapidly in recent years. According to a 2012 study from Pew Research Center, around 81% of teenagers aged 12-17 who are active online use some form of social media, and 71% of them use Facebook.
While such sites can help people stay connected, numerous studies have suggested their use may have negative health implications, particularly for adolescents.
In September, for example, Medical News Today reported on a study suggesting social media pressure in teenagers may lead to anxiety and depression.
Now, study leader Prof. Sonia Lupien, of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Montreal in Canada, and colleagues find that the number of friends teenagers have on Facebook may impact stress levels - potentially influencing their later-life depression risk.
To reach their findings, the team recruited 88 teenagers aged 12-17 - 41 boys and 47 girls.
They asked them about their Facebook behavior, including how often they used the social media site, how many friends they had on the site, their self-promoting behavior and supporting behavior toward Facebook friends - such as liking the posts of others.
In addition, participants were asked to provide four samples of cortisol - a hormone released in response to stress - four times a day for 2 consecutive days.
Compared with teenagers who had fewer than 300 Facebook friends, those who had more than 300 friends on the social media site had higher cortisol levels. We can therefore imagine that those who have 1,000 or 2,000 friends on Facebook may be subjected to even greater stress, notes Prof. Lupien.
The researchers point out that participants heightened stress levels were not purely down to Facebook; other external factors played a part. However, they estimated that Facebook was responsible for around 8% of increased cortisol levels.
The researchers also identified a reduction in cortisol levels among teenagers who supported friends on the social media site by liking their posts or sending them encouraging words.
Prof. Lupien and her team say that, while they did not observe any symptoms of depression among participants, their findings suggest that teenagers with a higher number of Facebook friends may be at greater future depression risk.
[...] Adolescents who present high stress hormone levels do not become depressed immediately; it can occur later on, explains Prof. Lupien. Some studies have shown that it may take 11 years before the onset of severe depression in children who consistently had high cortisol levels. The authors say further research is warranted to determine whether their findings can be replicated in children and adults who use Facebook.
Developmental analysis could also reveal whether virtual stress is indeed getting over the screen and under the skin to modulate neurobiological processes related to adaptation, adds Prof. Lupien.
Contrary to this new research, a study reported by MNT earlier this year suggested social media use is not directly associated with stress.
(Medical News Today)
==============================
## Title: Three Wheelers / bikes exempt from emission test price hike
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 15:15
Three Wheelers / bikes exempt from emission test price hike
The proposed Rs. 5000 charge for an emission test will not apply to three wheelers and motorbikes. Three wheelers and motorbikes will not be charged Rs. 5000 for their emission test, Minister of Finance Ravi Karunanayake stated.
==============================
## Title: Two protesters killed in Nepal charter clashes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Two protesters killed in Nepal charter clashes
NEPAL: Nepalese police shot dead two protesters after fresh clashes erupted in the country's southern plains as a crisis over a new constitution deepens, a local senior officer said Sunday.
The clashes broke out late on Saturday in the southeastern district of Saptari as protesters armed with batons and home-made tools tried to block a highway in defiance of police orders, the officer said.
Two were killed in the police firing, district police chief Bhim Dhakal told AFP.
The police were forced to fire after the protestors became violent and attacked, adding that more than 40 protesters and police were also injured in the unrest.
Nepal is heavily dependent on India for fuel and other supplies, but little cargo has crossed the border from India since protests against the new constitution broke out in late September.
As a nationwide fuel shortage deepens, medical supplies are now also running dry in the impoverished, landlocked country.
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Friday urged protesters to stop blocking essential supplies and called for dialogue to resolve the crisis.
More than 40 people have been killed in clashes between police and people protesting against the constitution, which was introduced in September after a deadly earthquake pushed warring political parties to reach agreement.
Demonstrators from the Madhesi ethnic minority, mainly from the southern plains, have been blockading the main Birgunj border crossing, protesting the new constitution they say leaves them politically marginalised. Movement across other border checkpoints has also slowed to a crawl, prompting fuel rationing and forcing the government to start selling firewood as residents run out of cooking gas.
Nepal's government accuses India, which has criticised the new constitution, of retaliating with an unofficial blockade.
New Delhi has denied the charge and urged dialogue with the protesting Madhesis, who have close cultural, linguistic and family ties to Indians living across the border.
Nepal's Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has warned that the blockade is having an impact several times more than the quake that struck in April.
But several rounds of talks between the government and the protesting parties have failed to reach an agreement.
The constitution, the first drawn up by elected representatives, was meant to cement peace and bolster Nepal's transformation to a democratic republic after decades of political instability and a 10-year Maoist insurgency.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Voting Argentines want big change for their dollars
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
Voting Argentines want big change for their dollars
ARGENTINA: Change! Cambio, cambiooo! chants a rhythmic voice on Calle Florida, a busy pedestrian shopping street in central Buenos Aires. Dollars!
It is the day before a presidential election in Argentina, but this is not a cry for political reform. It is the daily call of a key need for locals: the illegal money-changers.
Some businesses and workers rely on the unofficial blue dollar exchange rate to boost their income in the face of foreign currency restrictions imposed by the outgoing government.
Money-changers on the street pay up to 15 pesos for a dollar, 50 percent more than the official fixed rate.
But now the blue could die out when a new leader takes charge in the pink-brick presidential palace near Florida Street -- either pro-business right-winger Mauricio Macri or center-leftist Daniel Scioli.
Both agree the dollar restrictions must be lifted to draw in more foreign money and boost the economy. The question is how quickly. I hope Macri does everything he has to do to improve the country, said one money-changer working furtively on Florida Street. The most important thing is the dollar. It is very high, said the man, who asked to be identified only as Cesar, because what he does is illegal.
I want that to change, so there is just one dollar rate and it is lower, rather than the five or so different rates currently used, he added.
Along the road stood Carlos Quinteros, who supports his wife and six children by selling handmade leather bags and purses.
He fears Macri would abruptly devalue the peso by immediately scrapping the fixed rate.
That is bad for workers pockets, he said.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: We fill a big gap, says SAITM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, November 23, 2015 - 01:00
We fill a big gap, says SAITM
The institute gives a chance to those who miss out on admission to state medical colleges as the universities have limited capacity in accommodating all qualified students.
Several students who got 'three As' but failed to enter state universities were given full scholarships by SAITM who came with the recommendation of the UGC, SAITM Chairman Dr. Neville Fernando said.
He claimed that only the Sri Lankan society looks down upon private university education. "Even if there were no private medical colleges in Sri Lanka, students who have the financial capacity will attend foreign universities to obtain the degree. Accusing the SLMC of maintaining double standards, SAITM Registrar Husni Hussain claimed that despite Sir John Kothalawala Defence University not having their own teaching hospital, the degree is accepted by the SLMC.
Rajarata University do not have enough professors. Though there are clinical materials, there are no professors to teach them. These deficiencies are not visible to the eyes of SLMC, he accused.
SAITM is willing to work with the SLMC to improve standards, he claimed.
If there are deficiencies they should point it out in a right manner and guide us to improve it. The government has to take a firm decision with regard to the issue for the betterment of the students, Hussain said.
==============================