## Title: Advocates combat violence against women in elections
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Advocates combat violence against women in elections
With a new elections quota for women in politics, the National Forum Against Gender-based Violence launched a campaign Friday to highlight the problem of violence against and harassment of women during political elections.
We often underestimate the extent of violence against women in elections, Forums Chairperson and United Natons Population Fund Representative Ritsu Nacken said. She was speaking at the Elect Her campaign launch at the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute at Horton Place yesterday.
Nacken said such violence,which includes women being coerced to vote a certain way, discouraged from voting at all, and being slandered publicly for contesting office  deters many women from running at all.
Even though 52 percent of Sri Lankas population are women, female representation in Parliament stands at only 5.3 percent, forum organizers said. That number is even worse at the local level: women hold only 1.9 percent of local and provincial seats.
Swarna Sumanasekara, the Chairperson of the National Committee on Women, said that disparity is largely attributable to culture.We are still living in a cultural society where women have a secondary place, she said.
DIG Priyantha Jayakody agreed, saying there were many cultural restrictions that kept women from participating in elections.In my 25 years I have come across so many bad incidents in my personal experience, he said. He cited the example of a woman in Wariyapola who was stripped naked and led outside by gunpoint because her perpetrators perceived her to be campaigning.
He said the police were very much aware of increased violence towards women during elections, and would work to make polling locations and public forums safe.
Parliament recently passed the Local Elections Act to create a 25 percent mandatory quota for women in elections.
Election Commission Deputy Commissioner Samantha Jayasinghe said this move would go a long way towards bringing more women into politics, which he said was vital for the democracy of this country.But making that quota may be harder than some officials predict.
Speaking after the event, Udeni Thewarapperuma, a gender consultant with the United Nations Population Fund, said women at the grassroots level face numerous barriers to politics.
The pervasive threats of sexual bribery for access to resources and influence, and the likelihood of character assassination on social media, drive many potential women leaders away from the political arena, she said.
A caravan carrying a pledge to respect womens right to participate in politics will travel the island over the next 16 days. Organisers like Thewarapperuma hope that education at a local level can start to break the stigma that keeps so many women from contesting elections.
==============================
## Title: AG TO SUBMIT MOTION TO ADVANCE HEARING
## Supertitle: PM, PARTY LEADERS AGREE ON EARLY LG POLLS:
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:05
PM, PARTY LEADERS AGREE ON EARLY LG POLLS:
AG TO SUBMIT MOTION TO ADVANCE HEARING
Various proposals to pave the way to hold the long overdue Local Government Elections were discussed at a special Party Leaders Meeting convened in Parliament yesterday.
The meeting took place at the Speakers Office soon after Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe arrived in Parliament after his visit to India.
Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya and Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya attended the meeting on the invitation of the Party Leaders.
Parliamentary sources said the Attorney General agreed to submit a motion to advance the hearing of the petition before the Court of Appeal to November 30 without waiting till December 4.
The AG has informed those present in the meeting that he would submit the relevant motion on Monday. The proposal to conduct the LG elections for constituencies not affected by the Court of Appeal stay order had been discussed at length at the meeting.
The stay order is relevant only to multi-member constituencies. The Elections Commission Chairman had stated that elections should be held for 133 local government bodies which had not been affected by the Gazette.
According to sources from the Government it has been decided to go ahead and conduct the polls for the rest of LG bodies if the Stay Order continued. The Chairman had stated that he would discuss the matter at the next meeting of the Elections Commission.
Another proposal discussed was to submit a substantive motion to parliament to pass a law to rectify the delay caused by the faulty Gazette.
Asked as to what was the position of the SLFP, he said the SLFP firmly denied the allegations of its involvement in the petition.
JVP Leader Anura Dissanayake however commented that the meeting ended inconclusive. The Premier was looking for various options, but there had been no satisfactory resolution. Our position was that the petition must be revoked to pave the way for elections, he said.
The meeting that extended for about an hour was chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and attended by the Prime Minister, Ministers Nimal Siripala de Silva, Mahinda Samarasinghe, Dr Sarath Amunugama, Lakshman Kiriella, Rauf Hakeem and MPs Douglas Devananda, Dinesh Gunawardena, Ravi Karunanayake.


==============================
## Title: Airmen will land at Nittawela tomorrow
## Supertitle: KANDY SPORTS ROUND UP
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
KANDY SPORTS ROUND UP
Airmen will land at Nittawela tomorrow
Air Force S.C. who won their first match of the season in three games when they beat Police SC will be in the hills tomorrow to play table leaders Kandy Sports Club. The defending champions Kandy SC has a fine set of players. The club is one of the most experienced and talented sides. This years asset is their back division which is about the best equipped. They gave an excellent performance in the last outing. In this game too they will rely more on their speedy outsides. Air Force SC last season beat Kandy SC in the first league match and they will be fielding their best outfit and looking to repeat their last win. So look out for a rib bruising game.
PT Rajan hockey tournament to be revived
Plans are being drawn up by the Kandy District Hockey Associations committee, to uplift the standard of hockey and revive all the tournaments, starting with a seven a side tournament. A great effort is needed to bring club hockey in Kandy back to the glorious years it enjoyed in the past. This sport reached great heights when it was under people of the caliber of P.T. Rajan, the man who re-introduced the game in the 1930s. For the league and knockouts it will be played for the PT Rajan trophy. There is also a possibility to make the P.T. Rajan playgrounds at Mahiyawa as a Kandys 7-s venue for which the backing is expected from the Sri Lanka Hockey Federation and the Sports Ministry. P.T. Rajan's son BDR Suri Rajan is expected to support the move.
Kandy schools ruggerites
The Sri Lanka Under-19 rugby squad for the two leg matches against Hong Kong was named yesterday. There are 37 players out of which following are from Kandy schools - Aveesha Piyankara, Diluksha Dange, Shaveen Ekanayake, Lashan Wijesuriya, Rishane Madena (Trinity College), Dinuk Amerasinghe, Jehan Seelagama, Shabeer Mohammed, Samuel Maduwantha, Dinesh Rodrigo (St. Anthonys College), Heshan Jansen, Lakshitha Ranaweera (Kingswood College), Nipun Tharaka (Dharmaraja College),
Kandys Udaya for Commonwealth TT
Of the three men players who have been selected for the XXI Commonwealth games to be held in Gold Coast in Australia in April. Vidyartha Colleges Udaya Ranasnghe has been included. This TT player is one of the finest in the country and has made his school, Kandy and the country proud in many tournaments he has taken part in.
KMC new gym with modern facilities
An ultra-modern gymnasium with all facilities is planned to be opened by the Kandy Municipal Council at Katukelle, where the slaughter house was housed earlier. It is to be opened on Sunday 3 of December, under the distinguished patronage of President Mathripala Sirisena. Sporting chief minister Sarath Ekanayake too will grace the occasion. Indoor game facilities are available for Table Tennis, Badminton, Basketball, Volleyball, Netball, Karate and Iron sports. There will be accommodation for 40 girls and boys, restaurant facilities etc. This is one of the sports development projects of the Municipal Council.
Kandy rugby academy 10s tournament
The Kandy Rugby Academy 10s tournament 2017 will be held on 9 and 10 of December at the Bogambara Stadium. According AWA Rusheed the chairman of the academy over 900 young ruggerites from rugby academies and schools will be seen in action. It will be for Under 8s, 10s, 12s, 13s, 14s, 16s, 18s, 21s and open. Teams from HARFA, Synergy, Promotional Foundation, Panadura, ICBT, CIS, Sri Lions, Blue Bird, St. Thomas prep, St. Aloysius College, Digamadulla, DB Welagedera Central, St. Annes College, Presidents College Rajagiriya, Ananda MV, Signal Regiment Homagama academies are expected to participate. The inaugural tournament was held in 2015 with great success.
Rugby lovers in numbers are sure to grace the two days, and make it a great event. Sport Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara is expected to grace the occasion. Further details on the tournament will be sent in due course, by the organizers.
Priyantha U16 Rajans rugby coach
Priyantha Gunaratne, a product of Vidyartha College, who also played for Kandy Sports Club, and coached St. Anthonys College, Kingswood College has taken over the Dharmaraja College under 16 team. He is a top class referee and an international touch judge.
U14 Boys and Girls hockey nationals
Some of the most exciting young talents in Sri Lanka Schools will be in action at the 14th under 14 boys and girls hockey nationals from 8-10 of December.
The event, which takes place in the ancient Asgiriya Stadium of Trinity College, is organized by Sri Lanka Schools Hockey Association with the Kandy Schools Hockey Association taking charge of the organizing part. More than 700 players will be playing for 65 teams and this is the biggest-ever platform for a player to stake claim to a berth in the game.
Host Kandy school teams will be looking to take home advantage count as they are blessed with some top players in both boys and girls category.
Switzerland team why not in Kandy
A football team from Switzerland is on a goodwill tour, where the FFSL has come forward to give a hand in their 14-day tour. FFSL has said that the team will be touring the length and breadth of the country with friendly matches organized in the districts of Anuradhapura, Jaffna, Gampola, Nuwara Eliya and Matara. Sad to say they have ignored Kandy.
Trinitians to field a strong team
Trinity College will field a strong team for the coming season with center/wing-three-quarter Yung Chai Sheik as captain.
The Trinitians are hard at training and have about ten of last seasons players and are expected to field a strong side. Lote Raikabula is the head coach with Buddhika Abeyasinghe as his assistant. The 1985 captain Manoj Jayatissa will continue as rugby manager.
Victoria wins golf
Victoria Golf and Resort Golfers led by Thusith Wijesinghe took first place in the tournament held a few weeks back at Nuwara Eliya. It was fourteen match affairs, and the champion side was able to win eight, which helped them to take top place.
At last snooker in the hills
At last the snooker fans are happy, the Kandy District national snooker championship took off on Friday and today is the second day.
The final will be worked off on Sunday. This time the tournament is held at the Pyramid Pool Parlour. According to Faiz Samad, the tournament is conducted by Sri Lanka Billiards and Snooker Association. Forty-three cueist are taking part from Mahanuwara YMBA and the Pyramid parlor.
Former clubs who took part are not in the game today their cue rooms have become store rooms.
Sportsman Punchibanda no more
Kandy Schools Hockey Association secretary and Trinity College senior side coach Sumith Dissanayakes father D.M. Punchibanda who was attached to the KMC water works, and who was also involved in sports passed away at the age of 86.
His cremation will take place today Saturday at 4pm at the Mahiyawa General Cemetery.
==============================
## Title: Around 82% of indirect taxes borne by people  Mangala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:09
Around 82% of indirect taxes borne by people  Mangala
I was dismayed when I was told that 82% of the total tax revenue collected by way of indirect taxes is borne by the normal citizen, Finance and Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera said.
The Minister was addressing tax payers and intended tax payers of Matara who attended an awareness programme on the new Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017 which will be implemented from April 1,2018.
I have proposed to change this ratio which may be the highest in the world by introducing a new Inland Revenue Tax Act which will broaden the percentage of direct tax payers.
In the past, it was the honest tax payer that was burdened with more and more taxes, the Minister said.
Likewise in the past, taxes had been used as a political weapon as the Minister of Finance had the discretion of granting relief or imposing more taxes at his whims and fancies.
Once the new Act comes into effect, this would not be possible, Minister Samaraweera said.
We intend to conduct awareness programmes on the new Income Tax Act throughout the island before it becomes effective from April 1,2018. I am happy that the first one was held in Matara. Looking back in history, Sri Lanka was known as a commercial center,he said.
Enterprise Sri Lanka was introduced to regain our lost status as a commercial center. We have also introduced a scheme that the Project Proposals will be evaluated and accepted as collateral for new enterprises and entrepreneurs rather than the present need of guarantors, the Minister added.
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Ivan Dissanayake said most of the tax revenue collected by the Department of Inland Revenue was spent on providing education, health services, Security Forces, providing and maintaining infrastructure.
The Finance Minister while presenting his budget speech mentioned that in the next three years, namely 2018, 2019 and 2020, Sri Lanka has to repay capital payment of Rs. 7,000 billion excluding interest. In 2018, Sri Lanka has to repay debts of Rs.1,970 billion excluding interest. The expected income for the year from all sources including the Department of Inland Revenue, Department of Customs ect. would only be approximately Rs.2,260 billion! Dissanayake said.
Surveys have revealed that the major portion of a familys income is spent on tuition fees, doctors fees and medical bills. Hence, we request tuition masters and doctors to voluntarily come forward and pay the states due share of their income, he added. Minister Mangala Samaraweera presented a plaque of appreciation to the highest tax payers resident in the Matara and Hambanthota districts while the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue presented the Minister with a plaque off felicitation for taking the initiative of introducing the New Inland Revenue Act.


==============================
## Title: Beware of extremists!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Beware of extremists!
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe wants to be a consistent liberal inspite of his devotion to gods, alien to Theravada Buddhism. He will exhaust debate and discussion before challenging unrepentant racist and bigots. Hence he must have selected avoiding public campaign and political drama, over the reform process as the best option to launch it.
However, constitutional reform inevitably involves the resolving of the Tamil national problem. That means nothing short of a revolutionary change of state have to be carried out, to which opponents will rally round, at least its opponents, more than its proponents, are acutely sensitive to.
This is why political drama over constitutional reforms, the very thing that Premier Wickremesinghe wanted to avoid, has erupted.
An interim report of the Constituent Assemblys Standing Committee was released.
It is neither a final report nor a constitutional draft, but a statement of the various positions of groups in Parliament on reform topics.
However, the public political debate deliberately started by communal media in Sinhalese society has told the public the very opposite here is the proposal now dance! conveniently ignoring the truth. As warned by the left this is based on strategy cooked up by the racist organisations.
Constitutional reform opponents
We have to accept the communal opposition is very much more organised and backed by fascistic inteligencia who know what they are doing. This neither 58 nor it is 83 and certainly not 88/89, as JVP not involved. The opponents appear to be determined to block any progress in the reform process beyond its present state of being confined to an interim report. Preventing a sober national discussion by unleashing an ideological war is a time-tested strategy. That needs an organisation and a developed fascistic brain center. Recent attempt by Mahinda camp to develop such a center could have been successful.
One analyst has said Meanwhile, something different seems to happening in Sri Lanka this time around. The opponents to constitutional reform seem to have exhausted their energy and arguments, ironically amidst the governments own inertia and reluctance to publicly defend its positions.
The government is divided on the nature and scope of reform. While the Prime Minister wants a new Constitution and abolition of the presidential system, President Sirisena wants only electoral reforms. Interestingly, the discord within the ruling coalition is paralleled by the loss of political energy in the opposition campaign.
These two unconnected developments appeared clear when the Constitutional Assembly debated the interim report. The best ideas that were contributed to the debate were from the proponents of reform.
The Joint Opposition speakers, led by Mahinda Rajapaksa, lacked any new ideas.
This is difficult to accept. It is true that fascistic thinking do not produce any new ideas. But they develop theories by lies and half truths. They could mobilize learned men misled by communal hate and jealousy. Unlike in previous times this deliberate construction of pseudo theory is going on backed by constructed scientific fishy data.
Sirisena-Wickremesinghe coalition
Our analyst goes further: Ranil will still find it difficult to manage the politics of constitutional reform. First, there is the timing of the whole exercise.
The government of good governance, as the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe coalition regime calls itself, is no longer as politically strong as it was a year ago. Corruption scandals, slowing down of investigations against individuals of the previous government, and economic stagnation have all seriously undermined the political credibility of PM Wickremesinghes side of the coalition.
Sensing the arrival of Prime Minister Wickremesinghes weak moment amidst the corruption scandals, President Sirisena has recently moved in the direction of further weakening the Prime Ministers position by asserting his own authority within the ruling coalition government.
The balance of power between the two within the coalition regime may or may not change. Yet, the unfolding cold war is likely to further weaken the governments capacity to advance the constitutional reforms initiative.
A weakened government with self-inflicted wounds can hardly be the agency for a crucial project of state reform.
Thus the biggest obstacle to the progress of the constitutional reforms initiative comes from within the government, not outside. This is the real political conundrum in Sri Lanka today.
Although the 19th Amendment to the Constitution created a system of diarchy in the structure of government, the two centers of power managed to function in a spirit of cooperation.
That relationship has been damaged. Unless the two leaders repair it, their relationship might even degenerate into competition and antagonism. That will not be good for Sri Lankas democracy and political stability.
This is imagination threatening reality hence unacceptable. There is an understanding between Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and President Maithri Sirisena in the yahapalana governments attempt to change the Constitution, though they have been facing a series of obstacles. Inspite of President Sieisenas commitment, his Sri Lanka Freedom Party some leaders are not enthusiastically backing the reforms initiative. Inspite of Malwathu Maha Nayaka and Asgiri Anunayake with many learned Buddhist monks have given their blessings, the section of Sangha under the influence of Mahinda fascism are opposed to any constitutional change. Yahapalana constitutional reforms project envisages the abolition of the presidential system and return to empower of parliament and replacement of the proportional system of elections and preference voting with a mixed system, and greater devolution to provincial councils.
Jayewardene Constitution
This is the only attempt to change the constitution with public participation and debate. In all attempts before, Tamil people did not participate. In the same manner 1977 then the President JR enacted the present system.
Chandrika Kumaratunga as President initiated a reform process in 1994, which ended in failure in 2000. JVP at that time became a hindrance to reforms based on devolution. President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in 2005 and 2009, promised to change the Constitution, but did not take concrete steps apart from appointing two committees to make recommendations.
These committees, in particular the LLRC fascistic politics made progressive recommendations. Nonetheless, Mahinda Rajapaksa continued in the path of fascist politics; finally did an unusual thing by amending the Constitution in 2010 in order to enhance, not reduce, the powers of the President, despite the fact that executive presidency was the darkest feature of the Jayewardene Constitution.
Same analysts say History appears to repeat itself. The most ardent opponents of the reform initiatives now are Sinhalese nationalist forces, led by Buddhist monks.
Parliamentary opposition, led by Mr. Rajapaksa, is in the forefront of the secular campaign against constitutional reform.
The opposition by Buddhist monks revolves around two points. One, further devolution would amount to giving in to the demands of the Tamil and Muslim minorities as well as appeasing the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam diaspora and foreign powers.
Two, abolition of the presidential system would weaken the Sri Lankan state. The Sangha leaders are also worried that the new Constitution might drop the foremost place position that is accorded to Buddhism as per the current Constitution.
This is incorrect. The present opposition is much more political than the emotional explosions that signified the opposition to devolution or any change in constitution.
Those emotional aspects are removed to large extent by political education and praxis of Desa Premi revolution of 88/89. Today domination of well organised fascistic political network is creating the real challenge to the Yahapalanaya.
Do the yahapalana leaders recognize this threat and are they prepared to defeat it.
Even if Prime Minister Wickremesinghe is aware of all this, which is why he has adopted the strategy of drafting the new Constitution through the Parliament acting as a Constitutional Assembly; and the proceedings of the Constitutional Assembly were conducted in a low-key fashion with little controversy, can he avoid the confrontation prepared by the fascistic forces
==============================
## Title: Blood, sweat and tears,  Adelaide 1932-33
## Supertitle: With another Ashes series commencing on Thursday we bring you a string of articles related to the time honoured series commencing today
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
With another Ashes series commencing on Thursday we bring you a string of articles related to the time honoured series commencing today
Blood, sweat and tears,  Adelaide 1932-33
In 1930, during the Lords Ashes Test with Donald Bradman unbeaten overnight on 155, his second century of the series in only its second match and his fourth in six Tests against England, the Times cricket correspondent compared Australias batting phenomenon favourably to Miss Marie Tempest, a 66-year-old actress, erstwhile star of the Geisha, the Marriage of Kitty, Hay Fever and scores of other West End and Broadway hits.
Both are so exquisitely right in the general design and in the polished execution of every detail, he wrote. The analogy was arch but accurate  Tempest, known as the queen of her profession was cited to anoint Bradman the king of his at the age of 21.
At Headingley a fortnight later, on the morning after he scored 309 in a day to take him past 1,000 Test runs in his eighth match, the Times wrote in its leader column that Bradman had pulverised the English bowling by a display of batsmanship which, for ease of scoring, combined with absolute security, was beyond all criticism.
Cardus called him a genius
By the end of the series, which the tourists won 2-1 to regain the Ashes, he had scored 974 runs at 139.14, a triple century, two doubles and a mere 131 at Trent Bridge in his seven innings. He left England from Tilbury on the SS Oronsay in September with the Manchester Guardians Neville Cardus calling him a genius gifted with quick feet and eyes, with mercurial spirits and all the rapid and powerful strokes of cricket who had managed to expel from him all the greenness and impetuosity of youth while retaining the strength and alacrity of youth.
A man of Bradmans peerless talent commanded admiration and respect, but Cardus, never bashful about declaring his devotion, held back on the affection. There was something about Bradmans pitiless appetite for dominating bowlers and his innate modesty and reserve. Whatever charisma he possessed came from his actions rather than his bearing or words, and his lack of orthodox magnetism endowed his image among Englands cricketers with a severity perhaps unwarranted by his personality.
Bradmans confidence was not cockiness and his coy grin at reaching a milestone was not insincere, yet Douglas Jardine, the man appointed to captain MCC on the 1932-33 tour of Australia and New Zealand, saw the earnestness as much as the excellence as falsehoods his patriotic duty compelled him to expose. He identified Bradman as a sadist and bully who was too good to be true.
The imperial ruling class, and particularly Wykehamists of Jardines ilk, believed challenges had to be confronted and by rule of force if victory depended on it. If you deem that defeat is dishonour and the foot-sore, servile role Bradman had forced you to play demeaned you further, small wonder by any means necessary becomes your doctrine. Build a grim bogeyman comprised of huge numbers, depersonalise him further by referring to him as the little bastard and you equip your team with a cause. Now all you need is a strategy, one that was likely to be brutal, cynical and ugly, given the opponents apparent infallibility, and the dispassion to implement it. Jardine had missed the entire 1930 Ashes series because of business commitments, but had played all five Tests under Percy Chapman in 1928-29, during which his demeanour and cautious batting had inspired the crowds to barrack him. He had captained England in three Tests against New Zealand in 1931 and against India in 1932s solitary home match. Sitting in a darkened room at Lords preparing for the tour, Jardine watched short clips of newsreel footage of Bradman in 1930 and, while studying his 232 at The Oval, was galvanised when he saw the batsman cringing with pain after being struck on the sternum. The ball, delivered by Englands fastest bowler, Harold Larwood, had lifted alarmingly off a pitch given some welcome zip by a brisk shower and forced Bradman to try to retreat down the legside.
Duncan Hamilton, in his superb biography of Larwood, calls this Jardines Eureka moment and the sliver of evidence convicted Bradman of cowardice in the England captains eyes. Furthermore, since Bradman seldom hit the ball in the air, if you attacked his body where you perceived his sole flaw to be, testing his courage by bowling short, you also gained the advantage of restricting his scoring opportunities. For a man whose supreme gift, or at least primus inter pares, was his dazzling footwork, this was also a way to pin him on the back foot.
On the 1911-12 tour, Englands Frank Foster had targeted Australian thighs and leg stumps with vicious inswingers, and a dozen years later South Australia had packed the legside ring at the Adelaide Oval for a barrage of bumpers propelled by Lance Gun at New South Wales. Jardine did not devise leg theory, the innovation on the 1932-33 tour was its application systematically and with persistence by an imperturbable captain.
In Larwood, Bill Voce and Bill Bowes, he had strong, accurate, implacable, professional and ultimately obedient bowlers. The first two were under the guidance of Jardines friend, the Nottinghamshire and former England captain, Arthur Carr, and they experimented with it at the tail-end of the domestic season and, intermittently, in the six matches played between docking in Perth and the first Test at the SCG.
Bradman played in three of those matches for two Australian XI sides and NSW, scoring 3, 10, 36, 13, 18 and 23. In the two years between Ashes series he had appeared in 10 Tests, five each against West Indies and South Africa, scoring 1,253 runs and making three more double centuries, but by the beginning of his third rubber against England he was in dispute with the board over his employment as a newspaper columnist and carried the burden of being not so much a national figurehead as a beacon of Australian exceptionalism, a symbol of hope during the depths of a depression that had seen unemployment hit 28%.
Bradmans achievements lifted Australias brow
Economic defeat cannot be salvaged by victory in sport, but Bradmans achievements lifted Australias brow. Not least among his triumphs was his equanimity despite the expectation invested in him, the pride of a people that depended on his deeds, but in the buildup to the first Test and under Englands sporadic use of Jardines counterstrategy, specifically in the second of those matches, his form wobbled.
He missed the first Test on doctors orders, diagnosed with exhaustion, though Jardine was convinced Bradman had cracked. Proving that leg theory was as much a psychological weapon as a tactical one, Jardine persevered with his plan despite the absence of the man with the metaphorical bullseye on his heart. Stan McCabe scored 187, arguably the greatest Ashes innings, despite being repeatedly peppered on the thigh and hip, but Larwoods two five-fors, his second by sticking rigidly to the legside attack, won England the match. In the Melbourne Heralds dispatch from the first days play, the term bodyline was used to describe the strategy and, though many others were coined  torso bowling by the journalist EHD Sewell, leg-slinging by Cardus and even header bowling  none stuck so enduringly, much to the displeasure of Jardine and Larwood.
Bradman returned for the second Test at the MCG and was greeted rapturously by the crowd and, eventually, by a field of three leg slips, two leg gulleys, forward short leg, long leg and a mid on. He was out first ball in the first innings, Bowes getting lucky when his confidence trick went horribly wrong and gloriously right. Bradman, expecting a bouncer, was already committed to hooking and bottom-edged Bowess long hop on to his stumps. Bowes was flabbergasted. Well, Ill be fucked, he said, while Jardine, uncharacteristically, danced a Rumpelstiltskin jig.
In the second innings, Bradman made 103 not out in Australias 191, hitting only seven fours but batting magnificently, scoring prodigiously between mid-on and square leg and taking runs from every part of the field.
Play was suspended for several minutes by applause when he reached his hundred and on the fourth day Bill OReilly levelled the series by taking five for 66 to complement his five for 63 in Englands first knock.
There had been jeering when Australias players had been hit at the MCG and condemnation of Jardine, Larwood, Voce and Bowes in the press. Jardine had only fuelled resentment by expelling the public from net practice before the third Test when he had been heckled throughout the first session as fucking Sardine and the air of naked hostility on the first morning at the Adelaide Oval was so palpable that mounted police had been summoned to patrol outside the turnstiles. England won the toss and batted, making 341 in a day and a half before Australias openers Jack Fingleton and the captain, Bill Woodfull, began the reply. Fingleton was dismissed by Gubby Allen after five minutes and then the sixth ball of Larwoods second over, bowled to an orthodox field, skimmed up and hit Woodfull, who had taken no evasive action and had barely straightened his back out of his stance, on his left breast.
The captain put both hands to his heart, and opened his shirt to reveal a livid mark on top of an existing bruise received when struck on the same spot six weeks earlier.
The whistling and booing, under the cover of which Jardine had shouted well bowled Harold to faze Bradman at the non-strikers end, took more than three minutes to die down. The guilty ball had not been fathered by leg theory but it was routinely assumed to be its bastard son.
Larwood and Jardine would die believing that Woodfull hammed up his old soldier routine to use the crowd to intimidate them, but the England captain, by his next move, was surely the architect of his own demonisation. When the opener was ready to resume and the bowler tearing in for the seventh ball of the over, Jardine stopped play. He clapped his hands and summoned his fielders into the leg trap. Eighty years on, it seems an act of villainy so grossly theatrical and corny that it bordered on the preposterous, yet Jardine was serious, identifying it as the very moment to move in for the kill and Larwood obliged by knocking Woodfulls bat out of his hands. The jeering grew ever shriller.
Woodfull, a model of wounded valour, dug in for more than an hour and was the fourth man out after Bradman and McCabe had joined Fingleton back in the hutch. Shortly after he arrived there, MCCs joint tour managers, Richard Palairet, the secretary of Surrey, and Pelham Warner, grand panjandrum of the most exclusive tartan, formerly of Rugby, Oxford, Middlesex and England and in 1933 the chairman of selectors and cricket correspondent of the Morning Post, invited themselves into the Australian dressing room to commiserate with him.
Rage against the maniac
Warner attempted to be emollient, to intimate his sympathy without daring to be explicit, the refuge of the perennial survivor who uses the defence of powerlessness to intervene then rages against the maniac in charge when hes safely been dispatched. The pained expression is designed to say Im on your side, even if the words never do. Woodfull refused to play that game. I dont want to see you, Mr Warner, he said. There are two teams out there. One is trying to play cricket and the other is not.
Warner scuttled away and was later found weeping in his hotel room. For a man who considered himself a Corinthian and, above all, a gentleman, Woodfulls words impugned his self-regard as an honourable man to whom sportsmanship, or at least the appearance of being a good sport, was sacred. To Australians then, and to our tastes now, he may seem supercilious, vain and hypocritical, but it is important to understand how trenchant the criticism was, akin to a guest at Whites accusing a member of not paying his gambling debts. Duels had been fought over less at the beginning of the previous century.
Woodfull, who had been staunchly opposed to retaliating by bowling at the Englishmens bodies, despite the urging of his vice-captain, Vic Richardson, still managed to land the most stinging blow of the series. He and his players may have winced when hit, the MCCs joint tour manager was reduced to tears by three sentences.
When the snub was reported the next morning  Warner blamed Fingleton, the opener maintained Bradman was the source of the leak  the crowds fury now had a vigour imbued by righteousness. The tinder could not have been more susceptible to a spark and though the ball that knocked Bert Oldfield off his feet and fractured his skull had pitched wide of off-stump and without the leg trap in place, it has become Bodylines defining motif. Oldfield, who had been scoring runs through midwicket, top-edged his pull and said while lying on the ground in response to Larwoods remorseful remarks: It was my fault, Harold. I was trying to hook you for four.
Little good it did the England team, who feared for their safety, and when Woodfull strode across the field in his suit to comfort Oldfield, they genuinely felt they would be lynched. Perhaps in Sydney or Melbourne they might have been, but the crowd stayed behind the fence, confining its anger to verbal abuse, ferocious hissing and bellicose postures. Oldfield retired hurt, missed the second innings and the next Test, and, when play resumed, England eventually won by 338 runs, by which point the drama in committee rooms on two continents overshadowed the performances of the players.
Woodfulls words, and his actions when running to the aid of his stricken team-mate, prompted his board to send a cable to Lords on the fifth day of the Test and circulate it to the press.
Bodyline bowling, it said, has assumed such proportions as to menace the best interests of the game, making protection of the body by the batsmen the main consideration. This is causing intensely bitter feeling between players as well as injury. In our opinion, it is unsportsmanlike. Unless stopped at once, it is likely to upset the friendly relations existing between Australia and England.
Unsportsmanlike
It went from not cricket to unsportsmanlike in three days, an escalation in the arms race designed to provoke a response, but the reply it elicited five days later was a firm slap-down, couched in the withering wolf-in-sheeps clothing language of diplomacy.
We deprecate your opinion that there has been unsportsmanlike play, MCC said. As Hamilton notes, without having seen it in action and relying largely on the laudatory reports in the English press, how could MCC condemn it even if its dignity could allow the ACB to lecture HQ in such a public forum If you consider it desirable to cancel remainder of the programme, it continued, we would consent, but reluctantly. By the beginning of February, having weighed the financial implications of cancelling the tour, both for the board and the possible repercussions for Australian exports throughout the Empire, the ACB conceded: We do not regard the sportsmanship of your team to be in question.
There have been scores of books on the subject, millions of words, documentaries and, famously, a histrionic and occasionally camp mini-series. Whether Jardine was amoral or immoral has been debated for 80 years, yet the same conclusion is commonly reached.
He played within the laws of the game as they then existed and a concept as nebulous as the games spirit never troubled his conscience. Victory at all costs became anothers rallying cry seven years later, and neither Jardine nor Larwood would need to be told that it would take blood, toil, tears and sweat to achieve.
-theguardian
==============================
## Title: Columbian delegation studies Lankas reconciliation initiatives
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Columbian delegation studies Lankas reconciliation initiatives
An eleven member delegation from Columbia visited the National Integration and Reconciliation Ministry to draw knowledge, expertise and experiences on reconciliation and integration efforts of the Government.
National Integration and Reconciliation Ministry Secretary V.Sivagnanasothy presented the national reconciliation and integration strategy of Sri Lanka.
The plan includes Integration Friendly Schools Programme, Reconciliation Friendly Media, Integration Friendly University and Youth Corps, inculcating integration concepts into Sunday Religious School teaching, curriculum development in school education incorporating ethics, values, virtues, and comparative religious studies.
The Reconciliation Focused Economic Empowerment Project (REEP), 50,000 Housing programme, Roads project, Social and Economic Infrastructure projects which will help to reduce economic disparities and enhance trust.
Ministry Secretary V. Sivagnanasothy also stated that the District Reconciliation Committees (DRC) has been established with the Presidents guidance to address ethnic and religious tensions in hotspots.
Considerable progress has now been made in operationalisation of OMP which comes under the purview of the National Integration and Reconciliation Ministry.
The delegation echoed approval and commendation on the projects and applauded the holistic approach adopted by Sri Lanka in working towards sustainable peace. Andres Guevara an Editor from a Columbian Magazine commended the reconciliation friendly media programmes in place in Sri Lanka and launched a discussion with regards to the medias role in sustainable peace . The Discussion noted that Its not about censoring or controlling free media but rather fostering an alternative message to limit the spreading of tensions and animosity among the masses . The issue of fake news came to light thus further strengthening the need for the reconciliation friendly media programmes and awareness intiatives to establish a more harmonious nation. Laura Ochoa,the international representative of Search for Common Ground added and shared the experiences of Colombian reconciliation projects in place. She explained that the conflict affected areas need to be provided with basic economic and social infrastructure including resettlement and rehabilitation, livelihood and economic empowerment to address disparities and need reparation support. It was noted that the The priority is also to provide physical rehabilitation for the disabled persons and extend psycho-social support to the affected persons including families of missing persons to overcome trauma.
==============================
## Title: Committee to look into UNICEF report
## Supertitle: Crimes against children:
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Crimes against children:
Committee to look into UNICEF report
"A special committee will be appointed to look into the recommendations made by the United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) based on its report on Sri Lanka's justice system to eradicate crimes against children," Foreign Employment and Justice Minister Thalatha Atukorale yesterday said.
She was speaking at a ceremony held to introduce a report titled 'A Legal and Institutional Assessment of Sri Lanka's Justice System for Children' complied by UNICEF. It was presented to the Minister by UNICEF Country Representative Tim Sutton. Minister Atukorale said the report would greatly help the government's efforts to create a safer environment for children to live in.
She said a committee would liaise between several government institutions that would put forward their resources for this worthy cause including the Justice Ministry, Women and Children's Affairs Ministry, Child Protection Authority, the Police, and the Attorney General's Department, The Minister said the UNICEF had proposed the procedures to be followed to ensure child safety and steps to be adopted to reduce child abuse.
She said the Justice Ministry had taken all the measures necessary to complete the court cases dealing with crimes against children on the instructions of the AG's Department. "UNICEF has launched many programmes with the support of the Justice Ministry that have helped to reduce child abuse in the country.
It remains the responsibility of parents and officers of the Child Protection Authority to ensure that the programmes become a reality," she said.
==============================
## Title: Compensation for damaged property in Gintota
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:04
Compensation for damaged property in Gintota
Steps have already been initiated to pay compensation to the property damage of the clash that occurred in Gintota in Galle last week, Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella said. Replying to a question raised by Chief Opposition Whip and JVP Leader Anura Dissanayake in Parliament yesterday, the Minister said the Government is bound to provide security to all communities may they be Sinhala, Tamil or Muslim. He said unlike the previous Government, this Government is committed to protecting the rights of all ethnic groups.
MP Dissanayake queried on the delay of the Police in taking down the complaints of the people with regard to the property damages of the violent incident on November 16 and 17 in Ginthota.
When people went to the Police station, they had been turned back stating that the Police would visit their homes to take down the complaints. But, the Police are yet to visit the houses and the people have been unable to clean and mend their damaged property due to this delay. People have not cleaned up their homes, as the damages have not been evaluated as yet, he pointed out.
Chief Government Whip and Minister Gayantha Karunathilake said that he will promptly call the DIG in Galle and bring the matter to his attention.
Minister Kiriella also observed that the Police cannot send back anybody who comes to the Police to lodge a complaint without recording it.
MP Dissanayake noted that five persons were admitted to hospital with injuries while 66 houses, 26 shops, 10 vehicles, four motorbikes and two mosques were damaged in the clash. He questioned as to why the Police and STF personnel deployed in the area on November 16 were removed on November 17 without proper security assessment.


==============================
## Title: CR  Army game should be a close tussle for supremacy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
CR  Army game should be a close tussle for supremacy
CR and FC who lost to CH and FC 12-19 last time around will go all out to overcome the unpredictable Army sports club in their Dialog A Division League rugby match at CR grounds in Longden Place today. Kick off will be at 4.00pm.
At Longden Place another terrific tussle for supremacy can be expected today. CR will miss the services of their second row forward Panduka Angammana who is on the injured list. Mean whil the red shirt Skipper Kavindu Perera who was suspended in the last match against the CH outfit will make a welcome return to the side.
Navy will go out favourites
The high-riding Navy sports Club will go out favourites against Police Sports Club in their Dialog A Division League rugby match today at Welisara.
Match will commence at 4.00pm. The Navy Sports Club played a superb game against Havies Sports Club in their last game at Welisara to topple them 25-14 , will have to come up with another similar performance if they hope to overcome the Cops with a bonus point victory in the end.
The forte of the Navy side have been their power-packed forwards and they should come up with another superb display with skipper Roshan Ranasinghe, Supun Peiris along with ever green flanker and captain Danushka Gertha Perera are likely to give of their best in todays game.
==============================
## Title: Criminal investigators face many a challenge  Secretary to the President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Criminal investigators face many a challenge  Secretary to the President
Secretary to the President Austin Fernando emphasised the importance of the tasks entrusted to criminal investigation officials.
He said that their task is of immense importance to the quest for justice and fight crimes, corruption and frauds.
Outlining the difficulties and challenges faced by the officials, Fernando said when a political regime changed, the criminal investigating officers conducting inquires into allegations of corruption and fraud run into hurdles as sometimes frauds were committed with the alleged involvement of some in the bureaucracy, police, law enforcement services, judicial process and media.
Fernando was addressing a Regional High Level Meeting towards the establishment of a Regional Platform for Sharing of Criminal intelligence in South Asia in Colombo on Thursday.
The specific objective of the meeting is to consider and agree on the viability and structure of a regional platform for the sharing of criminal intelligence to prevent and combat transnational organised crime in South Asia.
Transnational Organized Crime issues have multi-lateral and global dimensions which require global and regional cooperation to counter them.
Experts from six member states, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, The Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka, Jagath P. Wijeweera, Secretary to the Ministry of Law and Order and Southern Development, Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya, Dr. Samantha Kumara Kithalawaarachchi, Director of the Presidential Task Force for Drug Prevention and United Nations Office on Drug and Crime (UNODC) officials participated in this meeting.
==============================
## Title: CW Games racket opens the sport of corruption
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
CW Games racket opens the sport of corruption
The Bond scam issue remains the topic of political and public interest, and has raised the issue of other major scams that need proper investigation and action by this government in keeping with its pledge to fight corruption, as Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe did get another feather in his political cap as the first holder of this office to appear before a commission of inquiry.
The call by Minister Kabir Hashim for a commission to probe the Commonwealth Games 2018 bidding exercise has certainly raised the possibility and opportunity for another important probe that can expose a huge exercise in corruption through the athletics of fraud, which will be commented below.
The Prime Ministers presence at the Presidential Commission of Inquiry, with a large entourage of ministers, especially from the UNP, brought the public sessions of the Commission to a well publicized conclusion, as it settles down to finalizing its report on the Treasury Bond Scam. His evidence, led by the Attorney General, and based on affidavits submitted to the Commission, did underline the issues of conflict of interest involving the appointment of Arjun Mahendran as Governor of the Central Bank shortly after the Yahapalana change of the Executive Presidency in January 2015. The PMs evidence made it clear there was no policy decision to request State Bank to bid at low yield rates during Treasury bond auctions, which instruction was given to State bank heads by former Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake.
The issue of conflict of interest relating to the functioning of Arjun Aloysius and Perpetual Treasuries Ltd., in the Treasury bond transactions, and the role of Ravi Karunanayake amidst a larger role of conflicted interests in transactions with Perpetual Treasuries, remain major issues the UNP will have to face it supporting its image on fighting against corruption, as the politics of coalition goes into even more strain, despite the postponement of Local Government polls, due to the Appeal Courts suspension of the Delimitation Gazette, earlier this week.
The Local Government Poll delay will certainly be the stuff of emerging political rivalry, with a No Confidence motion already presented against Minister of Local Government Faiszer Musthapha.
Phone link turmoil
The Treasury bond scam has moved in a different direction of political vulnerability with concerns by UNP members of the Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE) following the evidence on some of its members who had telephone links with Arjun Aloysius, the Perpetual Crisis agent in the Bond Scam.
While some members have come very clean about those connections, with Harshana Rajakaruna stating his phone conversations with Aloysius were even before he became an MP, and Sports Minister Dayasiri Jayasekera stating Aloysius did ask for his help to be cleared on the Treasury Bond issue, but he had refused it. The issue now being raised is of the CID that found these links allegedly violating the privileges of Members of Parliament. Surprisingly, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa says the government has now moved to phone tapping, and was very concerned about the rights and privileges of MPs.
The subject of Parliamentary Privilege is a matter that Parliament may have to decide upon, but as the Presidential Commission has stated, these phone records were not obtained from their (the MPs) phones, but from the phones and communication devices of Arjun Aloysius of Perpetual Treasuries, and his father-in-law Arjun Mahendran, former Governor of the Central Bank. The phone tapping charge is certainly not of substance. But, what is of importance, is that the affected members of COPE, and did not think it necessary to inform COPE about their phone links with Perpetual Treasury Aloysius. Such declaration, when one is in the midst of an inquiry into the actions of such person, is the best practice of integrity in action.
Sujeewa Senasinghe did have a huge confrontation with Namal Rajapaksa of the Joint Opposition, which was more to do with the latters legal education and not on ones own phone links with Aloysius. The reality of the reported 62 calls between Senasinghe and Arjun Aloysius will certainly be interesting, and we will now have to await the book Senasinghe is said to be writing on the current issue - possibly the Bond Scam  to know how useful these calls must have been.
We will have to await the final report of the Presidential Commission to know the full details of the Treasury Bond Scam, the stuff of political interest, especially after the Yahapalana pledge to fight corruption in the campaign to defeat Mahinda Rajapaksas moves to have a permanent executive presidency.
Commonwealth Games corruption
The wider public interest in the Treasury Bond Scam has led to many UNP members of parliament, to ask why there are no Commissions of Inquiry into other suspicious and fraudulent transactions during the previous regime. Whether it is a commission of inquiry or a regular Police probe, involving the CID or FCID, there are several such issues that need good investigation, and subsequent legal action. The election of the Common Candidate Maithripala Sirisena, as President in January 2014, had much to do with the pledge to fight the corruption that prevailed. It is an irony of politics that the biggest exposure has gone to the Treasury Bond Scam under his government. But, there any many big scandals that exist and need to be exposed from the not too distant past, and one such graft of major proportions was the bid to host the next Commonwealth Games in Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka lost the bid to host the 2018 Commonwealth Games go Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, at the bidding held in March 2010 at Basseterre, St. Kitts island of the West Indies. Sri Lankas bid was based on Hambantota as the main venue of the 2018 Games, and was part of the promotion of Hambantota as the rising centre of development and a sports hub in the country; part of the push for Hambantota as the Growth Centre of the island under the Rajapaksa Regime. But the bid, actively promoted by former Governor of the Central Bank, Ajith Nivard Cabraal and Namal Rajapaksa, did not look at the realities of the bid, which cost the country many millions of funds  both from the State and other contributors.
The basic fact that those who planned and organised the bid did not consider, although they were told of the reality, is that India had already hosted the Commonwealth Games in 2010, and it would be too early for another South Asian country, and so close, to seek the Games after the succeeding Games in Scotland.
The record of the Games  from the British Empire Games  1930 to 1950, British Empire and Commonwealth Games  1954 to 1966, British Commonwealth Games 1970 to 1974, and the Commonwealth Games -1978 to 2014, would have shown the bidders that never in this record has any country that is such a close neighbour to a country where the Games was once held, has been chosen for the next game after eight years. Scotland had already been decided as the venue for the Games immediately after India. So Sri Lankas was the bid for the next" Games.
The huge fraud, amounting to clearly more than Rs. 200 million was the result of the rejection of common sense in making this bid, knowing very well that Sri Lanka would not be the winner. It was very much in order to make a bid for a future Games, say even eight years later, with a not too extravagant and wasteful bid such as what that took place at St. Kitts island, in March 2010.
Minister Kabir Hashim is now calling for a commission to investigate this whole fraudulent exercise, with the revelation that the CWG Hambantota 2018 (Pvt) Ltd that was established for this purpose has no records of expenditure, and the purposes of the use of available funds. There must be records with the FCID of some of this failed exercise, because it did launch an initial inquiry, and a key person involved in it, did make some statements, which were given publicity in the media, too.
The loss to the country is far more than Rs, 200 million, if the full exercise is probed and the records on this common sense ridden bid are fully probed. The expenses involved the large number of dancers and entertainers taken from here, and the costs of entertainment that took place at St. Kitts, as well as processional dancing of the leaders in this fraudulent bid. The local media did publish reports and photographs of the bidders in action, and some links to the CHOGM Conference held in Australia just before the St. Kitts exercise, can also give more information.
A commission or any other good probe will certainly show how the rejection of common sense enabled a highly crooked, hugely costly and vastly wasteful sporting exercise for the Commonwealth Games 2018.

==============================
## Title: Dauntless warrior
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Dauntless warrior
we cannot dedicate, we cannot desecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men living and dead who struggled here have consecrated far above our poor power to add or detract
- Extract from Gettysburg address by Abraham Lincoln
On January 10, 1818, Governor Brownrigg castigated Keppetipola and several other leaders of the Uva uprising as outlaws, rebels, and enemies. President Maithripala Sirisena a few months ago de-gazetted the British proclamation and posthumously awarded medals for several national heroes for their personal acts of valour above and beyond the call of duty, and for their heroic acts and meritorious services against invaders in the past. The number one in the list was none other than Rajapaksa Wickramasekera Mudiyanselage Bandaranayake Monarawila Keppetipola [Monarawila Keppetipola Dissawe] the leader of the 1818 Uva rebellion.
Keppetipola was born in Monarawila of the Matale area to Golahela Disawe, the Diyawadana Nilame and Disawe of Tamankaduwa during the reign of King Sri Wikrama Rajasinghe. Young Keppetipola acquired fathers position after his death.
In 1813, the colonial office recommended Robert Brownrigg appointed as Governor of Ceylon. In 1815, he acquired Central region of this island through a treaty known as the Kandyan Convention assisted by the deserting ministers of the King, and annexed it to the British Empire, which they believed on which the sun never sets, since its spread about the globe meant that the sun was for all time visible in at least one of its settlements. The Badulla massacre undertaken by Robert Brownrigg implicated the slaughter of children, including baby suckling at the mothers breasts. They smashed their paddy cultivation, the irrigation systems and other road and rail network as well.
The 1817/18 riots described as the Uva rebellion is the culmination of the peoples resentment and dissatisfaction over the Colonial rule which promised to uphold and foster the Buddhism and observe the traditions and rituals that prevailed in the Kandyan Kingdom up to March 2, 1815. Wiliam Tolfry, the Chief Translator; appraised the Commissioner Sutherland of the volatile circumstances that prevailed in December 1816 and January 1817, and warned him of an imminent rebellion against the British rule. Reports indicated that one Duraisamy, a kinsman of the dethroned king is claiming his rights to the throne, and is gaining the support of the people in Uva, and that some Sinhalese leaders too joined him. A rebellion began in Uva-Wellassa on October 12, 1817.
Keppetipola was sent with 500 men by Governor Brownrigg to suppress the rebellion. However, at the request of the rebels, Keppetipola joined them to lead the struggle. Brownrigg declared Martial Law in Kandy and the surrounding provinces and three army divisions were dispatched to Uva immediately after the news reached the Governor that Keppetipola who returned the British arms and ammunition to the Governor, too has joined the rebels. Wilbawe who had claimed to be the inheritor to the throne, was officially crowned. Keppetipola was appointed as the Maha Adhikaram under this new king, and the insurgents were urged to free the country from the British rule.
Keppetipola led a guerrilla war against the British army, knowing that the rebels were outnumbered and lesser in firepower. There were not many large face-to-face battles done against the British army during the entire rebellion, and most of the attacks were carried out in the form of Guerilla attacks. The rebellion gained new strength and grew rapidly under the leadership of Keppetipola; it spread to a large part of the country including Dumbara, Hewaheta, Harisspattuwa and Nuwara-Kala-Viya, it was a great success until it was broken with the disbanding of the rebels.
Rebellion spreads
In October 1817 the riots broke out. Major Wilson sent out a battalion under Hadji Muhandiram, controlled by Hadjis brother himself to suppress the rebellion. The people of Uva were so aggravated with this incident that they trapped Hadji and produced him before Duraisamy who sentenced him to be beheaded.
The arrogance and pride of British rulers saw no limit when again on October 12, 1817 Major Wilson himself travelled to Uva with a Malay troop. Major Wilson was killed on this march near the Bibile town. Lt. Col. Hardy collected intelligence that the insurgents were on the move to Dolosbage in Gampola, where they found that the area was calm and quiet.
The British government credited this attitude of the natives to the authority that Molligoda exerted in the region and the personal bitterness he had with Keppetipola. However, in Galaboda Korale area which was the native place of Keppetipola, the Britishers featured problems with the rioters. As a matter of gratitude of the British to those who refrained from participation in the rebellion, the British Governor reduced the grain tax.
Keppetipola was appointed as the Maha Adhikaram and the new King urged the fighters to free the country from the invading British. A guerrilla war was waged by Keppetipola, though aware that the rebels were lesser in firepower.
As the rebels were gaining power the British forces stationed in the country could not do enough against them, strengthening needed were brought in from India. The rebels were incapable of facing the British forces, and were appeared to be in difficulty with supplies cultivations and livestock where the uprising took place had been ruined. As a result of hardships the civilian population had to face due to the fighting, the rebellion was called off and the men were dispersed. Keppetipola and other leaders fled to Anuradhapura.
Great Rebellion of 1818
Keppetipola along with Pilimathalawe were captured by Captain ONeil On October 28, 1818. As the troops surrounded the house, Keppitipola boldly came out and greeted Capt. ONeil; he was taken to Kandy, and tried for high treason and sentenced to death in a gruesome crime of history.
This national hero is well known for the exceptional bravery that he showed at the instant of his execution, and has been honoured as a national hero of Sri Lanka since then. Honouring their memory, of course is an exercise in generosity.
On November 25, 1818, they were taken to the Temple of the Tooth at the request of Keppetipola, for performance religious rituals. Keppetipola wished to be born in the Himalayas on his rebirth and attain Nibbana. He offered a cloth he wore to the temple, and his friend Marshall Sawers received his copy of Dhammapada.
Being taken to Bogambara grounds, Keppetipola tied up his hair to avoid it falling onto his neck requested the slaughterer to behead him with one stroke. He uttered a Pali verse from the Dhammapada and placed his head on the stump. Rajapaksa Wickramasekera Mudiyanselage Bandaranayake Monarawila Keppetipola was killed on the second stroke.
The genocidal policy of the colonials during the Great Rebellion of 1818 recognized Brownrigg for his achievements who conquered the 1818 Rebellion and prepared the beheading of Keppetipola; he was raised to the rank of General before leaving in 1819. There had been lots of national, political and cultural massacres, slaughter and butchery committed by the British and other colonial powers who ruled for 443 years from 1505 to 1948.
Remembering people who had their own individual ambitions, personal concerns, to live peaceful lives, but confronted with events that affected not only them, but the nation, yet, they could have preferred to remain focused on their individual battles, ignoring what was going on just about them. They set aside their private agendas, their worries, they did not dither. They knew that if they did not employ their strength to oppose it, then the abuse and hostility would continue. These are the citizens we consider heroes.
After all they say - conquerors are people like you and me who were positioned in unexpected situations, and yet, still favoured to do what is right. Keppetipolas skull was taken to England and preserved in the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh.
When we gained independence in 1948 Keppetipola was declared a national hero, who fought against foreign rule. In 1954 at the request of the Government of Sri Lanka his skull was returned, and entombed in the Memorial erected in his honour in Kandy.
The legacy of heroes is the memory of a great name and the inheritance of a great example.
- Benjamin Disraeli
==============================
## Title: Day makes his charge at Australian Open
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Day makes his charge at Australian Open
Sydney: Jason Day reeled off four birdies in a row to charge up the leaderboard at the Australian Open on Friday, after world number two Jordan Spieth birdied his final hole for the second day in a row.
Playing in the afternoon when the wind was at its strongest, Day defied blustery conditions to shoot a second round three-under par 68 and reach the halfway point at eight-under.
That left the Australian just one stroke behind outright leader Lucas Herbert, who made the most of his early tee-off time and carded a 66.
Spieth, still rusty after taking an extended break since the Presidents Cup, battled his way to an even-par 71 to be one-under overall but was still hopeful of catching up to the frontrunners over the weekend.
"On this golf course, more than just about any that we play, I feel like you can make up more ground and come from behind," he said.
Day, chasing his first victory of 2017 and his maiden win at his national open, briefly joined Herbert in a share of the lead when he drained a 20-foot putt on the 15th hole for his fourth successive birdie.
The former world number one slipped a shot behind when he bogeyed the 17th but scrambled a par on the last after finding a fairway bunker with his drive.
With a seven-stroke advantage over Spieth, Day is now a strong favourite to win the Stonehaven Cup but he said he fully expected the American to claw his way back into contention.
"If he gets something going on the weekend, he can hole a lot of putts and make a lot of birdies and make a charge," Day said.
"Seven strokes is obviously not enough but I'd like to keep pushing forward and hopefully I don't see him in my rear view mirror at all."
Herbert followed up his first day 67 with six birdies to set the pace at nine-under 133 and remain in front.
The recently-turned professional also led the Australian Open last year before eventually finishing 20th, but said he was better equipped to handle the pressure this time.
"I finished pretty high up last year in the Aussie Open (so) I can play well and I'm proving to myself that I can play well in these big events against these big players," Herbert said.
"I'm feeling like I belong out there, which is the big thing."
Hoping to capitalise on the benign morning conditions after playing his opening round in gusting winds on Thursday, Spieth only managed two birdies in the second round.
The three-time major winner has not played in six weeks and is missing his regular caddie Michael Greller, who remained at home after the recent birth of his son.
But Spieth said he was making progress.
"It's just been the short game rust that's kind of hurt me a bit the last couple of days that prevents me from being five or so under and then instead I'm at one," he said.
"But the more I'm getting them on course the better, and we'll go forward and try and shoot a low round."AFP
==============================
## Title: Dr. Nath Amarakones funeral today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Dr. Nath Amarakones funeral today
Many would refer to him as one of the most hardworking professionals you will ever meet. Turning in 18 hours a day for 7 days, was the type of commitment he would give to any task he undertook. Unassuming, indefatigable, compassionate, highly outspoken and a diehard patriot, are some of the traits that people would use to describe Dr. Nath Amarakone.
Dr. Amarakone passed away on November 22, at the age of 81. He was a former Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Housing, former Chairman of the State Engineering Corporation, Founder of the Organization of Professional Societies of Sri Lanka, General Secretary of the Eksath Sinhala Maha Sabhawa, head of the Sanathana Foundation, and a committed philanthropist.
He was the beloved husband of Dr. Indrani Wijesinghe Amarakone (Dental Surgeon).
His remains will lie at the at the Mahinda Funeral Parlour at 591 Galle Road, Mt. Lavinia from 8 am today. Cremation at the Mt. Lavinia crematorium at 10.00 am on Saturday, November 25.
==============================
## Title: Drawn match at Moratuwa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Drawn match at Moratuwa
St. Anthony's School, Kadalana, Moratuwa drew with Science College Mt. Lavinia in their Inter School Under 13 Division Three Tournament Cricket Match played at Moratuwa. Batting first Visitors were all out for 248 runs with Primal Fernando scoring a brilliant 126 runs
and in reply when rain stopped play homesters were 152 for 5 with Sahas Dulnada unbeaten on
52 runs.
Chief Scores
Science College - 248 in 52 overs - Primal Fernando 126, Sujan Anjelo 3/61, Sahas Dulnada 3/57,Shivanga Chathura 3/59
St. Anthony's School - 152/5 in 30 overs - Sahas Dulnada 52 n/o, Suhan Anjelo 32
==============================
## Title: Eighteen hour water cut in Colombo, suburbs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Eighteen hour water cut in Colombo, suburbs
Water supply to several areas in Colombo will be disrupted for eighteen-hours today from 8 am until 2 am, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) said yesterday.
Water will be disrupted in Dehiwala,Mount Lavinia,Kotte,areas surrounding the Kaduwela Municipal Council, Maharagama, Borelesgamuwa, Kolonnawa, Kotikawatta, areas surrounding the Mulleriyawa Municipal Council, Ratmalana and Soysapura flats.
NWSDB informed that water-cut was due to repairs at the Ambatale water treatment plant.
==============================
## Title: Elephant cubs caught, tortured and sold
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Elephant cubs caught, tortured and sold
In recent times there have been many stories about rackets involving instances of capturing innocent elephant cubs living in the Sri Lankan forests, torturing them inhumanly and selling them later. But by now most people have forgotten about these incidents and the threat towards wild elephant cubs living in the jungles have not diminished with time.
The torture and selling of innocent wild elephant cubs have been carried out together with assistance of officials and the latest such incident was reported from Demalatotupala in Yala National Park.
After receiving information that a elephant cub has been kept tied at Demalatotupala in Yala National Park, on November 7 Kataragama Police officials went to investigate the location together with wildlife officials. However, no elephant cub was found in that place.
After receiving information from a resident in Manikpuragama area in Sithulpauva, Kataragama that a three month old elephant cub has arrived in their place, the wildlife officials together with police officials visited the place and released the elephant cub that was kept tied and handed over to the Udawalawe elephant orphanage. Due to the elephant cub being weak with wounds and other symptoms that were discovered by the veterinary sergeants, it is believed that this baby elephant was captured.
What happened to the mother of the elephant cub
Stealing and selling elephant cubs have been going on for the past two decades in Sri Lanka. Most of the time the mother of the elephant cubs is killed before capturing their babies. It is doubtful whether the same fate took place to the mother of this elephant cub that was discovered. Investigation
How did the elephant cub get lost in this manner Who captured the elephant cub Is it another instance of an elephant cub stealing racket Who is behind this A special team has been appointed to investigate these headed by Western province wildlife assistant director W A D A indrajith on the advise of Wildlife Director General M G C Suriyabandara. Kataragama Police has also launched an investigation on this incident.
Three elephant cubs who escaped from their captors
An elephant cub that was chained in Hambegamuwa area near Udawalawe National Park was found in December 2016 by wildlife officials. Another was discovered chained in similar manner in Gonaganara area on Buttala Kataragama road.
Therefore altogether three elephant cubs have been so far discovered together with this present elephant cub that was saved within one years time.
Wildlife Department Director General M. G. C. Suriyabandara said that a special investigation has been launched headed by an experienced wildlife department official and the discovered facts will be reported to the Courts.

==============================
## Title: Ending violence against women
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Ending violence against women
The Vidya Sivaloganathan rape and murder case highlighted one of the most gruesome cases of violence against women in Sri Lanka in recent memory. But this case represents only the tip of the iceberg in terms of violence against women and girls in our society. In fact, violence against women and girls is one of the most widespread, persistent and devastating human rights violations in our world today.
Violence against women is the most extreme form of discrimination. The UN defines violence against women as any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual, or mental harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life. Violence can negatively affect womens physical, mental, sexual, and reproductive health.
According to a recent UN report, on the basis of data from 2005 to 2016 for 87 countries, 19 per cent of women between 15 and 49 years of age said they had experienced physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner in the 12 months prior to the survey. In 2012, almost half of all women who were victims of intentional homicide worldwide were killed by an intimate partner or family member.
Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) too is fairly common  more than 200 million women alive today have been affected. Around 400,000 women and girls are also trafficked against their will each year for forced labour/slavery, prostitution and even the removal of body organs. Violence against women is a rights violation and a consequence of discrimination against women, in law and in practice, as well as of persisting inequalities between men and women. This violence impacts on progress in many areas, including poverty eradication, combating HIV/AIDS, and peace and security. Research also shows that achieving gender equality helps in preventing conflict, and high rates of violence against women correlates with outbreaks of conflict. But violence against women and girls is not inevitable. Prevention is possible and essential.
This is the focus of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women which falls today (November 25). Women's activists have marked November 25 as a day against violence since 1981. This date comes from the assassination in 1960 of the three Mirabal sisters, political activists in the Dominican Republic, on the orders of the then Dominican ruler Rafael Trujillo.
Sri Lanka has made substantial progress in eliminating violence against women in any form  verbal, sexual and physical. The relevant laws have been strengthened in the wake of recent high-profile incidents. One of the ways in which this scourge can be tackled is educating girls and young women. Fortunately, there is virtually no discrimination against girls in Sri Lanka in terms of education. The next step is to empower them politically. A start has been made with the mandatory inclusion of at least 25 percent women candidates for nomination lists at the forthcoming local polls. If women are politically stronger, they will be able to raise a bigger voice against sexual and other forms of violence against women.
But much more remains to be done. Incidents of domestic violence and sexual harassment of young girls by close relatives go largely unreported for reasons of fear and stigma. Women still do encounter many problems of manspreading in public transport. Gender inequality still exists, including unequal pay structures in many vocations and companies. The 30-year conflict has also resulted in thousands of women-led families struggling against poverty.
All these concerns should be addressed as we seek to fulfill the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with regard to women and children. In Sri Lanka and elsewhere, one of the major challenges to efforts to prevent and end violence against women and girls worldwide is the substantial funding shortfall. As a result, resources for initiatives to prevent and end violence against women and girls are severely lacking.
This year has brought some good news in this regard, as the European Union and the United Nations have launched the Spotlight Initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls. Another initiative helping to expose this scourge is the UNiTE to end Violence Against Women initiative launched in 2008 by former UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, which is also supported by his successor Antnio Guterres.
UNiTE leads a 16 day campaign against Gender Based Violence campaign from November 25 to December 10, Human Rights Day. The theme of the campaign for 2017 is Leave No One Behind: End Violence Against Women and Girls. This theme reinforces the UNiTE Campaigns commitment to a world free from violence for all women and girls around the world, while reaching the most underserved and marginalized, including refugees, migrants, minorities, indigenous peoples, and populations affected by conflict and natural disasters.
The first step towards ending violence against women is addressing gender inequality worldwide. Achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls will require more vigorous efforts, including legal frameworks, to counter deeply rooted gender-based discrimination. In our region, Sri Lanka must take the lead in this noble endeavour.
==============================
## Title: Extensive talks on Economic and Technology Agreement- PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:08
Extensive talks on Economic and Technology Agreement- PM
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday said that he held extensive talks on the proposed Economic and Technology Agreement between Sri Lanka and India on maritime activities in the Indian Ocean, during his four day tour to India.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe, wrapping up his tour of India, made these observations at a press briefing held at Taj Palace in New Delhi yesterday.
Premier Wickremesinghe pointed out that a decision was taken to base the economic and technology co-operation agreement on the economic relations between the two countries.
I got the opportunity to meet the Prime Minister, President, Foreign Minister and Indian Congress Prty leader during my visit. Every discussion held with them focused on strengthening relations between Sri Lanka and India. We also discussed about certain projects on which we have agreed upon to be finished by last April. There were certain delays in implementing these projects. We needed some matters out of the way. We focused on these areas, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said.
We also discussed about relations between India and Japan and on the Asia Africa growth corridor, the Prime Minister added.
We discussed on the new proposed Economic and Technology Agreement between the two countries and on matters relating to maritime activities of the Indian Ocean. We decided to take the fundamentals of our bilateral economic relations as a framework to design the Economic and Technology Agreement, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe also said.

==============================
## Title: Havies edge out gallant CH 31-26
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Havies edge out gallant CH 31-26
Havelock Sports Club earned a hard fought 31 points (3 tries, 2 conversions, 4 penalties) to 26 (4 tries, 3 conversions) win over a fighting CH and FC outfit in their Dialog A Division inter club league rugby first round match played at Race Course grounds yesterday. The winners led.
18 points to 7 at half time.
For the winning Havies team the three tries were scored by peterite fly half Dulaj Perera (two) and winger Kevin Dixon (one), while the two conversions and the four penalties were fired across by full back Reeza Mubarak.
For the losers CH and FC the four tries were scored by second row forward Sajith Saranga(one), flankers Yoshitha Rajapaksa(one) and Sasanka Ariyaratne (two) while Anthonian fly half Samuel Maduwantha put over three conversions.

==============================
## Title: Hellibees Racing, energised by Wild Elephant, triumphs in 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Hellibees Racing, energised by Wild Elephant, triumphs in 2017
The Hellibees Racing team has completed yet another record setting year where it has revolutionised Sri Lankan motor sports. The team has been energised by Elephant Houses Wild Elephant, its Energising Partner, for the second consecutive year.
Famously Ready for Anything, Elephant Houses Wild Elephant empowers you with the guts and confidence to be prepared for anything, allowing you to step up your game and win in any situation. Sharing Hellibees passion for racing, Wild Elephant has taken an active role in the development of young drivers and riders, while also fostering the fearlessness and confidence that is vital for winning.
Throughout the year, Hellibees riders have also been recognised as National Champions in the 600cc, 250cc, 250cc Super Motard and Open events, while additionally winning the Open Super Motard National Championship and the SLADA Grand Prix.
The team also dominated the most recent Katukurunda Circuit Meet.
In one of 2017's most impressive feats, Hellibees rider Hansika Abeysinghe, the only woman participating this year, won all her events in the 125cc and 150cc categories. Her Hellibees teammates Shoel Daniel, Sangeeth Suriyage, Mohamed Shazan, Lathika Shamal, Chandima Goonaratne, Andrew Choksy, Michael Wijesuriya and Janaka Dias also performed superbly on the tarmac.
In its first ever year competing off road, Hellibees participated in 10 events where its youngest riders Minuka and Ruvinu Ratnayake proved their worth, with Minuka winning all his under 10 events and being adjudged best rider.
Nisala Jayasundara, new to the under 13 events, scored several podium finishes and Bhanuka Rathnayake, competing in the under 16 championship, took 2nd and 3rd place multiple times. Ishan Dassanayake, riding in the 125cc category, came back from injury to win many races.
Commenting, the teams Founder Murad Ismail said, Hellibees Racing completed another successful year together with our partners and sponsors. This year, Hellibees Racing ventured into gravel racing with the main goal to give young racing talent a start in their career in motor cross, before they go to tarmac. Hellibees Racing, energised by Wild Elephant, also engages in several other sports and activities and will launch our life style brand in the near future.
Wild Elephant is pleased to have supported Hellibees in successfully closing out another racing year. Our partnership has gone a long way in re-energising the sport of motor racing in Sri Lanka, especially keeping its popularity alive for our fans. We also commend the guts on display in this sport, which is an idea that is in line with Wild Elephants own energetic mindset, said Head of Marketing  Elephant House Beverages, Mevan Peiris.
==============================
## Title: Historic Indo-Lanka ties strengthened - Indian President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:07
Historic Indo-Lanka ties strengthened - Indian President
The long standing historic ties between Sri Lanka and India must be the foundation on which the two countries should endeavour to strengthen economic and development cooperation, Indian President Ram Nath Kovind said at a meeting held with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at Rashtapathi Bhavan in New Delhi on Thursday (23).
He also observed that Indo-Lanka relationship has always been exceptional and solicitous and commended Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghes contribution to strengthen the friendship between the two countries.
Indian President Kovind also said that he envisions a prosperous Sri Lanka.
The discussion between the two leaders was on strengthening the Indo-Lanka bilateral relationship and addressing the delays in joint development projects initiated by the two countries.
The housing project funded by the Indian government was another topic of discussion between the two Indian President Kovind and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe congratulated President Kovinda on his appointment and extended the regards and greetings of President Maithripala Sirisena and the Sri Lankan Cabinet of Ministers to him as well.
Premier Wickremesinghe expressed confidence that the Indian President wouldf play a major contribution in strengthening Indo-Lanka relations.

==============================
## Title: Kandy SC should have it easy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Kandy SC should have it easy
Defending league champions and current table leaders Kandy Sports Club will host the Air Force Sports Club on Saturday in what is expected to be a one sided game. This is going to be the fourth game of the season for the two teams.
In this match they are all out to secure the highest score of the season as the team has got into top gear with brilliant performance, some excellent rugby for the host team. Buwanaka Udangamuwa was the player of the last match with some barging runs and excellent defence, breaking from the scrum and feeding the three quarters to run in the open. They are sure to play up smart rugby and get the result the way they want.
Head-to-head,the difference between the two sets of forwards will be interesting as both play crucial roles for their respective sides, especially in the first half. They are impressive ball carriers and will be expected to get their teams over the advantage line with some strong runs. Airmen who beat Police SC in their last outing, will be hoping to give a better display. Whatever the Airmen will try to do, today the defending champions would dominate,
Kandy Sports Club, of course, will dominate the game from the kick-off unless the Airmen stage a huge surprise but Kandy are always a wild card at the game, having knocked all the clubs they met in the tournament. The have an insatiable hunger to win every game they play. Until the pretenders to the throne can match that desire, they cannot be beaten at this venue by any team. Kandy Sports Clubs attacking style of play helps drive their ability to demolish opponents, and they are blessed with some of the best rugby brains in Richard Dharmapala, Dhanuska Ranjan, A. Wilwera, Jason Dissanayake, Thilina Wijesinghe and Lavanga Perera to name a few.
The way Kandy Sports Club play rugby it is obviously an expensive game that many other teams don't advocate, it makes them more flexible to go out there and score quick tries if needed. It certainly helps playing that brand of rugby and having the belief that it is not over till its over.
Kandy's attacking style of play helps drive their ability to demolish any opponents. No one in the Kandy SC set-up is more important than the players. They maintain an iron-clad grip on the game at all levels, towards this end it is important to give credit to the rugby Chairman Lasantha
Wijesuriya, Coach Sean Wijesinghe, Manager Kapila Silva, Saliya Kumar for guiding these players to what they are. Of course, nothing happens without the able encouragement, support and motivation by their Trustee Malik Samarawickrema.
Kandy SC- Gayan Weerarathne (C), Damith Dissanayake, Richard Dharmapala, Oshan Perera, Buwenaka Udangamuwa, Dimitri Wijethunga, Thilina Wijesinghe, Jason Dissanayake, Nigel Rattawatte, Lavanga Perera, Fazil Marija , Lasitha Aththanagoda, Danush Dayan, Dhanushka Ranjan, Asitha Rathnayake, Yakoob Ali, Arshad Jamaldeen, Piyumal Machanayake, Anurudda Wilwara, Ganuka Dissanayake, Uchitha Jayasuriya, Shashika Jayawardana, Heshan Kalhara, Srinath Sooriyabandara, Suhiru Anthony, Ashan Darling, Tharindu Chathuranga, Sanushka Abeywickrama, Heshan Jansen, Diluksha Dange, Kasun Srinath, Chathura Senevirathne, Lakshitha Ranaweera. - (Sean Wijsinghe head coach, Saliya Kumara assistant coach, Kapila Silva team manager.
Air Force SC- Pushpakumara Samarahewa, Krishan Jayasuriya, Sandaruwan Adhikari, Amal Dassanayake, Pandula Bandara, Jayesh Nilanga, Gimhana Silva, Suraj Bandara, Ihithisham Jaleel, Shaminda Udayakumara, Dinesh Weerarathne, Pramod Pathmasanka , Niroshan Rajanayake, Ishara Madhushan, Sithara Samarakoon, Amila Bandara, Charles Praveen, Ranjan Baddegama, Parakrama Rathnayake, Ranuka Madagedara, Charitha Senevirathne, Jehan Seelagama, Nadeesh Perera, Nilantha Jayaweera, Nuwan Perera, Donald Frank, Gayantha Iddamalgoda, Isuru Jayarathne , Rojith Perera, Saraka Werella, Janaka Ravi, Supun Madusanka, Anjana Vinod, Thilina Sampath, Bandara Rajakaruna, Prasanna Madhushanka, Tharindu Shanaka, Pabasara Hewage, Ramzan Amith - (Saumya Silva coach, Prasanna Zoysa team manager). Kick off at 3.45 pm
Referee:- Ajith Kumara
==============================
## Title: Lankan batsmen manufacture their own downfall
## Supertitle: Lose six wickets for 45 runs :
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Lose six wickets for 45 runs :
Lankan batsmen manufacture their own downfall
NAGPUR, Friday  Sri Lanka threw away a golden chance of piling up a big total after winning the toss and batting first on a surface that didnt offer much for the bowlers when they were dismissed for 205 on the first day of the second Test against India at the Vidarbha CA Stadium here on Friday.
That Sri Lanka find themselves in this plight is because of the indiscipline of their batsmen who failed to spend time at the wicket and play a decent game of Test cricket. The type of cricket Sri Lanka displayed yesterday showed lack of discipline amongst their batsmen for none of them displayed the patience to stick it out in the middle and make the Indian bowlers work hard for success.
Most of the wickets were gifted and apart from Dimuth Karunaratne and Dinesh Chandimal who made a fifty apiece, none of the other batsmen knuckled down to play a long innings that was required if Sri Lanka was to put up a decent total and give their bowlers the opportunity to attack the Indian batting.
It was only the other day during the Kolkata Test that Angelo Mathews, the most experienced batter in the Lankan line-up said that scoring fifties are not going to win you Test matches. If one is to go by that statement then Sri Lanka can forget about winning this Test.
In the first instance Sri Lanka should have never allowed themselves to be bowled out inside a day. By doing so they have put themselves in danger of leaving India plenty of time to build on a good first innings score and exert pressure on them in the second innings.
Credit has to be given to the Indian bowlers for maintaining a consistent line and length throughout the Lankan innings that tested the batsmens patience.
Ishant Sharma, the captain of the Delhi team in the Ranji trophy on his return to Test cricket after eight months proved a handful for the Lankan batters as he took the wickets of Sadeera Samarawickrama in his first spell, Karunaratne in his third and Suranga Lakmal to finish with figures of 3 for 37.
Sharma in the first instance would not have played had it not been for a late change that was brought about by Mohammad Shami suffering from a left hip niggle on the morning of the match.
The Indian spinners who went wicketless at Kolkata were very much in the midst of play here with Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja bowling brilliantly to capture seven wickets between them. They forced the batsmen into errors with their consistency and the Lankan batsmen lacking the discipline succumbed to their wiles.
Karunaratne rode his luck to score his 14th Test fifty that also got him past 1000 runs in Tests for the calendar year  the second batsman to do so for 2017 after South African opener Dean Elgar. The last occasion a Sri Lankan batsman scored 1000 Test runs in a calendar year was in 2004 when Kumar Sangakkara, Angelo Mathews and Mahela Jayawardene all hit that mark.
Karunaratne escaped a run out at 14 when Pujara threw the wicket down with a direct hit from mid-on, was missed at 15 by the same fielder in the same position off Ashwin at 15 and, was then stumped off a Jadeja no-ball at 21. Everything happened in the first session which turned out to be a drab affair with Sri Lanka crawling to 47-2 off 27 overs.
Although the run rate picked up in the next session largely due to the 62-run liaison between Karunaratne and Chandimal, wickets also fell at regular intervals. From 151-4 at tea, Sri Lankas innings simply crumbled in the final session with the last six wickets falling for 45 runs
Chandimal dug-in amidst the fall of wickets at the other end and looked good enough to carry his team to a competitive total, but after batting 122 balls for 57 he attempted a reverse sweep off Ashwin and was out lbw. This shot which is quite common in T20 and one-day cricket looks impressive when it is played effectively, but dreadful when a batsman gets out to it. During that innings Chandimal completed 3000 Test runs becoming the 12th Sri Lankan to do so.
Lahiru Gamage whose selection for the Test was somewhat in doubt after his poor performance at Kolkata repaid the faith his captain had by retaining him for this Test when he got the initial breakthrough by getting through the defences of Lokesh Rahul for India to end an absorbing days cricket at 11-1. India trail Sri Lanka by 194 runs with nine wickets in hand.
Sri Lanka went unchanged for the Test while India made three changes.
==============================
## Title: At this level you cant be missing straight balls  coach Pothas
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
At this level you cant be missing straight balls  coach Pothas
NAGPUR, Friday  Interim head coach Nic Pothas tried his best to explain the poor batting display put up by his team on the first day of the second Test against India here on Friday stating that at Test level you cannot be missing straight balls.
The wicket has got no demons. It hasnt spun, it hasnt seamed. There were six straight ball dismissals and at international level its no surprise. Ashwin and Jadeja got wickets bowling stump to stump. At this level you cant be missing straight balls, said Pothas at the end of the day.
Sri Lanka winning the toss and batting first were dismissed for a disappointing 205 with many of the wickets falling to poor shot selection against some accurate and testing bowling by the Indians.
The wicket has not done anything. All what it has done is to skid on a bit. The first day of a Test match when you are done on a wicket that has not done much losing seven wickets to spin it is disappointing. The change room and the guys have set themselves high standards. They are going to be disappointed. In any process you are going to have those disappointments, Pothas said.
Commenting on the shots played by skipper Dinesh Chandimal and Niroshan Dickwella, Pothas said, The captain made a decision at that time, we empower the batsmen to make decisions at the middle. He obviously felt that was the way to score runs at that point, but it didnt come off. I probably say that maybe the timing of that shot was perhaps not at its best. He is playing well and he is confident and we back our batsmen to be positive. You cant be there forever and block it.
On hindsight thats what the numbers tell you that Dickwellas dismissal sparked off a collapse. We let ourselves down from that point onwards. You cant say that Niroshan Dickwella gets out and the rest can get out. Dick is a positive batter and thats a shot he plays well. I dont want to stop him being himself. I want people to bat the way they bat.
He is a kind of player who transfers pressure back to the bowlers. Certainly, not going to say that because Dick got out, the others got out.
Pothas denied that being asked to practice on a matting pitch had anything to do with the poor batting display.
That was provided for us. So we were asked not to take that off the wicket. We are solution based, so we adapted our training on the facility we were given.
==============================
## Title: Library opened to mark 50th Anniversary of Madihe Pannaseeha Vidyalaya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Library opened to mark 50th Anniversary of Madihe Pannaseeha Vidyalaya
The newly-constructed Agga Maha Panditha Most Venerable Madihe Pannaseeha Maha Nayaka Theros Memorial Library at Ven. Madihe Pannaseeha Vidyalaya in Puttur, Jaffna was opened coincide with the 50th anniversary of the school.
Troops of the 52nd Division provided technical assistance to the contractors to put up this memorial library within a short span of time on the directions of Jaffna Security Forces Commander, Major Gen.Darshana Hettiarachchi after the sponsor, Dharmavijaya Padanama of Colombo sought the Army support for completion of the project.
The Vijayabahu Infantry Regiment (VIR) organised the opening ceremony.
Most Ven. Thirikunamale Ananda Thera, Maha Nayaka of the Amarapura Sri Dharmarakshita Nikaya and the Chief Incumbent at Bambalapitiya Sri Vajiraramaya temple, together with the Northern Province Governor, Reginold Cooray were present.
Unveiling of a portrait of late Ven. Madihe Pannaseeha Maha Nayaka Thera, distribution of scholarships and a few other ceremonials coloured the library opening event.

==============================
## Title: Meet wrestler Dilruk de Silva
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Meet wrestler Dilruk de Silva
Former St. Mary's College, Dehiwala Wrestler, Boxer, Athlete, Young Marians Wrestling Club, St. Mary's Wrestling Club, District, Prince of Wales' College, Sri Lanka Air Force, Sri Lanka Police and Moratuwa University wrestling coach, Wrestling Judge and Referee Dilruk de Silva spoke to the Daily News at his residence 87/E, Walgama Road, Gamanpila, Walgama.
Q: Can you tell something about yourself and your family in brief
A - I am Pinnaduwage Dilruk de Silva and I was born on 20th May 1962 and my father is Pinnaduwage Victor Silva and he was employed at Insurance Corporation and my mother is Punchihewage Flora de Silva. She is a housewife and I have one elder brother and sister and a younger sister. My wife is Jayakody Arachchige Kamani de Silva and we have a son and we hail from Dehiwala.
Q - What is your first school
A - Initially I was admitted to Alethea School, Dehiwala in 1968 and in 1971 I joined St. Mary's College Dehiwala and I studied up to Advanced Level.
Q - Did you take part in sports whilst at school
A - I did athletics at inter-house level and in the under 14 and under 16. I did 75 and 100 yards and long jump and in the under 19 I took part in 1500, 100 and long jump and I fared well. I commenced wrestling at the age of under eleven and my coach was Nihal Peiris.
Q - Did you continue wrestling at school
A - In the under 11 age group and in 45lbs category I won Novices and Open and All Island Inter-Schools and in the under fifteen 55lbs category I won Intermediate, Open, All Island Schools and Nationals. In 90lbs weight category I won the Open, Inter Schools in 1977, 78 and 79 and I captained the schools team and won school colours. Whilst at school I participated in boxing at the Inter-House Level and I did not continue.
Q - What is your first employment
A - I worked as a Time Adjustment Officer at Sumathipala and Company Limited and served 23 years.
Q - Did you take part in wrestling at the Club Level
A - I joined St. Mary's Wrestling Club and I won at Open Meets, National Festival Meets, All Island and won the Best Wrestlers Award at the Open Meet. Then I joined young Marians Wrestling Club and took part in all the above mentioned meets. I was selected for the SAAF Games squad. Later I was the secretary of the Young Marians Wrestling Club.
Q - Did you coach in wrestling
A - From 1980 to 1990 I coached Young Marians and St. Mary's Wrestling Clubs and produced several players of national and International level. I was a District Coach at Kalutara too.
Q - Did you commence coaching at school level
A - First I coached my alma mater and then I commenced coaching in 1993 at Prince of Wales' and todate I am coaching them. They won the All Island Championship seven times and they won runner-up places on several occasions. This year too Cambrians are the All Island Runner up. I produced several National and International players and coaches.
Q - Can you mention some of your players at Prince of Wales' who reached the top
A - Roshan Indika Liyanage, Charith Suranga Slgado, Kithsiri Edirisinghe, Dananjaya Ranasinghe, Danuka Ranasinghe, Nuwan Chamaka, Indunil Dhananjaya, Nimal Perera, Vimukthi Sanujaya, Nadeesh Samarakkody and Chethana Malgahagama to mention a few. In 2006 I was selected as the District Coach for SAF Games and in 2006 for the Sri Lanka National Pool. In 2014 I coached the men and women of the Sri Lanka Air Force and some of them rose to the top. Again in 2012/13 I was the Assistant Coach of the Sri Lanka National Squad.
Q - Did you coach any other teams
A - Since 2015 I am coaching the Sri Lanka Policemen and women teams and coaching Moratuwa University since 1995 to date. I have participated at the National Coaching Camps for coaches.
Q - Did you follow any foreign courses
A - I followed Patiala Course in India and I followed Level One and Two Canadian coaching courses in Sri Lanka and also followed two Soulbury Courses in Sri Lanka. I have been to Pakistan, India and Kazakastan as a coach and Technical Officer from Sri Lanka. I was in the Referees and Judging Panels of Wrestling Federation.
Q - What is the advice you can give to the up and coming young wrestlers
A - In this instance the coaches should teach their trainees the correct way and how to develop the physical fitness. On the part of the trainees while fighting obey the rules and regulations and players must always refrain from smoking and consuming liquor. Note: Dilruk can be contacted of 0786266440
==============================
## Title: Nurse dies on duty
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Nurse dies on duty
A nurse attached to the Kandy Teaching Hospital renal unit, had died while on duty.
She is 38 years old and has served as a nurse in that unit for over five years. She is a mother of three and hails from Mawanella. The other nurses in the ward initially suspected that she was sleeping on the chair, but instead had passed away. An inquest had been conducted.
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Obituaries
REV. FR. MAHES GANEMULLA - Beloved son of late Alfred and Constance, brother of Ranjit and late Shirani, brother-in-law of late Glenzil Weerasinghe and of Dilamani. Remains lie at the Archbishops Palace, Borella. Holy Mass will be held at 2.30 p.m. on Saturday the 25th after which the remains would be removed for burial at the General Cemetery, Kanatte.148552
REV. FR. MAHES PETER GANEMULLA - of the Archdiocese of Colombo was called to Eternal Rest on the 23rd November 2017. His Mortal remains lie in state at the Archbishops House Chapel, Borella. Requiem Mass will be at 2.30 p.m. on Saturday, 25th November 2017, followed by Interment at General Cemetery, Borella. Rev. Fr. Ganemulla was born on 7th February 1950 and was ordained on 25th July 1981. He is the son of late Mr. Ganemulla Gamage Alfred Direkze and late Mrs. Daisybelle C Direckze.148556
AMARAKONE - Dr. NATH - Founder President of OPA. The Organization of Professional Associations of Sri Lanka (OPA) with deep regret announces the demise of its founder President Dr. Nath Amarakone. Remains lie at Mahinda Funeral Parlour, Mount Lavinia on 24th November from 8.00 a.m. onwards and on Saturday 25th November 2017 from 8.00 a.m. - 9.00 a.m. Cortege leaves the Parlour at 9.00 a.m. Cremation at Mount Lavinia Cemetery at 10.00 a.m.148182
AMARAKONE - Dr. AMARAKONE MUDIYANSELAGE NATH - Professional Engineer, Politician, Businessman and Indefatigable Sinhala Buddhist Patriot, expired at 4.15 p.m. on Wednesday, 22nd November , 2017, aged 81 years. He was a former Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Housing, former Chairman of the State Engineering Corporation, Founder President of the Organization of Professional Societies of Sri Lanka, General Secretary of the Eksath Sinhala Maha Sabhawa, head of the Santhana Foundation, Nawinna, and a committed Philanthropist. He was the beloved husband of Dr. Indrani Wijesinghe Amarakone, Dental Surgeon, the beloved brother of late Alawatugoda Saddananda Thero, late Mr. A.M.W. Amarakone and late Mrs. Iranganie Amarakone, Mr. A.M. Jayasinghe and Mrs. Kumari Amarakone, late Mrs Balamenike Sumathipala and late Mr. K.H.M. Sumathipala, Mr Sam and Mrs Srimathi Amarakone, late Mr Susil and Mrs Chandra Amarakone, late Mrs. Heenmenike Hennayaka and Mr. P.B. Hennayake, Mr. Saman and Mrs. Samudrika Amarakone, and Mrs. Chandra and Mr. Tissa Wellappili, the beloved brother-in-law of Dr. Mahendra and Mrs Ellen Wijesinghe, USA, Mr. Don Kularatne and Mrs. Nimal Subasinghe of Horana, Mr. Tissa and Dr. Lakshmi Wijesinghe of Mt. Lavinia, Dr. Ananda and Dr. Mrs. Ifiyenia Wijesinghe, USA, Mr. Thusitha and and Dr. Mrs. Chintha Wijesinghe, USA, and late Mr. Indrasena and Mrs. Lalitha Wijesinghe of Mt. Lavinia, and all of the nieces and nephews of the deceased. His remains can be viewed after 8.00 a.m. at the Mahinda Funeral Parlour at 591, Galle Road, Mt. Lavinia on Friday 24th and Saturday 25th, November 2017. Pansacula Ceremony at the Mahinda Funeral Parlour at 8.00 a.m. on Saturday 25th, November 2017 and cremation at the Mt. Lavinia Crematorium at 10.00 a.m. on Saturday 25th November 2017. While we, his family, his friends & his co-workers mourn our inestimable loss, we invite all to celebrate the remarkable life and achievements of this patriotic son of Lanka who has given his all to protect and foster his Motherland and his people. May he attain Nibbana.147137
ANTHONY - C.M. STELLA - Beloved daughter of late Mr & Mrs. Allan Anthony, loving sister of Anselm, Esther, Godfrey (UK), and late Grisilda and Leslie, sister-in-law of Dulkah, Reginold, Hema (UK) and Vanroy, loving aunt of Rajitha, Inoka, Asela (Australia), Ishani, Shamil (UK), Neomi (UK) and late Dinukh, passed away peacefully. Cortege leaves residence on Saturday 25th at 3.30 p.m. for interment at Madampitiya Cemetery. No. 170/21A, Alwis Town Road, Wattala.147335
FRANCES GERALDINE DE S ILLESINGHE (Nee WICKREMASINGHE) - Beloved wife of late Leonard, daughter of late Mudaliyar Gerald and late Evelyn Wickremasinghe, precious mother of late Ranjith and of Mohan and Srimal, mother-in-law of Vinodini, Regine and Neville, grandmother of Elsa, Navin, Narein, Nilendra, Nirosh, Ravin, Kimberly and Fallon, sister of late Lyn, Trisette, Dr. R.L. (Lou) Lota and of Gertrude, great grandmother of Joshua, Ananya, Vinaya, Sunaya, Druve and Aaron. Remains lie at residence No. 36, Arethusa Lane, Colombo 06 on Friday 24th November 2017. Cortege leaves residence on Saturday 25th November at 3 p.m. for burial at General Cemetery Kanatte. (Main Gate).147285
MOTHA - ANTON - Formerly of Maurice Roach Ltd, and Hayleys Ltd - Beloved husband of Heather (nee Reid), loving father of Stewart and Hilary, father-in-law of Luise and Linda, grandfather of Jacob and Matthew, passed away peacefully on 20th November 2017 in Melbourne, Australia. Cremation at Springvale Botanical Cemetery, Melbourne, Australia on Thursday, 23rd November 2017.148133
SIRIMANNE - NEVILLE - (Formerly Bank of Ceylon), beloved husband of Alexsandra, loving father of Ajith, Enoca and Lasanthi, father-in-law of Shamalie Sirimanne and Nishantha Goonawardena, son of late Emmanuel and Caraline Sirimanne, loving brother of late Gerry and of Ruth, Bertha and Rita, caring grandfather of Hiruni, Devi, Tharushi and Oshan, passed away peacefully. Remains lie at Pannala Road, Dankotuwa. Cortege leaves residence at 3 p.m. on Sunday 26th November for burial at Dummalakotuwa Church Burial Ground.148551

==============================
## Title: Over 20 projects launched in NWP to supply water
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Over 20 projects launched in NWP to supply water
Wayamba Development and Internal Affairs and Culture Minister S.B. Nawinna has launched 25 drinking water supply projects in the North Western Province at a cost of Rs. 50,000 million rupees.
The Minister told the Daily News that the government has allocated the money to his Ministry to provide speedy and lasting solutions to the shortage of drinking water faced by the provincial residents. He said he would take every effort to provide drinking water to all remote areas of the province.
==============================
## Title: Over 235 killed in Egypt attack
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:02
Over 235 killed in Egypt attack
Gunmen attacked a packed mosque in Egypts the North Sinai Province on Friday and set off a bomb, killing at least 235 people in one of the countrys deadliest attacks in recent memory, state media reported.
A bomb explosion ripped through the Rawda mosque roughly 40 kilometres west of the North Sinai capital of El-Arish before gunmen opened fire on the worshippers gathered for weekly Friday prayers, officials said.
Egypt declared three days of mourning as President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi met his security ministers to follow developments.
Witnesses said the assailants had surrounded the mosque with all-terrain vehicles then planted a bomb outside. The gunmen then mowed down the panicked worshippers as they attempted to flee. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Parliament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Parliament
Compensation for damaged properties in Gintota clash already initiated:Kiriella
Steps have already been initiated to pay compensation to property damages in the clash that occurred in Ginthota in Galle last week, Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella said.
Replying to a question raised by Chief Opposition Whip and JVP Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake in Parliament yesterday, the minister said the Government was bound to provide security to all communities may they be Sinhala, Tamil or Muslim.
He said unlike the previous Government, this Government is committed to protect the rights of all ethnic groups.
MP Dissanayake queried on the delay of the Police in taking down the complaints of the people with regard to the property damages of the violent incident on November 16 and 17 in Ginthota. When people go to the Police station, they had been turned back stating that the Police would visit their homes to taken down the complaints. But the Police are yet to visit the houses and the people have been unable to clean and mend their damaged property due to this delay. People have not cleaned up their homes, as the damages have not been evaluated yet, he pointed out.
Chief Government Whip and Minister Gayantha Karunathilake said that he will promptly call the DIG in Galle and bring his attention to that matter. Minister Kiriella also observed that the Police cannot send back anybody who comes to the Police to lodge a complaint without taking it down.
MP Dissanayake noted that five persons were admitted to hospital with injuries while 66 houses, 26 shops, 10 vehicles, four motor cycles and two mosques were damaged from the clash.
He questioned as to why the Police and STF personnel deployed in the area on November 16 were removed on November 17 without proper security assessment.
The IGP stated in Galle that the Police failed at this instance. Who has to take the responsibility for that The people in the area have lost confidence in the Police. Just admitting that the Police failed is not enough, he added.
Parliament Select Committee needed to release military held land:Dinesh
Joint Opposition Parliamentary Group Leader Dinesh Gunawardena proposed for the appointment of a Parliament Select Committee to coordinate the release of military held land in the North.
Speaking at the Committee Stage Debate of Budget 2018 in Parliament yesterday when Finance Heads of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Ministry were taken up for debate, the MP said the PSC will help expedite the release of military held lands in the North.
The land issue in the North has been internationalized now. These are issues we could resolve domestically. De-mining had been completed in most of the areas at present, he said.
Commenting on Parliament, the MP also criticized the out-dated bureaucracy of Parliamentary officials. Parliamentary system should minimize waste. See what waste is doing for over an year by taking over a building to house the Oversight Committees, he commented.
The MP also said the Joint Opposition complained to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) over the delay in elections and Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) over the suppression of rights and privileges of the JO.
Do not make the environment that we always had to run to the CPA or IPU to resolve our matters. It is up to the Speaker to intervene impartially and create an environment where all members would feel that we are respecting the traditions and established norms laid down, he said.
The MP also questioned as to why the Cabinet and Constitutional Council did not take a decision on the IGP who himself admitted that the Police failed during the Ginthota incident.
Replying to MP Gunawardenas comments on the LG elections, Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella observed that the Government was not involved in postponing elections. This happened due to a Court order. Parliament cannot change a court order, he said.
'Hostel facilities would improve by next year'
Hostel facilities of state universities would be completed next year, Leader of the House and Minister Lakshman Kiriella said.
The minister said that after providing hostel facilities, the Government would pay attention to improve other facilities in universities, including common rooms, libraries, canteens and toilets.
The minister said the Higher Education Ministry in coordination with the Health Ministry, would come up with a plan to avoid a shortage of House Officers in hospitals, as a result of disruption to academic activities in medical faculties.
Responding to a question by UNP MP Buddhika Pathirana in Parliament yesterday, the minister said a total of 583 students have been suspended from classes during the two years from May 30, 2013 to May 30, 2015 as disciplinary measures.
Court action was taken against 37 students, while two students had been expelled from universities within the said period. The minister, observing that a large sum of money had been invested in improving the facilities of universities during the last two years, said disciplinary action would be taken against the students who damaged public property.
Speaker to ascertain whether President was criticised
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya stated that he would ascertain if the President had been criticized by a statement made by a State Minister. He made this observation yesterday, when Joint Opposition Parliamentary Group Leader Dinesh Gunawardena raising a point of order said that the conduct of the President could not be criticized even by a statement of State Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe. He added that guidance on it is in Standing Orders as well as in the Constitution.
"But State Minister Senasinghe had in a conference violated those provisions by stating that the President should not act n a way thaat would affect young UNP Parliamentarians," MP Gunawardena said. "The Speaker should look into the matter and take a decision."
MP Bandula Gunawardena and MP Ranjith de Soyza also expressed their views.
Parliamentry Police Division allowances not increased
The allowance paid for the Policemen directed to service of the Parliamentary Police Division for a sitting day has not been increased in 25 years, said Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna Parliamentarian Sunil Handunetti yesterday.
He said that current allowance paid for such a policeman per day is Rs 62.50 and hence their monthly allowance does not exceed Rs 500. "This has been decided more than 25 years ago and remained unchanged since then," Sunil Handunnetti said. "This not fair and need to be addressed soon. I urge the Parliamentary Reforms Minister to attend to this matter."
He made these observations yesterday joining the Committee Stage Debate on the Budget proposal for 2018 under the financial heads of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Ministry, Plantation Industries Ministry and Sustainable Development and Wildlife Ministry.
MP Handunnetti further said that the surveyors of the Survey Department are skilled. He questioned as to why a the US company Trimble given the management of the Survey. He pointed out that it could be a threat to the defense of the country. He also said that in future the country would have to get those details at a high cost from them.
At this stage the Minister Gayantha Karunathilake stated the survey has not been handed over to USA but technology and equipment are taken from them.
MP Handunnetti said that the fertilizer subsidy is curtailed. No allocation has been made for this relief.
Plantation Industries Minister Navin Dissanayake said that Rs 1.5 billion has been allocated to provide the fertilizer subsidy.
Abolish the LRC and use the land to generate income:Anura Yapa
Disaster Management Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa yesterday in Parliament, requested that the Lands Reforms Commission (LRC) be abolished and the lands be distributed among those who could cultivate and generate income.
The minister made this comment while participating in the Committee Stage Debate of Budget 2018, when the Finance Heads of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Ministry were taken up. He pointed out that the LRC was set up in 1972 for five years, but it has been continued for over 40 years.
What is the point of keeping these agricultural lands under the LRC without making proper use of them Lands are there to be cultivated and thereby generate income and not to just wait and watch. I presented a Cabinet paper in 2004 for the abolishen of the LRC and use those lands in a productive manner.
It had not happened to this date. We need to reap the maximum economic benefits from those lands. I propose for taking private sector support, while using the services of several competent planters to achieve this end and take measures to close down the LRC, he commented.
Tea production has increased this year:Navin
Tea production has increased this year though it had a drop last year, said Plantation Industries Minister Navin Dissanayake yesterday in Parliament.
He said that a 10 percent increase of tea production is expected at the end of this year. However, coconut production had drastically dropped this year, he said. He made these observations yesterday, joining the Committee Stage Debate on the Budget proposal for 2018, under the financial heads of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Ministry, Plantation Industries Ministry and Sustainable Development and Wildlife Ministry.
Minister Dissanayake said that there was an issue with coconut prices. "Coconut production has considerably dropped," he said. He said that it was because of a lower rain fall recorded last year, while the drought lasted for more than six months.
He further said that the coconut harvest would increase with a heavy rain fall. He also said that coconut cultivation had reduced unprecedentedly. The Annual harvest of 3,000 million coconuts, had dropped to 2,300 million. "We have taken measures to provide coconuts from the Coconut Development Board at Rs 60 through the Sathosa," Minister Dissanayake said.
He also said that a sum of Rs 900 million had been granted to the Coconut Cultivation Board to take quick remedial action to address the issue. He added that another Rs 100 million had been allocated for organized coconut cultivation.
The minister also said that Rs 800 million had been granted for affected tea estates. He added that with the 10 percent increase of the tea production this year, an additional 3 million kilograms of tea production is expected this year. "We also hope that we could be able find new tea markets in China," Minister Dissanayake said. "We are intending to get machinery from Japan to develop the tea industry."
Govt. plans to grant blocks of land to 4 m families: Gayantha
The Good Governance Government has planned to grant plots of land to 4 million families in the country, said Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Minister Gayantha Karunathilake in Parliament yesterday.
He added that hundreds of thousands of plots of land would be granted before year 2020, to honour the election pledge of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
He said the government had decided to acquire technology and equipment from Trimble, the US Company, to make the project a success. "However, fears expressed by the Opposition was baseless as the data was not provided to the Company, as we would keep them with us," Minister Karunathilake said. "The other matter is that the the project is only three years not 20 years as speculated by the Opposition members."
He made these observations yesterday, joining the Committee Stage Debate on Budget proposals for 2018, under the financial heads of Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Ministry, Plantation Industries Ministry and Sustainable Development and Wildlife Ministry.
The minister also said that the Survey Department could survey only 50 plots an year and the grant of 2 million plots to the families project needed 40 years to complete. So the government decided to get the services of the Trimble Company. The survey would commenced in 2018.
"The survey of the Central High Way, Moragahakanda Project, Katunayake Airport export project Phase 1 and the Ruwanpura Expressway have already been completed," Minister Karunathilake said. "The LRC had issued 6,500 licenses during the last 4 months which is higher than the number that was issued during the previous 4 years. It has been able to earn an additional sum of Rs 240 million during this period."
The minister also said that discussions are in progress with the President to increase Parliamentarians insurance coverage from Rs 300,000 to Rs 500,000.
Rs. 100 million for school cricket: Arjuna
The Education Ministry had allocated Rs 100 million for the development of school cricket, said Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunga in Parliament yesterday.
He stated that the move had a great constructive impact on Cricket as a whole in the country. He added that another commendable measure taken by the Education Ministry was to accept the services of Mutthaiah Muralitharan, Kumar Sangakkara and other great players to develop cricket in the country.
He made this comment in Parliament yesterday, during the committee stage debate on the Financial Heads of the Education Ministry, Sports Ministry and Internal Affairs, Wayamba Development and Cultural Affairs Ministry.
He further said that he wondered as to why the Sports Ministry and Sri Lanka Cricket could not act in such an exemplary manner. He added that cricket in the country was going down the precipice. Test ranking has gone down from 4th place to sixth, while One Day and T20 Cricket rankings had come down from first place to 8th place.
"During last year, 42 cricketers have been replaced from the Cricket team," Minister Ranatunga said. "These measures have a negative impact on cricket."
Second no confidence motion against Mustapha
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) also tendered a second No Confidence Motion (NCM) yesterday against Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faiszer Musthapha for his inability to hold the Local Government election while the Parliament has fulfilled all its responsibilities.
Another No Confidence Motion signed by 13 Joint Opposition members was handed over to the Speaker on Thursday.
The No Confidence Motion tendered by the JVP was signed by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake, Vijith Herath, Sunil Handunnetti, Nalinda Jayathissa and Nihal Galappatti.
The Motion said Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faizer Musthapha has been failed to hold the local government election while Parliament has fulfilled all its responsibilities including passing the Local Government Election Act.
The motion said that the election has been delayed due to inability to issue the Gazette Notification No.2006/44 without flaws and the failure correct the flaws of the Gazette Notification 1928/16 dated August 21 which included the electoral divisions which were named following the delimitation by the National Delimitation Committee.
The No Confidence Motion further states that the people have been deprived of their election rights and the functions Local Government institutions have come to a standstill due to the negligence of the Minister while democracy has been breached.
Speaker to take up Dy Minister's issue
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya yesterday, observed that he would seek possibilities for COPE Committee member and Deputy Minister Ajith P Perera to cross examine the document before the Presidential Commission on the Treasury bond issue alleged that he had two telephone calls with Arjun Aloysius.
The Speaker made this observation in response to a privilege matter raised by Power and Renewable Energy Deputy Minister Ajith P Perera, stating that his privilege had two telephone calls, one incoming and the other out going with Arjun Aloysius, a suspect of the bond issue, based on an edited document submitted by a Police officer before the Presidential Commission.
He also pointed out that he was criticized as a member of the COPE which is a committee appointed by Parliament. He added that although he requested in writing from the Presidential Commission, to procure the documents and the voice recordings of those calls and an opportunity to cross examine the officer who submitted the document, the Commission refused to do so.
He added that the Secretary to the Presidential Commission had informed him in writing the date, time and the duration of the calls are not mentioned, but there was no ample time for cross examination.
"I am the deputy organiser of the UNP," Deputy Minister Ajith P Perera said. "I am a Deputy Minister and an attorney practicing for 25 years.
I don't have an opportunity to prove my innocence. Proving my innocence is in the hands of your's Speaker."
The Speaker said that he would look into the matter.
Ajith raises COPE members' concerns
Deputy Minister Ajith P Perera has raised the matter of COPE members calls at the special Party Leaders Meeting convened in Parliament yesterday.
The release of details of COPE MPs calls, led to a controversy and several COPE members argued that it was a violation of their privileges.
A Government Minister told the Daily News that the Party Leaders decided that the privacy of Parliamentarians should be protected and if such information was to be divulged to the media, it has to be done with the approval of the Speaker hereafter.
The meeting that was extended for about an hour, was chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and attended by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Ministers Nimal Siripala de Silva, Mahinda Samarasinghe, Dr Sarath Amunugama, Lakshman Kiriella, Rauf Hakeem and MPs Douglas Devananda, Dinesh Gunawardena and Ravi Karunanayake. It took place at the Speakers Office.
==============================
## Title: People can push country forward at elections: Duminda
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
People can push country forward at elections: Duminda
Local government elections are scheduled to be held within another two months. When election was held, people could select a suitable, qualified persons for serving them. They get a golden opportunity at the elections to push the country on to the right track under the good governess government, Agriculture Minister Duminda Dissanayake said.
The Minister was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the new multi-purpose building complex put up in the Nuwaragam Palatha (east) Divisional Secretariat. The new building comprises a preschool, daycare centre, public library, PHI and family health officers' offices. North Central governor P.B. Dissnayaka was present. The Minister said the two major political parties got together to mplement what a single party government could not accomplish - the tasks of national importance.
"Today bankrupted, corrupted and hypocrite politicians were busy in setting the country on fire on baseless issues harmful to the national unity, integrity, peace and order, agitating public," the Minister said.
He said the forthcoming elections would create a forum for peace loving people in all nationalities, religions and sects to put a fullstop to the unwarranted and indecent activities of these clans.
"Former leader Mahinda Rakapksa agreed to grant 13+ when he was armed with 2/3 majority. Today when the SLFP, UNP, JVP and theTamil alliance are attempting to establish permanent peace and harmony in the country through a new constitution, the so called leader once agreed and willing to offer 13+, shamelessly shouting that the institutions of a new constitution is hazardous, dangerous and fierce," the Minister said.
"This is purely a personal political agenda to get the private thing done and the voters should rise up against such hypocrisy and hood winking." he said.
The Minister said the indecent political leaders were trying to mislead even religious leaders including the Maha Sangha saying that the government was trying to withdraw the rights of the Buddhist and Buddhism in the new constitution. "It is utterly a false, baseless and ridiculous wrong interpretation of the proposed constitution," the Minister said.
"We ended the 35 years old war and terrorism at the gunpoint. Even after eight years passed since the war stopped, we have suspicion, doubt, hatred, misunderstanding among us since power greedy, rejected politician are backing up the evil powers and groups behind it to grab power," the Minister said.
"When a criminal has hacked a person, shot down or injured in the North, sometimes purely to gain personal ends, the opportunist, bankrupted politicians in the south are screaming that terrorism is rising up in the north. When same incidents are taking place in south, they are branded as personal or inter family disputers or altercations. The people should think twice before casting their precious votes for the right candidates, the Minister said.

==============================
## Title: Pinnawala Central College Friendship Cricket Tournament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Pinnawala Central College Friendship Cricket Tournament
Friendship Cricket Tournament 2017 and get-together organised by the Past Pupils Association of Pinnawala Central College, would be held tomorrow 26 Sunday at the Bathaburaya Mahipala Herath Stadium from 8 a.m.
The event is organised with the aim of raising funds to meet the financial requirements of low income students of the Pinnawala Central College. Past pupils, who wish to take part in the tournament are requested to forward their team lists prior to the commencement of the tournament.
==============================
## Title: PM meets Sushma Swaraj and Sonia Gandhi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
PM meets Sushma Swaraj and Sonia Gandhi
==============================
## Title: Pot-smoking Japanese snowboarders set for Olympic reprieve
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Pot-smoking Japanese snowboarders set for Olympic reprieve
Tokyo: Two Japanese snowboarders banned last year after being found guilty of puffing marijuana could be cleared to compete at the 2018 Winter Olympics, ski officials said Friday. One of the athletes admitted taking the drug at a party while on tour in Colorado, where cannabis was legalised for recreational purposes in 2012, provided the user is 21 years old.
Their names were not released as they were minors at the time and will not be made public until they register formally with the Ski Association of Japan (SAJ), an official told AFP. That is expected to be rubber-stamped after an SAJ executive meeting next month, clearing them to compete in World Cup events, according to local media.
If they subsequently meet the qualifying standard, they would then be eligible for selection for the Pyeongchang Olympics, which begin on February 9, the JSA said.
The pair were suspended indefinitely after traces of marijuana were detected in their hair following a party in December 2015, prompting the resignation of former snowboarding head Fumikazu Hagiwara. Japan's snowboarders have caused embarrassment in the past, notably when they were warned they could be kicked out of the 2010 Vancouver Olympics for flouting team dress code.
Olympic officials read Kazuhiro Kokubo the riot act when he arrived in Canada in dreadlocks with his uniform in "hip-hop" style -- trousers pulled low over his hips and shirt hanging out -- sparking outrage from lawmakers back home. AFP
==============================
## Title: President inspects the Tittawella Lake in Kurunagala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
President inspects the Tittawella Lake in Kurunagala
PresidentMaithripalaSirisena inspects the Tittawella Lake renovation work in Kurunagalayesterday.The cleaning up project has been undertaken by the Irrigation Department together with Sri Lankan Navy.Minister S.B. Nawinna looks on. (Picture by President's Media Division)
==============================
## Title: President vows to fight corruption
## Supertitle: Seeks early local elections:
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:10
Seeks early local elections:
President vows to fight corruption
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday, vowed to battle corruption and said he was ready to give up his position if there was undue criticism of his actions against fraud and malpractice.
He also pledged to holding Local Council elections soon and said that the Sri Lanka Freedom Party led by him was also keen to have the vote at the earliest.
Addressing a public meeting at Nikaweratiya in the Kurunegala district, the President also underscored the need for unity within his coalition government.
He said the electorate voted for a change in the countrys political culture in January 2015 and that the government must deliver.
Addressing his critics, the president in an emotional address made it clear that he was prepared to put his job on the line in the interest of ensuring good governance and tackling corruption and fraud.
If there are undue criticism and complaints against the decisions taken by me to stop corruption and fraud, I am ready to leave all positions and join the people to continue the struggle, he said.
He said the voters rejected president Mahinda Rajapaksa at the January 2015 election due to corruption of the former regime and warned that the present government should not fall prey to the same mistakes.As the government of SLFP did wrong things, the SLFP candidate (Mahinda Rajapaksa) lost in 2015. If the UNP is doing the same faults and mistakes being in the government, people will not approve that, he said. The people elected a new government, expecting a correct program which would change the corrupt system of governance.
Everybody should be ready to start a correct journey to fulfil that expectation of the people.
The politicians should love the country and the people, without acting according to their political powers and private agendas, he said adding that he will always act with patience and equanimity because of his half a century in politics.
He focused on the 19th amendment to the constitution which was passed with the help of SLFP members of parliament at a time the UNP had a minority in the House and said it was a key piece of legislation towards ensuring good governance.
Drought Relief (SUB HEAD)
He said the country must also realise that the government was spending six billion rupees a month to provide relief to some 800,000 families affected by a severe drought in several parts of the country.
Deputy Minister Indika Bandaranayake presented a souvenir to the President, offering the tribute of Wayamba people to him.
Chief Minister of Wayamba Province, Dharmasiri Dassanayake, State Minister Dilan Perera, Deputy Minister Tharanath Basnayake, Wayamba Provincial Minister Lakshman Vendaruwa , member of Vayamba Provincial Council Nilantha Supun Rajapaksha, UNP Organizer of Nikaveratiya H. P. Thennakoon and Chairman of SLFP Youth Front Shantha Bandara and were among those present.
The President also vested with the students the newly built laboratory under Langama Pasala  Hondama Pasala (the closest school is the best school) at Rajabima School in Nikaveratiya. He observed the students activities in the Mathematics Room of the school.
He also presented a gift to the student of a Ranaviru family Lasindu Gasheth who obtained highest marks in the scholarship exam. Principal of the school B. M. H. Dissanayake presented a souvenir to the President. After the function at the school, the President joined religious activities at the Budumuththava Rajamaha Viharaya in Nikaveratiya.
He looked into the well-being of the Chief Incumbent Shasthrapathi Ven. Dombagolle Dhammarama Thera.Vidyayathanadhipathi of Sri Palitha Pirivena in Samadarapitiya, Nikaveratiya, Anunayaka of Sri Lanka Ramagna Nikaya, Rajakiya Panditha Ven. Galapitiyagama Vimaladhamma Thero, Chief Incumbent of Sigiri Rajamaha Vihara in Raththallegama Ven. Thumbullegama Sri Sumananayaka Thero and Maha Sangha chanted pirith and blessed the President.
President Sirisena also laid the foundation stone for the four-storied building at Jayanthi Maha Vidyalaya, Nikaveratiya, built at a cost of 18 million rupees, under the Langama Palasa  Hondama Pasala program.
He presented gifts to the students B.M.Thiyumi Thasanga and B. M. Amanda Basnayake who gained the highest marks of the school at last scholarship exam.

==============================
## Title: Proceedings into Basil's almanac case stayed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Proceedings into Basil's almanac case stayed
The Court of Appeal yesterday issued an Interim Order staying any further proceeding into the controversial almanac case before High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga. until the final determination of this application.
The Court of Appeal bench comprised Justice L.T.B. Dehideniya (President) and Justice Shiran Gunaratne.
Filing a Transfer Application in the Court of Appeal, former Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa has sought an order staying any further proceedings into the almanac case heard before Colombo High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga.
Rajapaksa has sought an order transferring the case from Colombo High Court presided over by High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga to any other court of High Court of Colombo.
Judge Kulatunga also delivered the judgment regarding the Controversial Sil Redi (fabrics used by devotees to observe sil) distribution case. Former Secretary to the President Lalith Weeratunge and former Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC) Director General Anusha Palpita were sentenced to three years rigorous imprisonment by the Colombo High Court for misappropriating Rs. 600 million of funds belonging to TRC.
In his petition, Basil Rajapaksa stated that High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga was a member of Presidential Commission (PRECIFAC) which initiated an inquiry against him. He further stated that one of the primary grounds on which the proceedings before PRECIFAC are sought to be challenged by him before the Court of Appeal complaining that he was denied a fair hearing at the purported inquiry by the PRECIFAC.
On November 15, the High Court case against two accused including former Economic Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa for allegedly misappropriating Rs.29.4 million of funds belonging to Divi Neguma Department was fixed for trial to be heard on a day-to-day basis beginning November 24 by Judge Gihan Kulatunga.
The Attorney General had filed indictments against former Minister and former Director General of Divi Neguma Department Kithsiri Ranawaka in the Colombo High Court for allegedly printing five million almanacs with the image of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, costing Rs.29.4 million, to be used as election propaganda material during January 2015 presidential election.
Presidents Counsel Gamini Marapana with counsel Navin Marapana, Kaushalya Molligoda instructed by Sanath Wijewardena appeared for Basil Rajapaksa.
Deputy Solicitor General Thusith Mudalige appeared for the Attorney General.
Meanwhile, when the case against former Minister and former Director General of Divi Neguma Department Kithsiri Ranawaka for allegedly printing five million almanacs with the image of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa was came up before High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga, the matter was fixed for January 30.
==============================
## Title: Rich against poor as England face Samoa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Rich against poor as England face Samoa
London: There is a cruel irony in financial firm Old Mutual Wealth being the sponsor for Saturday's match between England and Samoa at Twickenham.
For while England's Rugby Football Union is indeed the 15-a-side code's oldest and wealthiest national governing body, there's precious little that is mutual in cash terms when their Test team plays Samoa.
This month saw Prime Minister Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, also chairman of the Samoa Rugby Union, declare the SRU bankrupt and blame World Rugby for the cash crisis.
But the global governing body hit back this week by insisting the SRU "is not bankrupt".
Meanwhile, the RFU has pledged to give the SRU 75,000 ($99,767, 84,194 euros) from the proceeds of Saturday's match.
Given each England Test at its 82,000-capacity Twickenham headquarters generates some 10 million for the RFU, however, this 'goodwill' gesture represents less than one percent of potential matchday earnings. England's players, amid uncertainty over how the SRU's finances are being distributed, have decided against donating a portion of their 23,000 per man match fee to their Samoa counterparts whom, by contrast, will receive a mere 600 each.
"The decision was made along the ethics of paying an opposition to play against you and the future issues that might create," explained England prop Dan Cole.
Samoa captain Chris Vui welcomed the 75,000 from the RFU by saying: "I think they care. Its a lot of money.
"It's not their (the RFU's) problem to give us money."
England coach Eddie Jones, a technical consultant to Samoa in 2006, insisted rugby chiefs were doing their best to support the game in the Pacific islands. AFP
==============================
## Title: Sangabodhi in two first innings wins
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Sangabodhi in two first innings wins
Sangabodhi College, Nittambuwa recorded first innings wins in their Singer Trophy Inter Schools Cricket Tournament in first round matches between Basilica College, Ragama and Pilapitiya Maha Vidyalaya, Kelaniya while the match against Loyola College, Bopitiya ended in a no decision.
Sangabodhi College won first innings over Basilica College played at Basilica College grounds recently.
Sangabodhi decided to field when they won the toss and their bowlers turned in a fine performance to bundle out the opponents for 38 runs.
In reply Sangabodhians scored 75 for 4 wickets in 12.3 overs with Savindu Eranga 31 and Dilshan Kawshika made 20. Sachin Madusha and Kunura Nishad claimed each for 26 and 5 respectively.
A fine bowling spell by Sangabodhians Lasith Tharanga and Raisindu Chamika guided them to a first innings win over Pilapitiya Maha Vidyalaya, Kelaniya played at Seevali Kelanithilaka Grounds, Polhena.
Sangabodhi College declared their 1st innings at 175 for 3with Dilshan Kawshika scoring a splendid century and Raisindu Chamika made 30. Ishara Rashmika bagged 2 for 75.
In reply Pilapitiya MV was bowled out for 29 in 21 overs. Lasith Tharanga claimed 5 for 9 while Raisindu Chamika bagged 3 for 7. When the match was stopped for the day Sangabodhians had scored 30 for 2. The match between Sangabodhi College and Loyola College, Bopitiya played at Marapola School Grounds, Naiwala ended in a no decision. Sangabodhians decided to field when they won the toss and Loyola College were bundled out for 55 in 23.3 overs. Lasith Tharanga bagged 3 for 7 while Raisindu Chamika claimed 2 for 14. When the match was stopped for the day Sangabodhians scored 29 for 2. Dilshan Kawshika made 13 not out while Damindu Chamikara claimed 2 for 10.
Chief Scores:
Basilica College: 38 (Sachin Madushan 7 not out, Vihanga Colombage 8, Raisindu Chamika 2 for 6).
Sangabodhi College: 75 for 4 (Savindu Eranga 31, Dilshan Kawshika 20, Sachin Madusha 1 for 26, Kunura Nishad 1 for 5).
Sangabodhi College:
175 for 3 in 25.2 overs (Dilshan Kawshika 106, Raisindu Chamika 30, Ishara Rashmika 2 for 75) and 30 for 2 in 4.1 overs (Sanura Ruwantha 16, Dilshan Kawshika 12 not out).
Pilapitiya MV: 29 all out in 21 overs (Lasith Tharanga 5 for 9, Raisindu Chamika 3 for 7).
Loyola College: 55 all out in 23.3 overs (Daminda Chamikara 13, Benjamin Vathila 15, Lasith Tharanga 3 for 7, Raisindu Chamika 2 for 14).
Sangabodhi College: 29 for 2 in 7 overs (Dilshan Kawshika 13 not out, Hirushan Randeepa 9, Damindu Chamikara 2 for 10).
==============================
## Title: Seven accused get suspended sentence over youths abduction
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Seven accused get suspended sentence over youths abduction
Except for Colombo district Parliamentarian Hirunika Premachandra and a schoolboy, seven other accused who pleaded guilty for their involvement in the abduction of a youth using a Defender belonging to MP Hirunika Premachandra were yesterday given a suspended prison sentence by the Colombo High Court.
Colombo High Court Judge R.Gurusinghe sentenced seven accused to 2 years in prison suspended for 12 years.
Apart from the suspended sentence, the High Court ordered the seven accused to pay compensation of Rs.285,000 to the victim. The Court further ordered five accused to pay a fine of Rs.33,000 each for other charges. The eighth accused, a schoolboy (18) was ordered to be released on a bond of Rs.100,000 in accordance with Section 303 of the Criminal Procedure Code taking into consideration his age.
The High Court Judge observed that he was making this order taking into consideration the mitigating facts presented by defence that accused be given lenient sentence since they pleaded guilty to the charges at the inception.
The accused who were indicted are; Hirunika Premachandra, Kelum Niranjana, Kasun Malinda, Ruwan Pushpakumara, Mohammed Rizwan, Pasindu Sanjeewa, P.S. Abeysiriwardena, Sanjeewa Kumara and Jeganadacal.
==============================
## Title: Singaporean students impressed with Army de-mining work
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Singaporean students impressed with Army de-mining work
A group of students from Raffles Institute of Singapore, now in Sri Lanka on tour made a trip down to the demining sites in Kokkuthuduvai North on Tuesday.
The team comprised of 56 Singaporean students, 6 teachers observed how Army deminers used manual, mechanical and mine dogs to clear mine fields.
They also witnessed a demonstration of mine clearing, organised by the Security Force Headquarters - Mullaittivu (SFHQ-MLT).
The visitors interacted with Army de-mining engineers and had the chance getting clarifications on their concerns.
The visiting team, impressed with the ongoing Army de-mining projects in the area expressed their sincere gratitude to the Sri Lanka Army for its efforts to make a mine free country by the year 2020.
On behalf of the Brigade Commander, Engineer Brigade, Brigadier Amith Seneviratne, Major N.K.B.S Jayasekara, Commanding Officer, 11 Sri Lanka Engineers (SLE) welcomed the visitors and conducted the demonstration on Humanitarian Demining process.
Chief Field Engineer at the Army Headquarters, Major General Dudley Weeraman co-ordinated the students itinerary for the visit to de-mining areas.

==============================
## Title: Smith defies England as Australia fight back in Ashes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Smith defies England as Australia fight back in Ashes
Brisbane: Skipper Steve Smith led a rescue mission to revive Australia's fortunes after a top-order batting collapse in the Ashes Test against England in Brisbane on Friday.
Home hopes rested on Smith to mount a fighting rearguard after the loss of four wickets in a faltering chase after England's first innings of 302 at the Gabba.
At the close on the second day, the Australians were 165 for four and trailing by 137 runs, with Smith unbeaten on 64 and Shaun Marsh not out 44.
It left the match intriguingly poised once again after England ended day one in a similar position before collapsing before lunch on Friday. Smith was then thrust into another high pressure situation after Australia suffered a now-familiar batting malfunction. England had done their homework, encircling Smith with fielders and trying to frustrate the fidgety Australian captain into playing a rash shot.
But Smith, Test cricket's top-rated batsman, stepped up to the challenge with a defiant knock off 148 balls.
Marsh, 34, recalled for an eighth time to the Test team, provided stout support to his skipper off 122 balls to share in an unbroken 89-run stand.
The tourists had the Australians on the ropes with three batsmen out in the middle session, including the prized scalp of David Warner. Warner attempted to pull newcomer Jake Ball through the leg-side only to find Dawid Malan at short mid-wicket for 26 off 43 balls.
That left the Australians on a shaky 59 for three after the dismissals of debutant opener Cameron Bancroft and the misfiring Usman Khawaja. AFP
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Kho-Kho Nationals on December 2 and 3
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka Kho-Kho Nationals on December 2 and 3
Sri Lanka National Kho-Kho Championship 2017 organised by Sri Lanka Kho-Kho Federation will be held on December 2 and 3 at Kho-Kho National grounds, Wigoda, Bemmulla.
Over 20 teams will participate in the championship from eight provinces for the mens and womens titles while the preliminary round matches will conduct under league system and semi-finals will be held under knock out basis.
The winning teams will be awarded trophies and certificates while players who take part in the championship will receive certificates. The best players in the championship will be selected to the National Pool.
The main objective of the Federation is to popularize the game in the island while the organizers will conduct school championships, National championships for men and women, training camps and coaching camps, establish district societies, selection of players to the national pool and to introduce a new game to the national and international named as Mini Kho-Kho.
The organizers have taken steps to provide foods, accommodation and related facilities to players and officials free of charge.
The teams who wish to take part in the championship could send their entries to Athula Wijenayake, Secretary, Sri Lanka Kho-Kho Federation, No. 30/A, Wigoda, Bemmulla or fax on 033-2297450 on or before November 30. Further details can obtain on 0716698880.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka should play its own brand  of rugby  YC Chang
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka should play its own brand  of rugby  YC Chang
There was an era when club rugby was the most looked forward to event in the local rugby calendar with its open style of play and drawing spectators by the thousands. But over time all that has changed and what we see today according to a legend of the game Yu Cey Chang popularly known as YC Chang is a boring brand of rugby that has dwindled spectator interest and hardly contributes to the improvement of the national teams standards.
I predicted as far back as 2003-04 the game the Union (Sri Lanka Rugby) was bringing forward was so boring that crowds will dwindle. As far as we are concerned although we are governed by the IRB (International Rugby Board) it does not necessarily mean that we cant change our own laws within the country. The Union can do that. When it comes to international matches we have to play according to IRB rules, said Chang in a candid interview with the Daily News.
I said change the laws why should we have this flat defence and why are we hitting and falling, all those needs changes. They did not listen and we are continuing to do it. During my time our laws were very strict in a sense that you had to have tremendous skills in the three quarter line because the wing forwards were allowed to go right upto the opponents third row. Then it was brought back that wing forwards had to stay in our own half and in our pack, explained Chang.
That indeed was challenging for any three quarter to make a move. We didnt have a flat defence the ball was dropped and the three quarter line had to make maneuvers, there had to be agility of the individual. That created a lot of enthusiasm amongst the spectators and also the players. If you innovate to a run and pass game in the 15-a-side that itself will help our sevens players. The Fijians even in a 15-a-side move the ball. When it comes to sevens it is nothing to them like duck taking to water.
During my younger days I enjoyed coming into a rugby field donning on a jersey to see the crowds throng the whole field. That is what the game is all about. Today what do you get I can count about 50. Our tickets were sold at Chatham Street, Dianas and all those places. Today you come to the club get a ticket and walk into the ground. In fact CH&FC is doing it free to encourage spectators to come, he added.
KEEP POLITICIANS OUT
Chang called for the SLR to reassess and make the required changes to make the game more attractive.
The Union has to reassess, you must rethink this game in an indigenous manner. Our people love the movement of the ball, love to see players running, so create rules that will fit that pattern, dont worry about the international scene, said Chang.
If the changes are brought in and we play a run and pass game the public will also love it and the players will also love it. It may not be within the international rules but we can have a domestic tournament to suit ourselves. The Union on the other hand can get their squad in, pay them what they have to pay instead of pressurising the clubs to pay for them and do whatever they want. When there is a international tournament send your best 15.
Statistically we will never reach the top four of the world and for that matter we wont reach the top four in the Asian circuit. So, one cant say that with all this professionalism and all that, we have done well. During our time in the sixties we matched upto the European planters, they were tough and our score was not bad. We played all those international teams that came here and they defeated us by some 15, 20 or 30 points but now they just cant do it. They cant meet a side like New Zealand or Australia and not get hammered by 150 points, he said.
On the question of Sri Lanka not strengthening their national team by inviting foreign players like other nations do, Chang said that as far back as the eighties he had tried that and failed.
We had to play the Asiad in 1984 and in 1986 and I went to the Sports Minister Vincent Perera and asked him to allow the Fijians who were playing for our local clubs to represent the country. I told him this is the only chance we had to win a tournament, let us be the first to try, give us as chance and let us win a trophy, but he refused. We only needed that extra bit and we would have won the Asian tournament, recalled Chang.
Then a couple of years later you find Malaysia and all the other Asian countries bringing in foreign players into their team. We are very slow in following and inovating our own system. This is typical Sri Lanka. The politicians and Ministers should be completely out of this game. They have no right to be interfering with us with people who know the game. What can a Minister who doesnt know anything about the game come and talk about rugby We had this from the eighties, too much of interference.
FIRST TO BRING PROFESSIONALISM
Chang prides himself as the first person in the world to bring professionalism into rugby.
It was a burning point with me in the eighties I was the chief of the rugby union, the chief of the Gymkhana club and I had this dirty experience trying to convince the politicians to help us out. I am proud to say that I am the first person in the world who brought in professionalism. At that time in the early eighties the international rugby board had not even thought about it. They were still thinking amateur. When I started doing this operation there was one helluva hoo-ha from the clubs who objected to it, said Chang.
The IRB wrote a letter to me saying that we are aware that you are not going by the rules. I said what are you suggesting They said that I cannot go professional. I told them if you are going to come and run this show in Sri Lanka please do so, I will hand you over the keys, otherwise let me run it. I told them that this is an internal thing which I am trying out so please let me do it. They said no problem. At the union meeting I told the club representatives, Gentleman you are fussing with me over professionalism I have got the approval from the IRB.
Chang questioned the wisdom of clubs spending so much of money on players.
Is it worth it for clubs to go on spending all that money If you take a years rugby expenses of any club the minimum would be about Rs. 20 million, if they are lucky I know some clubs can get as much as Rs. 30 and 40 million. The clubs have to raise that money, the Union does not give one cent, said Chang.
Now these boys are professionals they stutter around as if their whole life is worth that amount of money and then at the end of the day if they get an injury thats the end of it, kaput. The club also does not get anything. I just cant understand the psyche of this. In fact somewhere in 2002 or 2003 I wrote in the newspapers to stop this nonsense.
During our days we were headhunted for jobs. Take myself I never thought I go planting but the guys came and asked, do you like planting. I was trained in all their disciplines and then I came to Colombo and became a businessman. Like that we had a future but now there is no future for the younger guys. With the cost of living and expenses say a boy will earn about Rs. 5, 6, 7 million during his career. What is that amount today How much is it going to work for him He has to have a job, Chang emphasised.
I am always for a change. People must be pragmatic think about the game, think about the clubs. The clubs have their own followers those who sponsor the club they look after it and teach the young fellows the game. They come and enjoy themselves all that was there during my time. Now they come, play the game, take their buth (lunch) packet and off they go home, there is no interaction, no fellowship thats all out, he bemoaned.
Giving the reasons for such a change Chang said, It is because we dont have that feeling in the club higher ups now. Its professional. Take for instance Havelocks, CR or CH the middle-aged sponsors who were there loved the game and followed it every weekend during my time. At Havelocks senior executives were there and they gave moral encouragement so was it at CH where they come and give you a guiding hand. In that absence the players are alone in the field, they play the game and then they go off. There is no desire to meet any of the older people, its a shame.
Chang was a rugby legend during his heyday and even served the game diligently in the capacity of president of SLR. He was quite a mobile prop forward used to support the ball right down to the wing and he also scored quite a number of tries.
MEMORABLE GAMES
Rolling back the years he was able to piece together some of the most memorable moments in his career.
There was this incident where I walked the CH team off the field over a dispute with the referee in 1972. Azain was blowing and I found that it was totally wrong as I was behind Hemsworth. He didnt kick but the referee said he did. I said no because I was right behind Hemsworth. The ref refused to accept my word so I walked out with the team. They suspended me but when they had to select the 1972 or 1974 team to the Asiad they picked me as captain, Chang said.
Another incident Chang recalls was when Kandy coming into the finals and Bena who was the captain of the Police side was also the scrum half. The scores were equal and they were on our line and Bena got the ball and he put it in. I told Vidanage wait, dont go, but he stepped over and gave a penalty to them and we lost.
In another game involving Havelocks in the Clifford Cup final playing against Dimbulla-Dickoya Chang said the scores were level when the kick was taken at around 45 to 50 metres by Ken de Joodt. My god he put a bloody bullet in the centre of the post.
Having being involved a good part of his life in the game the 76-year-old legend said that sadly that he has stopped watching rugby.
It has got so boring maybe six, seven, eight years down the line. There is no thrill for me to watch a fellow take the ball and come and hammer you and fall down, then the next guy takes the ball hammers you and falls down. This new style came from New Zealands Wayne Shelford in the late eighties who brought that in. He was a huge figure around 300 to 400 lbs he could take the ball from no. 8 and boom..., said Chang. When this style came during the 2000 World Cup the French went back and they didnt follow the Southern Hemispheres style of rugby but started to move the ball. It is interesting to watch them. I liked David Campese a beautiful player, after him I didnt follow anyone.
==============================
## Title: Three more communicable diseases under control
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Three more communicable diseases under control
Sri Lanka will be able to eliminate Measles, Rubella and Congenital Rubella soon, Chief Epidemiologist Dr. Samitha Ginige said.
Dr. Ginige said Sri Lanka has already eliminated several communicable diseases diseases such as Polio, Diphtheria, neonatal tetanus, whooping cough and small pox. At the moment, the National Immunisation Programme vaccinates the population against 13 fatal diseases.
The excellent communicable diseases surveillance system and the wide coverage of the National Immunisation Programme assisted the country to control communicable diseases successfully. The last Neonatal Tetanus patient was reported from Sri Lanka in 2010 and the last Polio patient reported from the country in 1993. The last Diphtheria patient had been reported from the country in 1991.
In addition some other diseases such as Japanese Encephalitis and Hepatitis B,are rarely reported from Sri Lanka, he said.Life expectancy of Sri Lankans has improved significantly.
In 1940s, the life expectancy of Sri Lankan people was 40 or 50 years, but today, a Sri Lankam man lives an average of 72 years, while a Sri Lankan woman lives around 78 years, he added.
==============================
## Title: Twenty four selfie deaths on rail tracks this year
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Twenty four selfie deaths on rail tracks this year
Twenty four youths have died in the past ten months while taking selfies on rail tracks. In 2016 railway accidents have cost the lives of 180, while 256 have been injured, National Council for Road Safety Chairman Dr. Sisira Kodagoda said.
There had been 84 vehicle accidents over railway crossings, while 506 vehicles have collided with railway gates in 2016. 76 accidents were reported of passengers falling off trains while 436 have been injured while trying to cross over railway tracks.
==============================
## Title: Unity in diversity
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Unity in diversity
No Constitution has so far been introduced targeting economic development in the country. Therefore, a foundation should be laid to bridge that gab through the proposed Constitution, says Parliamentarian Ravi Karunanayake. He was expressing his views during the adjourning debate on the Interim Report of the Constitutional Assembly held on November 8.
Excerpts from the speech:
We should be indebted to the late Ven. Maduluwawe Sobhitha Thera for being instrumental in opening a public dialogue on the need of a new Constitution. A clear change should be made to the current Constitution as it was introduced several decades ago.
Our downfalls outnumber our successes in the last 70 years since Independence. Therefore, we should change the system of administration and our Constitution. Various dialogues were emerged in society with regard to this issue. We have taken some initiatives with the victory of January 8, 2015 towards this new social and political order and applauds should be gone to the President, the Prime Minister and all others who supported and lobbied the move.
We have been divided in different lines. We have divisions as Sinhalese, Tamils, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists and Hindus among others. We have divided by political parties, upcountry and low country, nature of employment and class wise. We all suffered a 30 years long war. We won it but we have failed to bring about true reconciliation and peace.
Therefore, we need to build a new country, one nation where there is a favourable social order and diversity for everybody to live in peace and prosperity irrespective their religion, race, political opinion or any other ideology, a society that protects the rights of all its citizens.
We all visit our voters during elections and pledge them to fight for the country. But after entering Parliament, all 225 members in this honourable house suppress the rights of the innocent people those who voted us to power and start controlling the innocence in ruling the country.
People want us to use the power they vested in us to ensure their rights in maximum degree. Then only people feel the devolution of power or administration is worthy. No Constitution is important for people if it fails to solve the burning problems of the people. Constitutional power could be used to ensure better basic amenities such as decent food, education, health, employment, housing and transport.
Our country has 14,022 Grama Niladhari Divisions and each has five bottom level public officers such as Grama Niladhari, Development Officer, Samurdhi Officer, Agricultural officer, and Family Health officer. Five percent of the National Income of this country is spent to pay salaries for these officers. I am afraid any tangible service is performed by through these services.
We have 1.3 million public officers. Rs. 8,600 million is spent to pay them salaries. It is disputable why no foundation is laid to use them for development. One parliamentarian represent 100,000 people, one Provincial Councillor represents 45 thousand people and one Pradeshiya Sabah member represenst 2,500 people. What have been these public representatives doing for the people. Have we achieved any sufficient development
Many of us are concerned about the unitary status of the country. The sincere aim of majority Sinhalese, Tamils and Muslims is to defeat separatism and build a peaceful country. I do not think that nobody wants to divide this small island. If it happens, we will be weakened. Unity is strength, therefore we should be united. Certain factions talk about a fear of division and such talks should be labelled as narrow political propaganda. Founding leaders of our party determined to build a united nation and to unite the country irrespective of creed, race and politics.
Our aim is to introduce a new Constitution responsible to ensure the rights of all people and protect the supreme power of the people, including 6.2 million those who voted this rule of Good Governance to power and others who voted against it or were abstained from voting on diverse reasons.
Therefore, I feel that we have already built up a placid atmosphere to broaden a favourable dialogue on the proposed Constitution intending to achieve a noble goal.
==============================
## Title: Workshop for new Samurdhi Officers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Workshop for new Samurdhi Officers
The inaugural ceremony of the 19-day workshop organized on invitation by the Army for 116 newly-appointed Samurdhi Officers, including 95 female officers on Leadership, Positive Attitudes and Moral Development commenced on Tuesday (21) at the Centre for Army Vocational Training (CAVT) at Saliyawewa, Kalaoya.Commander of the Army, Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake in response to a request made by the Ministry of Social Empowerment, Welfare and Kandyan Heritage to the Ministry of Defence has instructed the Director General Training, Major General Vijitha Ravipriya at the Army Headquarters to facilitate the request. Accordingly, arrangements were put in place at the CAVT under the supervision of Brigadier Randula Hathnagoda, Commandant, CAVT.
The Ministry wanted Army professionals to enhance the knowledge of the new Samurdhi officers on personality, leadership and proper conduct since all of them would be sent to different areas across the country where multi ethnic communities live. A team of instructors of the Army would continue with lectures until December 9 before the final closing ceremony gets underway.Brigadier Randula Hathnagoda in his opening remarks to the workshop underlined the timely importance of the workshop and the valuable nature of their services.
District Samurdhi Director Anuradha Dissanayake, Anuradhapura, Lieutenant Colonel Shashika Perera, Commanding Officer, CAVT, Senior Officers and several senior Samurdhi Officers were present.
==============================
## Title: World Rugby council set for female influx
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
World Rugby council set for female influx
Dublin: World Rugby's council will be at least one-third female from next year, the global governing body said as it announced a "transformational" change on Thursday.
The move will see the 32-strong council increased to 49 members, with all the 17 new representatives women.
However, a World Rugby statement said this "will not result in any changes to the existing voting rights of unions or regional associations on Council".
As a result, the 10 leading unions who currently have three votes but only two representatives -- Argentina, Australia, England, France, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Scotland, South Africa and Wales -- will have the right to an extra councillor provided that representative is female.Meanwhile, the 2019 men's Rugby World Cup hosts Japan and the six leading regional rugby associations, who currently have two votes but only one representative, now have the right to send an extra representative but again that person must be a woman.
"The reform is historic, reflective of our ambitions and long overdue," said World Rugby chairman Bill Beaumont.
"If we are to promote and nurture the growth of women in rugby then change must be led from the top," the former England captain added, following a recent council meeting in London where the "2015-25 Women's Plan", a global strategy to grow women's rugby union, was also agreed.
Katie Sadleir, World Rugby's general manager of women's rugby, said: "Building on the success of the recent Women's Rugby World Cup in Ireland, the decision to increase the representation of women on Council to more than a third is transformational for rugby.
"It will change the way we govern the sport going forward, making a difference not just for women in rugby but for all of rugby."
Part of that change was evident when World Rugby announced Thursday that Ada Milby, the secretary-general of the Philippine Rugby Football Union, had become the councillor selected under the new procedure following her election by Asia Rugby last weekend.

- AFP
==============================
## Title: Yoshitha allowed to travel abroad for 20 days
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Yoshitha allowed to travel abroad for 20 days
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa's second son Yoshitha Rajapaksa was allowed to travel to Australia by court yesterday.
His passport was impounded by Court as part of magisterial inquiry over alleged money laundering at Carlton Sports Network (CSN). He was yesterday permitted to travel to Australia for 20 days by the Colombo High Court.
While permitting Yoshitha Rajapaksa to travel to Australia, Colombo High Court Judge A. A. R. Heiyantuduwa ordered the Kaduwela Magistrates Court to temporarily release his passport.
Rajapaksa through his counsel had sought an order from the Colombo High Court to temporarily lift his travel ban.
Filing a motion, Presidents Counsel Jayantha Weerasinghe appearing on behalf of Yoshitha Rajapaksa had informed Court that his client is expecting to leave Australia from December 10 to 31, for his ankle treatment.
The Attorney General did not raise objections to the request. On March 14, 2016, four suspects including Yoshitha Rajapaksa, Nishantha Ranatunga and Rohan Weliwita were remanded over alleged money laundering case.They are currently on bail.
==============================
## Title: Zimbabwes new President vows to serve all citizens
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Saturday, November 25, 2017 - 01:00
Zimbabwes new President vows to serve all citizens
ZIMBABWE: Zimbabwe's new President Emmerson Mnangagwa has addressed a packed stadium, vowing to serve all citizens.
He said he felt deeply humbled to take the role.
And he said he was not oblivious to the many Zimbabweans from across the political and racial divide who have helped make this day.
He paid tribute to his predecessor Robert Mugabe - to muted applause - calling him a father, mentor, comrade-in-arms and my leader.
Mugabe left office dramatically this week after 37 years of authoritarian rule. His departure followed a power struggle in which Mr Mnangagwa was sacked as vice president to pave the way for Grace Mugabe, the then-first lady, to take up the presidency.
Mnangagwa fled the country but returned to a hero's welcome and on Friday struck a conciliatory tone.
The task at hand is that of rebuilding our country, he said.
I am required to serve our country as the president of all citizens regardless of colour, creed, religion, tribe, totem or political affiliation.
Although Mr Mnangagwa has unseated Zimbabwe's long-time ruler, he is still associated by many with some of the worst atrocities committed under the ruling Zanu-PF party since the country gained independence in 1980.
He was the country's spymaster during the 1980s civil conflict, in which thousands of civilians were killed. But he has denied any role in the massacres, blaming the army.
Tens of thousands of people packed the National Sports Stadium in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, to witness the inauguration. Pop singer Jah Prayzer provided the entertainment and, as people in the crowd danced, the atmosphere was closer to that of a concert.
Dignitaries, including leaders from various African countries, filed in to cheers. Opposition leaders Morgan Tsvangirai and Joice Mujuru - who both had their sights on the Presidency at various times - were there. Mnangagwa was led in the oath of office by Chief Justice Luke Malaba, saying he would be faithful to Zimbabwe, protect and promote the rights and people of Zimbabwe and discharge his duties to the best of his abilities.
Mnangagwa was accompanied by his wife Auxilia and gave her a kiss after the green Presidential sash was placed around his neck. Former President Robert Mugabe was not present. And the official reason given was that at 93, the former president needed to rest.
But the fact he is not attending is a reminder that this is no ordinary transition and that despite Mugabe's official resignation he was forced out by the military. On Thursday, several reports suggested Mugabe had been granted immunity from prosecution. Local media are reporting that Mnangagwa has offered the Mugabe family maximum security and welfare.
The former President expressed his good wishes and support for the incoming President, the Herald newspaper reports.
The news on Tuesday that Mugabe was stepping down sparked wild celebrations across the country.
It came in the form of a letter read out in parliament, abruptly halting impeachment proceedings against him. He had been under pressure since the military took control of the country a week before, seizing the headquarters of the national broadcaster.
Although Mugabe was largely under house arrest for several days, he appeared to be resisting pressure to stand down.
On Saturday, tens of thousands of Zimbabweans took to the streets of Harare to urge him to go. The demonstration was led by veterans of the country's war of independence, who last year turned against him.
On Sunday, Zanu-PF sacked Mugabe as its leader. Two days later, he resigned as president.
In his letter, he said he was resigning to allow a smooth and peaceful transfer of power, and that his decision was voluntary.
- BBC NEWS

==============================