## Title: No more Bushes, please, say Iraqis
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
No more Bushes, please, say Iraqis
IRAQ: A constant flow of sweet tea and tobacco fuels the clusters of patrons inside the Iraqi capital's historic Shahbandar cafe. They jostle for space like the faded pictures of old Baghdad that clutter the walls. But customers don't come here for the refreshments. They come for the conversation.
It has been a gathering place for Baghdad's intelligentsia for almost a century. Writers, poets, lawyers and doctors pack the wooden pews every Friday. Debate encompasses poetry and art, but politics is also standard fare, and not only Iraq's own.
As the US nomination races heat up, candidates have sparred over their past positions on intervention in Iraq and their plans to tackle Islamic State. If the American air campaign continues, the next person to sit in the White House will become the fifth consecutive US president to bomb Iraq.
Here, among the bubbling water pipes at Shahbandar, there is an acute awareness that the new president will also play a role in shaping their lives  from more than 9000 kilometres away.
Hashim al-Bayati, a 62-year-old civil engineer who frequents the cafe most weeks, is relieved it looks unlikely to be another Bush, with Jeb Bush finishing fourth in New Hampshire.
We are fed up with the Bush family, come on. No more Bushes, please, he said. He recalled George H.W. Bush's betrayal when he urged Iraqis to rise up against Saddam Hussein after the Gulf War in 1991 but then did not support them. The death toll reached the tens of thousands.
Unfortunately they cheated us, Mr Bayati said, adding George W. Bush was even more damaging in his handling of the fallout from the 2003 invasion. He says he has little faith that any president will improve things for Iraq.
They have the problem as Iraq, the same faces coming again and again, the same families, Bushes and Clintons, he said. They exported a copy of this system to us.
As with other customers here, mention of Bernie Sanders, Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, John Kasich or others candidates draws a blank stare.
And what of Trump He's a funny character, I don't know how the American people can accept this kind of person. It's unfortunate.
Shahbandar sits on Baghdad's famed bookselling street, Mutanabbi. There's an old Arab saying: Cairo writes, Beirut publishes, and Baghdad reads, and nowhere in the Iraqi capital is testament to that more than Mutanabbi, named after a 10th century poet.
On Fridays, stalls cram the streets, while some traders lay out their wares on the sidewalks. Copies of Hillary Clinton's Hard Choices mingle with anthologies of Khalil Gibran poetry, encyclopaedias and Arabic translations of Dan Brown novels.
- WASHINGTON POST
==============================
## Title: Brazil court freezes Neymar assets, including yacht and jet
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Brazil court freezes Neymar assets, including yacht and jet
SAO PAULO: Brazilian authorities have blocked assets of Barcelona star Neymar, including a yacht, a jet and several properties worth almost USD 50 million.
A Sao Paulo federal court rejected an appeal from the Brazilian striker last week and started issuing warrants to freeze the assets worth 192 million reals (almost $50 million), Brazilian media reported on Monday.
Last year, Neymar, his family and related businesses were found guilty of evading 63 million reals in taxes (almost USD 16 million) between 2011 and 2013 when he was playing for Brazilian club Santos. He has denied any wrongdoing.
The 23-year-old Neymar used the jet to travel to Brazil for World Cup qualifying matches and holidays.
Iagaro Jung Martins, an auditor with Brazil's federal tax agency, told that Neymar isn't likely to go to jail if he pays what regulators say he owes.
- Agencies
==============================
## Title: Delight and wisdom in creativity
## Supertitle: [Bookmark]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
[Bookmark]
Delight and wisdom in creativity
As most literary critics over the years have pointed out, novel in the field of creative writing is unquestionably the dominant literary form, both in quality and quantity. In quantity, its only rival is the magazine and newspaper short story.
Millions of people who would not think of reacting any other form of literature regularly read a considerable quantity of poetry and creative columns of human interest. In this aspect, the short story writing has been at times overshadowed by human interest column writings. I found a series of Sinhala human interest columns titled as 'Husma Ganna Akuru' (Breathing Letters) written by a young journalist Ranjith Kumara Samarakone.
He has been contributing these columns over the years to a midweek newspaper with the intention of creating a new series of insights on social matters. They are resourceful and stimulating transcending the mere borders of common investigative reporting. They touch sensitive experiences of human existence.
Local conditions
The basic significant factor about these 32 columns is that they tend to blend global events with these of the local conditions. The columnist Samarakone bridges his situations drawn from the profiles of great writers, scientists, statesmen, explorers and poets.
He tries to capture subtle nuances in the life of mothers, fathers and teachers paving way to seek certain hidden dimensions. For instance, he sees the hardships encountered by fathers and mothers in bringing up children in various walks of life.
A father who engages in selling ice cream is seen near the gate of a big school where the children who pass time seeing him, had not forgotten even when they reach the apex in their respective professions like being doctors and lawyers.
Similarly there rare occasions when the teachers who have dedicated their lives to the profession shave been observed as never changing persons even if the entire surrounding has changed grossly. He sensitively juxtaposes situations as found in the narratives of such writers as Paulo Coelho and Marquez into local situations. This enables the reader to feel a human experience transcending the narrow barriers of narrations to wiser plane of vision. While being an observer to local events he gradually ascends to other global areas of wisdom quoting such persons as Mao Tse Tung and Abraham Lincoln.
Courage and inspiration
Then he shifts his attention to the abilities of the disabled. He captures a moment of experience of a skillful artist who makes a Vesak lantern with one hand as the other one is amputated. All in all there are human events that surpass the borders of mere success stories, entering the realms of courage and inspiration. The hallmark of these sensitive and creative columns is the brevity and the belles lettre expression employed.
A wider spectrum of reading material has gone into the columns. They cover countries such as India, China, US, Africa, Australia, Russia and Japan. He inserts poems both metrical, free verse and Haiku. He draws human experiences from such places as hospitals, universities, newspaper offices, cinema halls, byways, alleys and travels. The wit and humour too play a vital role in his expressions enabling even a dull moment to look a bright. The title is symbolic and metaphorical.
Creative situations dialogues and short narratives too play significant techniques in the expression of human experiences. Perhaps these columns touch the new areas in short story writing in new garb. I was reminded of the series of creative columns of Paulo Coelho in Like the Flowing River.
The writer is gifted with amalgamation of events from the past into the present context and the reverse order.
The writer Samarakone says that being a user of social media, out of which he transfers his abilities and shares them with the fellow like minded pals, he has gained quite a lot of experiences.
As such on the day the discourse on the book held at the Sri Lanka Press Council, quite a number of them participated and aired their views.
This enables Samarakone to widen his visionary horizons and the sensitivity of expression.
The collection of these columns looks more like an investigative encyclopedic notebook, than a mere compilation of a series of articles.
==============================
## Title: European warrior of the modern Buddhist mission
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
European warrior of the modern Buddhist mission
Henry Steele Olcott was born on August 2, 1832, to a pious, Presbyterian family in Orange, New Jersey. On May 16, 1880, Olcott and Blavatsky arrived in Colombo first time and a few days later on May 25, at the Wijananda Temple in Galle, Olcott and Blavatsky observed five precepts. Olcott's second visit to Ceylon was in April, 1881, accompanied by Ven Mohottivatte Gunanando Thera.
Colonel Henry Steele Olcott passed away on February 17, 1907, at the age of 75, in India.
Extracts from Colonel Olcott's Old Diary leaves, describe the beginning of the Theosophical Society in Sri Lanka (then Ceylon).
Wimbridge and Colonel Henry went for a dip in the Galle harbour very early the next morning, but they were followed and watched by crowds, so that it was very uncomfortable to move about. Their rooms were packed with visitors throughout the day.
There was no end of metaphysical discussion with the aged High Priest Bulatgama Sumanatissa, and other sharp logicians.
Religious processions
This old man let Colonel Henry into a nice embarrassment. He begged him to call on a list of Europeans and to write 20 Burghers (descendants of the Dutch) inviting them to join Buddhists in forming a Theosophical Society.
In Colonel Henry's innocence he did so. And the next morning could have bitten off his finger on shame, for they sent him insulting replies, saying that they were Christians and wanted to have nothing to do with Theosophy on Buddhism. Colonel Henry stormed at the old monk for his heedlessness in making him uselessly compromise the dignity of the Society. But he only smiled and made some weak excuse.
It was a lesson for Colonel Henry. During the 15 years that have elapsed since then, Colonel Henry never repeated the mistake. Old Venerable Bulathgama Thera was a particularly persistent disputant, valuable and kind monk.
One evening, they were treated to a devil dancing performance by professional sorcerers, who took part in religious processions. These sorcerers are called in cases of desperate illness to drive away the evil spirits which are supposed to possess the patient. They invoke certain elements by recitations of mantrams and prepare themselves for their function by a certain periods of the moon.
Their dance was a real witch-festival. It leaves behind it a confused recollection of leaping and whirling figures tricked out with hideous masks and streaming ribbons of young coconut leaves of brandished and whirling firebrands, of black masses of oil - smoke of postures suddenly taken, which are enough to send a nervous person into hysterics. One part of the ceremony consists in burning certain herbs and gums on hot coals and inhaling the vapours with gasping sounds, until they shiver as though stricken with an ague, and then fall senseless.
In the coma, they have visions of the observing devils and give directions what to do. They were brought to by sprinkling them with water while a charm was muttered. An educated native gentlemen told Colonel Henry that this dance was considered efficacious for the cure of several diseases, especially those to which pregnant women were liable. They were then said to have fallen under the influence of the 'Black Prince'.
If the devil-dance gets the better of the disturbing evil spirit and it obeys their command to release its victim, it gives a sign of its departures by breaking off a designated branch of some tree near the house. This happened, he told to Colonel Henry, in the case of his own step-mother.
It had been arranged that Colonel Henry should give a public lecture on Theosophy on May 22, 1880. Colonel Henry made desperate efforts to think over his subject and prepare some notes. For he was then quite inexperienced in this business and was afraid to treat himself to extemporaneous discourse. But he might as well have tried to compose an aria in a machine - shop where fifty blacksmiths were hammering on anvils, fifty turning - lathes were whirling, and fifty people were gathered about to criticize his personal appearance, his pen and his handwriting. Their house was a babel, their rooms occupied by friendly mobs from morning till night. Colonel Henry would have done for better to have just gone to the platform without preparation, and trusted to the inspiration of the moment, as he soon learnt to do.
Unsympathetic Europeans
He thinks his first lecture in Ceylon was worth a paragraph, so he had given it. It was delivered in a large room in the Military Barracks, imperfectly lighted, and packed to suffocation.
A temporary platform had seen erected at one end and a figured canopy suspended over it. Besides their delegates there were upon it Ven Sumangala Maha Thera, the Chief Priest Bulatgama, Chief Priest Dhammalankara, of the Amarapura Sect., who had come 28 miles to meet them, and a number more. The whole European Colony (45 persons) were present and inside and outside, a mob of some 2,000 Sinhalese. Colonel Henry was not at all satisfied with his discourse because owing to the interruptions noted above, his own notes were fragmentary and the light was so bad that he could not read them.
However, he managed to get through somehow although a good deal surprised that not even the taking passages elicited applause from the unsympathetic Europeans that was to have been expected, but from the Buddhists. As soon as a passage could be cleared their party passed out, Head Priest Bulatgama and Colonel Henry arm in arm and holding each other tight so as not to be separated by the jostling crowd.
"Was it a very bad speech" Colonel Henry asked.
"No, rather good."
"Then," Colonel Henry continued, "why did they receive it in such a dead silence It must have been very bad."
"What What What are you saying," broke in a voice from the Sinhalese gentleman who had got hold of Head Priest Bulatgama in other arm.
"Who said it was a bad speech We have never heard such a good one in Ceylon before."
"But, that can't be," the Colonel replied, "there was no hand-clap, nor a cry of satisfaction."
He should just have liked to hear one.
He was then explained that the custom was never to interrupt a religious speaker, but to listen in respectful silence and, after leaving to think over what he had said. And he very proudly pointed out the high compliment that had been paid to Colonel Henry in the packed audience hearing him without making a sound. He could not see it in the light, and still thought his lecture was so bad as to be not worth applauding.
==============================
## Title: Gammanpila hits out at government
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Gammanpila hits out at government
Pivituru Hela Urumaya leader and Parliamentarian Udaya Prabath Gammanpila asked what laws the Defence State Minister intended to use to sue people on social media.
He was referring to the statement made by the Defence State Minister Ruwan Wijewardena who said that steps would be taken against people making defamatory remarks against the President and the Prime Minister using Facebook and other social media networks.
Opposition member Gammanpila questioned under what laws these persons will be sued, as the laws pertaining to criminal defamation were abolished in 2002, under the UNP government. He added that only civil cases could be filed, claiming damages.
He made these observation yesterday at a press conference at the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya head office.
I have filed a case, claiming damage against Hirunika Premachandra for making several defamatory remarks. At least she has a Defender, so I can get the same for my damages, Gammanpila said.
But what does some one do when a beggar is hired make defamatory remarks These days a minister has assigned such a person to make defamatory remarks against me, he claimed.
He also thanked Minister S. B. Dissanayake for revealing that arrests are made on the instruction of the President and the Prime Minister:
Minister S. B. Dissanayake said that the President said that it was former President Mahinda Rajapaksa who was to be arrested. Minister Dissanayake said the President said that it was the Prime Minister and himself who decided not to do so, Gammanpila said.
The statement reflects who it is that decides who will be arrested and who will not to be, he charged.
Gammanpila further stated that S. B. Dissanayake had also said that President Maithripala Sirisena did not take the leadership of the SLFP by force.
He added that Minister Dissanayake had said that when former President Mahinda Rajapaksa was told that Namal and Shiranthi were to be arrested, he had left the leadership. Gammnpila said that incident too, reflected reality.
==============================
## Title: Habits of The Richest People in the World
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Habits of The Richest People in the World
There is one secret that almost every rich person knows. This secret is very important because it's the reason they are rich in the first place. This big secret can be summed up in the words of the mighty Aristotle: "We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit."
Rich people have gone through the painful process of forming rich people's habits, and you can become financially prosperous as well if you make up your mind to do the same. Together, let's examine 10 habits of the richest people in the world to help you make up your mind to make these habits yours, too.
1. They are goal setters
Rich people set goals that make them rich. People don't become rich by accident. Rich people are very deliberate: they set goals to become rich and they eventually achieve those goals. The act of goal setting itself is a very rewarding exercise because it helps you to see and feel the money you want to have even before you get it.
2. They focus on one thing at a time
A laser beam can cut through very hard objects-it can cut through almost anything, in fact-and this is because of its unusual ability to concentrate all its power on a particular spot on the object until it begins to melt. Rich people are usually like laser beams. They set outrageous goals, but they stay focused on that one goal, directing all their activities and efforts towards achieving that goal until they accomplish it. Average Joes, on the other hand, often have no focus; they just tend to do whatever comes their way and take whatever life hands them. If you want to be rich, be goal oriented and stay focused.
3. They have great respect for time
Brian Tracy said that rich people think in terms of what they earn hourly rather than monthly or annually.
Because they think hourly, whenever they are spending time on unproductive activities, they think about how much they are losing with every passing moment. Rich people don't spend too much time on social media or watching TV. They work around the clock and cannot afford to waste any minute of their day.
4. They spend less than they earn
As simple as this may seem, it is the secret to getting wealthy: always spend less than you earn. The problem with poor-thinking people is they increase their expenses as their income increases. They buy better cars, bigger houses and they remain poor or average. Think about this in terms of percentage; if you want to be rich then follow the motto, "Save 10% of whatever you earn." But be smart about it. As Warren Buffet said: "Do not save what is left after spending, but spend what is left after saving." I also advise that you work with a budget and that you keep an income and expenditure statement.
5. They work very hard
Except for people who inherited great riches, I have not seen any lazy rich person. Rich people work very hard and they also work constantly. People that work hard can't be behind, they are always on top of their profession whether they are business people, self-employed, or even employees. They always do things that ordinary people cannot do.
6. They continually learn and grow
The more you know is the more you earn. Your learning power determines your earning power. As much as it is important to work hard, hard work alone will not make you rich. Before money can be earned, value must be given in return, and the only way to add more value to your clients is by first adding more value to yourself. This can only be done through continuous learning. Make up your mind to develop new skills and gain more experience every day.
7. They keep rich company
Rich people don't have poor friends. As the old saying goes, "Show me your friends and I will tell you who you are." Let me tell you something: you may not have so much money right now, but as long as you keep walking with rich people or those with the potential to become rich, you will someday become very rich yourself.
8. They are persistent
Rich people don't give up. About 90% of rich people today did not become rich the way they originally thought or intended. They tried, they failed, and they rose up again many times before they eventually succeeded. You may lose a lot of money in the process, but you'll keep getting better by learning from your mistakes and experiences until you get the financial independence you desire.
9. They take calculated risks
Rich people are fond of taking risks. Once they decide they want to get something, they will give whatever it takes to get it, even if it means risking their lives sometimes. If you want to become rich, don't be afraid of taking risks. Be bold and courageous, but also be calculative. Know what each decision will cost you and never put all your eggs in one basket.
10. They are generous
Rich people are very generous. If you look at the lives of the richest people in modern history, you will discover that a lot of them are great philanthropists: people like Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, Bill Gates, Carlos Slim, to name a few. Make giving one of your habits today and you will become very rich someday, too.
-Life Hack
==============================
## Title: Introduction of new Constitution, a timely need - UPFA National List MP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Introduction of new Constitution, a timely need - UPFA National List MP
It is a timely need to introduce a new Constitution since the foundation of the present Constitution has cracked, President's Counsel and UPFA National List MP Dr. Jayampathy Wickramaratne said.
He was addressing a media workshop on Constitutional reforms yesterday.
"As everyone expects, moves are being taken to introduce a most suitable Constitution to the country," he said.
Dr. Wickramaratne said that the Executive Powers along with the Executive Presidency was further strengthened with the passing of 18th Amendment to the Constitution in Parliament during the Rajapaksa regime. With the 18th Amendment, former President Rajapaksa could create the most powerful Executive Presidency in the world. However, those powers were significantly curtailed by the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which was introduced in Parliament by this government.
"It is expected to implement the domestic mechanism under the provisions in the present Constitution in Sri Lanka. At this juncture, every political party should actively participate in this Constitutional reforming mechanism," he said.
"There is no point in formulating the third Constitution of Sri Lanka without the participation of all parties, civil society organisations and the public. He pointed out that such participation could not have become a reality when formatting the 1972 and 1978 Constitutions, since they were formulated without their contribution.
He further said the country needs a modern Constitution with a far sighted vision. While refuting allegations of certain politicians, he said the Government has no intention whatsoever to bring a ready-made daft and present it to Parliament.
"With a view to have the ideal and most appropriate Constitution, public opinions, views and suggestions are being sought from around the country through a commission and presented to Parliament.Civil organizations too should have dialogues on the topic," he said.
==============================
## Title: Joyous Jothi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Joyous Jothi
Epa enna kiyalamoko Menike keewae.. Hinawenna awathHandewwe oyanae..
H R Jothipala is an artiste who dwells in common mans heart forever. As the only local artiste who became more popular after his demise Jothi reminds us of Elvis Presley, the King.
Jothipalas singing prowess was never recognized by scholars in his living days. Instead he was often undermined by these so-called wise men highlighting the fact that he sang Hindi melodies. Nevertheless they deliberately ignored the magical manner Jothipala rendered justice to Hindi melodies. Jothi often surpassed original singers by bringing value addition to the Sinhala versions.
Sarath Dassanayake, Pandith Amaradewa, Dr Victor Ratnayake and Dr Premasiri Khemadasa were musicians who identified Jothis miraculous singing abilities. Hence they made original melodies for Jothi and with his voice Jothi made these songs evergreen ones. In the film Anupama, the way Jothi delivers his voice to the duet Sihina Wilae Nilupuli is one such example.
70s decade was the golden era of Sinhala cinema. Cinema culture prevailed in the country at the time encouraged families to flock at cinema halls. Gamini Fonseka and Vijeya Kumaratunga captured the limelight. Jothipalas screen voice breathed much life to these two actors in their singing portrayals on screen.
A lengthy singing career spanning from 1950 bestowed Jothis mighty fan club with a gamut of songs sung with his golden voice. When he bid adieu to life in 1987 Jothipala had over 10,000 songs to his merit.
H R Jothipala statue was unveiled in 1988. At the ceremony Vijeya Kumaratunga said I lost my voice on screen with Jothis demise.
His voice was in extreme harmony with my screen personality. Now there is no one who could sing for me on screen.
Had Jothi born in India or any other country, volumes of books would have been written on this legend. In Sri Lanka senior journalist Earnest Waduge wrote two volumes on Jothipala. Dr Nuwan Nayanajith and Dr Sarath Amunugama have written articles on Jothi for a magazine and cinema tabloids.
Says Dr Nuwan Nayanajith,Jothipala was not an icon created by marketing. Hence Jothipala brand has no growth stage, maturity stage or decline stage. He is an evergreen figure.
He represents the culture brought forward by Gajaman Nona thus is a cultural figure and that is the reason he stays in common mans heart forever.
Dr Nuwan Nayanajith wrote an insightful article on Jothipala to a souvenir produced by SLRC in 2007 for a Jothipala commemorative program.
Commemorative stamp
A commemorative stamp on H R Jothipala was launched at the Gangaramaya on February 12 to coincide with the legends 80th birth anniversary.
The occasion was graced by Post, Postal Services and Muslim Religious Affairs Minister Abdul Haleem, Parliamentary Reforms and Mass Media Minister Gayantha Karunatilleke along with veteran media person Ariyadasa Peiris who paved way for Jothi to become a singer.
Jothipalas close associates Padmasiri Kodikara, Ananda Padmasiri, Jayananda Alwis and Jothis fans too were in the auditorium. Their moist eyes told the untold story of a humble soul who loved people and sang for them until his death even neglecting his own health. Senior artiste Nihal Nelson said at the occasion, Jothipala and Milton Perera would have lived more but liquor took its toll.
He thanked the organizing committee and made a humble request to honour Ariyadasa Peiris too with a stamp as a gesture of appreciation.
Jothipalas daughter krishni Narmada said, My father will be a superstar forever within peoples minds.
Sara Sandae..Sina Selae..Gilihi..wetila Wala Rodae Obe DasaeSinahamevila..
Pictures by Saman Sri Wedege
==============================
## Title: Keys to Succeeding in a Virtual Work Environment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Keys to Succeeding in a Virtual Work Environment
These days, virtual work environments are becoming more commonplace. But how do you work in such an unconventional environment Its not as easy as you might think.
Ive worked from home for over 10 years, the first seven of which were for somebody else and the past three have been for myself.
During that decade, Ive learned a ton of lessons, many of which were acquired through the painful crucible of failure. Heres what Ive learned, and what you may want to consider if youre searching for avirtual job (or wanting to run a virtual team):
Know yourself
I lost an employee because this person realized that working from home by yourself all day isnt as fun and exciting as it sounds. Ive had to learn this lesson, as well. What do I need to thrive in my work I need occasional interaction with people, but often I need to be left alone to work. This was why I eventually invested in an office outside of the home, tocreate a separation between work life and home life.
That doesnt mean that I dont sometimes work from home (I do), but having a dedicated space where I can leave things and/or escape to when I need to just get stuff done is really important. By no means does everyone needs an office like this, but I know I do. I also know that I need some social interaction, so I schedule a few lunches with friends every week.
Create a predictable rhythm
I first learned this working a day job for a nonprofit from home. My wife would leave every day at 8:30 in the morning and return around 5:30 every evening. Early on in our marriage, I would sleep in, slowly get to work, and then disappoint her when it was dinner time and I still had work to do.Quickly, I learned there was nothing wrong with working a 9-to-5, especially if it meant gettingshare theevenings with my spouse.
Nowadays, I leave the house at the same time every day and return home around the same time. I have standing weekly meetings with friends and other groups that help me grow. Somedays are dedicated to writing and other days are dedicated podcasting. I try to batch things and create blocks of time in which I always work on the same thing.
All of this creates a predictable rhythm that allows me to just show up and do thework. When in doubt, over-communicate If you dont do anything else on this list, do this. I have had to fire people and almost been fired myself for violating this rule.
When working remotely, its so easy to misread tone in an email or text. Its far too easy to hurt someones feelings or have your own feelings hurt when that was never the intention of the message.
Every relational conflict Ive ever experienced in the workplace could have been avoided by better communication. And thats not an exaggeration. The onus is on you to make sure the person on the other end of the line understands what you intended to say.
Clarify, clarify, clarify.
Dont rely too heavily on technology
With all the amazing communication tools available to us (e.g. Skype, Facetime, Slack, Google Hangouts, email, etc.), working remotely has never been easier. But thats not to say its not without its fair share of complications. Technology cannot replace the connection two human beings forge with one another when working towards a common vision. In my experience, this means almost always trying to do the harder thing. When emailing is easier, pick up the phone. When calling is the most comfortable choice, get on a plane.
The point is, whenever you feel inclined to do something that avoids confrontation, do the hard thing. Itll make your job much easier in the long run.
- www.goinswriter.com
==============================
## Title: Kissinger ties come back to haunt Hillary Clinton
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Kissinger ties come back to haunt Hillary Clinton
US: When Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, she relied on Henry A. Kissingers counsel. He would send her astute observations about foreign leaders and written reports on his travels.
She would joke with him that smartphones would have made his covert Cold War trip to Beijing impossible.
The two diplomats had a cordial, warm and respectful relationship, based on writings about their interactions during Ms. Clintons tenure at the State Department.
Kissinger is a friend, and I relied on his counsel when I served as Secretary of State, Ms. Clinton wrote in The Washington Post, in a positive review of his book World Order.
The friendship came back to haunt her in the Democratic presidential debate on Thursday night, when Senator Bernie Sanders pointedly questioned Ms. Clintons foreign policy judgment, saying President Richard M. Nixons secretary of state had enabled genocide in Cambodia under Pol Pot. Im proud to say Henry Kissinger is not my friend, Sanders said.
For Clinton, Kissinger, now 92, was part of a fascinating club of former secretaries of state she turned to when she arrived at Foggy Bottom, writing in her 2014 memoir Hard Choices that these diplomats transcend partisan differences.
She specifically praised Mr. Kissingers diplomatic achievements in China, where he helped Nixon normalise diplomatic relations with the Communist leadership in a visit to Beijing in 1972.
- THE NEW YORK TIMES
==============================
## Title: NEED FOR AN EFFICIENT STATE MECHANISM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
NEED FOR AN EFFICIENT STATE MECHANISM
One year has passed since the appointment of the new government. Undoubtedly, some changes have taken place and further changes are being discussed. However, there is one very important  perhaps the most important  issue, which has been entirely ignored. This fundamental omission concerns the stability of Sri Lanka as a nation; it is something that underpins the achievement of peace and the economic progress of the nation. The elephant in the room that has been ignored is the ability to enforce law in Sri Lanka.
Currently, all these institutions are in extremely dysfunctional states. The citizens of this nation suffer in a state of anarchy. The word anarchy here refers to the failure of the State to enforce the law through its legitimate agencies, such as the police, the corruption control agency, the Attorney Generals Department that is involved in the prosecution of offenses, and the Judiciary that is meant to adjudicate and ensure justice.
This anarchy is, of course, not a problem that has been created by the present government. It is a product of many factors, which includes the failure of the infant State, which came into being on February 4, 1948, to grown up into an adult State. The growth of an infant state into an adult one means that the state is able to develop just laws and is able to enforce those laws through its legitimate organs.
Functioning apparatus
The Sri Lankan State has, however, not yet learnt the basic skills of running a state apparatus. This has been the cause of many problems. These problems include extreme forms of violence, which developed, particularly since 1971 and for many decades after, and serious conflicts relating to the inability to provide equal protection of the law to everyone, including the minorities. Despite the present government not having a hand in these factors, without solving this problem, it cannot help Sri Lanka attain any of the dreams it has spoken about, or help realize some of the dreams people now dream about.
Practically speaking, a person who sets out to pursue his or her dream should have a vehicle to travel in. For a government, this vehicle is the apparatus of the state, i.e. the legitimate organs of the government. If these legitimate organs are broken in the way the engine of a vehicle is broken or the wheels of a vehicle are broken it is not possible to make the journey without first doing some serious fixing.
This is exactly what has happened to Sri Lanka since independence in 1948. And, it has been aggravated in the last 40 years of conflicts and violence and enormous loss of life and liberty of thousands of people.
The challenge then and now is to make the vehicle capable of moving, capable of carrying the State and the people towards their goals. And, this requires taking all the possible steps to get the essential components of vehicle, i.e. the basic State apparatus, repaired as soon as possible. This, in turn, requires human resources and also financial and other resources.
Therefore, the duty of the government, first and foremost, is to provide these resources, so that the State will once again have a functioning apparatus that the people and the government can work with. To anthropomorphise, it will have the hands, the legs, and the physical organs to work and function.
At the moment, the government has not yet given a thought to this; it has not declared its policies on this fundamental issue, of repairing the essential State institutions to both ensure justice and effectively enforce the law; and there doesnt seem to be even an attempt being made to consider the same.
That said, an opportunity has arisen where a national discourse is possible on these issues. This opportunity has come as a result of the government announcing that it wants to change the Constitution and that a committee has been appointed to consult people about the reforms they wish the government must embark upon.
Thus, there is a possibility of vigorous discourse, in terms of what the people think are the priorities that should be achieved within Sri Lanka. And, it is to be hoped that all will participate, particularly those who are aware of what constitutions are and what they are supposed to achieve, and that in this participation an opportunity will arise to educate the population for a higher understanding of what the State is all about and how it can and should serve the needs of the people, especially the need for the protection of all persons.
Human rights abuse
To aid and further this discussion in light of the opportunity that presents, what follows is a brief description of the requirements in a functioning Sri Lankan State apparatus.
Currently, there is utter dysfunctionality in the Sri Lankan Police Service, the Prosecutions Department, and the Judiciary, with the term dysfunctional here meaning that these institutions are unable to perform their most basic duties.
So, what are these basic duties
The primary duty for the police begins with the facilitation of quick intake of complaints by victims of crimes and human rights abuse, in a courteous and efficient manner, so that the people have trust and come forward to make their complaints to the organs of the state.
Following the taking of statements from complainants, the next step is the maintenance of all the books relating to such complaints, with the highest possible protection, and not to tamper with these documents or allow any kind of distortion.
Investigating into the crimes based on the complaints, according to due process provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code, would be the next basic duty of a functional system. This would require the competence of officers to investigate.
In the modern setting, investigation capacities have been identified, and there are easily accessible opportunities for training to develop capacity for rational and efficient investigating techniques into crimes. Skills, such as the capacity to interview in an intelligent manner, the capacity to gather evidence that could be brought to the attention of the accused so that the accused may be required to explain such evidence, and the ability to effectively use modern technology for investigation, are skills that can be acquired.
The skills of using forensic sciences and technology, such as recording and photographic instruments, and many other types of technologies, are constantly being developed and improved around the world, and are available at affordable prices. Competent investigators in the present age must be equipped with such technology and skills.
Next comes the duty of the investigators to provide a faithful record of what they have obtained by way of evidence to the Attorney Generals Department, without making any distortions. And, then it is for the Attorney General to pursue the record, identify if a crime has been committed, and then immediately prepare indictments if such a crime has, in fact, been discovered. This is something that needs to be done carefully, but at the same time efficiently, without the wastage of time.
And, finally we have the turn of the Courts, which have many duties. The first basic duty of the Courts in a functional system is to receive all parties that come to the Court  the police, the prosecutors, as well as the people  courteously and with due respect. Thereafter, a basic duty of the Courts is to conduct the proceedings in the manner prescribed by the law and not to allow any type of delays in this matter.
Judicial institutions
And, it is this last duty that is the greatest challenge to the maintaining of an efficient State mechanism in Sri Lanka. The delays in adjudication that are taking place in our legal system are a source of many forms of corruption and a source of many forms of abuse of power.
When a result of crime  whether a crime was committed or not  can be known only some ten or fourteen years later, at a time when the society has lost interest in this crime and its conviction, then the system is a dysfunctional one.
To have a social impact, with a deterrent effect, there needs to be reasonably quick disposal of cases so that the people remember the crime, and they remember the punishment. And, thereby, the society can learn a lesson: to avoid certain kinds of conduct in the future.
The failure of Courts by way of delays is the greatest failure, and it is something for which all Sri Lankan governments are responsible.
It is not only the Judiciary that is responsible for these failures; it is the government that must provide resources and all the facilities and also proper persons who are selected only on the basis of competence and integrity to run judicial institutions. On all these matters there have been tremendous backward steps since the promulgation of the 1972 and 1978 constitutions.
If the legal process takes place and takes place quickly, it does not merely solve individual crimes or individual abuse of violations of rights, it creates a state apparatus that the people will see as functioning efficiently and thereby it will bring about order. It is the loss of order that is considered as anarchy. What prevails in Sri Lanka, as a result of dysfunctional basic institutions, is disorder, and disorder means anarchy.
The responsibility for the prevailing anarchy must be taken by whoever is running the government at the particular time. So, despite not being behind the factors that have led Sri Lanka to this state of anarchy, it is, therefore, the new government that bears the responsibility for addressing the disorder that has spread in Sri Lanka, and it is this government that must quickly redress the problem by bringing in the necessary changes in terms of the repair work and the resources for this repair work.
It is these budgeted resources in Sri Lanka that are mostly lacking, and not as much the law. And, it is the duty of the government to provide these resources. If not, the government will fail in its primary duty, and keep the State of Sri Lanka as an infant State and thereby one incapable of serving the needs of Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: New Zealand PM to visit Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 11:15
New Zealand PM to visit Sri Lanka
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key is scheduled to make an official visit to Sri Lanka next week. Mr. Key will be in Sri Lanka from February 24 to 26.The objective of the visit would be to highlight the growing commercial and political ties between the two countries.
Mr. Key will meet Sri Lanka's President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
He'll also promote New Zealand's business interests during meetings with local business people.
Mr. Key will lead a business delegation that will be looking for opportunities.
"Sri Lanka has a growing middle class which offers New Zealand businesses a range of exciting opportunities," Mr. Key said.
"We have a 45-year dairy trade history but commercial relationships are extending further."
(newshub.co.nz)

==============================
## Title: The Parliamentary peril
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
The Parliamentary peril
A few smaller parties in the UPFA, namely MEP, NFF, DLF, and PHU supported by some other SLFP members who have extended support to the former President have collectively formed the Common Opposition in Parliament. It is sad the members of the Common Opposition have opted to contravene Standing Orders of Parliament and disrupt the work in Parliament as never before.
Unruly disruptions have become a common occurrence in Parliament. It looks as if it is a part of the established practice and procedure. Every step needs to be taken to minimise disruptions. Creating chaos, disruptions and stalling the work of day-to-day business in the august assembly have got legitimacy since the members of the Common Opposition have openly stated that they will resort to all types of (mis) behaviour until their demands are met by the Speaker!
Disruptions, unruly and disorderly behaviour in Parliament is nothing new. During the tail-end of the previous Parliament, they carried out a protest through the night, and claimed that they would resort to a fast unto death until their demands were met. Shouldnt they protest against social, political and economic ills created by successive governments Why are they silent about poverty issues, drugs, rape, murders, thuggery, alcoholism, drug addicts, corruption, fraud, economic inequity, failure in transport, health, education and other sectors
National economy
It is unfortunate that a majority of politicians usually base their decisions to entertain themselves and the voters thereafter. Instead they should search for solutions for what is best for the country and what will benefit the voters. They should also align the party policy to play a bigger role with the State in order to regulate, direct, and improve the national economy to commanding heights. Jawaharlal Nehru had said: Ordinary politicians have no principles to standby and their work is governed by day-to-day opportunism.
According to Erskine May, the parliamentary privileges are peculiar rights enjoyed by the Parliament and Parliamentarians in order to strengthen them because they cannot discharge their onerous duties to the people and the country without these rights and immunities. Thus, parliamentary privileges are certain rights and immunities such as freedom from arrest or freedom of speech for the performance of their parliamentary duties. In terms of the Privileges Act, when any of these rights and immunities are violated, the offence is called a breach of privilege, which is punishable under the law.
The Speaker has the right to initiate strict disciplinary action. The matter could also be referred to the Privileges Committee and if such actions could be treated as contempt of Parliament. Elected representatives have been granted these special privileges to be able to perform their legitimate duties in Parliament without let or hindrance.
In interpreting these privileges, we must not exclude elected representatives. If and when a Parliamentarian commit such disruptions and misbehaviour while causing obstructions in Parliament without discharging their duties, responsibilities and failing to fulfil their obligations to the constituents and the country, the same way it applies to others, law should be strictly applied in similar situations without an exception to Parliamentarians as well.
In other Parliaments, under similar circumstances, punishments ranging from an admonition, suspension from service of the House (with or without pay), to expulsion in the most serious cases have been enforced. Shouldnt we too apply the rules because we have shot down and killed similar street fighters and demonstrators when they came out asking for clean water etc.
In corrupt states, they do not want reforms to begin this way. If and when the law is made applicable they should understand it is not harassment. In addition, they do not want Parliamentary debates done in accordance with the provisions of the Standing Orders. The Standing Orders are basic rules of conduct and they are all fully well aware of those Standing Orders. These guidelines are there to be adhered and observed for the purpose of making the Parliament a productive place for the benefit of the people.
Financial and commercial activities
Most of the politicians always scream that they would fight to win the rights and benefits for the masses. However, the gates of politics have been wide open and anyone can become a politician nowadays. Having lowered the standards, they have now thrown ideologies, principles, ethics and morality to the winds.
The majority of politicians have now become swindlers, exploiters, suppressors, oppressors, cheaters and beyond doubt doing everything  jacks of all trades. The Parliament no doubt should therefore have sole control over all aspects of its own affairs and introduce legislation to ensure the right people to get nominations.
It is vital that every single elected representative should observe the parliamentary practices and procedures and the orders of the Speaker, which is final. I do not think we should leave aside the question of how the conduct of elected representatives should be regulated and by whom, which has become a contentious issue. It may be appropriate if we could also follow what John Major, the then Prime Minister of UK, did in 1994, in setting up of a Committee on Standards in Public Life, chaired by a Senior Judge - Lord Nolan, independent of Parliament and Government: To examine current concerns about standards of conduct of all holders of public office, including arrangements relating to financial and commercial activities, and make recommendations as to any changes in present arrangements which might be required to ensure the highest standards of propriety in public life.
The relevant Committee in their report had summarized the general principles of conduct which underpin public life need to be restated, which I believe is applicable to the Sri Lankans too at present. The Committee thereafter identified seven principles of qualities in public life: selflessness, integrity, objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership.
The Committee also had recommended that all public bodies should draw up codes of conduct incorporating these principles for maintaining highest standards and supported by independent scrutiny. It had also addressed specific recommendations to Members of Parliament on holding paid outside interests and a Code of Conduct for Members. Nolan Committee recommended that Commons should continue to be responsible for enforcing its own rules and that the House had accordingly appointed a Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, a person of independent standing to take over the responsibility for maintaining the Register of Members Interests, for advice and guidance to MPs on matters of conduct, for advising on the Code of Conduct and for investigating allegations of misconduct. In UK, steps have also been taken to establish a Committee of Standards and Privileges in place of Committee on Privileges, which has been charged with the responsibility to review and recommend to the House if suitable modifications are needed from time to time.
It also appears a popularly elected government that is pursuing just policies should be given necessary support and strength to overcome its problems to ensure delivery of its promises, because it is trying hard to strengthen its capacity for governing an utterly corrupt state.
Common Opposition
Being a citizen, who has been fortunate to see a large number of elected representatives during a period of over three decades, I was utterly dismayed and horror-struck to see the behaviour of certain members in the Common Opposition and would take the liberty to put forward a few proposals for the benefit of the country and its citizenry in the future: (a) To televising Parliament meetings (b) To re-introduce the naming of MPs who break Standing Orders (c) To use Speaker authority to take suitable disciplinary action who break rules, procedures and S.OO. and (d) Secretary-General of Parliament (Constitutionally protected officer) to provide honest, upright, restrained and unbiased advice unwaveringly to the Speaker in delivering the finest decisions and achieving the desired improvements on matters pertaining to functioning of Parliament with highest efficiency and effectiveness (cost effectively too since it is wasteful - a proverbial white elephant).
Zulu proverb says: If the future does not come toward you, you have to go fetch it. May I add corruption is not only about stealing public resources. It is putting bad people in prime positions too.
This type of corruption is crippling our economic growth and development. It is worse than warfare. Hence, political leadership of various colours represented in the national Parliament are responsible for maintaining the highest standards of propriety in the discharge of their parliamentary duties. They should be highly attuned to ethical issues and demonstrate their commitment by setting an example at the highest political level in Parliament by establishing at least good-enough governance early by reinforcing ethical behaviour.
The elected representatives should unitedly commit themselves as far as possible to discontinue exploitation of ethics and laws for political purposes. Thomas Jefferson said  When the people fear the government, there is tyranny; when the government fears the people, there is liberty.
Where are we Arent we enjoying liberty
==============================
## Title: Parts of Southeast Asia to witness Total Solar Eclipse on March 8
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Parts of Southeast Asia to witness Total Solar Eclipse on March 8
US: Ever witnessed a total solar eclipse Heres a chance for all those space lovers. Come March 8, 2016, the moon will cast its shadow as it is all set to pass in front of the sun.
Parts of Southeast Asia will witness a total solar eclipse lasting for over a minute in every location on its path, revealed astronomers from NASA. Eclipses can be viewed using a solar-filtered telescope, eclipse glasses or a pinhole projector.
As the moon passes precisely between the sun and Earth - a relatively rare occurrence that happens only about once a year because of the fact that the moon and the sun do not orbit in the exact same plane - it will block the suns bright face, revealing the tenuous and comparatively faint solar atmosphere, the corona, they explained.
The moon blocks the light of the suns surface very, very precisely you can see all the way down to the roots of the corona, where the atmosphere meets the suns surface, said Sarah Jaeggli, a space scientist at NASAs Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, US.
People along the path of totality - which is over 8,800 miles long, but only 97 miles wide at the widest point - will have the opportunity to see the solar corona only while the suns face is totally covered by the moon, while people outside this path will see varying degrees of a partial eclipse.
Totality will last for anywhere from one and a half to just over four minutes at each location, though more than three hours will pass between the time the westernmost location sees the eclipse begin and when the easternmost location sees the eclipse end, the scientists said. A solar eclipse occurs when the moons shadow falls on Earth. The shadow comprises two concentric cones called the umbra and the penumbra.
- IANS
==============================
## Title: A real Good Night for Mr Wodehouse
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
A real Good Night for Mr Wodehouse
Good Night, Mr Wodehouse is a novel by Faith Sullivan about life in the small town of Harvester, Minnesota, in the first half of the 20th century. The book's heroine, Nell Stillman, is widowed and left penniless at 24. Subsequently, she secures a teaching job at the local school, loses two close friends when the Lusitania is torpedoed, falls in love with a widowed lawyer who goes into politics and dies before he and Nell can marry, receives a mysterious series of poison-pen letters, and dies with a copy of Jeeves in the Offing beside her. Meanwhile, Nell's only child, Hillyard ('Hilly'), is bullied at school, takes up long-distance running, enlists in the army when the First World War breaks out, becomes an ambulance driver in France, is decorated for gallantry, and returns home wounded and severely shell-shocked.
Wodehouse is not mentioned until the 24th of the book's 66 chapters, when Nell, intrigued by its title, takes Love Among the Chickens down from a shelf in the town's little library and finds Wodehouse "an entirely new experience, delicious, lighter than air." Wodehouse becomes Nell's solace and companion during her many struggles and disappointments. She follows Love Among the Chickens with Psmith in the City, Mike, A Gentleman of Leisure, The Prince and Betty, The Man Upstairs and Uneasy Money:
Nell gave herself up to the story, slipping unresisting into the antic perils of a young, moneyed lord of the realm, caught in a web of complexity only Wodehouse could design, a Wodehouse plot was a wonder, the solution to each knotty problem leading inevitably to another, knottier problem. And wasn't that always the way
As well as reading Wodehouse's novels. Nell fantasises about meeting him (and Ethel) in person. After the episode of the Berlin broadcasts, Nell writes Wodehouse a letter of support and appreciation, mentioning that she now has 33 of his books. She is rewarded when Wodehouse replies, enclosing a signed first edition of Money in the Bank.
Nell's story is told well enough, and I enjoyed the Wodehouse passages, which rather reminded me of the 'My First Wodehouse Experience' articles published from time to time in Wooster Sauce. However, I did not find, as one reviewer did, that Good Night, Mr Wodehouse quite amounted to "a homage to the act of reading itself." And I noticed that some of the books in Nell's Wodehouse collection improbably had British rather than American titles (Something Fresh rather than Something New: A Gentleman of Leisure rather than The Intrusion of Jimmy).
I had never heard of Faith Sullivan, who has been "for forty years an ardent fan of P G Wodehouse," until I saw the reference to this book in the September Wooster Sauce, but she evidently has many loyal devotees. I wonder how many of them, hitherto unfamiliar with Wodehouse's work, will be encouraged to give it a try as a result of reading Good Night, Mr Wodehouse
==============================
## Title: Sarath engages in maiden teledrama direction
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
Sarath engages in maiden teledrama direction
Popular actor Sarath Dikkumbura who made his debut onto the screen with the film 'Kivul Gedara Mohottala' celebrated 30 years in the arts field. He has taken to directing after reaching this milestone. His first teledrama revolves around two twin girls who have been separated from birth.
Thisuri Yuvenaka and Vinu Siriwardena have been chosen for the roles. Dr Jagath Wijenayake is the producer of the teledrama.
Jeewan Kumaratunga, Moreen Charuni, Janith Wickramage, Harshana Bethmage, Ramani Siriwardena, Srimal Wedisinghe, Rohani Weerasinghe, Thushari Wehella, Chathura Perera and many others make up the cast.
The cameraman is Priyantha Pradeep. The art director is Pradeep Ramanayake. Chaminda Hulangamuwa is in charge of the make up.
Priyanath Ratnayake is the music director. Prasanna Pradeep is the assistant director. The production executive is Chaminda Dela.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan maid kidnapped and sold by an Ethiopian woman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 11:00
Sri Lankan maid kidnapped and sold by an Ethiopian woman
Two absconding maids found themselves victims of an Ethiopian woman who sold them in cahoots with a taxi driver to two men, Indian and Bangladeshi, for KD 100 each. The victims, Sri Lankan and Nepalese, were both forced to get involved in immoral activities. Detectives were able to rescue them and arrested the two men. They are still looking for the Ethiopian and the driver. (KuwaitTimes)
==============================
## Title: For Sri Lankan refugees: Paradise lost and regained
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
For Sri Lankan refugees: Paradise lost and regained
For the past 26 have years I lived as a refugee. Today I am a Citizen of Sri Lanka, exclaims N. Sasirupan his eyes lighting up with joy.
Sasirupan who left his country along with his parents at the tender age of 06, remembers very little of the life he had lived before turning refugee.
According to him, the sense of belonging to one particular country, was important.
I was happy when we left India. My parents brought us up with a feeling that we should return to our Motherland one day. I am so glad that I am here today.
Despite being weary and hungry waiting for hours till their documents were processed by the UNHCR inside the airport, the refugees were excited to finally reach home. For decades, they had lived as refugees in a foreign land and had finally managed to returned to their motherland. Sasirupan is one among the 40 Indian refugees who returned to Sri Lanka on February 9, with fresh hopes of leading a peaceful life in post-war Sir Lanka.
Awaiting clearance
More than 100,000 Tamil civilians fled to the sub-continent to escape fighting between government forces and the now defeated Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), who had been fighting for an independent Tamil homeland since 1983.
Sasirupan grew up in India, pursuing his studies with the hope of becoming an IT Engineer. He gave up a job in a private company in India to return home, he says.
I wanted to live my life with dignity. We were allowed to work, but priority was always given to Indians, he said.
New beginnings with old roots
T. Nagaraja fled the country in 1990 fearing for his life. He has vivid memories of his life in the war torn island before he left. But he had been informed that the situation in Sri Lanka was much different at present.
My relatives told me that I would witness a totally different Jaffna and I was so excited as it had been 26 years since I left the country, he added.
He said that all who fled the country lived as refugees. We were not given Indian citizenship and were branded as refugees. We were not mistreated, but not recognised.
We were looked after by the Indian government. Children attended government schools. Freedom was limited, while restrictions were stern. The responsibilities of the caretakers were to provide us with food, water and shelter. However, we were able to find employment to manage family requirements, Nagaraja said, explaining their life in Indian camps.
His family left the country to save their lives and Nagaraja wanted to protect his children, he said.
We left the country leaving all our worldly possessions, but that feeling was different. We escaped from a death trap and now we are back with the hope of rebuilding our lives, he emphasized.
Nagaraja had returned to the country with only one of his children, he says. I will arrange every possible means and bring the rest of the family back to to Sri Lanka.
He had no idea as to what happened to his house and his land, but is determined to push forward regardless of the obstacles, he said.
This is my country and I will manage whatever comes my way. I always told my children when we were in India that this was not our country, when things are better we should leave and I am happy to be back today.
Those who were left behind
Not all Sri Lankans living in India as refugees are confident as Nagaraja.
The children of K. Ramasamy from Mullaitivu, who are currently living in refugee camps are still not convinced that it would be safe for them to return.
Ramaswamis daughter returned to the country two years ago, but he is still unable to convince his other children to return home. Instead, he decided to come back and spend the rest of his days with his daughter and his son-in-law.
I am not in a stable position to convince them to live the rest of their lives in their own land. My daughter is married and she is living with her husband in Mannar. She returned 2 years ago. I will live the rest of my life with my daughter in my Motherland, he said.
Gone blind due to a work related accident while working in a quarry in India, his intentions were to come back to live with his daughter.
According to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) one of the main concerns for potential returnees is livelihood options in the home country.
Many individuals are returning to their places of origin after 20+ years in refuge and their communities could be under developed. Access to adequate housing, water and sanitation, education, health and other facilities and services, in addition to viable options to earn a living, are some of the key deciding factors guiding the voluntary return of Sri Lakan refugees residing elsewhere, explained a spokesperson for UNHCR.
Rebuilding their lives
Will I get a government job here asked B. Selvarupan a Jaffna Tamil, returning to Sri Lanka for the first time in 26 years. He has a degree in Commerce from an Indian University, is now worried if he would get a job in Sri Lanka.
I have not seen any of my relatives. I have no big expectations, I need a job so that I can build my own house and start a happy life in my own country added Selvarupan.
An Engineer by profession, Y. Nisha is also looking for job opportunities as Selvarupan and Sasirupan with the hope that Sri Lanka would provide them with more opportunities.
Nisha had arrived with her brother to stay with her relatives in Mailaddy in Jaffna. She said that her parents would arrive in another 3 month's time after her sisters College convocation.
We did not lead a fearful life in India. They supported us during our education which we value the most. Life in India was not distressful, yet we missed our country very much. Though I had a rather bare knowledge of Sri Lanka since I left at the tender age of 6 years, I always felt that there was no better country like my own, she uttered.
When the Sri Lankans living as refugees in India wanted to enter the job market after completing their studies, preference was always given to Indian students, while the Sri Lankan refugees were recruited for for jobs with a lower salary, Nisha claimed.
A father of three children, B. Madhivanan, suffered an added worry concerning school admission for his children.
Like a number of others, he returned to the country without even obtaining the leaving certificate from an Indian school in which the children were studying.
As the school demanded for the full annual fee to provide the leaving certificate, Madhivan was unable to pay such large sums and did not obtain the school leaving certificate, he says.
He is also aware that the country had undergone many changes after he left, yet he is longing to know whether his children would be accommodated to government schools.
He is at present worried that this would stand in the way of his children being admitted to Sri Lankan schools.
Yet, there is little regret in his voice. Happy that he had shed the refugee tag and exited that he would soon visit his native land, Madhivan is looking forward to a brighter future for him and his family.
My children were born in Indian refugee camps, but still they belong to Sri Lanka.
It was not very difficult living in India, yet my children need an identity of their own. Though life is only temporary, I do not wish my children to face the same fate that I did,  he said.
UNHCR helped SL refugees return from South India since 2011
The UN refugee agency (UNHCR) began assisting Sri Lankan refugees to return from Southern India since 2011. According to UNHCR, all refugee returnees who arrive in Sri Lanka through the UNHCR voluntary repatriation programme were assisted by facilitation of opening bank accounts via the Bank of Ceylon and providing them with a reintegration grant and monetized NFI assistance for the purchasing of household goods, seeds, or repairing damaged housing.
All returning refugees are also provided with a transport grant to help them make their own arrangements to travel from the Airport to their native place. Once they reach their homes, they are advised to meet with the UNHCR field staff, who would then register them for monitoring and referral purposes.
Our field staff would assist them by making appropriate references to government and non-governmental organizations, enabling them to obtain various services, such as: civil documentation, health and education services and livelihood assistance in the places of return, a spokesperson for UNHCR said. The UNHCR has been supporting the government of Sri Lanka with voluntary return of refugees since 1987.
UNHCR reiterates the return decision as one of voluntary nature and should be based on the most accurate and updated information concerning the conditions in the country of origin. UNHCR advocates for sustainable/durable solutions for all refugee and IDP returnees, they said. Stating that one of the main concerns of those returning to Sri Lanka is stated to be their options of livelihood further, said many individuals are returning to their places of origin after 20+ years in refugee camps and their communities could be under developed.
Access to adequate housing, water and sanitation, education, health and other facilities and services, in addition to viable options to earn a living, are some of the key deciding factors guiding the voluntary return of Sri Lakan refugees residing elsewhere. UNHCR advocates on behalf of refugees and highlights challenges they face upon return to all related government bodies. Likewise, UNHCR shares information, survey findings and reports with relevant development partners and donors to enable reintegration of refugee return to happen in a sustainable manner.
Asked whether UNHCR had taken measures to facilitate and expedite refugees return, they responded that UNHCR does not encourage or promote the return of refugees to Sri Lanka.
Our current task is to ensure that Sri Lankan refugees abroad have up to date information about the situation of their areas of origin and to help them come home if and when they decide on a voluntary basis.
We call this facilitated voluntary repatriation. Some Sri Lankan refugees will choose not to repatriate now and their decisions should be respected, they said.
==============================
## Title: Wonders of wanderlust!
## Supertitle: [Lighter Side]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 01:00
[Lighter Side]
Wonders of wanderlust!
It is not just Swiss chocolates and Alpine mountains that captures Swiss Ambassador to Sri Lanka Heinz Walker-Nederkoorn's interest. An economist who likes to distribute his knowledge at conferences, Walker-Nederkoorn says that Sri Lanka is his first experience in South Asia. The ambassador has already served countries like Germany, Egypt, and Indonesia. He has started off his ambassadorship in Romania in 1990.
"I believe that diplomats need to be open to different experiences. You need to embrace a country and its culture while maintaining a certain distance. Should not load your shoulders with all the problems in the country but you need to cultivate an empathy for the people, their problems and the country," he says. He notes that life can be tough at that time even for a diplomat. His one-year stint in Romania during the revolution was such an example.
"There were only two or three restaurants which served lunch or dinner in Bucharest'" he recalled the trials he has undertaken during his career. He took up the post as Swiss Ambassador to Sri Lanka in October 2014.
Born in Schattdorf/Canton of Uri, Walker-Nederkoorn holds a PhD in Economics and Social Sciences from the University of Fribourg. After working at the University of Fribourg as an assistant at the Chair of Economic Policy, he entered the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs in 1990 and undertook his first assignments in Berne, Bucharest and Geneva. He is a music lover and plays the Alphorn, the national folk instrument of Switzerland which originates from the Alps. The instrument was originally used to call for help or summon cattle from the pastures. It ranges in length from 10.6 feet to 13.5 feet and produces 'natural' harmonic tones which reaches up to four octaves.
"The Alphorn was a form of communication between our farmers. They played it at sunrise and during sunset. You can hear it many kilometers away in the Alps. The sounds echoes back to you," he explained.
With wife visitingthe ancient ruinsin Anuradhapura
He notes that due to its massive size the Alphorn is a challenge to travel with. It can be portioned into three and fitted snugly into a bag. "I played it in Jakarta as well. I bought it about five years ago. I like to be present in whatever I do. It is the same with the Alphorn. I hear the tone, feel it and produce it at the same time," he says. Walker-Nederkoorn has started off his musical stint with a trumpet when he was 12 years old. Next he took up the brass band at High School.
"I met my wife, Senta, at High School. We have known each other for more then 40 years," he added with a smile. The couple has three daughters: Anna (24), Nina (22) and Sophie (20).
He notes that he has picked up various past times from each of the countries he has visited.
"It was singing in Germany. I took to scuba diving in Egypt. I discovered golf in Indonesia," he mused.
"The traffic is very heavy in Jakarta. The golf courses are the only green area in the city. I go there early morning. It is a good way to start the day. It takes hour and a half hours to pay nine holes. It is fascinating because you cannot force anything.
It is a game of miss hits. You can never be perfect. It deals with finding the right balance of power and control. If you use too much power, you lose control. Vice versa and the ball will not go anywhere. I hit the best shots when I am relaxed," he expressed. Queried if he has 'picked up' anything from Sri Lanka yet, the ambassador breaks into a smile.
"It is the thirst to discover things," he replied.
"Sri Lanka should be a leader in archeology because you have such a rich heritage. I was so impressed and still am by your beautiful heritage. We visited Anuradhapura once and our tourist guide showed us how your system was sustainable. For example the rest rooms had a marvelous system to get rid of waste. If they had let the waste flow into the rivers they would not have had suitable drinking water. Therefore they knew what was important way back then," he said. He notes that he is also captivated by the diversity in the island. This, he notes, is a similarity which the nation shares with Switzerland.
"If you travel around Switzerland you will notice that every 10 minutes there is a change of landscape. One of my favourite places to visit in Sri Lanka is the Horto n Plains National Park. I visited it twice last year," he said.
Another place he loves to chill out during the weekend is the Galleface Terrace. "The sea fascinates me. There is a whole new life beneath the sea. It is amazing to witness the corals and marine life mingled with the sound of your breath as you dive in. I did scuba diving at the Pigeon Island," Walker-Nederkoorn said.
With Ajnun
The manner in which the kings built the stupas by linking them with the cosmos too captivates him. "The king is in the middle and then around him there are the educated people, then the watchers and then the agricultural fields.
One of the pillars of any successful society is the Government's close link with the educated people in the society," he said.
Looking around the spacious garden in the Swiss Residence which is filled with lush greenery Walker-Nederkoorn gives a sigh of content. "I grew up in the Alps. So I love nature. The mountains are like the emblems of the limits which you can achieve. If you get to the top, you can have a great view across the valley.
Whenever I visit Switzerland, which is like two to three times per year, I go skiing," he said. The ambassador and his wife have four pets: two Persians and two tabby cats. The Persians: Mikesh and Ajnun, have traveled with them to Sri Lanka.
"You need to train dogs but cats are not animals that you can discipline. If I am tense they do not come to me. Whenever they come to sit by my side, I know that I am relaxed," he laughed adding that the family had birds and turtles while they were in Indonesia. They even had a gold hamster in Berlin. Speaking about his love for flora and fauna Ambassador Walker-Nederkoorn says that he likes all expressions of nature.
"We need to respect plants. Every plant has a character. They are all individuals. Nature has its own society. We have the eco system where plants and animals are integrated. If you interfere with that system you disturb the whole cycle," he opined.
"I love the nature in the tropics. We have this luxury only in the spring time. One of the great assets of being a diplomat is that you get the opportunity to live in different countries. If you live four years in a country, you become a part of it. I transform myself by taking in all the experiences I come across," he said.
==============================