## Title: I see myself as a scientist, not a woman in science
## Supertitle: Nobel laureate Donna Strickland
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Nobel laureate Donna Strickland
I see myself as a scientist, not a woman in science
When you win a Nobel prize, you can expect a fair bit of attention. When you are a woman and you win the prize in physics, as the Canadian professor Donna Strickland did earlier this month, you can expect the level of attention to be overwhelming.
The day after the announcement, just about everyone Strickland knew  and several people she did not, including Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada  called or emailed with congratulations. The day after that, her inbox overflowed with thousands more messages. The interview requests were similarly incessant; Strickland expects to be travelling non-stop, talking at schools and scientific organisations about her work, for the next two or three years. For a self-described recluse, the frenzy was all a bit much. Two or three weeks ago, I was an ordinary human being and now Im not, she says with a laugh.
Ordinary human being is characteristic Strickland self-deprecation. Long before the Nobel bestowed its honour, the 59-year-old was considered one of the worlds foremost laser physics pioneers. The research that the Nobel committee recognised was published in 1985, when Strickland was still a doctoral student at the University of Rochester in upstate New York. Along with her supervisor and mentor Grard Mourou (with whom she shared the Nobel), Strickland figured out a way to generate ultra-short, high-intensity laser pulses without destroying the material amplifying them. The idea was Mourous, she says, but I got to make it work.
Their revolutionary technique, called chirped pulse amplification (CPA), led to the creation of small, incredibly powerful lasers now used in corrective eye surgery, industrial machining and medical imaging. (Arthur Ashkin, a US scientist, was also awarded the physics prize this year, for the development of optical tweezers  using light to manipulate small objects.)
Time management
Before her Nobel win, Stricklands time was split between classroom and lab, but on this day in the middle of October we are sitting in the sunnier, more interview-friendly office of the universitys chancellor. She is wearing the sensible black trousers and black shoes of a lifelong academic, a shirt with a Burberry-like pattern (it is not Burberry: I would never spend money on that) and thick glasses (she refuses to get the corrective surgery her work made possible: I have great faith in lasers, but no ones putting one near my eye). She laughs often, speaks quickly and is unfailingly courteous  she even apologises for drinking coffee during our chat. When she talks about lasers, it is with the excitement and affection most people reserve for their pets.
Strickland is only the third woman to win the Nobel in physics. The first was Marie Curie, in 1903; the second was the German-born US physicist Maria Goeppert-Mayer, who won in 1963. The fact that female scientists are so often ignored by the Nobel committee, coupled with studies that show women in Stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) experience more discrimination, ensured that a lot of the discussion around Stricklands prize concerned gender. News stories drew attention to the fact that, despite having received numerous accolades before her Nobel win, Strickland was not deemed worthy of a Wikipedia page until this month (an attempt by a user to create a profile for her in March was denied by a moderator). Also highlighted was the fact that she was still an associate professor at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, rather than a full professor. It did not help that, in September, the Italian physicist Alessandro Strumia gave a conference lecture at Cern, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, in which he said men were now being discriminated against because of their gender and that physics was invented and built by men. (Cern subsequently suspended him.)
Strickland was surprised by the focus on gender. I know there is certainly a lot of effort right now being placed on equity, diversity and inclusivity, she says. We consider that in our hiring practices and Ive sat on many of the hiring committees. I was on the board of the Canadian Association of Physicists and we really discussed, as a board, how to incorporate these ideas. So, Im certainly aware of the climate. But I dont see myself as a woman in science. I see myself as a scientist. I didnt think that would be the big story. I thought the big story would be the science.
Focus
Stricklands focus has always been the science. She was born in Guelph, Ontario, a university town about an hours drive from Toronto. Her father was an electrical engineer and her mother was an English teacher. According to family lore, when Strickland was a child, they took a trip to the then recently opened Ontario Science Centre. Her father showed her the museums big laser, saying: Youll want to see this. Lasers are the way of the future. Strickland barely remembers the trip, but evidently something sunk in. Later, when she enrolled as an undergraduate at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, she was torn between electrical engineering (lots of jobs) and physics (more fun). Fortunately, McMaster offered a hybrid programme  engineering physics  so she did not have to choose. Better yet, electro-optics and lasers was an area of study within the course. I was like: Oh my God, that sounds cool, Strickland says.
When Strickland entered graduate school, the Canadian space programme was just starting up and her father often asked if she wanted to be an astronaut. No, she said, she was claustrophobic and afraid of heights  going into space sounded like a nightmare. All she wanted to do was stay in school. She was good at it, especially maths and science. When someone told her that a PhD was the ultimate in school, that degree became her ambition. Despite a few years on the edge of academia after Rochester, she never really left school. In 1997, she was hired by Waterloo, where she now runs the ultrafast laser group, the goal of which is, essentially, to create lasers that people have never seen before.
From her first Nobel press conference onwards, Strickland has insisted that she has been treated as an equal throughout her career; she has always been paid the same as her male colleagues, always been given the same opportunities. Her Nobel win is a symbol of progress, she says. Nonetheless, she has encountered men who share the defensive fragility demonstrated by Strumia in his Cern lecture. On one occasion during her undergraduate years, for example, a male student whom she had outperformed in a notoriously tough applied maths class was so furious that he threatened to pound her. Strickland was shocked, but also inwardly delighted: All I could think was: Girl beat you. Girl beat you bad.
A significant obstacle for women that she highlights is the two-body problem. Given that men outnumber women so heavily in physics, straight women who want to marry have a much wider choice among their colleagues then straight men do. If they marry a fellow physicist, however, it becomes almost impossible for the couple to find long-term university jobs at the same time, due to the relative scarcity of academic roles. Almost always, a wifes career is subordinated to her husbands  which is another reason for the smaller number of women in science.
Strickland met her future husband, the electrical engineer and scientist Doug Dykaar, at university. (They have two university-age children: a son who is studying comedy and a daughter who is doing graduate work in astrophysics.) In the years following their marriage, Dykaar was able to get hired by universities, but there was never an additional position available for Strickland. That situation was reversed when Strickland was hired by Waterloo and Dykaar left academia for industry. Every so often, hell go: When is it my turn Strickland says, laughing. But Ive got tenure, Doug, so, when its your turn, make sure its really safe for us to travel [to another school]. (She is a full-time tenured professor. The only reason she does not have the title of full professor is because she has never applied for the rank. The universitys president has said that, if she wanted to apply, her CV would need only be one line long: Awarded Nobel prize in physics, 2018.)
Excitement
Strickland would much rather talk about science than gender issues. When I ask her to describe some research she has done that is as cutting-edge as CPA, she launches into an impromptu, 10-minute lecture on a couple of experiments. I have not studied physics for about 30 years, so while I am more or less familiar with the words she uses  waveform, light, colour, intensity, pulse  her use and combination of them is baffling. She is patient, though, and almost giddy in her explanation  her eyes brighten, her smile never droops. She has said that her job is to impart her excitement about lasers to her students; in these few minutes, I feel a tingle of that excitement.
Strickland clearly misses the classroom. She regrets that, with all the Nobel nonsense going on, she is able to spend only about an hour a day in her lab, checking in with her group. Im trying my best not to abandon them, she says. She will get back there eventually. In the meantime, there are more interviews, more photoshoots, more talks. She has to go shopping for ball gowns  three for herself, as well as ones for her daughter and her sister. There are a lot of events during Nobel week in December  balls, lectures, concerts, dinners, a meet-and-greet with the Swedish royal family. Ive asked a couple of other Nobel laureates for advice, Strickland says. They all say the same thing: Pace yourself. You can only do so much.
-Guardian.uk
==============================
## Title: People who ruined the country trying to come to power again
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
People who ruined the country trying to come to power again
During the yahapalana regime, development is taking place in various parts of the country without any racial, religion or caste bias.
People who wish to topple the government are going about the country preaching that the government is not doing any of this for the welfare of the country.
People who have already ruined the country are trying to come to power again, said Housing and Construction Minister Sajith Premadasa.
He was speaking on the occasion of the opening of the 141st and 142nd model villages in Supeedsam Nagar (25 houses) and Viluthu Nagar (18 houses) in Kokkuvil in the Manmunai North Secretarial Division, Batticaloa, on Saturday.
Parties who fanned racial flames were defeated and they were now trying to come back to power. The voters will teach them a lesson. Today, we have built national amity and cordiality between the races. We must not allow this to be disrupted. We are in the process of fulfilling the dreams of the houseless and identifying the homeless communities in the Batticaloa district and taking action to meet their needs quickly. I appeal to the Government Agent, the National Housing Department officials and Divisional Secretary to help in this matter, he said.
Deputy Minister Alisahir Mowlana, Batticaloa District Parliamentarian G. Srinesan, Batticaloa Mayor T. Saravanapavan, Batticaloa Government Agent M. Uthayakumar, National Housing Authority District Manager K. Jeganathan, Manmunai North Divisional Secretary M. Thayaparan and Municipal Councillors were present.
==============================
## Title: Acquiring everlasting peace
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Acquiring everlasting peace
Edward Arambewela, a Senior Journalist launched his book `Ladder of World Peace  Making Cricket the First Step recently. In his first ever book he tries to provide solutions to issues like conflicts that destroys the humans and the society. Arambewela says he has given thought whether humans could make use of sports  the popular Cricketing component, as a first step to obtain everlasting peace.
The first poem in this book `Thinking Cricket was published in the Daily News on April 12, 2005 and was also carried by the doctors of the Sri Lanka Family Physicians WONCA MESAR Conference issue of October 2001.
Arambewela was a journalist at the old Times of Ceylon and retired when he was at Daily News, Lake House.
==============================
## Title: Add a few years to life
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Add a few years to life
Consuming plenty of the three dozen vitamins and minerals prevents disease and the risk of an early death, Dr Bruce Ames claims. However, Dr Ames, of the Childrens Hospital Oakland Research Institute claims that most people are deficient in many of the nutrients.
Below, MailOnline names the 36 nutrients, from vitamin K to selenium, and reveals how they benefit your health and the foods richest in them.
Dr Ames, who led the study, said: Diet is very important for our long-term health. This just reinforces that you should try to do what your mother told you: Eat your veggies, eat your fruit, give up sugary soft drinks and empty carbohydrates.
He published the list of nutrients in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr Ames said around 70 per cent of people in the US is deficient in vitamin D and as many as 60 per cent lack vitamin E.
This is despite vitamin D being essential for bone, heart and brain health, and vitamin E protecting against skin and eye damage. Dr Ames made the conclusion by evaluating research conducted by himself and his colleagues, as well as other scientists from around the world.
This is based on the theory that when a person lacks certain vitamins and minerals, their body uses the nutrients it does have to ensure their survival. This is rather than investing the nutrients into helping them live longer or preventing disease.
For example, a vitamin K deficiency may cause a persons to use the vitamin K it has to ensure blood properly clots, rather than investing it into heart health. While deficiency in longevity vitamins may not put someone at immediate risk of death, it can cause gradual damage that only becomes obvious in later life.
Ensuring lifelong health is increasingly important due to people all over the world living longer, Dr Ames said. The current review may be a theoretical paper, but I hope it can add a few years to everyones lives, he added.
Although factors aside from diet can cause disease, such as infections and genetics, eating well strengthens the immune system so it can then better fight pathogens off.
Previous research suggests more than 50 genetic diseases are preventable by taking high-dose supplements. And while some of the damage caused by nutrient deficiencies can be reversed once vitamins and minerals are taken in sufficient amounts, DNA damage can be permanent.
The prevention of the degenerative diseases of ageing is a different science than curing disease, Dr Ames said. It will involve expertise in metabolism, nutrition, biochemistry, and genetic regulatory elements and polymorphisms. This approach is critical for lowering medical costs.
dailymail
==============================
## Title: Addalaichenai New Star Sports Club cricket champs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Addalaichenai New Star Sports Club cricket champs
Addalaichenai New Star Sports Club emerged champions in the Saja Beach Challenge Trophy nine-a-side eight overs cricket tournament, Organized by Tournament Committee Chairman J.Arsath recently at Konawatta Beach Grounds, Addalaichenai.
Altogether 22 prominent sports clubs cricket teams from the Ampara district took part.
New Star Sports Club, Addalaichenai beat Deans Star Sports Club, Akkaraipattu in the final by 29 runs.
Addalaichenai New Star Sports Club, won the toss and elected to bat first and scored 49 runs in the 7.3 overs berore being all out.
In reply, Akkaraipattu Deans Star Sports Club, scored only 20 runs in the 6.4 overs all out. A.H.Rizad from New Star SC was adjudged the Best Batsman while R.Riskhan from New Star SC was picked as the Man of the Final. I.Zacky from New Star SC became the Best Fielder and received awards at this tournament.
The winners Addalaichenai New Star SC team was awarded a shield with Rs.25,000 cash prize by the guests and the runner up Akkaraipattu Deans Star Sports Club team was presented a trophy and Rs.15,000 cash prize.
The Addalaichenai New Star Sports Club chief Advisor M.C.Kuthoos and Saja Hotel Owner S.Raheem participated as the guests and awarded the trophy to winning team and players.
Public Health Inspector K.Rizwan, Addalaichenai New Star Sc Advisor A.M.Abdul Careem and many others were also present.
==============================
## Title: Ahan Wickramasinghe hits second ton
## Supertitle: Singer U-19 Cricket
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Singer U-19 Cricket
Ahan Wickramasinghe hits second ton
Ahan Wickramasinghe of Royal College, Colombo made second century in this season in the Singer Trophy Under 19 inter Schools Cricket tournament at Karandeniya yesterday. Ahan Wickramasinghe scored unbeaten 135 runs against Karandeniya Central College.
Ishiwara Dissanayake, Royal (135 n.o.) and Umesh Lakshan (St. Peters Negombo) made centuries. Ruvin Peiris of Trinity Kandy took 6 wickets for 40 runs against St. Sylvesters College Kandy.
* At Karandeniya. Royal College, Colombo: 267/4 decl. in 51 overs (Ahan Wickramasinghe 135 n.o., Ishiwara Dissanayake 113, Monaja Theekshana 2/53, Kumindu Nilhara 2/57)
P. De S. Kularathne Ambalangoda: 71/2 in 16.2 overs (Lakila Tehan 31 n.o., Sonal Amarasekara 2/24)
* At Asgiriya. St. Sylvesters Kandy: 88 in 42.5 overs (Manoharan Pavithran 28, Ruvin Peiris 6/40)
Trinity Kandy: 157/4 in 37.2 overs (Pubudu Bandara 83 n.o., Umail Raizan 24 n.o. Shanuka Kumarasinghe 21)
* At Godigamuwa. At St. Peters Negombo: 401/8 decl. in 82 overs (Umesh Lakshan 107, Thisara Maduwantha 78, Pasindu Navod 65, Shane Maleesha 61 n.o., Shanidu Madushanka 61, Lasitha Vithanage 2/75, Janula Indusara 2/66)
Ashoka Colombo: 21/0 in 8 overs. YK
==============================
## Title: Air Symposium proposes Air task force hub in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Air Symposium proposes Air task force hub in Sri Lanka
Maritime security in the Indian Ocean is a hot topic in every forum today. The need to build strategic maritime partnerships to develop collaborative approaches in the Indian Ocean, defence and security of the regional waters, and collective air power have become widely discussed solutions emphasised in many international forums.
The Colombo Air Symposium 2018 held last week similarly brought together scholars, academics, military leaders, diplomats and policymakers from Australia, Bangladesh, India, Japan, Nepal, Pakistan, USA and Sri Lanka to one platform to elaborate on the countrys air strategy of setting up a prospective air task force hub in Sri Lanka  a viable option given the countrys geostrategic position in the Indian Ocean. The location proposed for this hub was Mattala Airport  an opportunity to turn around a famous white elephant.
Location, location, location
According to Air Force Commander Air Marshal Kapila Jayampathy, Sri Lanka as a mid-size island is at the precise contiguity to coastal mainland Asia, becoming a gateway to ocean trade and sea lanes and global connectivity to the littorals and the hinterlands within the greater Indo-Pacific Region. I believe that the geostrategic position of Sri Lanka is ever more significant in the contemporary context, in a changing strategic and security landscape, under the revival of power competitions and paradigm shifts in transitional threats to the Indian Ocean Region.
Furthermore, the region is arguably the most populated in the world and also rich with marine and seabed resources, hydrocarbon reserves, and unparalleled ocean connectivity, which are opportune factors for greater infrastructure and economic development of Sri Lanka and the region. As such, the strategic location of Sri Lanka places the country in an advantaged position with leverage over welcoming economic and development initiatives and safeguarding the regional status quo. However, the air and maritime domains which are major areas of concern in the Indo-Pacific are threatened by a multitude of security challenges, as we have collectively identified. The holistic defence architecture, preserving freedom of navigation, circumscribing criminal activities of non-state actors, and countering transnational threats to both domains are crucial underpinnings to protecting the state of security of the Indian Ocean Region, he said.
Therefore, he said that the concept of air power is expected to be unpacked, analysed and revised to address these collective threats to the Indian Ocean Region and the role of its precepts of speed and reach executed through coordinated measures to provide an efficient and effective platform to counter these security concerns.
Despite Sri Lanka being an island nation confined to a land area of 65,610 square kilometres, the country claims close proximity to main sea lines of communication and marine transportation. The 200-nautical-mile-long Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) plus a 200-nautical-mile-long Exclusive Fishing Zone and the intensified economic activities in the Indian Ocean Region make the island a Super Connector in Asia. The Indian Ocean is the third-largest ocean in the world that consists of 38 littoral states, 27 ocean territories and 17 interior countries providing sea passage for more than 50 percent of the worlds containerised cargo and two-thirds of the worlds hydrocarbon shipments.
Today, more than 60,000 ships ply the EastWest route across the Indian Ocean annually, which is two-thirds of the worlds oil and half of all container shipments. Therefore, it is of vital importance to all countries in this region to come together in setting up a combined air task force hub and considering Sri Lankas strategic location, it is an ideal location to establish such a base.
Cannot do it alone
Presenting his paper on, Sri Lanka as an Air Task Force Hub to secure the Indian Ocean region at Air Symposium 2018, Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) Air Operations Director Air Vice Marshal S.K. Pathirana said with the advancement of technology over the years, geographic and economic activity has progressed by leaps and bounds across the world. With increasing economic activities and goods transfer, state and non-state actors have gravitated towards this region. This has also attracted several non-traditional security threats to the region. Due to this situation, many global actors have focussed their attention individually to secure their respective sea lines of communication, resulting in huge effort and budget than what a collective effort would have demanded.
Sri Lankas strategic location has a gamut of potential to set up a combined air hub with all state actors in securing the Indian Ocean Region. The Indian Ocean holds almost 20 percent of the worlds water and 40 percent of the worlds gas and oil reserves. The total area is around 68 million square kilometres connecting four continents  Africa, Asia, Australia and Antarctica. It is home to the worlds busiest waterways and choke points such as the Cape of Good Hope, Straits of Hormuz, Suez Canal, Babel-Mandeb, Malacca Straits, Sunda Strait and Lombok Strait and is extremely important. As it is one of the busiest waterways in the world, it is also vulnerable to many security threats such as piracy and drug trafficking, said AVM Pathirana.
He said Sri Lankas position between the Golden Triangle and the Golden Crescent can be effectively utilised in terms of limiting the activities of these non-state actors. Sri Lanka has been used by many human traffickers for their advantage. But it has also been used to counter human trafficking in the region. Four trillion sewage and an equal amount of industrial effluents enter the regions coastal waters each year.
The Hambantota Harbour was proposed as an ideal location, given its location and size, to establish a joint air operations hub in the region, where countries in the Indian Ocean could combine their efforts to fortify the region. In Sri Lanka, 36,000 ships pass through its southern tip annually which includes 4,500 oil tankers. We possess an exclusive economic zone which is several times greater than the country. There are around 45,000 international aircraft flying above this region annually. Hence, protecting this economic zone is a mighty task for an island nation such as Sri Lanka and the country could benefit greatly by seeking the assistance and air power of other states in the region in establishing this joint hub which would benefit all without wasting too much time and resources.
Meanwhile, Air Commodore Nagesh Kapoor of the Indian Air Force said Sri Lanka may be small in size, but is located in an enviable position. Sri Lanka commands an air space that is roughly 60 times its land size. Sri Lanka and India have strong ties dating back centuries and these two countries together with other countries in the region can well provide the security in this region to ensure the security of global commerce. In this endeavour, establishment of an aerial umbrella is of vital importance. Given the geographical location and being the fastest connectivity, Sri Lankan air space is critical for the safety of global trade and energy.
He said in the recent past there has been a jump in non-traditional threats emanating from the sea. There have been incidents in the neighbourhood where terror has struck from the sea. In fact, Sri Lanka has borne the brunt of many such attacks. Therefore, all countries in the region should come together to share intelligence and take collective action to ensure that each others security is not endangered by these non-state actors. This endeavour might require the use of each others maritime and air spaces.
He also noted that with the effects of climate change, its ill effects are staring us in the face and it would be an advantage for all countries in the region to combine their air and maritime capabilities to respond to any such adverse climatic effect that may threaten the region.
Air Vice Marshal M.D.A.P Payoe said Sri Lanka needs to make use of its strategic position to become a front-runner in regional security
Taking into consideration the research papers that were presented at the Sri Lanka Air Forceorganised Air Symposium 2018, it was evident that great emphasis was placed on Sri Lankas strategic position and the establishing of a joint air hub. While several airports in the country were identified, it was eventually determined that the Mattala airport was the most suited for this purpose. Some of the speakers also suggested convening a conference of Air Force Commanders in the region to come together and discuss the process of setting up a joint air task force hub in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Anthea Bell, Translator of Sebald, Kafka, and Asterix, Has Died at 82
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Anthea Bell, Translator of Sebald, Kafka, and Asterix, Has Died at 82
Anthea Bell, beloved English translator of W. G. Sebald, Stefan Zweig, Cornelia Funke, Franz Kafka, Sigmund Freud, E. T. A. Hoffmann, and the Asterix comics, among others, died this morning at the age of 82. She translated primarily French and German, but also taught herself Danish to re-translate Hans Christian Andersens fairytales.
As Will Self told The Guardian, its doubtful that the eminence of WG Sebald would be quite so great in the English reading world were it not for Anthea Bells magnificent translations of his works. Indeed, given quite how important a translator isoften effectively rewriting the originalit might be better to speak of a hybrid creature: Bellbald, perhaps.
It was a great privilege, Bell said of her turn as Bellbald, and fascinating because his own English was so good that he could have written in it himself. It was very, very dense work. He wouldnt use email and said hed never unwrapped the computer in his office. I would draft out a passage and send it to him and hed send it back while I did the next one, so we were working together on it all the way through.
All my professional life, I have felt that translators are in the business of spinning an illusion: the illusion is that the reader is reading not a translation but the real thing, Bell said in a 2013 interview. Almost no one pulled off that trick as well as she did. She will be missed.
Her son, Oliver Kamm, a writer for the Times, announced the news on Thursday morning, describing Bell as a literary giant and, in all respects, a brilliant person. Kamm had written in December that his mother had fallen ill a year earlier, and was in a nursing home. Her great mind has now departed and she no longer knows who I am, he wrote. Though her career is over, she remains a literary giant and no one has taught me more about language and languages.
Bell, who worked from both French and German, translated texts by authors including Sebald, Stefan Zweig, Franz Kafka and Sigmund Freud. She first began translating Asterix in 1969, coming up with some of its best jokes and puns. In her version, Obelixs small dog Idfix became Dogmatix, and the druid Panoramix became Getafix. The Oxford Guide to Literature in English Translation describes her work on Asterix as ingenious and superbly recreated, displaying the art of the translator at its best.
Anthea Bell: Its all about finding the tone of voice in the original. You have to be quite free
Read more
According to the novelist Will Self, its doubtful that the eminence of WG Sebald would be quite so great in the English reading world were it not for Anthea Bells magnificent translations of his works.
Indeed, given quite how important a translator is  often effectively rewriting the original  it might be better to speak of a hybrid creature: Bellbald, perhaps, he said. Yet if this is the case, then theres also room for a Bellterix, since her translations of the famous French bande dessine are widely attested to be a thrillingly witty recreation of the original, complete with pinpoint accurate punning.
Self said that he had read Bells translations all his life, five years ago convening a translators symposium to discuss the vexed problem of translating Kafka, at which Bell shone.
Particularly inspiring was her analysis of his humour as a writer  incomprehensible to English readers until mediated by this very fine and very great mind, he said. In an era when Britain seems once more to be winding itself yet tighter into its immemorial and monoglot garb, wed do well to remember the huge importance of literary translation as a vector for our understanding of  and empathy with  other peoples. - Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (22-10-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (22-10-2018)]
Dr. Gamini Wijesekera
Outstanding doctor
A man accepted by all as a gentleman to the corea rare man of sublime quality is not amongst us anymore. He left us tragically 24 years ago on October 24, 1994.
I became quite close to Dr. Gamini Wijesekera after getting married to his youngest sister in 1975. Henceforth, I had a close relationship with him till he left us on that fateful day.
He was an outstanding alumni of Trinity College, Kandy and Ananda College, Colombo. Even today, his alma maters acknowledge him as a student of rare capabilities. After his secondary education, he entered the Peradeniya Universitys Medicine Faculty and passed out as an MBBS doctor. Subsequently, he qualified as a child specialist and joined the Government Service.
As the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) Secretary, he won the hearts of all, serving them not only as a fellow doctor, but also as a father figure who overcame all trials and tribulations.
After he left the Government Service, he did not rest on his laurels, but opened a private dispensary at Pannipitiya, serving one and all: the underprivileged, the middle-class, as well as the well-to-do. It came to such a pass that he had only to lay his hands on the sick and suffering and they were cured. His name and fame spread so far and wide that crowds flocked to his dispensary, which made it seem like a state outpatients clinic.
While practicing medicine, Dr. Wijesekera joined politics. He started his political career while being a University undergraduate.
In 1977, he was elected to the United National Partys Executive Committee. He served as the Chairman of many Government Statutory Corporations and ultimately became the Transport and Highways Ministrys Secretary. At the parliamentary by-election in 1983, he contested the Maharagama Constituency as a candidate of the United National Party, and his main opponent was Dinesh Gunawardane, the present party leader of the Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP).
He functioned in many government organisations which included, inter alia, Lanka Milk Foods, the Moratuwa University, Foreign Employment Bureau, Ceylon Transport Board, as well as the University Grants Commission.
He was also a social worker and was the first Chairman of the Maharagama Rotary Club. He was also the Chairman of the Maharagama Cancer Society. Once, he simultaneously headed the Colombo District Cricket Association and held the post of Senior Vice Chairman of the Sri Lanka Cricket Board.
He was elected a provincial councillor at the Western Provincial Council Election in 1993 and in May, 1994, he assumed duties as the United National Partys General Secretary. He also became a Member of Parliament in August, 1994 and just two months later, his life was taken away.
Dr. Wijesekera is the eldest son of late Professor O.H. de A. Wijesekera, a former Colombo University Vice Chancellor and Professor of Sanskrit. His mother Mabel Wijesekera is a graduate of the same university.
He left behind his beloved wife Daisy Wijesekera; daughter Dr. Bavani Charithya Wijesekera, who is an anesthetist at the Sri Jayawardenepura Hospital and son Dumesh Praveen Wijesekera. He also leaves behind all those who were so close to him, as well as those who loved the fair politics and true democracy he practiced.
You made our lives so happy,
You filled our days with joy
You cared for us and loved us,
With a charming smile and heart of gold
May you attain the Supreme Bliss of Nirvana!
Srilal
****
Prof. A.J. Fernando
Man of sophisticated wit
I was awakened by a call from my cousin Shehan de Tissera saying that one of the cleverest, outstanding, and certainly the highest achiever of my family, had died in Canada. It was my mother Lakshmi Sylvias younger brother: uncle Athula.
My uncle rose to the highest position in his profession, globally: Professor Athula Fernando (or Prof. A.J. Fernando as he was internationally known), former Dean of the School of Medical Rehabilitation at the University of Manitoba, was President of the World Confederation for Physical Therapy (WCPT) between 1991 and 1995.
The three messages for the centenary year of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy, UK, published in the Physiotherapy Journals 80th volume in January, 1994, bore the names and signatures of the Prince of Wales, Baroness Robson and Prof. A.J. Fernando.
Uncle Athulas message read: Congratulations on your centenary: The work of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy is a record of achievement. On behalf of the World Confederation of Physical Therapy, please accept warm and sincere good wishes for continued success.
A.J. Fernando was the first President of the Confederation with third-world roots, being born and educated in Ceylon.
Prof. Fernando graduated from the Colombo Universitys Medical College and obtained his doctorate from the Manchester University. My uncle was a scintillating public speaker who dressed stylishly and drove a Porsche into his 80s.
Highly literate (Similar to his father T.R. Fernando), uncle Athula was a travelled and cultured man; a superb conversationalist with sophisticated wit. Uncle Athula and my father Mervyn de Silva had an easy and natural rapport.
As a hobby during retirement, he pressed grapes into wine. He was the son of T.R. and Annie Fernando of Moratuwa. He leaves behind his sister (my aunt) Chitra as the sole survivor of my mothers family, as well as his wife Nadja and two sons by aunty Monica: my cousins Parakrama and Naresh.
DR. Dayan Jayatilleka
****
Wickrema de Alwis
Dedicated planter
The curtain came down on the life of Wickrema de Alwis on October 20 at the age of 87, leaving friends and family to reflect on the qualities of a man that made him not just one of the finest tea planters the industry had known, but also a true gentleman in every sense of the word.
My association with Wick, as he was fondly known, goes back to the mid-70s when as a young executive at George Steuarts (then renowned for managing plantations), I was assigned the task of handling the desk of its Standard Tea Company which comprised six remarkable estates in Udapussellawa, as well as others in Bogawantalawa and Lindula.
Wick was the superintendent of one of them: the Kotiyagala Group in Bogawantalawa, a highly profitable property with a popular selling mark, which he took great pride in. His leadership was by example, combining the highest level of integrity with a no nonsense approach to work and ethics that were impossible to surpass and yet worthy to emulate.
Unsurprisingly, every young planter who served under him went on to reach great heights in their own careers thanks to a foundation of integrity, commitment and accountability instilled by their strict disciplinarian; Peria Dorai Boss.
Here lies yet another story of what exemplary leadership can do for a succeeding generation no matter what the field.
Following the nationalisation of plantations in 1975/76, Wick was appointed to chair a regional board, where his expertise and high standards benefitted a cluster of estates and the numerous personnel who worked there.
He became a much sought-after visiting agent and it is common knowledge that the bushes flushed green and tea prices soared on every mark he visited.
His official residences had beautifully manicured lawns surrounded by exotic roses, while his impeccably maintained homes were a joy to visit.
There walls were studded with photos of the many pedigreed handsome canines that surrounded his life; relationships of love and care may well have inspired the likes of Barbara Cartland to even greater heights!
In retirement, he lived initially in rented accommodation in Watapuluwa, off Kandy and I have fond memories of our weekends together, enjoying long walks while reminiscing the positive and negative sides of life and humanity.
He followed our nations cricket with a passion and was quick to put pen to paper whenever he felt that something in that field needed correction. The media respected his wisdom and often published his views.
He was blessed in his domestic Saveria, a faithful Man Friday of almost 40 years whose loyalty and respect for his master remained unwavering throughout that perioda rare occurrence indeed and yet a reflection of a large and caring heart that Wick hid under a strict and exacting exterior.
Kalimuttu, his driver of shorter duration was equally devoted, but less disciplined as his refusal to give up smoking much to Wicks anger and dismay eventually took toll of his lungs and life.
Needless to say that Wick reciprocated this loyalty by ensuring that Kalimuttus children were put on career paths that opened doors to greater opportunities.
Sadly, the collapse of the Golden Key Finance Company where he had a major part of his life savings, cruelly devastated him and took an inevitable toll on his health.
He was compelled to move to a retirement home in Bolgoda, where he spent his final years in decline.
His meticulous planning for a contented retired life that he so richly deserved was shattered by the irresponsibility of an institution he trusted.
Though miles away, Wick, you are very much in my thoughts. May you find the peaceful rest you deserve.
SkandaSri Lanka High Commission,Canberra
****
W.S Hulugalle
A devoted father
You were a colossus in our lives,You commanded us to do good.You were our guiding lightin the darkness,You were the sunbeam thatlit up our path.You gave us space to growour potential,You were the platformto launch our journey.You had confidence that we would do good,And had the courage to tell us when we strayed.You were so meticulous, diligent and charming,You were handsome and always well-groomed.You lived by the standards you set for yourself,You could be harsh, but generous to a fault.You hardly forgave those who wronged us,You were fierce like a lion to protect us.You fed us the best and shared till the end,Your never craved anything for yourself.You were candid and made lot of enemies,But used a yardstick for us and the others.You mellowed down as you grew older,Made us independent and broke our shackles.We will see you when the sun shines on us!We will feel you in the balmy, gentle breeze!We will miss you when our journey gets tough!We will love you till our hearts cease to beat!
Sriyani and Lakshman Hulugalle
****
Samantha Gallage
A brave comrade who saved many a life
Twenty-five years ago on January 18, 1993, at Fort Hammenhiel, Karinagar, two officers and 42 sailors, all volunteers from the navy, underwent a special training to start a new unit known as the Special Boat Squadron (SBS) or the Naval Commando Unit.
The SBS was formed to fight against Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) troops in lagoons and waterways. Our training also focused on carrying out attacks behind enemy lines to destroy LTTE sea-tiger installations. The UK Royal Marines Special Boat Squadron was our model.
I was fortunate to command this unit and train my men to be the Bravest of the Brave in the navy. I was a young Lieutenant Commander at the time and my Second-in-Command was an officer who was more than 12 years younger to me. He was Acting Sub-lieutenant Samantha Waruna Gallage from Dehiwala.
As a student of Dehiwala MMV and a member of Kinross Swimming Club, Samantha was trained as life guard and was also a volunteer life guard at the Mount Lavinia beach during weekends. He had saved a number of lives during that time. He was an outstanding swimmer who performed excellently in his naval training. Samantha was also an excellent boat handler as well as a top marksman.
We trained together for eight months in the Karainagar lagoon with the intention of taking over boat operations in the Jaffna lagoon from our small detachment at Nagadevannturai.
On 11th November 1993, LTTE launched Operation Frog. Our naval detachment in Nagadevanthuri and Pooneryn Army Complex came under heavy attack from the enemy. One by one, small detachments around the main Pooneryn Army Complex fell into the enemys hand and more than 700 military personnel were trapped in Pooneryn.
As there was no possibility to reinforce the besieged army complex from the air, military commanders decided to send reinforcements through an amphibious landing. My unit, the brand-new Naval Special Force (the SBS), was tasked to carry out the first wave.
Landing at an enemy beach is a suicidal task. It is bloody and chaotic. There is no cover for you until you cross the beach.
Enemy obstacles and gun positions will be there to slow down your advancement and there is a 90 percent probability of getting killed or injured during this crossing.
Orders were issued: Samantha and I were commanding two Inshore Patrol Crafts (commonly known as water jets) that carried 15 commandos each, followed by fiberglass boats carrying six commandos each. My orders to Samantha were clear: I told him that I would land first because I wanted to assess the situation.
Navy Gunboats started bombarding the beach early morning with their 37-mm guns, and we were given clearance to do the landing with the lull of heavy gunfire. Our two water jets raced towards Pooneryn beach. Two machine guns of enemy started firing at us and suddenly, Samantha increased the speed of his water jet and landed first and nullified enemy machine gun position with his grenade launchers.
I was furious at the time, however, I was happy that he destroyed enemy gun positions in quick sessions without causing casualties to our side. The landing was successful and we established the beachhead for reinforcements to arrive. The SBS was then hailed as the Bravest of the Brave in the navy.
After that, we returned to Karainagar that evening to rest and relax. That night I asked Samantha why he disobeyed my orders. He said with tears in his eyes, Sir, I was afraid that you would be hit by enemy machine gun fire! I told him that he would have had the same fate and he replied, Sir, I can die. Thats not a concern. My father and mother will cry, but, not you! You have a wife and son.
I was the only married person in the SBS at that time and my son was only a one-year-old then.
This was the calibre of officers whom I served with. We were fortunate commanders to have officers such as Samantha as our subordinates. They were ready to sacrifice their lives to protect us.
One day, I saw Samantha going through the Navy List. The Navy List is a book which denotes the seniority and qualifications of naval officers. I asked why he was referring the list and he said as per the seniority gap between the two of us, when I became a Rear Admiral, he would still be a Lieutenant Commander. I promised him that if were made a Rear Admiral one day, I would take him as my Flag Lieutenant [Aide-de-Camp (ADC)]. He was happy to hear that.
Before embarking on a difficult operation, I used to tell my wife Yamuna that I would be away for a few weeks and her only question to me always was, Is Samantha Gallage going with you She always believed that Samantha would look after me and bring me home safely.
In 1995, Samantha got married to Nishika, a young lady officer in the navy who was a teacher at our Naval Pre-school.
Samantha died in an SBS-Army Special Forces joint operation at Nallathannithuduvai in Chalai, Jaffna, on October 20, 1996. His only son, Rumal, was only eight months old when he sacrificed his life for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our motherland. He was awarded the Weera Wickrama Vibushanaya posthumously for his valour and bravery during this operation. His wife Nishika died of cancer in 2011, leaving young Rumal alone.
Today, 22-year-old Rumal is doing his higher studies in Australia. Keeping my promise to Samantha, I never took a flag lieutenant when I became a rear admiral on July 15, 2009. Even though Samantha is dead, I kept my promise to him.
The seat and table of Flag Lieutenant next to my office for the past nine years has been empty in honour of my friend who was ready to sacrifice his life for me.
As the Navy Commander and now as the Chief of Defence Staff and a four-star Admiral, I do not have a Flag Lieutenant; I have only Personal Security Officers (PSOs). Every time I pass this empty chair and table, it reminds me of Samantha. Lieutenant Commander (SBS) Samantha Gallage will remain as my Flag Lieutenant until the day I retire.
They will grow not old, as we that are left grow old;
Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn.
At the going down of the Sun and in the morning
We will remember them
- Laurence Binyon (For the Fallen) Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne, Chief of Defence Staff
==============================
## Title: ARCHBISHOP OF COLOMBO IS NOT HEAD OF CATHOLIC CHURCH IN SRI LANKA
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
ARCHBISHOP OF COLOMBO IS NOT HEAD OF CATHOLIC CHURCH IN SRI LANKA
It is presently misleadingly broadcast in the media that the Archbishop of Colombo is the head of the Catholic Church in Sri Lanka. In the Catholic Church there are ecclesiastical provinces. In an ecclesiastical province there can be one a Metropolitan Archbishop, the archbishop of the Capital city of the country, in certain particular instances called the Primate Archbishop, with other archbishops each one with suffragan bishops. One day there could be an Archbishop of Jaffna. But all in Sri Lanka and the Maldives will be still one Ecclesiastical Province.
In the Catholic Church, the Bishop of the Diocese is the head of the Catholic Church that has been constituted through the erection or creation of the diocese. Every Diocesan Catholic Bishop is an independent Bishop and he and the laity in his diocese, under his jurisdiction are not under any other Bishop, not even an Archbishop. An archbishops, a Cardinal Archbishops jurisdiction is limited to his archdiocese. Even a Primate or metropolitan archbishop cannot interfere in the matters of another diocese, so much so that when he or any other Bishop is invited by a priest of another to officiate at even a religious service or any other function, and every Parish Priest or head of a Catholic institution is free to invite any Catholic Bishop, the Bishop of the diocese is always kept informed and the visiting Bishop always courteously keeps in touch with the Bishop of the Diocese.
All Catholic people hold all the Catholic Bishops with great reverence and pray for the Pope and all the Catholic Bishops of the universal Church at every Holy Mass they celebrate. All Catholic Bishops are officially mandated by and are in communion with the Bishop of Rome to whom they give an account of their stewardship every five years and go together to visit Peter in Rome and do an ad limina visit to renew the bonds of communion and fraternity. All Bishops in communion with Peter are also in communion of faith with one another. This communion is quite distinct from being in ecumenical relations with other Christians and being in dialogue and fraternity with other religious denominations.
The Catholic Bishops Conference of Sri Lanka has been constituted as the Common Pastoral Organ of the Catholic Bishops in Sri Lanka. They coordinate pastoral activities and act in unity in all matters including public affairs and relations with national public authority and with every other national institution that need their attention. What is officially affirmed together by them surpass any other individual view on the matter that is considered in particular. Such statements are officially published in the Catholic Newspapers. The SLCBC also entrusts particular offices and duties to any priest in Sri Lanka to attend to particular tasks for the sake of all the dioceses in the country.
The President of the Sri Lankan Catholic Bishops Conference is elected every three years; such an elected President could be and is usually elected for another three years unless a special reason urges otherwise.
The present President of SLCBC is the Most Rev. Dr. J. Winston S. Fernando, S.S.S., who is also the Bishop of Badulla. The Secretary General of the SLCBC is Most Rev. Dr. Valence Mendis, the Bishop of Chilaw. The SLCBC is governed by its own constitution which has been approved by the Holy See of Rome.
==============================
## Title: Army rejects allegations against Lt. Col. Amunupure, says it will appeal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Army rejects allegations against Lt. Col. Amunupure, says it will appeal
The Sri Lanka Army has rejected allegations levelled by the UN which has called for the immediate repatriation of the Commander of its Peacekeeping force in Mali, citing a review of his human rights background, saying that while the Army would comply, they would also appeal.
Military Spokesman Brigadier Sumith Atapattu told the Daily News that it would comply with the UN request and take steps to recall Lt. Col. Amunupure, when an official request is received.
This is merely an allegation, the Commander has not committed any crimes to warrant such an action, hence its our responsibility to appeal upon his return, he said.
We will not be sending anyone else in the interim, since this contingent will be completing their mission by the end of this year.
UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric announced on Friday that the request for Lt. Col. Kalana Amunupure to leave the troubled West African nation was made based on recently received information. He gave no details.
This mission has been in Mali for the last nine months, we find it odd that such intimation has been received many months into the mission. It is noteworthy to mention that this is Lt. Col. Amunupures second mission to Mali for which he was granted approval following a stringent vetting process.
Brigadier Atapattu said that they have only received a verbal request so far and would comply once a formal intimation is received.
We will comply with the official notification in keeping with protocols. However, the Commander has not committed any crimes and the army is prepared to appeal. In a response to Inner City Press which had questioned the UN spox on the request for repatriation, they were told the decision was reached following a review of the human rights background of the Commander.
The Secretariat has requested Sri Lanka to immediately repatriate him. This will be done at their cost, as per normal procedure. This decision to repatriate the commander was made following a review, based on recently received information. The Secretariat remains engaged with the Permanent Mission on this matter.
Despite the setback, sources say that the Sri Lanka Army is in the process of obtaining clearance for the next contingent which will leave the country next year.
Lt.Col.Kalana Amunupure leads a 200-strong Combat Convoy Company (CCC) contingent which will complete their one year tenure in Mali in December. According to him, 20 officers and 240 other rankers commanded by Lt.Col. K.L.I. Karunanayake with Major P.G.J Suriyasena as his Second-in-Command, would undertake responsibilities in Mali as replacement for the first CCC.
==============================
## Title: ASPI hits 5-year low
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
ASPI hits 5-year low
The Bourse turned around to end the week on a negative note as the ASPI decreased by 53.94 points (or -0.93%) to close at 5,761.09 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also decreased by 29.81 points (or -1.01%) to close at 2,916.82 points.
Singer Sri Lanka was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 1.67Bn or 38.30% of total turnover value.
JKH followed suit, accounting for 34.88% of turnover (value of LKR 1.53Bn) while Sampath Bank contributed LKR 0.26Bn to account for 5.98% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 4.37Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 1.56Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 0.87 (+180.89% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.31Bn. Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.93% W-o-W (or LKR 25.33Bn) to LKR 2,705.39Bn cf. LKR 2,730.72Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Trading sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 38.33% (or LKR 1.68Bn) of market turnover. Sector turnover was driven primarily by Singer Sri Lanka which accounted for 99.92% of the sectors total turnover. The Diversified sector meanwhile accounted for 38.32% (or LKR 1.68Bn) of the total turnover value, with turnover driven primarily by JKH & Melstacorp which accounted for 97.48% of the sector turnover. The Banks, Finance & Insurance sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 15.10% (or LKR 0.66Bn) to the market driven by Sampath Bank, Commercial Bank, NDB & Amana Takaful which accounted for 76.27% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Trading sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 37.70% (or 36.15Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 1.68Bn.
The Banks, Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 19.14% to total turnover volume as 18.35Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR 0.66Bn of total market turnover value. The Diversified sector meanwhile, contributed 17.17Mn shares (or 17.91%), amounting to LKR 1.68Bn.
Top gainers and losers
Adam Investment was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 100.0% W-o-W from LKR0.10 to LKR0.20 while Blue Diamonds [NV] (+50.0% W-o-W), Blue Diamonds (+40.0% W-o-W) and Adam Capital (+25.0% W-o-W) were also amongst the top gainers.
Office Equipment was the weeks highest price loser; declining 19.7% W-o-W to close at LKR68.00 while MTD Walkers (-12.1% W-o-W), Laxapana (-11.8% W-o-W) and Prime Finance (-11.6% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net selling position with total net outflow amounting to LKR 2.38Bn relative to last weeks total net outflow of LKR 0.49Bn (-387.8% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases increased by 266.5% W-o-W to LKR 1.17Bn from last weeks value of LKR 0.32Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 3.55Bn relative to LKR 0.81Bn recorded last week (339.8% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Dialog & Teejay Lanka led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka & JKH led foreign sales. In terms of value, Cargills & Dialog led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka & JKH led foreign sales.
Point of view
Sri Lankan equities hit a 5-year low on Friday to close at 5761.09 points as it lost ~54 points (0.9% W-o-W) over the week. On Monday, the broad share Index fell below the psychological 5800-mark to 5774.37 and continued to trade below 5800-mark throughout the remainder of the week.
This weeks ~0.9% loss on the ASPI consequently dragged this years cumulative loss on Sri Lankan equities down to ~10%. Despite this, activity levels on the market improved during the week, with weekly turnover increasing ~181% W-o-W to Rs.4.4Bn from Rs.1.6Bn last week. On Monday, daily turnover hit an 11-week high of ~Rs.2.0Bn driven by a strategic transaction on Singer Sri Lanka by its current parent Hayleys.
Although Singer was trading below Rs.30.0, Hayleys Group (which already owns >80% of Singer) bought a further 9.47% (35,562,883 shares) at the notably higher price of Rs.47.0 (same as last years mandatory offer price). Subsequently, the average daily turnover on the Colombo Bourse increased to Rs.874Mn cf. just Rs.311Mn last week. Local HNI and Institutional investors meanwhile returned strongly to the market this week, with crossings over the week accounting for ~69% of total weekly turnover (cf. just 24% last week).
Large parcels of Singer (~55% of crossings) and JKH (~35%) accounted for the majority of the weeks total crossings. Meanwhile the foreign equity sell-off on Sri Lankan equities continued yet again this week, reflecting both broader global economic developments and continued concerns over the depreciation of the LKR.
The net foreign outflows from the Colombo bourse consequently increased to Rs.2.4Bn (including the Singer transaction of Rs.1.7Bn) cf. just Rs.0.5Bn last week. Although foreign investors recorded a net inflow of Rs.6.1Bn up until February 2018, foreign investors have since sold off Rs.15.4Bn between February to October, bringing the YTD foreign outflow from Sri Lankan equities to Rs.9.3Bn.Markets in the week ahead are likely to take cues from the beginning of the September18 earnings season.
Manufacturing and service sector growth slows
Sri Lankas manufacturing and Services sector activities grew at a slower pace in September, with the leading Purchasing Managers Indicator (PMI) indicating slower growth during the month. Manufacturing Sector PMI fell to 54.1 points in September (cf. 58.2 points in August) amid a slowdown in new orders and production especially in the manufacturing of food and beverage. Despite remaining above the neutral 50-point mark, the PMI shrank to a 5-month low as employment also slowed down. Increased input costs of imported raw materials (due to the 11.6% YTD depreciation of the LKR) meanwhile led to an increase in prices of the manufactured products and resulted in decreased demand for new orders and production.
However, export driven segments such as manufacturing of textiles, wearing apparel and leather experienced an improvement in new orders and production. Sri Lankas Service Sector PMI meanwhile fell to 53.0 points in Sep18 cf. 57.0 in Aug18, its weakest since the survey began in May15.
Though the index remained above the 50-point mark, which separates growth from contraction, the slowdown in the service sector was largely driven by slower business activity in accommodation, food & beverage, wholesale & retail trade, health activities and other personal services. The slowdown in import volumes and off-peak season in the Tourism sector also added to the decline in the Index.
Slower business activities also contributed to sluggish employment expansion in Sep18 while new business growth eased across the financial services and insurance sectors. Meanwhile, Service providers outlook on the three months business activities strengthened, albeit at a slower pace, as higher fuel prices along with LKR depreciation and import restrictions impacted survey respondents adversely.
==============================
## Title: Australian sportsmans brother quizzed
## Supertitle: Kamer Nizamdeen case
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Kamer Nizamdeen case
Australian sportsmans brother quizzed
The brother of an Australian sportsman has reportedly been questioned by police as part of a counter-terrorism investigation probing a hit list found in a university notebook.
Officers allegedly raided the home where the Aussie sportsmans brother lives with his parents in Westmead, Sydney, last week, as police continued their search for the person responsible for writing the list.
He has not been arrested or charged, according to foreign media reports.
The raid came as charges against the notebook's owner Kamer Nizamdeen were dropped on Friday, with police admitting he likely did not write the threats.
Nizamdeen had been charged with creating a document allegedly in connection with preparing for a terrorist act.
The 25-year-old spent four weeks in Goulburns supermax prison and is planning to take legal action against police.
Nizamdeen was released on bail last month after the Director of Public Prosecutions Solicitor Soo Choi conceded the evidence contained in the notebook was weak and that no extremist material was found in the notebook or any of his other belongings.
The notebook had allegedly been discovered in a drawer in Nizamdeens desk at the University of New South Wales, where he worked.
The Aussie sportsmans brother has also worked at the same university, according to agency reports.
Nizamdeen's arrest and time in jail sparked protests in Colombo, while an online petition attracted more than 16,000 signatures.
(Agencies)
==============================
## Title: Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by 28 runs in first ODI
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by 28 runs in first ODI
Dhaka, Sunday: Bangladesh beat Zimbabwe by 28 runs in the first one-day international to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series at the Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium in Dhaka on Sunday.
Opener Imrul Kayes struck a career best 144 off 140 balls to guide Bangladesh to 271-8 before the hosts restricted Zimbabwe to 243-9 in 50 overs.
Sean Williams made the highest score for Zimbabwe with 50 not out off 58 balls.
Off-spinner Mehidy Hasan claimed a career best 3-46 for Bangladesh. AFP
==============================
## Title: Battling Breast Cancer
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Battling Breast Cancer
This week Oncologists, Consultant Community Physicians and other health professionals attached to the National Cancer Control Programme of the Health Ministry speak about breast cancer which is the commonest cancer among Sri Lankan women.
Women with high risk of developing breast cancer
The women with a past history of breast cancer/breast condition, a family history of breast or ovarian cancers, infertility, first child birth after 35 years, low parity, not breast fed or breast fed only for a short period, attended puberty before 11 years, menopause after 55 years, use of oral contraceptive pills 5 years or more (slight increase in risk), higher breast density, prolonged hormone replacement therapy during menopause, obesity after menopause, less exercise/sedentary life style, consumption of more alcohol, active or passive smoking and the women who underwent ionizing radiation are at high risk of developing breast cancer.
The main signs and symptoms of breast cancer
Breast cancer does not show any clinical features during early stages. Clinical features appear only with the advancement of the cancer. These clinical features include;
* Skin changes of the breast
* Colour changes of the breast
* Change in shape of the breast
* Orange peel (Pseudo orange) appearance of breast
* Ulceration on the breast
* Late occurrence of breast asymmetry (usually both breasts are not of equal size. Therefore, a long standing breast asymmetry is not a sign of a cancer)
* Nipple change/discharge other than breast milk (Having inverted nipples from birth is not a sign of a cancer)
* Breast lump or thickening of the breast skin
* Lumps in the arm pit or around the neck
* Breast pain
Early Detection
A breast cancer can be detected through breast self examination, a clinical breast examination by a health care worker, or through a mammography and/or Ultrasound Scan, Non Excision Biopsy - Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology (FNAC) and or cone biopsy.
Clinical breast examination should be done by all women between the ages of 20  40 once in every three years and annually by all women above the age of 40. Mammography should not be done for women bellow the age of 35 unless asked by the doctor. All women between the ages of 50  69 should get done a mammography once in every two years.
Breast Self Examination
Breast self examination on monthly basis is very important for early detection of breast cancers. This should be carried out once a month by all women over 20 years of age. This should be conducted on a fixed date every month. It is better to conduct this, one week after the start of menstruation.
If she is not menstruating, a fixed date in every month should be used. A woman can use any place that suites her. It can be conducted in a lying down, sitting or a standing position or while bathing. Breast self examination has two components. They are Inspection and Palpation.
****
* All women can get themselves screened for breast cancer from the Suwa Nari Sayanaya (Well Woman Clinic) in the relevant area of the patient.
* If not any women can go to her family doctor or another doctor in a state hospital or a private hospital.
* She can also visit the surgical clinic / breast clinic located in the nearest state hospital.
* The Breast Cancer Screening Clinic at the National Hospital of Sri Lanka offers free screening on every Thursday morning under the direction of Dr. Ajith De Silva.
* Narahenpita Cancer Early Detection Centre (CEDEC) offers free screening for breast cancer for any woman who visits it. The NCCP which is belongs to the Health Ministry is situated close to Narahenpita Junction towards Borella. CEDEC offers many health services free of charge. The centre is open from 8.30 am to 4pm on week days. You can call on 0113159227 for details.
****
Genetic testing plays a major role in early detection of breast cancer, especially for women with family history. Genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations are available in Sri Lanka. Testing is done on DNA extracted from peripheral venous blood. Genetic Consultations available at Human Genetics Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo, Kinsey Road, Colombo 08. Telephone: 0112689545, email: [emailprotected] Working hours: 8am  4pm (Mondays to Fridays).
==============================
## Title: BoC Seychelles Branch  honoured for service excellence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
BoC Seychelles Branch  honoured for service excellence
The Bank of Ceylons Seychelles branch was honoured for distinguished service and commitment to strengthen the co-operation between Seychelles and Sri Lanka at the Service Excellence Awards Ceremony named as Sewaabhimani Honours Awards at International Conference Centre, Mahe, Seychelles on October 9.
The award was presented by President Maithripala Sirisena, on his two-day official visit to Seychelles.
The Country Manager for BOC Seychelles Lasantha Dissanayake received the award on behalf of the Bank.
Since its establishment in 2014, BOC Seychelles has proved its resilience today by receiving this award of service excellence.
Whilst facing various challenges that a branch is exposed to when operating overseas, these four years have seen us grow steadily providing an outstanding service to customers of both Seychellois origin and Sri Lankan origin.
This is not only an award for business excellence but also an award for our perseverance and determination to achieve our objectives as set out in our original business plan, said Senarath Bandara.
This would not have been possible if not for the support given in these four years by the Government of Sri Lanka, the Government of Seychelles and the Central Banks of the two countries. This support is what made it possible for BOC Seychelles to operate successfully.
==============================
## Title: Boost Physical Stamina
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Boost Physical Stamina
Exercise is one of the best ways to make yourself feel better, but you also need the energy levels to do it. Here are some simple steps to take
Make sure you exercise. It may seem counterintuitive, but exercising more when you are low on energy or stamina could actually help in the long term. A study in 2017 found that regular exercise had a positive impact on fatigue, while another suggested prescribing it to older adults to improve their stamina.
If you are looking to improve your stamina in one area or sport, your instinct might be to focus solely on that. But research has found that a mixture of different activities could provide the greatest benefit  one study, for example, suggested a mixture of strength and aerobic exercise. Circuit training has also been found to improve endurance.
The obvious stamina-boosting exercises, such as running or weight-training, are all very well, but you may also benefit from trying less conventional exercises. Yoga, for example, may have a significant benefit to endurance levels  yet another reason to branch out from the same boring daily run.
Its not all about exercise  small amounts of caffeine have been to shown to improve the sprint performance of elite athletes. Ginseng and ashwagandha root extract also help improve stamina, while complex carbohydrates and proteins are often recommended by dietitians to those hoping to boost their endurance.
Not all foodstuffs are created equal, however, and some of those promising tantalising benefits to your stamina may not be all they are cracked up to be. There are claims, for example, that energy drinks may improve performance, but research suggests they have very little therapeutic benefit. Probiotic supplements, which are often promised to boost stamina, were also found to have no discernible impact.
Stamina is not just about physical strength  your mental attitude has something to do with it, too. In one study, a stress management workshop that included the teaching of stamina-increasing techniques was found to have a positive effect on both the stamina and stress levels of participants, while preliminary research has tentatively suggested that positive emotions in elite athletes are linked to peak performance. The study that investigated yogas impact on stamina backed this up  meditation helped participants improve levels of fatigue, as well as feelings of peace and focus.
Its all very well having a good diet and exercising more, but your body also needs a rest. In a study comparing post-exercise recovery methods, researchers suggest athletes should take at least 72 hours between competitive bouts of sport. While the average exerciser probably doesnt need that much rest between gym sessions, it is important to give your body a break, too.
theguardian
==============================
## Title: Business and Consumer model, an emerging trend - Ashish Mishra
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Business and Consumer model, an emerging trend - Ashish Mishra

Businesses today are no longer B2C (Business to Consumer) but its B and C (Business and Consumer) opined Ashish Mishra, MD, Interbrand India.
He was speaking at the Sri Lanka Retail Forum last week which focused on the emerging trends of retail both locally and globally.
He further emphasized that community is at the heart of retail landscape. Lots of mechanisms are used by apparel electronic and food and beverage retailers to attract consumers. All these create a stronger experience to customers.
Retail is the interface between people and businesses. The new way of engaging in retail business is to identify customer requirements and fulfilling them. The conventional retail is no more.
As expressed by Simon Wintels, Partner, McKinsey & Company, Retail shops have many things that no one asks for. Having personalized choices, structural cost advantage, superior customer insights and associating remarkable people make retailers different from others.
Sustainability is a key factor in terms of manufacturing. Initiating recycling projects would divert retail industry to a new era with emerging a number of job opportunities. We initiated a beach cleanup project which was very successful. Also we use the leftovers in our textile production for fuel purposes within our industry said Sharika Senanayake, Director Environmental Sustainability, MAS Holdings. One of the biggest mistakes that retailers do is not trusting online operations. It is up to them to get the situation advantageous to them in terms of customer needs. Future development cannot be fulfilled unless technology is embraced.
E-commerce needs preparation. It doesnt come immediately. There is huge potential in Sri Lanka for an explosive e-commerce opportunity Bart van Dijk, Country Manager, Daraz Sri Lanka said. Moreover in 2017, 150 million searches were done on Google regarding e-commerce.
E-commerce helps brands to grow online. Content is very important when publishing brands online in order to get the full potential of the customers. Campaign participation, tighter cutoffs, consistency helps brands to grow online. Most f the revenue of Daraz is derived by online transactions. Daraz which was started in 2016 operates in 5 countries. It was fully acquired by Alibaba. Personalization should go beyond the basics at this age. Once data is available personalization becomes interesting.
Hence all retail traders must acquire data driven marketing. Data management platforms are essential for data driven marketing. Apart from marketing, data expertise is also needed for organizations. said Jayomi Lokuliyana, CEO, Zmessenger.
Through data driven marketing, value to customers are created. Jayomi further said that the middle aged and older crowd in Sri Lanka should have more penetration to Internet.
==============================
## Title: Cannabis valued over Rs 8 mn nabbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Cannabis valued over Rs 8 mn nabbed
Two suspects transporting Rs. 8 million worth cannabis was arrested in Negombo yesterday morning.
The two suspects had transported the cannabis which weighed around 100 kilograms hidden under a stock of coir ropes. The cab and the two suspects were nabbed in the Kochchikade area by a team attached to the Police Narcotics Bureau while the suspects were on their way to Colombo.
The two suspects aged 22 and 35are residents of Puttalam area.
The suspects had ordered the stock from India and taken the stock into the country via a sea route from Kalpitiya.
==============================
## Title: Cattle thieving menace in Panadura, police inactive
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Cattle thieving menace in Panadura, police inactive
Cattle thieves had forcibly entered the Gangathilakarama Viharaya at Kehelwatte Panadura and had stolen four heads of cattle earlier this month.
The temples chief incumbent Ven. Siyambalagoda Jinarathana thera had complained to the Panadura North Police that this theft was recorded on cameras installed in a house in front of the temple. Panadura Cattle farmers Association President Nandani Malkanthi said over 250 heads of cattle valued at over a million rupees had been stolen from cattle breeders in the Panadura Police Division.
She said police had failed to arrest thieves roaming in the night and they were well organised in rounding up cattle in mini lorries.
She had complained to the Panadura Division SSP last year as well but no action had been taken.
She intends organising a picketing campaign against the police for their inaction.
She said there is an abattoir at Atalugama and the cattle thieves and the owner of the illicit slaughter house work in tandem. She called for police to engage in night patrols to apprehend these cattle thieves.
==============================
## Title: Ceramic industry urges fast-tracking  anti-dumping legislation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ceramic industry urges fast-tracking  anti-dumping legislation
Cheap imports of tiles, sanitary ware, glass and tableware still remain a significant threat to the Sri Lanka ceramic and glass Industry, Piramal Glass Ceylon PLCs CEO and Executive Director Sanjay Tiwari told the 15th annual general meeting of the Sri Lanka Ceramic and Glass Council (SLCGC) held at the Blue, Hilton.
The proposed has to be fast implemented with the Sri Lanka Ceramic and Glass Industry facing numerous challenges. To overcome this we have been investing in capacity building and innovation to counter threats of competition and high cost of manufacturing, reducing dependency on domestic market. During the year under review SLCGC has worked with relevant authorities to find resolutions to challenges and capitalize on opportunities, he said.
Tiwari added that SLCGC members will invest and contribute towards growth of exports by adding value to available natural resources. Sri Lanka Export Development Board Chairperson Indira Malwatte said EDB closely interact with diverse sectors and under the national export strategy new schemes have been introduced for all members to benefit.
Sri Lanka being a WTO member has to adhere to its standards and work within those limitations. EDB with the ministry has developed new schemes for which we have obtained budget approvals and necessary finances.
EDB has emphasized on a national exports strategy to maintain consistency in policy, irrespective of changes in the political environment. Extensive stakeholder meetings with the private sector, Chambers, ministers, relevant departments and ministries were held in the process of preparing this.
Over 850 meetings were held all around the country to have an all-inclusive national strategy drawn up. We should make Sri Lanka a prominent export hub for innovative products and services, she said. SLCGC under Tiwaris leadership has conducted a diploma course in ceramic technology to enhance the theoretical and technical knowledge of production staff engaged in ceramic and glass manufacturing in Sri Lankan factories.
Resource persons of the diploma consisted of highly experienced ceramists in the industry and qualified academic staffs of universities. Four batches have already completed the diploma and the fifth batch is in progress. Candidates of the last batch were bestowed with certificates at the AGM.
Sanjay Tiwari was re-elected as the president of the SLCGC at the AGM.

==============================
## Title: Choir worship musical
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Choir worship musical
The Choir Worship Musical Honoured, Glorified and Exalted conducted by the choir of St. Francis of Assisi, will be held at the church premises on October 24 at 5.00 pm, at No.81, Hotel Road, Mount Lavinia.
All are invited and entrance is free.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (22-10-2018)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (22-10-2018)]
Live in faithfulness
When we read the daily newspapers, we come across many people falling into trouble due to disputes between husband and wife. There are divorce cases. There are frequent quarrels and fights and even murders.
According to available statistics many of the marriages in Sri Lanka ends in divorce. One of the major causes for all this is infidelity.
When you are married, being faithful may not be always easy. But if you commit to being a faithful spouse, you can do it.
When getting married you come into an agreement. Once you have taken your vows, do not do anything to break that trust. You have taken vows to be faithful in every way to one another.
Accept the fact that you are no longer single. You have a responsibility to your spouse. The sooner you accept it, the fewer fights and arguments you will have.
When you are married you have a commitment. If you do not want to be cared about or be responsible to someone else, you should not get married.
Nourish your intimacy with your spouse. Being intimate through loving gestures, hugs, kisses and sexual relations is a vital part of keeping the two of you bonded.
Avoid even the appearance of a wrongdoing. If you meet someone who tries to come on to you and maybe even who is attractive to you, do not panic. Simply show no interest and say clearly to that person.
Stay home. Studies show that men who cheat start spending time away from home, such as working late at the office, going out for dinner after work. Curtail this habit. Take your spouse to dinner instead of your colleagues.
Make your plan for future and revise these plans regularly. Plan together. Go to places together that will thrill and excite you.
If you are feeling pushed away, due to lack of attention or contribution, communicate those feelings with your spouse.
Being faithful has a positive effect on your character. That way, you are able to live out your greatness with confidence. Integrity is important, and it starts by how you live your private life. It gives moral authority.
Mess up your private life and everything else will fall apart.
Being faithful makes you proud of yourself. Faithful people are happy and more relaxed.
D. WeeratungaNugegoda
==============================
## Title: ComBank Arunalu rewards scholarship achievers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
ComBank Arunalu rewards scholarship achievers
Six of the highest achievers at the 2018 Grade Five scholarship examinationwere recently awarded cash prizes totaling Rs 535,000 by the Commercial Bank of Ceylon under the rewards scheme supported by the Banks Arunalu Childrens Savings Account. The recipients were those who were placed first, second and third island-wide at the examination.
Master Bumith Methnul Vithanage and Master Sanupa Dimath Perera, the students placed first at the examination, each received Rs 50,000 from Commercial Bank, while MissNathy Navascan and Master Mahendren Thigalolibavan placed second in the island received Rs 150,000 each because theywere already holders of a Commercial Bank Arunalu Childrens Savings Account. Miss Senuji Akithma Hettiarachchi, the third student who was placed second island-wide was awarded Rs 35,000 while MissHarithik Hansuja Balakumar, also an Arunalu Account holder, received a cash prize of Rs 100,000 for being placed third in the island.

==============================
## Title: Condolence messages on Amritsar train accident
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Condolence messages on Amritsar train accident
Following are the condolence messages sent by President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to Indian President Ram Nath Kovind and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi respectively, on the tragic train accident in Amritsar, Punjab, India:
It is with deep sadness that I learn of the tragic loss of lives and injury to many, following the unfortunate train accident that took place yesterday in Amritsar, Punjab.
The government and the people of Sri Lanka join me in conveying our profound condolences to the bereaved families.
Sri Lanka stands in solidarity with the people of India at this time of difficulty and our thoughts and prayers are with those affected.
Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration.
Maithripala SirisenaPresident
****
I am deeply saddened to hear about the tragic train accident in Amritsar last night causing death to over 60 people and injuring many who were taking part in the Dussehra celebrations.
I extend my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims. I wish the injured a speedy recovery.
Ranil WickremesinghePrime Minister
==============================
## Title: Death of former Lake House staffer
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Death of former Lake House staffer
Former Lake House staffer Mrs. P.M. Hettiarachchi (nee Kannangara) passed away on Saturday. She was the sister of former Lake House staffers Ananda Kannangara of the Sunday Observer and Devika Abeyrathne. She leaves her husband Mahinda and daughter Ganga Hettiarachchi (John Keells). Cortege leaves residence at Field View, Kalalpitiya, Kandy Road, Pasyala. Cremation today at 2 p.m. at the Malwatta cemetery, Thihariya, Nittambuwa.
==============================
## Title: Death of T.F. Rawdin
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Death of T.F. Rawdin
T.F. Rawdin, father of former Daily News Associate Editor Riza Rawdin passed away last Tuesday. He is survived by wife D.S. Rawdin, children Azad, Azlee and Raya and in-laws Fareena, Kartini, Hilal Makeen and Sharmila. He was the grandfather of Taqib, Tasneem, Tamir, Jan, Raheel and Ayan. Janaza took place on Tuesday.
==============================
## Title: Dialog Axiata, Ericsson partner Ministry of Digital Infrastructure
## Supertitle: Lankas first 5G Innovation Center
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Lankas first 5G Innovation Center
Dialog Axiata, Ericsson partner Ministry of Digital Infrastructure
Dialog Axiata PLC, Sri Lankas premier connectivity provider, in partnership with Ericsson, world leader in communications technology and services along with the Ministry of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment, signed a Memorandum of Understanding to establish Sri Lankas first state-of-the-art 5G Innovation Center.
The first of its kind in the country, the Innovation Center will encourage Sri Lankans to collaborate and create next generation IoT and ICT innovations and serve the countrys digital footprint through strategic partnerships, stimulating entrepreneurship and facilitating a collaborative shared learning environment.
The occasion was graced by Harin Fernando, Minister of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment, Manusha Nanayakkara, Deputy Minister of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment and other officials.
The MoU will explore the possibilities of 5G and IoT enabling various stakeholders such as the community and different verticals to carve out new innovative solutions. On the road to finalising the 5G national agenda and programme implementation by the government, the Innovation Center aims to improve efficiency, innovation and productivity and create new opportunities for capacity building in emerging 5G technology.
The setting up of the 5G Innovation Center will be underpinned by investments exceeding Rs. 500Mn in connectivity, equipment and infrastructure.
Harin Fernando, Minister of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment said, We are proud to partner Dialog and Ericsson to advance technology in the country through the set-up of a 5G Innovation Center, earmarked on the Ministrys roadmap. On the brink of exponential change through digitalisation, the innovation center will help accelerate an entrepreneurial and research culture in the country.
He added The youth uptake of digital innovation based projects and developments in Sri Lanka is phenomenal, and this would prove a great way to encourage more students to innovate using technology.
The 5G Innovation Center will link Dialog and Ericsson technology and capabilities with likeminded partners into a single framework for local application developers and content providers. Research and development will be a collaborative effort between local universities together with cooperation from the global sphere. Researchers and entrepreneurs will have the ability to design/develop programmes and prototypes and use the Innovation Center as a test lab for verification.
Sharing his thoughts on the collaboration Vinod Samarawickrama, Managing Director/ Country Manager, Ericsson Telecommunication Lanka said, 5G will be a critical national infrastructure in digitalising the economy and capturing the vision of a fully connected society. 5G is a platform for innovation. We look forward to establishing the Center together with Dialog, who was instrumental in trialing 5G for the first time in South Asia last year. The Ministry of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment will play a key role in driving the national mandate to build a digital and connected Sri Lanka.
Supun Weerasinghe, Group Chief Executive, Dialog Axiata PLC said, The 5G Innovation Center is another milestone in Dialogs Technology leadership as we prepare to commercially launch 5G, ahead of the rest of South Asia. 5G sets a capable environment to help fast track IoT developments along with next generation video and robot/manufacturing automation. Advancing the transformational technology of 5G in Sri Lanka will enable exciting possibilities across education, health, agriculture and manufacturing and also harness entrepreneurship and provide a spring board for in-country talent.
Dialog demonstrated the power of what 5G would deliver in terms of products and services at South Asias first 5G trial in August 2017.
==============================
## Title: Dogs can understand spoken words like humans
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Dogs can understand spoken words like humans
A new research now finds that dogs really can understand language, just like their owners say.
According to the study, they even process the spoken word in a similar way to humans - and in the same area of the brain.
This is the first time scientists have been able to shed light on the mystery.
A dozen dogs were trained to lie in an MRI scanner so their grey matter could be monitored as toys were held aloft.
According to the US study, different areas of the brain lit up when team either used the correct words to describe them - or spoke gibberish.
According to neuroscientist Professor Gregory Berns, of Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, dogs may have varying capacity and motivation for learning and understanding human words, but they appear to have a neural representation for the meaning of words they have been taught, beyond just a low-level Pavlovian response.
First author of the study Ashley Prichard, a PhD candidate in Prof Berns psychology lab, added, Many dog owners think their dogs know what some words mean, but there really isnt much scientific evidence to support that. We wanted to get data from the dogs themselves - not just owner reports.
In the latest study the owners of 12 dogs of varying breeds were trained for months to retrieve two different textured objects - on hearing their name.
One, such as a stuffed animal, would be soft, and the other harder and made out of rubber, to facilitate discrimination.
After fetching them, the animals were rewarded with food or praise.
Once success was consistently achieved, the dog lay in the scanning machine as the owner stood at the opening and said the names of the toys at set intervals, then showed them to it.
According to Prichard they expected to see dogs neurally discriminate between words that they know and words that they do not.
What is surprising is the result is opposite to that of research on humans - people typically show greater neural activation for known words than novel words, he added.Prof Berns said, Dogs ultimately want to please their owners, and perhaps also receive praise or food. The Scientist
==============================
## Title: Drawn match at Moratuwa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Drawn match at Moratuwa
Lyceum International School Nugegoda drew with St. Sebastians College Moratuwa in their inter school under 13 division three tournament cricket match played at Moratuwa.
Taking the first lease Lyceum Nugegoda piled up 236 for 5 and declared with Shaihd Shifan and Karunayan Ponkouan scoring 82 and 65 runs respectively.
In reply Sebs were 74 for 5 at Stumps with Abilash Shashidavan bagging 4 for 3 runs.
Chief scores
Lyceum International  236/5 dec in 66.3 overs  (Shaihd Shifan 82, Karunayan Ponkouan 65, Danidu Dulshan 40, Shenal Fernando 2/49).
St. Sebastians College  74/5 in 32 overs  Lashen Fernando 30, Abilash Shashidarn 4/3).
==============================
## Title: Education modernization project begins today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:02
Education modernization project begins today
The World Bank-funded Education Modernization Project will begin today under the patronage of Minister of Education Akila Viraj Kariyawasam.
The World Bank has agreed to provide US$ 100 million on a concessionary credit facility for the Project to strengthen and modernize both primary and secondary education systems in the country. The project will be implemented during 2018  2024.
Under the project, steps will be taken to modernise the curriculum in relation to the current needs, diversification, teacher development, evaluation of the quality of school system, empowerment of school development programmes, launch of education leadership and management and implement plans which promote social equity and inclusivity through education within the next five years.
To implement the project Sri Lanka signed the $100 million credit agreement with the World Bank in July.
The project is expected to contribute to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2020 and Vision 2025 goals to build a strong Sri Lanka through education.
The project is to be implemented by the Ministry and other affiliated National Education institutions and Provincial Educational Institutions.
==============================
## Title: ELECTRONIC SENSOR DEVICES TO BE INSTALLED
## Supertitle: Prevention of train-elephant collisions
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Prevention of train-elephant collisions
ELECTRONIC SENSOR DEVICES TO BE INSTALLED
In a bid to prevent train-elephant collisions, the Railways Department is planning to install electronic sensor devices which will help detect the presence of elephants and other animals on railway tracks thus sending a warning signal to the train driver.
This comes in the wake of several Elephant deaths in recent times and train derailments due to collisions with elephants with the most recent incident happening yesterday where two elephants died and a train derailed in separate incidents.
A wild elephant was killed and another critically injured when they collided with the night mail train travelling from Colombo to Kankesanthurai in Galgamuwa in the wee hours of yesterday.
Another wild elephant was killed when it collided with a train plying to Batticaloa from Colombo at around 1 am yesterday morning. The Batticaloa bound train derailed after striking the elephant in the Palugasweva area. The General Manager of the Railway Department Dilantha Fernando yesterday said plans are afoot to install sensor devices at identified places in order to prevent further accidents involving trains and elephants.
He said such devices will be able to detect the presence of elephants or other animals on railway tracks, and send a warning signal to the driver.
The installation will take place as a part of a special programme undertaken by Sri Lanka Railways in collaboration with the Wildlife and Conservation Department.
According to General Manager Fernando, Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva has given instructions to the Railway Department to take immediate action to prevent elephant-train collisions.
Fernando also said that this special programme will cost Rs.100 million since a sensor device will cost around Rs. 1 million. The project will take around eight months to complete, he also said.
The Minister has promised us to table a Cabinet proposal requesting funds for this project. We are positive about receiving a grant for this project from the Asian Development Bank. Either way, we are going to start this project with whatever the funds available, local or foreign, as soon as the Committee which was appointed to inquire into this matter submits its report to the Minister, Fernando also said.
Fernando observed that frequent elephant-train collisions is a serious matter, and said that the Railway Department will take every measure to prevent the unfortunate situation.
Fernando also said that an inquiry is underway at Department level at present with regards to recent elephant-train collision incidents. The Department is yet to receive the report of the said inquiry, he added.
Asked if slowing down the trains in identified areas where such occurrences are common is one such measure, Fernando said that such a step may not drastically affect the train schedule. While agreeing that the train crew members should be more sensitive to the protection of these animals, Fernando said that the Wildlife Department is conducting programmes to raise awareness among the train workers.
Meanwhile, Department of Wildlife and Conservation Director General G.C. Sooriyabandara said that the Wildlife Department is to work together with the Railway Department regarding this special programme to prevent train-elephant collisions.
According to Sooriyabandara, approximately 220 or more elephant deaths have been recorded during 2018 among which around 11 deaths have been elephant-train collisions with the latest being two more wild elephant deaths caused by a train-elephant collision reported from the Ambanpola and Palugaswewa areas.
Meanwhile, a Transportation Ministry release states that the Committee appointed to make recommendations to prevent elephant-train collisions has made five recommendations which will be presented to the Transport Minister next Thursday (25).
According to the statement, the Committee has recommended the clearing of shrubs in an area up to 30 metres on either side of the railway tracks, enforcing train speed limits, building paths (overpasses and underpasses) for elephant crossings at multiple locations, removal of obstructions along elephant crossings at locations with bridges and erecting electric fences at places where elephants enter.
==============================
## Title: Eleventh Korean Speech Contest
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Eleventh Korean Speech Contest
The 11th Korean Speech Contest organised by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) Office in Sri Lanka, was held on October 13 at the Colombo Public Library's auditorium.
Additional National Policies and Economic Affairs Ministry Director-General N.R. Anees, KOICA Office Director Lee Dong Ku and other dignitaries participated in the event. There were around 12 candidates this year. A Korean culture expo and K-culture video displays were also part of the event. Sri Lankan youths who learn the Korean language and understand Korean culture can help enhance the close relationship between the two countries, Director Lee said.
The contest is held annually as a part of a KOICA volunteer programme aimed at strengthening Sri Lankas human resources, as well as connecting the cultures of the two countries. There are more than 50 KOICA volunteers serving at colleges and universities island-wide.
==============================
## Title: England to make several changes for dead rubber game
## Supertitle: Make it nine series wins in a row with victory in Pallekele
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Make it nine series wins in a row with victory in Pallekele
England to make several changes for dead rubber game
PALLEKELE, Sunday - England are likely to make several changes for Tuesdays dead rubber fifth and final ODI against Sri Lanka at the R Premadasa Stadium after take a winning 3-0 lead in the five-match ODI series with a 18-run win under the D/L rule at Pallekele Stadium on Saturday.
Sam Curran and Mark Wood have sat on the sidelines all series and can expect to feature, with Liam Plunkett and Joe Denly also probables after joining up with the squad this week.
I think theres an opportunity to make some changes, particularly the guys who havent played yet, said England captain Eoin Morgan.
Theres guys who have played who havent really participated yet - Jos (Buttler) has only had one bat - but we have to try and make the most of what is probably a bad situation with the rain.
Jonny Bairstow was due to go for a scan in Colombo on Sunday after missing the win with a twisted right ankle sustained playing football on the eve of the match.
Well know more tomorrow. I havent seen him most of the day, hes been icing it, said Morgan, who also confirmed the much-loved kick around would not be banned as a result of the incident.
Englands victory over Sri Lanka made it nine series wins in a row but Morgan was keen for his side to stay grounded.
No England side have ever won more consecutive series, though any claim this team have as record-breakers in that regard is compromised somewhat by their upset at the hands of Scotland in a standalone clash in June.
Its nice, but I think we have to continue being honest with ourselves, said Morgan.
We have played some good cricket along the way and the series that probably stand out are India in particular, Australia and New Zealand away. But we havent played great cricket so far in this tour.
We are quite honest with where were at and where we need to improve. Today it was fielding, we were quite rusty, and we maybe could have been more disciplined in the areas that we bowled.
England were set a challenging target of 274, and were comfortably in front of the DLS par at 132 for two when the rains set in.
==============================
## Title: Enjoy a cool nights stay at a frozen hotel
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Enjoy a cool nights stay at a frozen hotel
When planning a trip, summer destinations are likely your go-to getaway. However, hotels around the world are proving that winter trips can be just as exciting. On top of glass igloos and floating cabins, ice hotels are a fun way to enjoy the frosty weather.
While most of these icy inns are nestled in Nordic landscapes, the Hoshino Resort Tomamu ice village in Hokkaido has brought the snowy trend to Japan.
Situated in the sleepy town of Shimukappu, the Hoshino Resort Tomamu is an ideal way to experience below-freezing temperatures in Japan. From January through February, it transforms into a winter wonderland, complete with a luxurious ice hotel.
With the exception of its snuggly sleeping bags, everything in the the hotels igloo-inspired rooms is made out of ice, from its curved walls to its stylish furniture. This is also true of its outdoor spaces, where you will find a warm-water rotenburo (outdoor bath) encased in-you guessed it-ice. After taking a dip and bundling back up, you can chill out in the hotels ice lounge-an ideal setting for sipping on a hot drink and stargazing.
In addition to this incredible inn, the ice village boasts a cafe with frozen bookshelves, fun and frosty childrens activities, a skating rink, and an amazing ice slide-everything you need to have a happy holiday. My Modern Met
==============================
## Title: EU, Singapore committed to free trade - PM Lee
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
EU, Singapore committed to free trade - PM Lee
Amid brewing trade tensions, the newly signed trade pact between Singapore and the European Union sends the message that both parties remain committed to the values of free trade and cooperation, said Singapores Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong on Friday (Oct 19).
He also hopes that other countries will maintain this commitment and continue to uphold the rules-based multilateral system, which he says has benefited all countries.
Lee was speaking to the Singapore media shortly after signing the EU-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (EUSFTA) in Brussels.
The Prime Minister has had a packed schedule over the past three days, starting with a one-day official visit to Vienna where he witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding. He then flew to Brussels on Thursday morning to attend the two-day Asia-Europe Meeting and held a string of bilateral meetings on the sidelines.
When asked about the mood among European leaders given that the summit coincided with Brexit talks this week, Lee said the departure of Britain from the 28-member European bloc is a difficult separation hence negotiations thus far have yielded no conclusion.
Channel NewsAsia
==============================
## Title: Feast of St. Jude
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Feast of St. Jude
The annual feast of St. Jude's Shrine at Indigolla, Gampaha, will be held between October 27 and 28.
Vespers will be presided over by Colombo Auxiliary Bishop Rt. Rev. Dr. Maswell Silva on October 27 at 7.00 pm, while holy mass for the Feast of St. Jude will be held on October 28 at 5.00 am (in English), 6.00 am (in Sinhala) and 7.00 am (in Tamil). High Mass will be conducted at 8.30 am.
==============================
## Title: Fine century by Jamith Dilshan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Fine century by Jamith Dilshan
A splendid unbeaten 114 runs by opener and 4th year colours man Jamith Dilshan Jayaisnghe guided Piliyandala Central College to gain a first innings lead of 44 runs against St. Johns College, Jaffna in their inter school first eleven cricket match played at Piliyandala.
Jamith had 15 hits to the ropes and two over and occupied the crease for 240 minutes and faced 170 balls. Also he added a valuable 86 runs for the 7th wicket with Ruchira Adikaree who scored 50 runs.
Taking the first lease Jaffna Johnians scored 188 runs with M. Abinath and T. Dinoshan scoring 50 and 41 runs respectively and in reply Centralians scored 232 runs with M. Abinath bagging 5 for 77 and in their second innings visitors were all out for 120 runs with Ushan Deemantha claiming 5 for 44 and at stumps homesters were 32 for 2.
St. Johns Jaffna 188 in 47.4 overs (M. Abinath 50. T. Dinoshan 41, Ushan Deemanatha 3/23, Heshan Madushanka 3/49, Sandun Abeywardene 2/33 and 122 (E. Denushan 34, S. Sajith 33, Ushan Deemanatha 5/44, Heshan Madushanka 3/35).
Piliyandala Central 232 in 60.4 overs (Jamith Dislhan Jayasinghe 144 n/o, Ruchira Adikaree 50, M. Abinash 5/77, E. Denushan 2/16 and 32/2 Jamith Dilshan Jayasinghe 21).
==============================
## Title: The first ever WILD SRI LANKA Photographer of the year 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
The first ever WILD SRI LANKA Photographer of the year 2018
Wild Sri Lanka organizes the first ever WILD SRI LANKA Photographer of the year 2018
Wildlife photography is a significant part of photography, and living in an island with a rich and diverse wildlife gives us the privilege of enjoying and experiencing wildlife photography at its best. The team Wild Sri Lanka is on a unique endeavor to muse the art of wildlife photography with the very important cause of conserving the wildlife through a photographic exhibition: Wild Sri Lanka Photographer of the year 2018. The exhibition will be held at Temple Trees in Colombo.
Living in an age where wildlife conservation is crucial for the world, the exhibition Wild Sri Lanka Photographer of the year 2018 intends to explore the beauty and the value imprinted on wildlife through the age old yet ever transforming medium of photography. The main goal of this Exhibition is to bring together photographers or wild life enthusiasts, who possess a keen passion towards Wildlife photography and provide them an apt platform to display their skills and abilities, in order to create a wildlife conservation social movement, it deserves.
Lakshitha Karunarathna, Organizing Committee Member of Wild Sri Lanka commented on the event, Through Wild Sri Lanka, we hope to create awareness and inspire the general public about the magnificent fauna and flora of this country, so they yield sincere initiatives to conservation of Sri Lankan wildlife. On one hand we believe that this initiative will create a platform for all the wildlife and nature lovers, conservationists, and researchers to share knowledge and inspire many to follow their paths and protect the world.
And on the other hand we believe the exhibition will allow the photographers in Sri Lanka to expose themselves into a competition of international standards to share each others knowledge and interests to improve their skills and knowledge.
The event is organized by Wild Sri Lanka; a movement managed by the Team Wild Unlimited in dedication for all who loves and respects the Nature and Wild Life photography.
The exhibition is partnered with CameraLK as the Platinum partner, PR Wire as the PR partner and Lakseyaas the print partner.
The entries will be inspected by an experienced panel of national and international judges including some experts in the field, which will allow the Sri Lankan photographers to reach out for the recognition from international competitions.
The event which is due to be held on November 24-25 will include several exciting features including open workshops based on wildlife photography and conservation for all the winners.
This work shop will be conducted by award winning wildlife photographer Lakshitha Karunarathna.
In addition, all the participants would receive Valuable certificates and gifts will include prize money worth LKR 200,000/=, 100,000/= and 50,000/= for the 1st , 2nd and 3rd winners.
Areas will be allocated in the event premises to merchandise sponsors products and Special Wild Sri Lanka Merchandise for Wild Sri Lanka Wildlife conservation fund.
To join this Endeavour, the competition calls for all the photographers from around the island, to submit their work on wildlife, and the final date for competition entries is on October 30.
For further information on the exhibition, visit https://www.facebook.com/groups/WildSriLankaPhoto/ or email: [emailprotected].
==============================
## Title: Fraudster held on return
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Fraudster held on return
Bingiriya Police arrested a man who had allegedly defrauded 50 businessmen in the Kurunegala district of a total of Rs. 20 million, at the Katunayake Airport, when he returned from abroad after several years.
The suspect was to be produced before the Hettipola Magistrate on Friday.
The suspect had promised the victims that he would offer them interest rates of over 30 percent for their investments.
Bingiriya Police are investigating the case. Some 28 moneylenders have also been arrested by the police in the district during the past seven months, a senior police chief in Kurunegala told the Daily News.
==============================
## Title: GALLE FACE HOTEL, EBERT SILVA HOLIDAYS JOIN TO CELEBRATE CHILDRENS DAY
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
GALLE FACE HOTEL, EBERT SILVA HOLIDAYS JOIN TO CELEBRATE CHILDRENS DAY
The Galle Face Hotel with Ebert Silva Holidays, Sri Lankas pioneering travel and tourism company partnered to celebrate World Childrens Day and bring joy and happiness to 100 under-privileged local children.
This years celebration invited 50 children from The School for the Deaf in Ratmalana and 50 kids from Madduma Bandara Vidyalaya School in Kandy for a entertaining day of sightseeing and activities in Colombo courtesy of Ebert Silva Holidays, plus food, special treats and games at the luxurious Galle Face Hotel.
Robert C. Hauck, General Manager and Area Vice President of the Galle Face Hotel, commented; The Galle Face Hotel regularly engages in CSR activities that benefit local communities, so we were thrilled to join hands with Ebert Silva Holidays once again to host the World Childrens Day activities. By interacting with the children during the day, it is clear that activities such as these have the ability to make a positive difference, bringing renewed hope and joy into young lives.
Rajini de Silva Mendis, Chairperson of Ebert Silva Holidays, added that Ebert Silva Holidays was delighted to partner this worthwhile CSR initiative. Once again we gave these children a most splendid, fun-filled day out. The Childrens Day is the highlight of our CSR calendar.. We, as responsible entities, have joined hands to convey the love and care the society has for the children with the sincere wish of seeing them become responsible citizens.
The 50 children from Madduma Bandara Vidyalaya School arrived by train from Kandy to Colombos Fort Railway Station. For many of them it was their first time visiting Sri Lankas capital city.
Upon arrival they were met by Ebert Silva Holidays and welcomed onboard brightly decorated open-top double-decker buses, which took them to the Galle Face Hotel.
They were joined by the children from The School for the Deaf in Ratmalana.
The city tour ended at the Port of Colombo, where the children were shown around the new developments of the port and harbour, courtesy of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority.
The highlight of the day was still to come however, as the children were transported to Bandaranaike International Airport for a private tour of a SriLankan Airlines Airbus A330 aircraft, courtesy of SriLankan Airlines Engineering.

==============================
## Title: Gardening glory
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Gardening glory
* My rule of green thumb for mulch is to double my initial estimate of bags needed, and add three. Then Ill only be two bags short. ~Author Unknown
* We come from the earth.
We return to the earth.
And in between we garden.
~Author Unknown
* Yes, I am positive that one of the great curatives of our evils, our maladies, social, moral, and intellectual, would be a return to the soil, a rehabilitation of the work of the fields. ~Charles Wagner
* With fronds like these, who needs anemones ~Frank Muir
* God loved the flowers and invented soil. Man loved the flowers and invented vases. ~Variation of a saying by Jacques Deval (God loved the birds and invented trees. Man loved the birds and invented cages.)
* The moment that a child can walk, like that in which it first can talk, is a precious start of exploration into landscapes of creation.
Walking, walking, walking, walking, walking on the earth.
By sense of touch the feet assess the nature of the wilderness of earth beneath; yet human speech cannot express what feet can teach.
Walking, walking, walking, walking, walking on the earth.
~Francis D. Hole (19132002), Walking on the Earth
* I saw all the people hustling early in the morning to go into the factories and the stores and the office buildings, to do their job, to get their checks. But ultimately, its not office buildings or jobs that give us our checks. Its the soil. The soil is what gives us the real income that supports us all. ~Ed Begley, Jr.
* I doe hold it, in the Royall ordering of Gardens, there ought to be Gardens, for all the Moneths in the Yeare: In which, severally Things of Beautie, may in then in Season. ~Francis Bacon
==============================
## Title: Goal in 18 seconds helps Derby keep Sheffield United off top spot
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Goal in 18 seconds helps Derby keep Sheffield United off top spot
LONDON, Saturday - Derby County beat Sheffield United 2-1 to deny the visitors top spot in English footballs second-tier Championship on Saturday.
Jack Marriott helped create the Rams first goal just seconds into the match before scoring Derbys second himself with Chris Bashams reply for the Blades insufficient to extend their four-game winning-streak in the league.
Middlesbrough had moved to the summit of the table with a 2-1 win away to Uniteds local rivals, Sheffield Wednesday on Friday.
But the Blades knew they would regain top spot if they avoided defeat against Derby. Instead they remained second, albeit on goal difference alone.
Only the top two sides at the end of the regular season are guaranteed places in the lucrative Premier League, with the clubs finishing third to sixth contesting a series of play-off matches for the third and last promotion spot.
Derbys win took them up into fifth place, with only four points separating the top seven teams.
Some fans were still taking their seats when Derby opened the scoring just 18 seconds into the match, without a United player touching the ball.
Craig Forsyth initiated a move involving six team-mates that culminated with Marriott laying the ball off to Craig Bryson, who beat Blades goalkeeper Dean Henderson from 15 yards.
United, to their credit, recovered from this shock setback and equalised four minutes before half-time when Basham turned in John Flecks cross from close range.
Derby, however, went 2-1 up in the 77th minute when Marriott steered in a cross from Forsyth.
West Bromwich Albion also missed out on regaining top spot in a 1-0 loss at Wigan where Josh Windass scored the decisive goal in the 74th minute.
Defeat was then made worse for the Baggies when Jake Livermore was sent off late on.
Elsewhere, Dean Smiths first match as Aston Villa manager ended in a victory for the lifelong fan of the Birmingham club when the on-loan Tammy Abraham scored in a 1-0 win over Swansea.
Victory at Villa Park came on a day when home supporters remembered the Midlands sides long-serving former chairman, Doug Ellis, who died earlier this month aged 94.
Smith has joined Villa from Championship rivals Brentford but there was no first-up win for the London clubs new boss Thomas Frank.
Brentford had Chris Mepham sent off before Niclass Eliassons 90th-minute goal give visitors Bristol City a 1-0 win at Griffin Park.
The early kick-off match saw Blackburn Rovers beat Leeds United 2-1 at Ewood Park.
Danny Graham opened the scoring for Rovers two minutes in before Mateusz Klich equalised only for Blackburn to grab all three points courtesy of Darragh Leninhans header from a corner.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Govt clarifies  on Hilton & Hyatt divestment EOI
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Govt clarifies  on Hilton & Hyatt divestment EOI
Responding to some recent comments by media on the divestment of the Hilton and Hyatt, the Ministry of Finance and Mass Media has clarified as follows:
What has been called for is only an initial expression of interest via a simple response format limited to background information on investors who are interested in participating in the sale process. If more time is required by investors to fill the simple format, this can be accommodated. The expression of interest does not require a priced bid.
The responses received will be reviewed by the relevant Cabinet appointed committees following which, serious bona fide parties will be invited to execute a Non-Disclosure Agreement prior to receiving an information memorandum on the two hotels and a formal process letter with detailed instructions for such serious parties, which will also outline the process of evaluation, due diligence, offers and final bidding process over the next few months.
This initial step is required due to both hotels being managed by international hotel brands via a hotel management contract and the requirement to protect confidential financial and commercial information.
This divestment will target local and foreign investors with a proven track record and commercial integrity with the assistance of the Cabinet appointed financial advisers to the transaction, Lazard Asia and MTI Consulting Sri Lanka who will reach out to investors through their global offices. The advisers have already mapped out the potential catchment of international and local hospitality investors and are in the process of reaching out to them.
It is after this initial step of all interested parties signing a confidentiality agreement that the transparent bidding process will start under supervision of the relevant Cabinet appointed committee, where prospective investors will have ample time over several months to prepare financial bids and bid conditions.
==============================
## Title: Govt. values efforts of  hospitality sector - Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Govt. values efforts of  hospitality sector - Minister
Minister of Tourism and Christian Religious Affairs, John Amaratunga, addressed a gathering at the 47th AGM of Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association (CHSGA).
It was held at Araliya Green City, a newly opened 5-star property in Nuwara Eliya, in which Samantha Gunarathne was re-elected as President for the second term.
Minister John Amaratunga in his address said, Owners of hospitality establishments are among the largest investors in the tourism economy. In fact, the hospitality sub-sector is the backbone of tourism. Nothing creates a more lasting impression on tourists than their experience at their home-away-from-home place where they stay. The relationship between the Government and the hospitality providers is deep on many levels. It is the largest employer in the tourism sector, contributing significantly to reducing poverty and raising employment levels.
The Govt. values the efforts of the hospitality sector who in addition to supporting a wide range of livelihoods across the tourism value chain, are contributing to the GDP and helping to improve the lives of our people, the minister added.
He also re-affirmed the support of his ministry to uplift the industry and assist CHSGA to put its plans into action.
The re-elected President Samantha Gunarathne said, A legacy built over a period of 47 years, CHSGA has spread its hues all over Sri Lanka and the region. We started off with a simple and humble beginning and have moved on to our present status with our belief in dedication, hard work and vision. Today, we pride in our growth and unique hospitality culture.
==============================
## Title: Grow Good Health
## Supertitle: Research-Backed Benefits of Gardening
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Research-Backed Benefits of Gardening
Grow Good Health
A home food garden offers a virtually free supply of fresh produce. But beyond this more obvious benefit, gardening provides a number of profound perks for your brain, body, and soul. Dig into the following research-backed facts about why gardening is good for you.
You might have noticed that school gardens are rapidly taking root and as a result, students are scoring higher on tests. You could argue that their improved academic performance is a result of the unique hands-on learning experience that a garden provides. And that certainly may be true. But its not the whole story because theres evidence that growing plants  whether in class or at home actually enhances your brain. For example, one study found that the act of gardening may lower your risk of dementia by as much as 36 per cent.
Plus, theres also the element of nutrition. As you probably already know, eating lots of whole foods (i.e., what youd plant in a garden) supports good health  specifically good physiological health. But all the antioxidants, vitamins, and other nutrients present in fruits and vegetables improve brain function, too.
When you grow plants, youre more likely to eat them. And studies show that a plant-based diet can reduce your risk of developing chronic conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, while also helping you achieve your ideal weight, healthy organs, and even a longer life.
The crops you grow and eat bolster your body from the inside out. But the actual act of gardening bestows benefits, too. For starters, maintaining a garden keeps you moving. Considering many of us sit for too much of the day, this is important. An active lifestyle lowers your likelihood of obesity, high blood pressure, osteoporosis, stroke, depression, and more.
In addition, if you garden outside, youll also passively reap the benefits of sun exposure. Sunshine, of course, is a key source of vitamin D  which fortifies your bones and immune system.
Have you ever heard the anonymous quote, Gardening is cheaper than therapy and you get tomatoes It turns out, theres a lot of truth in the pithy saying.
Working in your garden can lower your levels of cortisol (i.e., the stress hormone), restore your energy, and  as astronauts have learned  generally lift your spirits. As if thats not enough, growing a community garden with others can also combat feelings of loneliness.
In other words, growing food puts you in a good mood!
towergarden
==============================
## Title: Guideline Marketing wins Business Excellence Star Award
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Guideline Marketing wins Business Excellence Star Award
Guideline Marketing Pvt Ltd won the Star Award for business excellence at the Star Awards 2018 awards ceremony organized by the Department of Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion (DIDEP), Central Province.
The awards ceremony was held in a grand manner in Kandy under the patronage of Central Provincial Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake. General Manager of Guideline Marketing Pvt Ltd H.M. Lahiru Kumarasinghe received the prestigious award. Guideline Marketing Pvt Ltd mainly works to import household appliances and electronic items to Sri Lanka. In addition they also manufacture household items such as sofas. Their head office and factory are located in Pujapitiya with the showroom located at Hasalaka.
The company has mainly focused their attention on online sales with items ordered according to customer requests and goods delivered to their homes. Their products also include items manufactured according to Vasthu considerations. In future they expect to export these household items and other products to countries in South Asia.
The company which has an island wide network of sales agents is the best place to purchase quality and trustworthy electronic and household items. Guideline Marketing Pvt Ltd which fully understands its social responsibilities is also engaged in many projects such as donating wheelchairs and making financial donations for the disabled people.
==============================
## Title: Gunmen injure two in Matara
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Gunmen injure two in Matara
Two unidentified gunmen opened fire causing injuries to two individuals on Saturday afternoon in Rotumba, Matara.
The victims, Jasinghege Nalaka Pushpakumara and Jasinkandage Nadeesh, both 29, were residents of Wijesinghewatte, Rotumba.
The gunmen were on a motorcycle and wore helmets, police said.
Rotumba Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Guwaso Highway calls Htota port
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Guwaso Highway calls Htota port
A special big ship, Guwaso Highway called the Hamabantota international port for the first time recently with 7,500 vehicles belonging to Japan Keyline Shipping company.
This ship started its journey in September from Japan, sailing via Singapore to Sri Lanka. To mark the maiden journey to Sri Lanka a memento was exchanged by the Guwaso Highway Captain and the Hamabantota port general manager S Pieris.
==============================
## Title: Hakmana Singer Plus Showroom Relocated
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Hakmana Singer Plus Showroom Relocated
Hakmana Singer Plus showroom was relocated at a convenient location with all the modern facilities to give their loyal customers a shopping experience. The relocated showroom was opened by Mahesh Wijewardana, Chief Operating Officer, Singer (Sri Lanka) with the participation of Rohan Perera, Business Development Manager, Singer (Sri Lanka), branch staff, customers and well-wishers. The spacious and attractive showroom is conveniently located at the centre of Hakmana.
==============================
## Title: Hearts extend Scottish Premiership lead as Celtic go second
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Hearts extend Scottish Premiership lead as Celtic go second
GLASGOW, Saturday - Hearts moved three points clear at the top of the Scottish Premiership with a 2-1 win at home to Aberdeen on Saturday as champions Celtic climbed into second place with a thrilling defeat of Hibernian.
Two goals in seven first-half minutes saw Hearts on the way to victory in front of their own fans at Tynecastle, with Arnaud Djoum heading home Callum Morrisons cross in the 36th minute before Steven Naismith doubled the lead from the penalty spot after he had been fouled in the area.
The Dons pulled a goal back via a penalty from Gary Mackay-Steven in the 55th minute after Niall McGinn had been brought down in the box.
But it was a different story for Hibernian, Hearts Edinburgh rivals, as they succumbed 4-2 to Glasgow giants Celtic at Parkhead.
Tom Rogic curled in Celtics opener in the eighth minute before setting up Olivier Ntcham for the Hoops second goal 11 minutes later.
Florian Kamberi pulled a goal back for Hibs midway through the second half before Odsonne Edouard restored Celtics two-goal lead in the 70th minute.
Martin Boyle again drew the visitors to within a goal in the 73rd minute before French forward Edouards second two minutes from time ended Hibs manager Neil Lennons hopes of taking a point off his former club.
Kilmarnock joined Celtic on 19 points after coming from behind to win 2-1 at St Mirren.
The Buddies went ahead when Adam Hammill marked his home debut with a 14th-minute goal before second-half efforts from Alan Power and Aaron Tshibola saw Killie make a comeback.
Meanwhile Jim McIntyres career as manager of bottom-of-the-table Dundee started with a 4-0 loss away to Livingston, headers from Declan Gallagher and Craig Halkett leaving the hosts 2-0 up at the break before further goals from Steven Lawless and Alan Lithgow put the result beyond doubt.
 AFP
==============================
## Title: HNB strengthens employee value with benefits to staff from  Collective Agreement
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
HNB strengthens employee value with benefits to staff from  Collective Agreement
Sri Lankas premier private sector commercial bank, HNB PLC, held a formal ceremony to mark its entering into a new Collective Agreement with the Ceylon Bank Employees Union and the HNB PLC Officers Union for the period 2018/21.
Collective agreements covering Bank Associates grade and Junior Executive grade were entered into with the Ceylon Bank Employees Union while a concurrent collective agreement was entered into with the HNB PLC Officers Union with regard to the Junior Executive grade at the Employers Federation of Ceylon, on October 12, 2018.
HNB Chief Human Resources Officer/ Deputy General Manager, Human Resources, Chiranthi Cooray said, Our rewards philosophy positions the Bank as a market leader in creating value for employees. The new collective agreements signed today further improved the already strong remuneration structure of HNB, while bringing all employees of the Bank in to performance based rewards at the same time.
By effectively incentivizing our employees, we ensure the continuing refinement of HNBs performance driven culture, combined with extensive support, training and other benefits, we are able to ensure that our team of employees continues to serve as a key driver of our continuing success in our trailblazing journey. We have strengthened the relationship with our unions. We abide by the principles of ILO in our interactions with employee representatives. We are committed to nurturing this relationship and working together as partners in progress for the betterment of our Hatna family.
A specific feature of this years collective agreement has been the inclusion of Bank Associate grade employees under the performance based reward system for the first time, which in effect expands performance-based rewards to all employees from 2018 on-wards.
Hatton National Bank has a long history of over 35 years in collective negotiations with trade unions regarding the salaries of their employees and presently around 80% of the employees are covered by collective agreements.
The Bank stands as a pioneer in the field of HR setting new industry benchmarks. In house developed succession planning programmes, novel engagement initiatives, a 3-tier leadership programme and a leadership development track for high potential young managers and mid-career professionals with a view to strengthening the leadership Top 100 for the future are some of these.
==============================
## Title: Hotel Topaz hosts Mrs. World 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Hotel Topaz hosts Mrs. World 2018
Mrs. World 2018, Alice Lee Giannetta, was the Guest of Honor at the Mrs. Sri Lanka pageant and as a part of her official tour to Sri Lanka, she visited our Nations hill Capital, Kandy, where Hotel Topaz, owned and operated by the McLarens Group was chosen as the hospitality partner for Kandy.
Alice Lee Giannetta is a New York based Litigation Attorney who represented Hong Kong for the Mrs. World Pageant held in South Africa in 2017 December, where she was crowned Mrs. World 2018. She was born in Taiwan and immigrated to America at the age of eight years. Hotel Topaz had the honor of hosting her during her stay in Kandy.
She interacted with the staff of the property by taking part in group photographs, cookery demonstrations and participated in other local activities.
Managing Director Anura Basnayake, other executives and all staff members shared some lighter moments with Mrs. Giannetta also provided a tour of the Hotel.
==============================
## Title: Husband released in wifes murder due to mental instability
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Husband released in wifes murder due to mental instability
The accused in a wife assault and murder was not meted out punishment due to specialist medical reports of his mental instability at the time of the crime.
Panadura Provincial High Court judge Dhamith Thotawatte said in open court that according to the Criminal Procedure Code, there is no option to impose punishment on an accused suffering from an acute mental illnesss, at the time of committing the crime.
Court had to act according to the procedure mentioned in the Law and therefore court decided to forward the case record with the judgement to the Justice Minister for information and necessary action, Judge Thotawatte said delivering his verdict.
The accused Micheal Evans Devon Francisco was found guilty of murdering his wife on December 30, 2008. However, the Court is unable to impose punishment on him because the Specialist Medical Officer of the Angoda Mental Hospital who had treated the accused for his acute mental illness had stated that he may have committed the murder while he was suffering from this acute mental illness.
Francisco was indicted by the Attorney General with committing the death of Premawathi Gamage by assaulting her. Panadura North Police had conducted the investigations into this murder and had forwarded the investigations report to the Attorney General.The Attorney General had indicted the accused with committing the murder of his wife in 2008.
Since the date of the murder, the accused was in remand and had taken treatment from the Angoda Mental Hospital for his acute mental illness.
The judge ordered the two sureties of the accused to take care and look after him and provide treatment for his acute mental illness consulting the Mental Hospital specialist and report to the High Court Registrar regarding the accused.The two sureties signed a bond and took charge of the accused from Prison custody on court order.
Attorney Kumara Jayalath Mohotty appeared for the accused. State Counsel Jayani Wegodapola appeared for the prosecution.
==============================
## Title: IDM College of Legal Studies joins with Buckinghamshire New University
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
IDM College of Legal Studies joins with Buckinghamshire New University
IDM College of Legal Studies joined hands with Buckinghamshire New University to offer a world class Law Degree program for the students who a sat for the GCE / GCSE advanced level examination in 2018.
This special degree program consists of three academic years and it is an internal degree awarded by the world 26th ranked prestigious Buckinghamshire New University UK. IDM Nations Campus held their annual convocation for the year 2018 at Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall including 53 LLB Graduates who have received international awards & certificates for their higher achievements & successful degree completions.
The specialty of this internationally recognized full degree program is that the entire program is approved by the incorporated Council of Legal Education - Sri Lanka Law College & successful completion of the full degree allows students to find direct entry to Sri Lanka LAW College.
A well reputed lecture panel with industry experience guarantees the on-time completion of the three academic years and IDM College of Legal Studies introduce the most affordable payment schemes that suit all income levels to grant a better higher education service to the whole nation.
==============================
## Title: Indian chef cooks 6,614 pounds of khichdi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Indian chef cooks 6,614 pounds of khichdi
An Indian chef broke a Guinness World Record by cooking up a 6,614-pound serving of rice and bean dish khichdi.
Chef Vishnu Manohar stirred 606 pounds of rice, 276 pounds of lentils and 331 pounds of pulses into 793 gallons of water and 331 pounds of clarified butter to break the Guinness record Sunday in Nagpur. Manohar said the record attempt, which took about four hours to cook, was timed to coincide with Tuesdays World Food Day and was part of his campaign to have khichdi declared as Indias national dish.
A 2,023-pound bowl of khichdi cooked up in New Delhi entered the Guinness Book of World Records in November 2017 as the worlds largest serving of rice and beans. UPI
==============================
## Title: Indian support for Palaly Airport development
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:03
Indian support for Palaly Airport development
India will provide its full support to Sri Lanka towards the development of the Palaly Airport, inaugurating direct air links form South India to Palaly and Batticaloa and providing 750 jeeps for streamlining the Sri Lanka Police Mobile Services, Indian Home Affairs Minister Rajnath Singh said.
The Indian Home Affairs Minister gave this assurance when he met Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at the New Delhi Taj Hotel Niswan Conference Hall on Saturday.
Minister Rajnath Singh said defence cooperation between Sri Lanka and India had brought mutual benefits to both countries.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe thanked India for the support and co-operation extended towards combating crime in Sri Lanka, a press release by the Prime Ministers office said.
Preimier Wickremesinghe said Sri Lanka had succeeded in reducing its crime rate by 30 percent during the last two years while solutions had been found for almost 90 percent of complaints received.
The release stated that the Indian Home Affairs Minister Agreed to provide Indian Support to ensure legal action regarding alleged match fixing and betting in the field of cricket in Sri Lanka.
Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunge who was in the Prime Minister delegation requested that security measures and technology used by India in this regard be shared with Sri Lanka with necessary training in the field.
During the talks, views were also exchanged about training courses given in India for members of the Sri Lankan Security forces and Police.
Youth Affairs, Project Management and Southern Development Minister Sagala Ratnayaka, Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama, Secretary to the Prime Minister Saman Ekanayake, Sri Lanka High Commissioner in India Chitrangani Wagishwara, Additional Secretary to the Prime Minister Saman Athaudahetty and Prime Minister Special Assistant Sandra Perera wee also present.
==============================
## Title: Invoking blessings on all beings
## Supertitle: Sri Jagannath Ratha Yatra Chariot Festival
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Jagannath Ratha Yatra Chariot Festival
Invoking blessings on all beings
The annual Sri Jagannath Ratha Yatra Chariot Festival will be celebrated on October 24 organized by Kotahena Sri Sri Radhakrishna Temple the twentieth time.
Lord Jagannath along with Baladev and Subdhra will leave the Sri Sri Radhakrishna Temple 188, Newchetty Street, Colombo-13 on the Chariot at 7am on that day.
The Chariot will proceed along the main roads in Colombo city and will shower blessings upon everybody and every living entity. Devotees can make offerings and accept the blessings of Lord.
Ratha Yatra is a Hindu vaishnava festival associated with Lord Jagannath held at Puri in the state of odisha. It is the oldest Chariot Festival taking place in India and the World, dating back to 10  11th century and its descriptions can be found in Brahma Purana, Padma Purana, and Kapila Samhita. Three richly decorated chariots, resembling temple structures, are pulled through the streets of Puri . This commemorates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra, and their sister Subhadra.
During the festival, Devotees from all over the world go to Puri with an earnest desire to participate pulling the Lords Chariots with the help of other devotees pulling the chariots with ropes.
The Ratha Yatra has become a common festival in most major cities including Colombo Sri Lanka through the ISKCON Hare Krishna movement. The festival is now celebrated on an annually all over the world in over 108 cities.
Puri Rath-yatra
==============================
## Title: JB Industries wins Business Excellence Star Award
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
JB Industries wins Business Excellence Star Award
Managing Director of JB Industries J.B. Alahakoon won the Star Award for Business Excellence in the Medium Category, Manufacturing Sector at the Star Award 2018 Awards Ceremony organized by the Department of Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion (DIDEP), Central Province recently.
The awards ceremony was held on a grand scale under the patronage of Central Province Governor P. B. Disanayaka and the Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake in Kandy. J.B. Industries which has had an illustrious journey in business for the last 20 years, to become one of the leading manufacturers of concrete mixer machines, celebrated their 20th anniversary this year, thus making this award even more significant for the company.
A wholly Sri Lankan owned company under the concept built by its founder J.B. Alahakoon, the company manufactures a range of other construction equipment including concrete mixers. These include; concrete mixer lifting buckets, wheelbarrows, concrete measuring equipment and other such equipment.
The equipment are manufactured at their factory in Ulapane and distributed island wide as well as exported to the Maldives and other countries abroad. J.B. Alahakoon also hopes to in future widen the export market to other countries in South Asia as well. I have to especially mention that all our products are made to help our customers make a profit themselves. At the same time as these products are locally manufactured and exported, it helps bring in a lot of foreign exchange into the country.
All our products are high in quality, meet all standards and are long lasting. Our products have never had any maintenance issues during the warranty period and this is proof of their high quality and standard, said J.B. Alahakoon. The JB Industries head office is located Kiribathkumbura, Kandy and their showroom Polgahamula, Peradeniya.

==============================
## Title: JVP protest in Colombo tomorrow
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
JVP protest in Colombo tomorrow
JVP General Secretary Tilvin Silva said that his party, considering the issues of the people of the country such as the heavy tax burden, high price of goods, and fines, will launch a protest campaign tomorrow in Colombo.
A number of trade unions, farmers associations, fishermens associations, and peoples movements will support this protest campaign which will be held against the government.
Silva said the Rajapaksas who ruled the country for nearly a decade are now trying to bring another Rajapaksa to power who has no proper knowledge about or plan for the countrys economy.
There is a group of politically powerless people in the country whose intention is to come to power by means of the burning issues of the ordinary masses and thereby enjoy the privileges of power. Politically weak persons such as Udaya Gammanpila and Wimal Weerawansa expect to bring a Rajapaksa to power with the purpose of preventing them from being convicted for the fraud they have committed, Silva said at a media conference in Colombo yesterday.
He said although former President Rajapaksa is looking for an opportunity to bring his son Namal Rajapaksa to power, they have no sense of the burning issues of the ordinary masses. They have no answers when journalists question them about their plans to develop the countrys economy. We warn the people of this country to beware of such politicians, he said.
He said, there is another group which is politically weak after they quit the present government. They are also looking for an opportunity to obtain power and enjoy the privileges of power. These situations have created political chaos in the country.
==============================
## Title: Kamil elected president of MICH at 74th AGM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Kamil elected president of MICH at 74th AGM
The 74th Annual General Meeting of the Moors Islamic Cultural Home (MICH) was held at Pasha Villa 115, Dematagoda Road, Colombo 9 recently and Omar Kamil was elected president.
The rest of the office bearers elected were: Vice Presidents: Nilam Mansoor, M.H.M. Nazeer, M. Naizer Cader, M. Fairoze Hassan, M.C.A. Cader. Joint Secretaries: M. Naufel Barry, M. Ashroff Jameel, B. Ansar Samsudeen, Joint Treasurers: M.C. Abdul Malik, M. Falih Ghouse, Chairmen of Committees: Dawa & Religion - M. Rimaz Saleem, Library & Literary - M. Ziyam Kameel, Community Welfare & Youth Affairs - M. Zubair Hassen, Employment & Training - M.J.M. Azwer, Foreign Relations & Cultural Affairs - A.W.M. Faizal, Lady Fareed Hall for Elders - M.M. Rajabdeen, Dowry - M.C.A. Cader, Hotel and Housing - M. Nimal Mansoor, Social & Recreation - N. Fareen Ghouse, Finance & Administration - M. Munawar Nazeer and Janaza Service - M. Marshad Barry.
Since its inauguration in 1944, the MICH has an impressive and enviable record of work to the community, sports and the country. In fact the organization is now in its 74th year. Its resolve and determination to work with greater and enthusiasm in the years ahead remain undaunted.
MICH which gives a big hand for billiards and snooker helped the country produce its first world champion, MJM Lafir, in whose memory they organize a cue tournament. National hero Lafir was synonymous with both Billiards & Snooker in the country and by winning the World Amateur Billiards Championship in Bombay in 1973 he became the first Sri Lankan to win a world title in any sport. The MICH is hoping to revive the MJM Lafir tournament which was no held in the last few years.
==============================
## Title: The Kingsbury to celebrate Oktoberfest at Honey Beach Club
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
The Kingsbury to celebrate Oktoberfest at Honey Beach Club
The Kingsbury Hotel, Colombo, is proud to present Oktoberfest from October 25  30 at its popular Honey Beach Club, from 7pm-11pm.
There will be an extensive array of comforting and warm German Food such as a Bavarian Mixed Grill platter with pork, chicken garlic sausages, lamb shoulder chops and German Potato Salad to name a few. Guests will have the option to wash it all down with two mugs of traditional Oktoberfest brew.
A number of games have been lined up to keep guests entertained as they enjoy the music of celebrated local DJs. The Kingsbury Oktoberfest is tipped to be the hottest one in town and has drawn much interest among beer and meat lovers of all ages.
Over the years Oktoberfest has been celebrated globally in recognition of German culture and cuisine. Today, it is one of the largest festivals worldwide and is widely followed by millions who celebrate Oktoberfest activities annually.
The Kingsbury Hotel is located in the heart of Colombo featuring stunning views of Sri Lankas iconic Galleface Green.
The hotel boasts a collection of varied cuisine from its outlets  The Kings, Yue Chuan, Harbour Court, Honey Beach Club, The Gourmet Station, The Grill and The Ocean. Since its inception, The Kingsbury has consistently catered to the diverse needs of customers. As the newest offering, the award winning Singaporean dining and entertainment brand C LA VI takes entertainment and nightlife to a new pinnacle. The Kingsbury has earned global accolades including Regional Winner Luxury Business Hotel in South Asia and Best Luxury Business Hotel in Sri Lanka.
Kingsbury Hotel Faade
==============================
## Title: Kohli, Sharma star in Indias big ODI win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Kohli, Sharma star in Indias big ODI win
Guwahati, Sunday: Skipper Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma hit sparkling centuries Sunday to lead Indias eight-wicket demolition of West Indies in the first one-day international in Guwahati.
Kohli made 140 and Sharma took an unbeaten 152 for a record 246 runs to flay the West Indies bowling attack during their teams 323-run chase. The hosts, who swept the two-Test series against the visiting Caribbean side, romped home with 47 balls to spare.
The effort from Kohli and Sharma easily overshadowed a dominant 106 by West Indies batsman Shermon Hetmyer in his teams 322-8 after being put into bat first.
In reply, India lost opener Shikhar Dhawan in just the second over of the innings after he was bowled by debutant fast bowler Oshane Thomas.
Kohli then took charge with Sharma, who was happy playing second fiddle to his in-form captain, as the duo put on Indias biggest-ever ODI stand against West Indies for any wicket.
The skipper built on his quickfire fifty to get his 36th ODI ton in just 88 deliveries, hitting Roach for a boundary to make the three-figure mark amid loud cheers from a packed home crowd.
Sharma, who was relatively quiet till his captains 100, soon got cracking and reached his century with a boundary off spinner Ashley Nurse.
The two marauding batsmen started to toy with the opposition bowlers before Devendra Bishoo got Kohli stumped against the run of play.
Kohli smashed 21 fours and 2 sixes.
Sharma went on to hit the winning six with Ambati Rayudu, who remained unbeaten on 22, at the other end.
West Indies had their moments in the game when Hetmyer smashed six fours and six sixes during his 78-ball knock to give his side what looked like a competitive total.
Leg spinner Yuzvendra Chahal claimed three wickets, returning impressive figures of 3-41 from his 10 overs, to check West Indies surge.
Hetmyer, who registered his third ODI century in just his 13th game, built crucial partnerships including a 60-run sixth wicket stand with skipper Jason Holder, who made 38.
Bishoo, on 22, and Kemar Roach, on 26, put on 44 runs for their ninth wicket unbeaten stand to take West Indies well past the 300-run mark, which in the end proved insufficient to test the Indian batting.
The second ODI in the five-game series is scheduled for Wednesday in Visakhapatnam. AFP
==============================
## Title: Lanka Dissanayake appointed President
## Supertitle: IDM College Law Students Association
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
IDM College Law Students Association
Lanka Dissanayake appointed President
Lanka Dissanayake has been appointed as the third President of Law Students Association of IDM College of Legal Studies.
I started my career in the secretarial field and worked as an Executive Secretary in the private sector for over six years and joined Sri Lanka Telecom PLC in 2006 as the Executive Secretary to Chief Information Officer. I am currently working as the manager in sales group at Sri Lanka Telecom PLC.
I enrolled for LLB (Hons) Top-Up Degree programme at IDM Nations Campus with the intention to move up in my career ladder with legal qualifications, as I believe that this degree programme would offer opportunities for both personal development and advancement of my career.
She said that the student life at IDM college of legal studies was a balanced one, and she enjoyed continuing her higher studies with colleagues working for various companies in corporate sector.
I consider that IDM college of legal studies as my second home due to its friendly and encouraging atmosphere. Lanka Dissanayake said.

==============================
## Title: Legal framework of labour rights
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Legal framework of labour rights
Industrial relations systems are founded on a framework of labour laws which exert an influence on the nature of the industrial relations system. Employment is a matter vital importance to a worker. Not just employment they seek but employment commensurate with his or her education, training and experience.
Sri Lanka acceded to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), that inter alia recognizes the right of peaceful assembly (Article 21) and right to freedom of association including the right to form and join trade unions (Article 22) in June 1980. At the same time it also acceded to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), that recognizes inter alia the right to work (Article 6) right to just and favourable conditions of work (Article 7), trade unions rights including the right to strike (Article 8), and the right to social security (Article 9).
Sri Lanka has been a member of the International Labour Organization (ILO) since Independence in 1948 and has ratified the eight core conventions, in addition to several others. The core conventions are C29 (Concerning Forced Labour), C87 (Concerning Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize), C98 (Concerning Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining), C100 (Concerning Equal Remuneration), C105 (Concerning Abolishing of Forced Labour), C111 (Concerning Discrimination in Employment and Occupation), C138 (Concerning Minimum Age for Admission for Employment) and C182 (Concerning Prohibitions and Elimination of Worst Forms of Child Labour).
Women Workers Rights
Several international instruments and mechanisms have contributed to the progressive conceptualization of womens rights. Article 1 of the UDHR recognizes and affirms that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, while Article 2 goes on to state that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration. Sri Lanka has ratified ICCPR and ICESCR in 1980 and ratified the ICCPR Optional Protocol in 1997.
Article 2 of the respective Covenants call for non-discrimination based on sex while Article 3 specifically stipulates that State parties to the present Covenant undertake to ensure the equal rights of men and women to the enjoyment of all rights set forth therein. While certain provisions contained in the ICCPR have been incorporated into Chapter III of the 1978 Constitution as fundamental rights, provisions contained in the ICESCR are in the main incorporated into Chapter VI of the 1978 Constitution as Directive Principles of State Policy and Fundamental Duties which are not enforceable by law. One important international instrument contributing to the realization of womens right is the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). Sri Lanka ratified CEDAW in 1981 and the Optional Protocol in 2002.
Several national mechanisms have also been established to promote and monitor progress in achieving equality for women. The first of such institutions was the Womens Bureau established in 1979 with the aim of providing necessary skills and training to promote income generating activities for rural women. Thereafter in 1983 the Ministry of Women Affairs was established to ensure women participation in national policy and laws as well as to ensure sufficient resource allocation to meet the States commitments towards achieving gender equality.
In 1993 Womens Charter was formulated as the Governments principal policy document related to womens empowerment and provided for the establishment of the National Committee on Women (NCW). At present the NCW and Womens Bureau are the main implementing bodies functioning under the Ministry of Womens Affairs. While laws relating to labour rights are generally gender neutral and apply equally to men and women this often applies to the formal sector. Women in the informal sectors continue to experience discrimination. For example, women engaged in the informal agricultural sector appear to be paid less than men for similar work.
Sri Lanka has over 1.8 million migrant workers with nearly half being women the majority of whom migrate as domestic workers to the Middle-East. The majority of the workers in the Free Trade Zones or Export Processing Zones (EPZs) are women from rural areas between the ages of 18-30.
Many human rights and labour activists have highlighted the deplorable working and living conditions that EPZ workers face. The Board of Investment (BOI) arbitrates in labour disputes within the Zones in the first instance and is perceived as a pro employer. In any case, it has certain powers in the settlement of disputes which authority is vested mainly in the Labour Department. Historically workers in the tea plantation, particularly women workers have experienced discrimination. Women constitute nearly 60% of the estate labour force and mostly employed as unskilled labour. The issues of adequate wages, better living conditions, welfare facilities and stronger representation have been raised over the years.
An emerging issue globally and Sri Lanka is the movement calling for greater recognition of domestic workers. The law governing domestic work in Sri Lanka is contained in an old law, the Domestic Servants Ordinance No.28 of 1871 which defines a domestic worker as a servant and provides for registration books by a government appointed servant. Moreover, the laws which provide the legal framework for the recognition and protection of workers in the private employment sector do not recognize domestic workers as part of the formal work force thereby not providing them any framework of protection and rights for them.
Child labour
Sri Lanka ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991. In pursuance of its international obligations, Sri Lanka adopted the Charter on the Rights of the Child in 1992 and a National Monitoring Committee (NMC) was established for monitoring and implementation of the Charter on the Rights of the child in 1992. The Charter which was based on the UN Convention, is not legally enforceable. It provides a frame of reference for organisations which are responsible for or concerned with the implementation of plans and programmes for the protection of children and promotion of their interests. The establishment of the NMC and the 1995 Amendments to the Penal Code were not sufficient in themselves to control the incidence of child abuse.
A Presidential Tasks Force appointed in 1996 which also studied child labour made several recommendations including amendments to the enactments and the establishment of a National Child Protection Authority (NCPA). In November 1998 the NCPA Act No. 50 of 1998 was passed by Parliament.
It may be noted that Sri Lanka has already ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflicts in September 2000. According to Article 1 of the Optional Protocol, persons below the age of 18 years should not be recruited into the armed forces. The Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act of 1956 as amended in 1999 sets a minimum age for the employment of children. Accordingly the employment of children under 12 years of age in all spheres is prohibited and estate workers must be at least 14 years. The restrictions on the employment of children are spelled out in various other legislations such as Estate Labour (Indian Ordinance), the Factories Ordinance, the Mines and Minerals Law and Shops and Office Employees Act.
The ILO Conventions and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), are the two international instruments relevant to child labour in Sri Lanka. In 1973, the ILO adopted Convention No. 138 Minimum Age for Admission to Employment. This Convention applies to minimum age for hazardous work, light work and effective enforcement of obligations under the Convention. The 1999 session of the ILO Conference adopted the Convention on Worse or Extreme Forms of Child Labour. The Convention identifies as all forms of slavery, engaging children in illegal activities and other types of work likely to jeopardize health, safety and morals of children.
National Workers Charter
The National Workers Charter was presented to the then President in September 1995 by then Minister of Labour and Vocational Training in keeping with the 1994 election pledge of the Peoples Alliance. However, it had not been still enacted largely because of the opposition from employers and particularly from the Employers Federation of Ceylon. The Employers Federation opposed the Bill on the ground that the Charter did not safeguard the public servants rights and for the reason that it had no balanced approach to the employee obligations. Opponents of the Charter see it as being hostile to employers interest and fear a reduction in the flow of foreign direct investment in the event that the Charter becomes law.
Equal Opportunity Bill and Workers Rights
In 1999, the Government attempted to introduce new legislation on equal opportunity which would have enhanced protection against discrimination in the work place. At present constitutional provisions relating to non-discrimination are directed toward providing relief for violation by executive or administrative action and thus do not apply to works in the private sector. One of the primary objectives of the new legislation was to make the private sector accountable for rights violation of this kind. Part I of the Bill dealt with discrimination against persons and included protection against sexual harassment and discrimination in the work place. Article 3 provided for the protection of workers from sexual harassment in the work place and Article 5, discrimination on grounds inter alia of race, religion, gender in offering employment, promotion, transfer and training were made an offence.
After 42 petitions challenging the Bill had been filed in the Supreme Court, the government withdrew the Bill altogether. However, the objections were mainly directed at the provisions relating to education and many were without foundation. The withdrawal of the Bill in its totality thus deprive private sector employees of a unique opportunity to go before the proposed Equal Opportunity Commission in case of their rights being violated by their employers. Therefore it is submitted that the Equal Opportunity Bill should be adopted at least in relation to employment.
Several other statutory rights of workers
The Wages Board Ordinance No.27 of 1941 provides for the establishment and constitution of Wages Boards and regulates wages and other emoluments of any persons employed to perform any work in any trade. The Factories Ordinance No.45 of 1942 as amended makes provisions to ensure the safety, health and welfare of workers in factories. Shop and Office Employees Act No.19 of 1954 covers the terms and conditions of employment in shops and offices and provides for the regulation of employment, hours of works and remuneration of persons employed therein. The Act also deals with health and comfort of employees maternity benefits, weekly and annual holidays as well as leave. Trade Unions Ordinance No.44 of 1935 provides for the registration and control of trade unions. The State has taken steps to safeguard the rights of workers through its institutions. Besides formulating labour policy, training officers of the Department of Labour and conducting research, the Ministry of Labour handles matters pertaining to the international Labour Organization. The Workmens Compensation Department, the Employees Trust Fund, Foreign Employment Bureau are among the institutions under the Ministry.
Reforms
While laws relating to workers rights are generally gender neutral and apply equally to men and women, this often applies to the formal sector. Women in the informal sector including those in the tea plantations and informal agricultural sector continue to experience discrimination. Many of the needs of the migrant women workers and workers in the FTZ still remain to be addressed. The Domestic Servants Ordinance needs to be reviewed and reformed. There should be a consistent minimum age for the employment of children irrespective of the type of labour that they do.
The judicial process in Sri Lanka is slow and needs to be reformed to make it more efficient and more sensitive to the needs of children. Considering the Sri Lankas largely pro-worker domestic labour law regime and its impressive record of ratification of ILO Conventions and treaties, the most pressing issue for labour rights activists is that of implementation and scrupulous enforcement.
(The writer is an Attorney-at-Law)
==============================
## Title: Lucky Elephant opens in Hikkaduwa  with Rs 350 mn investment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Lucky Elephant opens in Hikkaduwa  with Rs 350 mn investment
Lucky Elephant opens in Hikkaduwa with Rs 350 mn investment
Pinning another luxury property to Sri Lankas southern coastal line, Lucky Elephant was opened in Thiranagama Hikkaduwa recently.
Owned and operated by emerging entrepreneur, Neel Siritunge, the hotel offers 15 rooms with two suites facing the Indian Ocean.
This is the third hotel of Siritunge and he has invested over Rs. 350 million for this three storeyed beach front property. The Chairman, Neel Siritunge, has worked in Italy for a long time and first investment in Tharuga, a 22 room hotel in Unawatuna. This was followed by a luxury villa hotel in Makulowa Galle.
Resident Manager Mahendra Sahabandu said that they will be obtaining the two and a half category rating for the hotel end of the month.
The hotel with 40 staff offers a modern gym, swimming pool with a kiddies pool, water sports and soon would introduce a luxury spa. We also could host foreign and local weddings in the beach and the hotel has now received several honey moon bookings due to tranquil surroundings.
The hotel also arranges special excursions to places of interest like Turtle hatchery, whale watching, Galle Fort, Madolduwa Island and historic temples.
In a bid to get the community involved we offer our airport pick and drop and other transport assignments to drivers who have registered with us, he said.
Having started his career three decades ago at Colombo Hilton and then moving to Taj Samudra and working overseas in Saudi Arabia and Dubai he said that their main market is Italian, UK and French. We are now launching aggressive marketing campaigns in India and China by participating in future travel fairs.
Chef Gallage Kithsiri said that they specialize in Italian cuisine also welcomed outside guests for meals and soon would have a special sea food outlet in the beach.
==============================
## Title: Lulls and prickles
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Lulls and prickles
Milkman (which has been shortlisted for this years Man Booker Prize) is a book that demands vigilance. It is quietly alarming  with over 300 pages of text almost unbroken by chapters, line breaks or dialogue  and yet fuels its wordiness, its own nervous talk. Its prose builds with pressure, swaying with concealed turbulence. It is tiring, exhausting even, as it circles and plis, settling on nothing. Abruptly, it spikes with danger, before wobbling with indecision in the aftermath.
Anna Burns is masterly in her creation of a reading experience that so closely simulates the plight of its protagonist, an eighteen-year-old girl being pursued by a man in the IRA. Its not exactly that the reader is in her thoughts: in her construction of a narratorial voice, Burns is more sophisticated than that, giving us a character who doesnt deal in straightforward explanations. Instead, the reader endures her experience, one of encroachment and infiltration, a gradual wearing down. Burns doesnt write about fear so much as create the experience of it: the book lulls and prickles with it, is worn out by it, and eventually released from it. The reward lies in yielding to it, in reading on its wavelength.
Civilian lawns
Though Burns doesnt go so far as to say so, Milkman is set in Belfast during the Troubles in the 1970s. The city is and isnt itself: its a place without street names, darkened by bomb scares, hijackings and kerb-crawling. Paramilitaries store rifles beneath civilian lawns and petrol bombs in alleyways; state-defenders cull neighbourhood cats and dogs. Domestic lives become implicated in partisanship: within her own family, the narrator has two dead brothers, both renouncers of the state, and a sister banished for marrying an Englishman. Its a dangerous place, where families breed their own distrust and neighbourhoods are sticky with rumour and fear. Wryly, the narrator describes the paranoia of knife-edge times, primal times, with everybody suspicious of everybody.
There is, however, a certain safety in anonymity. Throughout the novel, little is identified and few names are given. The city is known by its dark spots (the ten-minute area, a danger zone that takes ten minutes to walk through), and people are described through levels of connection and trust (first brother-in-law, longest friend). To keep safe, the narrator attempts to go unnoticed. Id learned by the end of primary school that it was best not to open my mouth in the interests of truth, she says. Better to go around not being anything; also not thinking. So its a surprise when, seemingly from nothing, she attracts the sexual attention of an older man.
Dangerous by association
Milkman is not a milkman, but hes influential in the paramilitary, and he knows everything about her. Hes dangerous by association, without touching her: how could you be under attack from something that wasnt there Shes aware of being photographed with him, of being trailed by him; according to the local gossips, shes as good as slept with him. This is the novel at its best, in its mimicry of hearsay and its swirling cadence-like volubility. Rumour gathers momentum and her public character deteriorates (shes a loose woman and a paramilitary groupie).
Gradually, the Milkman wears her down. I was confused, she says, and becoming enfeebled. Its a poignant depiction of sexual harassment, the heat of an unwanted attention rendering vigilance ineffective, because, she learns, being up on, having awareness, clocking everything doesnt stop bad things from happening. Shes at the mercy of both Milkman and her community. I can see now, that no matter what I would have done or could have done, those gossips wouldnt have stopped, never would they have ceased or gone away, not until the man himself had gone away, after having me and had done with me.
Absurd gestures
Milkman is dark but its also very funny, with a supporting cast of characters promising hope through comic relief. Burns draws attention to the pettiness of tribal conflict, rendering loyalty and affiliation as absurd gestures in a war that feeds itself.
The real victory lies in not conforming: the chef, who prefers food to sports; the International Couple, who leave Ireland to become ballroom dancers; and the real milkman, who digs up the weapons hidden beneath his lawn. For the narrator (who reads nineteenth-century novels and watches Hitchcock films), individualism wont be stifled, and she discovers a freedom in living beyond the pale.
==============================
## Title: Mahindaramayas katina pinkama
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Mahindaramayas katina pinkama
The Maradana Sri Mahindaramayas annual katina pinkama will be held on November 2 and 3, under the patronage of Viharadhipati Ven. Mapalane Dhammaloka Nayake Thera, as well as the sponsorship of Frank and Lalani Wieprecht and other members of the Dayaka Sabha. The programme on November 2 will include a gilanpasa Buddha pooja at 8 pm followed by an all-night pirith ceremony at 8.30 pm.
On November 3, a katina perahera will commence from No.92/2, Ananda Rajakrruan Mawatha and proceed through Maradana to arrive at the temple in time for the katina cheewara pooja at 6 am.
On November 3, a heel dana will be held at 7 am, as well as a Buddha pooja and forenoon dana at 11.30 am. The event will conclude with a katinanusansa dhamma desana by Ven. Karaputgala Revatha Nayake Thera at 5 pm.
==============================
## Title: Malshan to lead Piliyandala Central College this season
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Malshan to lead Piliyandala Central College this season
Fourth year coloursman and all rounder Malshan Gunathilake will be captaining the first eleven cricket team of Piliyandala Central College for the year 2018/19. He bats right hand and bowls right arm off spin.
He commenced his school carrier in 2006 from Primary School Piliyandala and was admitted to Piliyandala Central College in the year 2011 when late S.J.P. Wijesinghe was at the helm of the school.
He joined the school cricket academy in 2011 and in the following year got selected for the under 13 division three team and in 2013 he got selected for the under 13 division one team. In the years 2014 and 15 he played for the under 15 division one team and again in 2016 and 17 played for the under 17 team and he was the Vice Captain to Heshan Madushanka in 2017. He was selected to the first eleven team while he was playing for the under 15 team and in this first year he scored 390 runs and captured 28 wickets. In the following year he scored 320 runs and claimed 35 sclaps. Last season he scored 450 runs with the top score of 85 runs against Ananda Shathralaya, Kotte and captured 23 wickets.
His first big match and the limited over game was in year 2016 and 2017 and he played in both these formats and he played for the last years big match and the limited overs game and he carried away the Best Bowlers award in the limited over game. He represented Colombo South Team in the last years inter District Tournament. His main ambition is to win the big match against Taxila Central.
==============================
## Title: Man City turn on style as Salah fires Liverpool to win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Man City turn on style as Salah fires Liverpool to win
LONDON, Saturday  Manchester City brushed aside Burnley 5-0 on Saturday but Liverpool kept pace with the champions after Mohamed Salah rediscovered his scoring touch to fire his team to victory against lowly Huddersfield.
Earlier, Chelsea -- who had been level with City and Liverpool before the weekend -- needed a last-gasp equaliser to grab a point against Manchester United.
Tottenham moved into the top four after a 1-0 victory at West Ham, with Arsenal not in action until Monday.
Pep Guardiolas side, who missed a late penalty that would have given them victory over Liverpool at Anfield earlier this month, made it seven wins from nine league games as Burnley goalkeeper Joe Hart endured a miserable return to his former club.
Sergio Aguero opened the scoring in the 17th minute before second-half goals rained in from Bernardo Silva, Fernandinho, Riyad Mahrez and Leroy Sane.
With the defending champions slipping ominously into gear, midfielder Kevin De Bruyne came on for just his second appearance of the season following a knee injury he suffered in August. After we scored the second goal and third it was much easier, said Guardiola. And of course its good news that Kevin De Bruyne is back.... The goals were so outstanding, beautiful, beautiful goals and three more points.
City have scored 26 Premier League goals already during this campaign -- putting them on course to beat the record 106 they totalled last season.
Jurgen Klopps Liverpool were forced to tough it out against Huddersfield in the late game, with Salah scoring the only goal in a 1-0 win midway through the first half. It was a good game from Huddersfield and not so good game from us, Klopp told BT Sport. So well take it.
I sometimes look frustrated on the touchline even if were winning. The performance wasnt 100 percent. It looked like we could have scored in six or seven situations but we needed one better pass.
Liverpool, gunning for a first top-flight title since 1990, are level with City on 23 points but trail their rivals on goal difference. Chelsea, in third, have 21 points -- level with Tottenham. All of the top three remain unbeaten.
BARKLEY STRIKE
In Saturdays early game, Ross Barkley scored in the sixth minute of injury time at Stamford Bridge to level the match at 2-2 after Anthony Martial had scored twice in the second half to cancel out Antonio Rudigers opener.
It was a bitter blow for under-pressure United boss Jose Mourinho, returning to his former club after a poor start to the season and he lost his cool in emotional scenes in the final seconds.
Mourinho took exception to the celebrations of one of Chelseas backroom staff, Marco Ianni, who ran in front of the Portuguese on the touchline, as United were deprived of a desperately needed win.
But after the final whistle the United boss played down the incident, saying Ianni had apologised.
(It was) not celebrations, but bad education. But I also made mistakes in football matches and I will make more, so after the game when he came to offer his apologies, I accept, added Mourinho. The United boss, who has a tough run of fixtures coming up, including games against Juventus and Manchester City, described the draw as an awful result for his team, who roared back from 2-0 down to beat Newcastle United in their last match.
Erik Lamela struck with a cool header late in the first half at the London Stadium to give Spurs their fourth successive league victory.
That made it five goals in just eight appearances this season for Lamela, who was making his first league start of the campaign.
Mauricio Pochettino praised the Argentine, who has faced many injury problems since he joined the club, and hailed Hugo Lloris as one of the best goalkeepers in the world after his display.
Elsewhere, Cardiff beat Fulham 4-2 to lift themselves off the foot of the table.
Newcastle are languishing in bottom spot after a 1-0 home loss to Brighton while Watford beat Wolves 2-0 and Bournemouth played out a goalless draw with Southampton.
Brighton striker Glenn Murray was discharged from hospital after being knocked unconscious during the match at Newcastle.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Massive cold storage facility for veggies in Dambulla
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Massive cold storage facility for veggies in Dambulla
Steps have been taken by the government to set up a large-scale cold storage facility adjacent to the Dambulla economic centre to store excess vegetable stocks.
The facility will have a capacity of five million kilogrammes, according to government sources.
At present, bags of vegetables are left to rot with wild elephants foraging on discarded vegetable stocks. Currently, over 10 percent of vegetables transported to the Dambulla economic centre, are being discarded owing to decomposition. At times, farmers have been unable to sell their products for a reasonable price due to glut in vegetable supply.
The cold storage is a much-needed facility and will be a boon to both traders and local farmers during periods where there is an excess supply, a trader at the economic centre said.
Rs.900 million has been estimated under Indian government aid for the project which will come under the purview of the Food Commissioners Department and Urban Development Authority and is being carried out on a proposal made by the Matale district agriculture society, its senior officers said.
The construction activities of the cold store will be undertaken by an Indian company in March 2019 and is expected to be completed within a short period of time.
==============================
## Title: ME TOO AS WE TOO
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
ME TOO AS WE TOO
The #MeToo movement has been active for over a decade, thanks to the inspired and dedicated work of Tarana Burke, an activist and advocate for young women of colour. A Chicago abuse survivor, Tarana Burke, first introduced the Me Too initiative in 2006, after listening to the heart-wrenching testimony of a fourteen-year-old rape victim.
Actress Alyssa Milano added the hashtag to Me Too in October 2017, after a New York Times story detailed Weinsteins conduct. The list of professionally successful men who have tumbled in the #MeToo wake has been without precedent, toppling a growing list.
While the #MeToo movement has revealed widespread abuse from Hollywood to government to businesses, mounting allegations of sexual misconduct within houses of worship and religious communities point to something perhaps even more appalling  a breach of a special trust.
During the past year, many women, and even some men, across the country have used the online hashtag #ChurchToo to tell their stories of past abuse. They have recounted how men in power used their uniquely intimate roles as pastors to spiritually manipulate and sexually coerce them when they were at their most vulnerable. Many were underage teens.
As the Roman Catholic Church struggles with a new wave of clergy abuse cases, several prominent evangelical institutions have been rocked in by their own sexual misconduct allegations against pastors and church leaders who exploited the trust they had gained from faithful churchgoers.
Sexual ethics: Soul-searching in the face of #MeToo
Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein surrendered to authorities in New York City following a firestorm of accusationsand ultimately legal chargesof sexual misconduct and assault. Released on a one-million-dollar cash bond, disgraced but also defiant, Weinstein was fitted with a tracking device and restricted to New York and Connecticut until trial. His story birthed the hashtag #MeToo movement last year, in which millions of women have stepped forward acknowledging that they, too, have been sexually abused.
The public conversation about #MeToo has lifted the blinds with a flood of stories has brought the reality of sexual abuse at work, at home, in school, and in government, forcing the devastating truth into the light and out of the shadows. Time ran the headline Me Too Just Gave Society a Conscience.
Why #MeToo can be for men, too
For some male victims of sexual assault and abuse, #MeToo can feel more like #WhatAboutMe
They admire the women speaking out about traumatic experiences as assault and harassment victims, while wondering whether men with similar scars will ever receive a comparable level of public empathy and understanding.
Schmutzer is among a group of survivors and therapists forming the leadership of Male Survivor, which since its incorporation in 1995 has sought to provide support and resources to men who suffered sexual abuse as children or adults. It says its website has been visited by hundreds of thousands of men worldwide.
The psychologists and therapists who work with Male Survivor endorse the findings of multiple studies concluding that about one in six men in the US experienced childhood sexual abuse, compared with one in four women. Many adult men also suffer sexual abuse: Rape in prison is frequent, and the latest Pentagon survey found that 6,300 men in the military said they were victims of sexual assault or other unwanted sexual contact in 2016.
Despite such data, experts say many men, because of social stigma and feelings of shame, are reluctant to speak up about the abuse they experienced or to seek professional help.
Joan Cook, a psychiatry professor at Yale School of Medicine, has been treating sexually abused men for more than 20 years.
Many of them still espouse this John Wayne mentality, she said. If something bad happens to you, just wall it off and dont acknowledge it to yourself or others.
Some of her patients fear theyll be perceived as weak if they go public about their abuse, she said, while others worry people will view them as more likely to be abusers themselves because of what they suffered as children.
According to Male Survivor, a significant portion of abuse perpetrators report having been victimized by abuse, but most victims do not go on to commit sexual abuse against others.
New York-based psychoanalyst Richard Gartner, a co-founder of Male Survivor, says theres increased public awareness of the childhood sexual abuse of males as a result of the extensive publicity given to scandals within the Roman Catholic Church and at Penn State University, where Jerry Sandusky was an assistant football coach before being convicted in 2012 of sexual abuse of 10 boys.
However, Gartner, like other advocates for abused men, said that in both those cases, public attention was far more focused on the perpetrators than on their victims.
Given the reluctance of many male survivors to speak publicly about the abuse, Gartner says its helpful when prominent men, including actors, music stars and pro athletes, do make that decision.
They are models for others to come forward, to tell their families, to find help, Gartner said. It becomes a less shameful thing when somebody famous says it happened to them.
Why hasnt the gay community had a #MeToo moment
According a survey by gay mens health charity GMFA, some 62% of British gay men have been touched or groped in a bar without consent. In the US 40% of gay and 47% of bisexual men have experienced sexual violence other than rape, compared with 21% of heterosexual men.
The British government published a survey of some 110,000 LGBT people in which two in five said they had experienced verbal or physical violence in the 12 months. According to British LGBT rights group Stonewall, 53 percent of trans people aged between 18 and 24 suffered some form of abuse over the same period. Elsewhere in Europe, statistics are difficult to find as many countries, such as Ireland, do not have specific hate crime legislation.
Theres a culture of silence, and its not difficult to understand why. Recognising the sexual violence you have experienced isnt always easy, especially when these are some of your earliest sexual encounters, or when memories are clouded by alcohol and drugs.
==============================
## Title: The mellow marvel of arts that are martial!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
The mellow marvel of arts that are martial!
I firmly believe that all schools should provide martial arts training as part of their curriculum. Such instruction will endow their students with basic preparation to strengthen their minds and bodies, show respect for others and instil in them the confidence to stand up for themselves.
Yet the unenlightened may wonder what courtesy has to do with martial arts. To many the two disciplines may seem diametrically opposed to each other. The term martial arts conjures up visions of combatants going at each other with a flurry of punches, kicks and lethal strikes aimed principally at demolishing an opponent. True, but that is an image mostly projected by many action movies that provide conflict buffs with high-octane entertainment.
Some parents are concerned that teaching kids martial arts may make them violent, but the reverse is actually true. Studies have found that some form of such training actually made them less violent than their peers.
In similarity to disciplines such as yoga, martial arts can help calm and focus young minds while teaching them important skills. Practices such as karate are much more than a means of teaching kids to protect themselves from bullies. They are a way to show them how to respect themselves as well as others and learn the kind of disciplinary skills that will help them in school, work, and beyond.
All the same, these time-honoured regimens teach some of the most admirable attributes to their charges. A student is bound by a strict code which is a crucial part of the martial arts philosophy. You see, in traditional martial arts, courtesy is one of the cornerstones of training. And proponents are never allowed to forget it. Essentially, martial arts are more than a just a way to attack someone or defend oneself.
More importantly, they also teach you about the consequences of your actions. Even for impressionable child minds, a karate, jiu jitsu, capoeira, taekwondo or other martial arts class provides an excellent environment for them to learn self-respect, respect for others, and self-discipline. Students have to look upon their instructor with the highest regard, almost filial devotion. They also have to value themselves in order to have the confidence to train properly.
The reason is simple. Martial arts originated in the East. And since these cultures place a high premium on courtesy, honour and respect, it is only natural that they embrace these ideals as well. Skills such as empathy, responsibility, and self-control are not innate, they need to be taught.
In traditional martial arts, courteousness and respect go hand-in-hand, even though the opponents are engaged in hand-to-hand combat. By bowing to your adversaries you are demonstrating your regard and being well-mannered to them. Practitioners at every level must always remember the rule of consideration. This basically means, you must be aware of and ensure the physical and mental well-being of your fellow students. You should always endeavour to avoid harming your sparring partner or antagonist.
Exponents practice being respectful because they understand that the discipline begins and ends with courtesy for all concerned. Among the higher ranked proponents, such as Black Belts, an even higher standard of manners and civility are expected. Adhering to the virtually sacred code of conduct demonstrates a sign of confidence, reverence and humility.
The structured nature of martial arts classes is designed to provide a background in which respect is given and earned on the basis of achievement. Younger students can practice the conduct and behavioural responses required in the class environment. As they progress the more advanced students will be more aware that behaviour both inside the dojo and out is of critical importance. From simple repetition to a deeper understanding, the principle of esteem for others and for oneself can be a powerful force in the lives of performers.
The discipline also demonstrates the truism that advancement through the ranks could come only through the result of hard work, refinement and endeavour. This underlying concept can provide young students with the work ethic and motivation necessary to succeed in any competitive field.
Also one of the most effective ways to tackle the problem of bullying is to build a strong foundation in the mind of a child by strengthening it with confidence through such training. Along with integrity, perseverance, self-control and indomitable spirit, good manners are one of the five basic tenets of martial arts training. It is the basis for the reverence and honour shown by the student both inside and outside the arena.
Whether a child is punching a pad or breaking a board, he or she must be incredibly focused on the action. When a child learns to concentrate energy on the task at hand this same focus can be applied to schoolwork assignments.
Another significant aspect is effort. Students are always being hard-pressed to give 100 per cent of endeavour on a consistent basis. Students are unfailingly encouraged to kick a little higher or punch a little faster or with more power at every training session. This motivates them to never accept less from themselves and makes them realise their true potential. It also teaches children that they can be far better than average when it comes to achieving higher academic grades.
Most instructors tend to be extremely strict when it comes to behaviour in dojo classes. They will not tolerate excessive jabbering or horsing around in the dojo. Improved behaviour in martial arts classes often translates into improved behaviour at school, which in turn enhances grades.
Courteousness demonstrates that you have what it takes to be a leader and shows you have self-control.
It also exhibits the fact that you possess the right type of humility and want to avoid confrontation. Remember that most punch ups start with words. Courtesy and elegant behaviour is your first line of defence.
Conventional martial arts, in their varied forms, teach you to show consideration to others. And its not just towards your teachers or fellow students, but everybody you meet and interact with in your day to day life. In a traditional martial arts school courtesy is not an option. It is the norm.
Anyone wanting to learn the skills of codified systems and traditions of combat practices should first learn to be courteous. And when you train in an environment that demands courtesy and mutual respect, you are bound to develop those qualities to even higher standards of excellence and practice them in your daily life.
As students become stronger physically and they begin to realise they can handle themselves in dangerous situations, they become more confident individuals overall. A heightened sense of self confidence will certainly benefit children throughout their lives. So never be impartial to the marvel of the gentle arts that are martial.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Messi to miss three weeks after fracturing right arm
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Messi to miss three weeks after fracturing right arm
BARCELONA, Saturday  Lionel Messi is expected to be out for three weeks after fracturing his right arm during Barcelonas win over Sevilla on Saturday.
Messi will now miss Barcas Champions League game at home to Inter Milan on Wednesday, as well as the seasons first Clasico four days later against Real Madrid.
A Barcelona club statement read: Tests carried out on Leo Messi have confirmed that he has a fracture of the radial bone in his right arm. He will be out for approximately three weeks.
It means Messi is also set to sit out a La Liga trip to Rayo Vallecano on November 3 and the Champions League return match against Inter Milan in Italy on November 6.
He could return for the league game at home to Real Betis on November 11.
It is clear it is a blow, Barca coach Ernesto Valverde said. We know what he gives us and we know what he does to the opposition.
We have to prepare ourselves, it is clear we are going to notice the loss of Messi but we have players that can cover.
Messi scored before going off in the 26th minute of Barcas 4-2 win over Sevilla at the Camp Nou, which sent them back to the top of La Liga. He fell to the ground following a tussle with Sevillas Franco Vazquez and, as his right hand tried to cushion the landing, his elbow appeared to buckle.
Philippe Coutinho had opened the scoring and Luis Suarezs penalty made sure of victory before a three-goal flurry in the final 11 minutes. Pablo Sarabia and Luis Muriel twice reduced the deficit to two for Sevilla, either side of a sweeping volley from Ivan Rakitic.
 AFP
==============================
## Title: Moat Marmite eaten in one minute
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Moat Marmite eaten in one minute
Andr Ortolf ate 252 g (8.8 oz) of Marmite in his home city of Augsburg, Germany in 2016. He beat the previous record of 218 g (7.6 oz), set by his hero Ashrita Furman (USA) in 2012. The divisive savoury yeast extract is popular in the UK, New Zealand and South Africa, often spread on toasted bread or in sandwiches. Prolific record-breaker Andre, who features in the #GWR2018 book, also holds records for speed eating apple sauce, cranberry sauce, baby food, yoghurt, mashed potato and mustard. Unable to satisfy his hunger for glory with just food records, hes also well practiced in chair racing, running in clogs, pulling on wet t-shirts and more. ITV
==============================
## Title: Modi plays Gandhi tribute song by Sri Lankan artistes to PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:04
Modi plays Gandhi tribute song by Sri Lankan artistes to PM
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi operated his tab to play a new version of an ancient Gujarati Bhajan song to entertain Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and Prof. Mrs. Maithree Wickremesinghe after hosting them and their delegation to lunch at Hyderabad House on October 20.
The song sung during the Indian Freedom Struggle is an all time popular hit in India.
Prime Minister Modi, a Gujarati himself once held the post of Gujarati Chief Minister. The essence of the song titled Vaishnawa Jana tho means, People sensitive to others trials and tribulations, provide succour to people in difficulty and devoid of pride are true Vaishnawayo. They honour the whole world, do not insult others and are pure in word, deed and thought. As such their mothers are blessed.
Modi revealed that the song was sung by Sri Lankan artistes Bhathiya, Santhush, Umariya Sinhawansa, Asanka Dhananjaya and Rashika Pradeep as a tribute to late Mahatma Gandhi and recorded in Sri Lanka at Independence Square.
Prime Minister Modi later expressed his thanks for the musical tribute paid to the late Mahatuma Gandhi. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremeisnghe in reply said it was by following in the footsteps of Mahatma Gandhi that late. D.S. Senanayake gained Independence for Sri Lanka and he was thankful for the guidance.
==============================
## Title: National Science Foundation marks 50 years
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
National Science Foundation marks 50 years
The National Science Foundation (NSF) of Sri Lanka celebrates an unrivaled landmark of 50 years of service to the nation as Sri Lankas foremost enabler of science, technology and innovation, under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena.
The countrys apex body powering the execution of scientific research and popularization of science is looking to keep the momentum of empowering Sri Lankan talent and genius through continued government endorsements and investment.
We are proud to be part of an institution that has for half a century contributed towards the steady intellectual and technological evolution of our country, said Director General of the NSF, Prof. Ananda Jayawardane.
As the premier driving force in promoting scientific research and innovation for social prosperity in Sri Lanka, the NSF offers an array of grants under basic and applied research, technology and other areas to supplement the financial, physical and manpower resources available in science & technology institutions.
This resulted in the Foundation initiating a National Thematic Research Program (NTRP) that delivers solid and noticeable outputs for socio-economic development in the country, covering key areas that require immediate attention. Technology grants are provided for technology development and startup businesses leveraging innovation to meet future demands. This leads to Intellectual property (IP) creation and technology transfer with further support extended in various forms to protect and manage IP.
Communicating a message of continued learning, the NSF has nurtured a solid intellectual foundation across Sri Lanka by facilitating the establishment of Science Associations in over 900 schools across the island. These associations and practices have since been followed up in universities and research institutions in the country. This drive is further strengthened by the circulation of monthly editorials on science and technology published by the NSF  Vidurawa, and monographs supporting in the establishment of a knowledge-based society in Sri Lanka. The quarterly issued peer-reviewed publication, the Journal of the National Science Foundation of Sri Lanka and the Sri Lanka Journal of Social Sciences add further value to the scientific knowledge base in the country. The NSF is also behind one of the most advanced, and highly comprehensive knowledge gathering projects in the region  the National Digitization Project, a five-year old project established in 2013 that has seen the digitization of a staggering 3 million science and technology related volumes, manuscripts and books to create an encyclopedic online database for academics and stakeholders to benefit from the distribution of unparalleled knowledge.
Mobitel the leading mobile service provider in Sri Lanka and Commercial Bank  one of Sri Lankas foremost private banking institutions, have joined in the celebrations as Principal Sponsors of the event. Other sponsors of the jubilee celebration includes Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC), National Institute of Business Management (NIBM), Sri Lanka Insurance, Bank of Ceylon (BOC), BOC Travels, Peoples Travel and Expo graphics.

==============================
## Title: No partiality under Reparations Act - JVP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
No partiality under Reparations Act - JVP
The Reparations Act would ensure compensation payments to all aggrieved parties irrespective of differences, JVP Media Secretary MP Vijitha Herath said.
Some racist politicians with vested interests and narrow political expectations are defining this Act in various ways for their benefit, some saying that this Act facilitates only former LTTE cadres, he said at a media conference in Colombo yesterday. If any person or a community has been affected or has been a victim of civil war or political misconduct, they would be compensated irrespective of their race or identity. It is the responsibility of an elected government, he said.
MP Herath also emphasised that all political parties are responsible for bringing justice to all aggrieved persons and for property damage and thereby preventing any possibility of a recurrence of war.
The Office for Reparations Bill which was moved by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, was passed with a simple majority in Parliament last week.
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Obituaries
DE ALWIS - WICKREMA. Formerly of George Steuarts, State Plantations & Malwatta Valley Plantations, son of late Mr and Mrs P.G.D. Alwis, brother of late Dr. Kirthi, Amara, Bandu, Sita, Wimala and Sirimevan, expired. Remains lie at Jayarathne Funeral Parlour, Colombo 08 on Monday 22nd October from 8.30 a.m.. Cortege leaves parlour on 22nd at 4.00 p.m. for cremation at 4.30 p.m. at the General Cemetery, Kanatte (new Crematorium).121770
FERNANDO - B. CYRIL. Beloved husband of Indrani, father of Dhammika & Yohan, father-in-law of Thilaka & Shiromi, grandfather of Charith, Nadeesha, Dinukshi & Namal, son of late Mudliar & Mrs B.J. Fernando, brother of late Margarate, Richard, Sirisena & Jayasena. Cortege leaves residence at 5.00 p.m. 129, Cotte Road, Borella for cremation at Borella Kanatte Crematorium (Old) at 6.00 p.m.121773
HETTIARACHCHI (nee KANNANGARA) - PATRICIA MAUD (formerly at Lake House), beloved husband of Mahinda, mother of Ganga (John Keells), mother-in-law of Dr. Chandika Wickramasooriya (General Hospital, Kandy), grandmother of Chatushki, daughter of late Mr & Mrs E.T. Kannangara of Homagama, beloved sisters & bother, expired. Cortege leaves residence at Field View, Kalalpitiya, Kandy Road, Pasyala on Monday 22nd October. Cremation at 2.00 p.m. at Malwatta Cemetery, Thihariya, Nittambuwa.121772
LIYANARATCHI - LALITH. Beloved husband of Rohini, loving father of Rukshini and Lakshini, father-in-law of Senaka and Stephen, grandfather of Shevaan, son of late Ossie and Berine, brother of Sunella and Marcel, called to rest. Cortege leaves A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour on Monday 22nd October at 2.30 p.m. for cremation at General Cemetery Kanatte at 3.00 p.m.121775
PERERA - INDRANI. Beloved wife of Justice Priyantha Perera, daughter of late Edmund and Pearl Ranasinghe, mother of Sonali Perera (Attorney Generals Dept.), sister of late Lalith, Nimal, Shirani, Dilani and FR. Srian OMI. sister-in-law of Ziska Ranasinghe, Upali Perera, late Hazel Renganathan, Lilamani Sugathapala, Dr. Chrishantha Perera and of Srinath. Remains lie at A.F. Raymond Funeral Parlour. Mass at 3.00 p.m. on Monday 22nd October followed by burial at General Cemetery, Kanatte (R.C. Section).121774
RATNAYAKE - MANELLE, called to be with the Lord, much loved wife of Lucian and mother of Leroy, Mariza and Yannick. Remains lie at A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour. Funeral arrangements to be notified later.121777

==============================
## Title: Oporto opens first door into Sri Lanka at CCC
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Oporto opens first door into Sri Lanka at CCC
After months of anticipation following the announcement of its arrival three months ago, much-loved Australian flame-grilled chicken franchise, Oporto, opened its doors to fans here in Sri Lanka, on Tuesday October 16.
Located at the Food Studios Atrium, the innovative new dining construct of recently-opened Colombo City Centre (CCC), the Aussie brand finds itself in the company of the citys best gastronomical offerings. Food Studios Atrium was designed with the intent of catering to the new generation of the culinary-inclined, and currently houses 15 outlets offering both authentic local and international fare. From Singaporean to Indian, Western to Indonesian, patrons already spoilt for choice now have yet another delicious option to choose from.
What makes the inaugural Oporto outlet stand out however, is that this will be the only restaurant with its own private dining area, breaking from the rest by offering exclusive seating and ambience to customers in an otherwise shared seating setting.
Known for its signature brand of flame-grilled chicken infused with its own unique blend of Portuguese-influenced chilli sauce, Oportos selection of appetizers, entrees, and desserts, are a perfect match for the Sri Lankan palette.
The eaterys trademark Bondi burger will have lips smacking, alongside mouth-watering wraps, salads, rice bowls and sides. Further, customers already familiar with the brands signature taste are guaranteed a 100% bona fide Oporto experience; the local culinary team having just returned from specialist training in Australia.
In partnership with franchiser Ataraxia Capital Partners, Oportos entry into the country is only the second opening in its foray into Asia the first being an outlet in Singapore. With a network of over 165 outlets across Australia alone, the team is certain of its success in Sri Lanka, for the quick service restaurant has yet another outlet planned for the Food Atrium of The Shangri-Las One Mall scheduled to open in Colombo early next year.
At a fun-filled event held at the restaurants new location, representatives of Oporto introduced invitees, members of the press and special guests to the brands history, philosophy, and of course its mouth-watering, yet healthy menu.
Also present at the event was Australias High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Bryce Hutchesson,.
Speaking at the event, Oporto CEO Craig Tozer, expressed his confidence at the chains future in Sri Lanka We are honoured to have been able to bring our brand to a country which will undoubtedly appreciate the culinary experience we offer. Co-founder and partner of Ataraxia Capital Partners, Sharad Sri, said of the partnership We are pleased to have collaborated with Oporto as the newest addition to the Ataraxia Foods portfolio.
Customers can find Oporto at the lower level of The Food Studio at the Colombo City Centre.
==============================
## Title: Over 6,000 traffic violators arrested in four-hour operation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:01
Over 6,000 traffic violators arrested in four-hour operation
The Police arrested 3,560 persons and another 6,020 were charged with traffic violations during a four-hour special operation carried out across the country yesterday morning.
The Police said the raid was conducted under the direct supervision of IGP Pujith Jayasundera.
Nearly 18,000 Police officers participated in the raid. The special operation had been conducted from 3.00 am to 7.00 am.
Over 900 suspects had been arrested in connection with various crimes, 1,124 wanted suspects, 468 drunk drivers were arrested, the Police said.
In addition, 992 persons were arrested with heroin, other illicit drugs and liquor.
Another two persons were arrested with illegal firearms and one person with a grenade. According to Police, there had been 13 such operations during the year so far. In these raids 12,099 warranted suspects were arrested and another 64,143 persons charged with traffic violations.
==============================
## Title: Paranthan Chemical factory to re-open
## Supertitle: Expands with two new industry zones
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Expands with two new industry zones
Paranthan Chemical factory to re-open
The Paranthan Chemicals Company (PCC) in the Northern Province is to re-open with Sri Lankas first Heavy Chemical Industry Zone.
The PCC that was discontinued in 1985 will be revived. The site will also expand to include a Heavy Chemical Industry Zone, Minister of Industry and Commerce Rishad Bathiudeen tol the media after his inspection tour of the defunct Paranthan Chemical factory site in Paranthan.
The Paranthan factory site spreads across 227 acres and all factories were destroyed during the three decades of war. In many ways the Northern PCC factories spurred the development of Sri Lankan manufacturing and industries by producing and supplying domestically made, low cost chemicals that were promptly absorbed by the industries. Minister Bathiudeen plans to develop the entire Paranthan site to become an industry zone involving general and chemical industries.
Over 117 acres in Paranthan are allocated for chemical industries -67 acres for revived Paranthan chemical factories and 50 acres for a Heavy Chemical Industry Zone.
The 50 acre Chemical Zone will border a 110-acre general industry zone.
The first stage targets low polluting chemical production and related industries, industries based on mineral resources with export market potential and processed industries that work on raw material from the area.
At present, through PCC, Sri Lanka imports its entire annual requirement of Liquid Chlorine. 98% of this Liquid Chlorine is absorbed by the Water Supply and Drainage Board. With the recommencement of PCC factories domestic production of Sri Lankas total Chlorine requirements would recommence saving estimated foreign exchange of US $ 860,000 (around Rs 147 million) annually. To meet Sri Lankas liquid chlorine requirements, the revived PCC factory will have to crunch 2500 million tonnes of such chlorine annually.
Revival of PCC factory will open many new employment opportunities to Northern youth. We invite both local and global investors for this venture, Minister Bathiudeen said.
Paranthan Chemicals Corporation was established in 1954 as a state owned Chemicals factory at Paranthan, Kilinochchi District and subsequently was re-constituted as Paranthan Chemical Company.

==============================
## Title: Podi Lasees henchmen held
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Podi Lasees henchmen held
Two suspects dealing in heroin were arrested on a tip-off, in Magawela in the Meetiyagoda Police division, on Saturday.
The two suspects had six grams and 300 milligrams of heroin in their possession at the time of arrest.
They were identified as Devamuni Vijith Ananda de Zoysa (41) of Magawela, Meetiyagoda and Angampodi Saman Priyantha (20) of Kuleegoda, Ambalangoda.
At the preliminary police investigations, it came to light that the two suspects were henchmen of underworld figure Podi Lasee and were released a few days previously on bail after being in jail for a period of time.
The suspects were to be produced before the Balapitiya Magistrate last Saturday by the Meetiyagoda Police, who are investigating the case.
==============================
## Title: Prisoners protest against STF
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Prisoners protest against STF
A group of prisoners at the Angunakolapelessa Prison climbed a tower in the centre of the prison and started to protest against the deployment of the STF for additional security at the prison yesterday.
Nearly 100 inmates were engaged in the protest which began at around 5.30 am.
The protesters alleged that the food and other items brought by family members and visitors could not be consumed after the intense checking by the STF deployed to provide additional security.
However, residents in the area dismissed this claim and said the deployment of the STF was a salutary move which safeguarded the surrounding area and prevented much of the illegal activities taking place within the prison.
==============================
## Title: Public Service six-a-side tournament in Kandy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Public Service six-a-side tournament in Kandy
14 teams of Govt. Departments of Kandy District have entered for the Six-a-side Cricket tournament to be held on the 28th of October,2018 at the Police Grounds,Kandy organized by the Public Service Sports Club,Kandy for the 3rd Sir Richard AluwihareMemorial Trophy. Following are the Govt. Institutions from which two teams each have been entered.
Kandy Police, Postal Dept. Education, Municipality, Secretariat,Kandy, Local Govt. Dept. and Excise Dept. The winners of the earlier two Cricket tournaments were the Cricket teams of the Dept. of Education,Kandy.
D.D.Palihakkara, former Deputy Postmaster General, now functioning as the SeniorVice President of the Public Service Sports Club will be the Chief Guest. ThisTournament was postponed several times due to inclement weather in Kandy.
More details could be obtained from the Sports Secretary of the Club, Nishanthaon 071 7634982.
==============================
## Title: Retirement plans for senior citizens from NDB Wealth
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Retirement plans for senior citizens from NDB Wealth
Commemorated recently, the United Nations International Day of Older Persons is a day to appreciate the contributions of older people to society. In celebrating this important day, it is best to also take this opportunity to plan for your retired parents future, which is only a very small way of paying them back for all they have done for you. So they can live a full, comfortable and healthy life in their sunset years.
In fact, the most amazing way to secure your elderly parents future is undoubtedly an investment in a Money Plus account from expert financial planner NDB Wealth.
According to Shenelle Cassim, a Financial Advisor at NDB Wealth, Depositing or saving a lump sum in our Money Plus account is the most convenient and uncomplicated way to ensure a monthly cash flow or a regular monthly income for your parents, to meet their needs during retirement. Simply, its the easiest way to create a pension for someone, since all the other work related to opening and managing the account is taken care of by the highly experienced team at NDB Wealth. This includes crediting your elders bank account every month without fail so they always have money to spend.
It is noteworthy that the NDB Wealth Money Plus account is ideal for children or guardians who are too busy to keep track of whether the elders they support have the funds they need, when they need them. Additionally, it is tax free, with income credited daily to the elders Money Plus account.
At the same time, and maybe most important of all, the Money Plus account from NDB Wealth works like a savings account that pays rates similar to a fixed deposit. Currently, the Money Plus fund yields 10.90% per annum as at October 11, 2018. However, in an emergency, one can even withdraw all of the money deposited, without a penalty.
==============================
## Title: Rodriguez retains IBF bantamweight Title
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Rodriguez retains IBF bantamweight Title
MIAMI: Unbeaten Puerto Rican Emmanuel Rodriguez retained his International Boxing Federation bantamweight world title Saturday with a 12-round split decision over previously undefeated Australian Jason Moloney in Orlando, Florida.
Two judges scored the bout 115-113 for Rodriguez, who improved to 19-0 with 12 knockouts. A third judge gave it to Moloney by the same score, but the Aussie fell to 17-1 with 14 knockouts. The bout was part of the bantamweight World Boxing Super Series, with the victory sending Rodriguez into a clash with Japans Naoya Inoue.
In other world title action stateside on Saturday, Demetrius Andrade won the vacant World Boxing Organization middleweight crown with a punishing 12-round unanimous decision over Walter Kautondokwa of Namibia in Boston. Kautondokwa was a late replacement for British southpaw Billy Joe Saunders, who tested positive for a banned stimulant in August. The WBO said Saunders voluntarily vacated the title after the Massachusetts State Athletic Commission declined to give him a license at an October hearing.
Andrade knocked down Kautondokwa four times in the first four rounds en route to the victory, improving to 26-0 with 16 knockouts.
Two judges scored the fight 120-104 for Andrade while the third saw it 119-105.
Kautondokwa fell to 17-1 with 16 knockouts. On the same card, Tevin Farmer retained his IBF super-featherweight world title with a spectacular fifth-round technical knockout of Northern Irelands James Tennyson.
Southpaw Farmer dominated early, dropping Tennyson with a left to the body in the fourth.
One round later Farmer connected with a series of brutal body shots to put Tennyson down again and the fight was waved off.
Whos the puncher, now crowed Farmer, who improved to 27-4 with one drawn and six knockouts and immediately reiterated his call for shot at unbeaten World Boxing Association title holder Gervonta Davis, who boasts a record of 20-0 with 19 knockouts.
Tennyson, in his first world title tilt, fell to 22-3 with 18 wins inside the distance.
In Las Vegas, US middleweight Rob Brant dethroned WBA regular world champion Ryota Murata of Japan with a lopsided unanimous decision.
Two judges gave the fight to Brant by a score of 119-109 while the third saw it 118-110 for the American, who improved to 24-1 with 16 knockouts as he seized the title held by Murata -- which is one rung lower theWBAs super world middleweight title held by Saul Canelo Alvarez of Mexico.
Murata fell to 14-2 with 11 wins inside the distance. -AFP
==============================
## Title: Ronaldo reaches 400-goal landmark as Juventus perfect start ends
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ronaldo reaches 400-goal landmark as Juventus perfect start ends
TURIN, Saturday - Cristiano Ronaldo became the first player to score 400 goals in Europes top five leagues as Juventus dropped points for the first time this season following a 1-1 Serie A draw with Genoa on Saturday.
The Portuguese strikers fifth league goal for Juve carried him to the milestone, adding to his 84 strikes for Manchester United in the Premier League and 311 for Real Madrid in La Liga.
Ronaldo put Juventus ahead in the 18th minute during a dominant first half, but sloppy defending from the hosts allowed Daniel Bessa to draw Genoa level after the break and end Juves 10-match winning streak in all competitions.
Juventus coach Massimiliano Allegri blamed his players for being sidetracked by their Champions League trip to Manchester United on Tuesday.
Its simple, he told reporters. Genoa did well not toexpose themselves, but these things shouldnt happen. We played for 10 minutes and then started thinking about Manchester.
We went from being frenetic to falling asleep and vice-versa. We should have had our mind on the job.
I think itll be a good lesson for us, as this is a wake-up call, so everyone can remember that nothing is to be taken for granted. Every match has to be won on the pitch in 90 minutes. Nothing is guaranteed or won before weve stepped on to the pitch.
Itll be very different with Manchester United, as we will both be playing to win. Genoa did well today to play in defence and try to stay in the game, but I have to say this was the biggest example of drifting out of the game that Ive seen in my five years at Juventus.
Ronaldo had come close to opening the scoring after just 14 minutes when he powered a header onto the post from a Juan Cuadrado cross.
The Portuguese opened his account just five minutes later, tapping in from close range after Genoa failed to clear their lines when Joao Cancelos shot took an awkward deflection inside the box.
That effort put Ronaldo 10 goals ahead of Lionel Messis tally of 390 goals scored in Europes main leagues. The Argentine was on target for Barcelona in their 4-2 La Liga win against Sevilla. The atmosphere at the Allianz Arena was dampened after racist chants during Juves last home league game against Napoli resulted in a closure of the Curva Sud section of the stadium. The Italian champions, though, were allowed to fill the seats with local school children.
Krzysztof Piatek, who leads the Serie A scoring charts with nine goals, tested Wojciech Szczesny from range before flashing a header wide as the visitors improved after the break and drew level when Bessa headed home from close range on 68 minutes.
There were further chances for Ronaldo, Miralem Pjanic and substitute Paulo Dybala but Genoa stood firm to earn an unexpected point.
Earlier, Roma were beaten 2-0 by SPAL courtesy of an Andrea Petagna penalty and a Kevin Bonifazi header either side of the break. The result leaves the capital club in sixth place before Sundays games, 11 points adrift of leaders Juventus.
 Agencies
==============================
## Title: Saudi account of Khashoggis death meets growing scepticism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Saudi account of Khashoggis death meets growing scepticism
SAUDI ARABIA: Saudi Arabia faced a growing chorus of incredulity Sunday over its belated explanation of how critic Jamal Khashoggi died inside its Istanbul consulate, as world powers demanded answers and the whereabouts of his body.
After a fortnight of denials, Saudi authorities admitted on Saturday that the Washington Post columnist was killed after entering the consulate on October 2, a disappearance that sparked outrage and plunged the Gulf kingdom into a spiralling international crisis.
Turkish officials have accused Riyadh of carrying out a state-sponsored killing and dismembering the body, with pro-government media in Turkey reporting the existence of video and audio evidence to back those claims.
Police have searched a forest in Istanbul where they believe his body may have been disposed of.
After initially saying Khashoggi left the consulate unharmed, and then that they were investigating his disappearance, Saudi authorities backtracked and admitted the 60-year-old was killed in a brawl with officials inside the consulate.
But that narrative -- combined with the absence of Khashoggis body -- quickly drew scepticism and scorn from many, including staunch allies.
Ankara vowed to reveal all the details of its own inquiry as US President Donald Trump said he was unsatisfied with Saudi Arabias response to the columnists death while the EU, Germany, France, Britain, Australia, Canada and the UN also demanded greater clarity.
The controversy has put the kingdom -- for decades a key ally in Western efforts to contain Iran -- under unprecedented pressure.
It has also evolved into a major crisis for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, a Trump administration favourite widely known as MBS, whose image as a modernising Arab reformer has been gravely undermined.
Canada is among the latest countries to question Riyadhs version of events.
The explanations offered to date lack consistency and credibility, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement Saturday.
Senior Republican Senator Marco Rubio was more stark in his assessment.
Saudi Arabias changing stories on #KhashoggiMurder is getting old. The latest one about a fist fight gone bad is bizarre, he tweeted, renewing his call for sanctions against those responsible. Ankara said it had a debt of honour to reveal what happened.
We are not accusing anyone in advance but we dont accept anything to remain covered (up), said ruling Justice and Development Party spokesman Omer Celik.
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said many questions remained unanswered while German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged transparency, adding that available reports on what happened in the Istanbul consulate are insufficient. This cannot stand. This will not do, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison added on Sunday.
The EUs top diplomat Federica Mogherini and UN chief Antonio Guterres both called for a proper investigation and for the perpetrators to be held to account.
Trump initially said he found the explanation credible, but later expressed more scepticism -- although he warned against scrapping a multibillion-dollar arms deal with the conservative kingdom.
No, I am not satisfied until we find the answer, he told reporters. It was a big first step. It was a good first step. But I want to get to the answer. Saudi Arabias Gulf ally, the United Arab Emirates, welcomed the Saudi disclosures, as did Egypt and Oman.
The front pages of Saudi newspapers on Sunday were branded with headlines of support for the kingdoms government.
Okazs front page said Justice continues... accountability is coming, while Al-Riyadh daily said there was a wide welcome of the governments justice and firmness in the case of Khashoggi.
In the Saturday admission, Saudi Attorney General Sheikh Saud al-Mojeb also announced a series of moves including against people linked to the crown prince, who Khashoggi had criticised in his writings.
He said 18 Saudis had been arrested and two top aides of Prince Mohammed had been sacked, together with three other intelligence agents.
The Saudi king also ordered the establishment of a ministerial body under the chairmanship of the crown prince -- his son -- to restructure the kingdoms intelligence agency and define its powers precisely, Saudi state media said.
Saudi officials have roundly denied that the crown prince had any involvement in the affair.
But one suspect identified by Turkey was said to be a frequent companion of the young heir to the throne, three others were linked to his security detail and a fifth is a high-level forensic specialist, according to The New York Times.
The decision to overhaul the intelligence apparatus and sack members of Crown Prince Mohammeds inner circle is designed to distance the crown prince from the murder, said analysis firm Eurasia Group.
In a recent off-the-record interview published posthumously by US magazine Newsweek, Khashoggi described the 33-year-old heir apparent as an old-fashioned tribal leader, but said he would have accepted an offer to work as his adviser.
Im not calling for the overthrow of the regime, the one-time royal insider said. Im just calling for reform of the regime.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Saving the soil
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Saving the soil
The ancient Greeks spoke of the natural world as a combination of several elements. Empedocles spoke of classical elements  Earth, Water, Air and Fire. The growth of plant life in a garden, is a result of the functioning of these elements. Earth provides nutrients for the roots. Water is irrigation. Air is necessary for it to breathe. And Fire (heat) is necessary for it to kill pests. Green Thumbs speaks to Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture Ratmalana, Agriculture Instructor R. S. Kumarasiri on soil conservation or in other words protecting the earth necessary for life.
Soil Conservation plays a major role in Agriculture activities. However sometimes due to unavoidable features of the terrain soil erosion takes place. Sometimes the terrain is like a slope. Sometimes the terrain is level ground. When the terrain is like a slope then to prevent soil erosion we must apply certain techniques. This can be applied to the Home Garden as well as major agricultural activities.
We know that the soil has different layers. The top soil is the most important layer. This is because the top soil is very fertile. More fertile than the other layers of soil. So our first concern is  how do we protect the top soil from soil erosion on a slope One way is using stone boundaries. Stone boundaries are a little expensive but long lasting, said Kumarasiri.
Another way is when the land is a slope we can create drains. When creating drains, one must keep in mind that the purpose of the drain is reducing the water speed that accompanies soil erosion. If the water speed is not reduced, it will create havoc destroying everything in its path. So when the terrain is a slope you need to create a drain that is horizontal. Then the water will gush into the drain and be channeled off in a different direction. The other benefit is that the soil that also moves down during erosion will collect in the drain and can then be removed. This technique is a bit expensive and trained people are needed to implement this technique.
Another method is using Coconut Husks. It is less expensive but can be maintained for a very short time. Here like a drain, on a slope, coconut husks are arranged horizontally across the slope. The water hits the line of Coconut husks and the water speed is reduced, stated Kumarasiri.
Another technique is planting big trees. Actually by planting trees you are doing a service to your fellow man and to nature itself. While providing us with fruits to eat, trees absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen back into the air. Trees clean the air absorbing odors and pollutant gases. Trees cool the streets and the cities.
Trees prevent soil erosion as the roots system holds the soil in place. Here the water speed is reduced with the number of trees. Growing trees is less expensive and is a long time solution. The leaves of the tree also block the rain. Another method is growing small plants horizontally like the drains and coconut husks. This too is done with the intention of reducing the water speed. It is less expensive, can be maintained for a long time, added Kumarasiri.
In a home garden we have plant beds. Here the rain is the biggest threat. For this we apply a mulch or covering on top of the beds. We apply the mulch so the rainwater wont fall heavily on the plant and the soil and break the soil apart. The mulch could consist of straw, polythene, dry grass and leaves.
The top soil has more nutrients than the other layers. The organic matter is in the top soil. With erosion the nutrients in the top soil get washed away. This will reduce the food production capacity of the land. This must be taken extremely seriously. We maintain a home garden to give us our daily intake of fresh fruits and vegetables. One period of soil erosion can undo everything we have worked for. It will even seriously affect your income if you are in the habit of selling your produce. This could be a bad setback since you will have to go through the process of creating compost again. Sometimes you may have no choice but to grow your plants in the vicinity of a slope. Then you have no choice but to implement these soil conservation techniques, added Kumarasiri.
TECHNIQUES OF PREVENTING SOIL EROSION
* Stone Boundaries
* Drains crated horizontally to the slope
* Coconut Husks arranged horizontally
* Planting big trees
* Growing small plants horizontally
* Applying mulch/covering
BENEFITS OF TREES
* While providing us with fruits to eat, trees absorb Carbon Dioxide and release oxygen back into the air - an acre of mature trees can provide enough oxygen for 18 people.
* Trees clean the air absorbing odors and pollutant gases.
* Trees cool the streets and the cities and
* Trees absorb dust and wind and reduce glare
* Trees save water - Shade from trees slows water evaporation. As trees transpire, they increase atmospheric moisture
* Trees prevent soil erosion
* Trees provide us with wood
* Trees create income as you can sell the fruits
* Trees create that sense of tranquility, calmness, freshness and comfort actually helping one heal faster from some medical conditions
* Trees shield children from Ultra Violet Rays
* Trees give a home for wildlife
* They add beauty to a concrete jungle
==============================
## Title: Scouts need to adapt to modern advances - President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Scouts need to adapt to modern advances - President
The policies and objectives of the Scout movement founded by Lord Baden-Powell were made according to the economic, social and cultural features of society at that time and amendments should be made on par with the modern world based on knowledge and technology while protecting the original values of the movement, President Maithripala Sirisena said.
He was speaking at the Presidents Scout Award 20142018 ceremony held at the Cooperative Institute in Polgolla, on Saturday.
President Sirisena said the success of childrens future could not be decided only by examination results and the Scout movement will provide a great opportunity to overcome the practical challenges we face in our lifetime.
One thousand, one hundred and ninety-five scouts representing 37 districts received awards at this ceremony organised by the Sri Lanka Scout Association.
President Sirisena also launched the new website of the Sri Lanka Scout movement. The President also extended his best wishes to the scouts participating in the Air Scout Jamboree.
The Sri Lanka Scout Association presented a special award to the President in recognition of his great contribution towards the Sri Lanka Scout movement. Recalling the financial sponsorship provided by the President to Kandy Dharmaraja College scouts who went on a mountain expedition in Nepal, a special honorary award was presented to the President. Central Province Governor P.B. Dissanayake, Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake, Sri Lanka Scout Association Chief Commissioner Merrill Gunathilake and others participated in this event.
==============================
## Title: Shasanamamaka Jana Prasadini title for Minister Kiriella
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Shasanamamaka Jana Prasadini title for Minister Kiriella
The Asgiriya Chapter conferred the Shasanamamaka Jana Prasadini title on Minister Lakshman Kiriella, in recognition of his yeoman service to the religion and society. The ceremony to present this award was held under the patronage of the Mahanayake of the Asgiriya Chapter Most Ven. Warakagoda Sri Gnanarathana Thera at the Uposatagaraya of the Asgiriya Maha Viharaya, on Saturday. President Maithripala Sirisena who participated at this event extended his best wishes to Minister Kiriella. The Maha Sangha including the Anunayake of the Malwatte Chapter Most Ven. Niyangoda Vijithasiri Thera, Ministers and MPs participated at the occasion.
==============================
## Title: SL, India focus on Indian Ocean identity
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
SL, India focus on Indian Ocean identity
The importance of working towards the creation of an Indian Ocean identity while joining a collective endeavour in the Indo-Pacific region was emphasised during talks between Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and Indian Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj, in New Delhi on Saturday.
The importance of further widening the tasks of the Indian Ocean conference organised by the India Foundation was also emphasised during the talks, a press release from the Prime Ministers Office said.
Swaraj said India would extend its full support towards the all-party plan spearheaded by Sri Lanka towards free navigation in the Indian Ocean.
During the talks, Swaraj also thanked Prime Minister Wickremesinghe for his efforts to further consolidate and enhance the historic friendship and relations between India and Sri Lanka. The talks also centred on regional problems.
Since both Sri Lanka and India bought petroleum from Iran, Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunga requested Indias advice regarding the steps to be taken in case sanctions were imposed on Iran. Swaraj who explained Indias policy on the matter said Sri Lanka too could adopt it. Indian officials present said they would provide information regarding the matter to Minister Ranatunga in due course.
Attention was also drawn to NorthEast development work and the opportunities for accelerating such work.
Ministers Sagala Ratnayaka and Malik Samarawickrama, Prime Ministers Secretary Saman Ekanayake, Sri Lankan High Commissioner in India Chitrangani Wagiswara, Additional Secretary to the President, Saman Attaudahetti, Deputy High Commissioner M.R.K. Lenagala and special assistant Sandra Perera were also present on the occasion.
==============================
## Title: SL industries, SMEs partner  WFP to rally behind global Zero Hunger initiative
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
SL industries, SMEs partner  WFP to rally behind global Zero Hunger initiative
Sri Lankan industry, SME and consumer awareness frameworks threw their full weight behind the global zero hunger initiative of a key UN agency as part of the World Food Day celebrations of 16 October. In a pioneering linkage of this nature, stepping beyond its usual functions, a leading Sri Lankan Ministry signalled that it is ready to enlist an array of its own agencies in support of this global mission.
As the line Ministry for all types of industries, SMEs and consumer protection, our Ministry is at the frontlines of this challenge said the Minister of Industry and Commerce Rishad Bathiudeen on 18 October. Minister Bathiudeen was addressing Sri Lanka World Food Programme (WFP) Representative and Country Director Ms Brenda Barton who made a courtesy call on him on 18 October. WFP Country Director Ms Barton was requesting Minister Bathiudeens support for eradication of malnutrition and promotion of nutritious foods and balanced diets to improve the health and lifestyles of Sri Lankans. Also at the discussion were on 16 October, President Maithripala Sirisena addressed the World Food Day event organised by the World Food Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations at BMICH and said that close to 15 percent of young children and 40% of school age children suffer from undernutrition, while 45% of women of reproductive age are overweight/obese. In June 2018, the World Bank said that Sri Lanka has been successful in improving the agricultural production to achieve food security but malnutrition still remains a major issue.
WFP Representative Ms Barton stressed: Given such challenges, WFP is planning to support Sri Lanka in a number of ways including two key avenues: First, by enhancing the nutritional value of foods through means such as rice fortification, and secondly, by supporting the countrys food security especially for small holder farmers through programmes that build their resilience to climate shocks. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce can play a fundamental partner role through mobilizing industries to strengthen nutritious foods, for example, the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) under the Ministry could be leveraged to promote better consumer choices and NEDA and its SME base could be leveraged to deliver and distribute fortified foods.
Minister Bathiudeen welcomed Country Director Ms Bartons call to join forces. An estimated 52% of Sri Lankas GDP is driven by SMEs, a sector this Ministry directly supports and oversees. A considerable number of SMEs are in the food and beverage sector. Also Industry and manufacturing such as apparel, boat building, rubber products that play a key role in Sri Lankas exports and our Manufacturing Index are supported by us said Minister Bathiueen and added: Many projects by the Ministry  such as ISO and HACCP certification support, forthcoming food certification laboratory by IDB etc-focus on strengthening food production chains. Many advisory committees of the Ministry along with our close interactions with various Chambers, extend our reach even further. Therefore as the line Ministry for various types and scales of industries, SMEs and consumer protection, our Ministry is at the frontline of this challenge. We wish to back you fully in this intervention. In this, I am also open for joint projects with WFP to eradicate malnutrition and boost our food supply quality and nutrition initiatives. This type of committed partnership could help upgrade our domestic SME production capacities to global standards, while serving Sri Lankas vision of linking small businesses and SME output to competitive export markets.
==============================
## Title: SL shines at JATA Tourism Expo in Japan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
SL shines at JATA Tourism Expo in Japan
Sri Lankas pavilion was the highlight at Japan Tourism Expo, the biggest tourism event of Asia, which was held recently by Japan Association of Travel Agents (JATA) in Tokyo.
The fair, said to be the worlds largest tourism trade fair, is held annually during the last week of September in Tokyos Permanent Fair Ground known as Tokyo BigSite. Sri Lanka Tourism has always participated in the event with the main goal of promoting and introducing Sri Lankas cultural and historical attractions to the world.
The JATA Tourism Expo saw the participation of 17 DMCs and a footfall reaching over 200 000. The exhibitors this year set a record number of business meeting appointments through the TEJ system. During the event, over 7,000 business meetings had taken place.
The Sri Lankan Ambassador to Japan, Prof Ganganath Disanayake speaking at the event said there is a common misconception among Japanese that Sri Lanka is part of the Indian continent, but only travellers to the island know just how distinct and diverse Sri Lanka is as an Island and country.
The state Minister for Tourism Development in Sri Lanka Ranjith Aluvihare said, The Japanese market is very important and I would like to see us build more partnerships to promote Sri Lanka among Japanese travellers. He said.
The Sri Lankan delegation with Japanese counterparts: State Minister of Tourism Development Hon. Ranjith Aluvihare, Monitoring MP for Tourism Sujith Perera, Chairman, Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau, Dehan Senevirathne, Madubhani Perera, Director Marketing SLTPB and Kalpa Gunasinghe, Marketing Officer SLTPB.
To coincide with Sri Lankas participation at JATA, the Promotion Bureau also held two separate roadshows. The road show in Tokyo was held at the Intercontinental Tokyo Bay Hotel.
It saw the participation of nearly 20 hoteliers, tour operators and travel agents while there were 75 from Tokyo present at the show to cater to the growing number of Japanese visitors.
The Bureau also hosted another road show in Sapporo on September 27 at the Hotel Monterey Edelhof. This event saw the participation of nearly 12 Sri Lankan tour operators, hoteliers while 30 participated from Japan.

==============================
## Title: SLIIT commences student enrolments for Curtin University
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
SLIIT commences student enrolments for Curtin University
Cementing its longest standing foreign university partnership of over 17 years, SLIIT commenced the annual 2019 student intake for undergraduate degree programs for Curtin University, Australia, recently.
Recognised among the top 1% of universities worldwide according to globally accepted QS World University Rankings, Curtin University, Australia, is also a member of the International Association of Universities (IAU) and the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU). Students enrolled to this degree in Sri Lanka have the added benefit of their degree also being accepted by Sri Lankas apex body, the University Grants Commission (UGC). We are pleased to announce the commencement of the new 2019 intake of students for the internationally recognised Curtin University, Australia, degree programmes. This years enrollment further strengthens the ties between our two institutions as we continue to produce high-calibre graduates for the nation and beyond, said Prof. Lalith Gamage, CEO, SLIIT.
Renowned internationally for the quality of its programs, the Curtin University degrees that can be completed entirely in Sri Lanka are the Bachelor of Science Computing degrees in Software Engineering and Information Technology and the Bachelor of Science in Computer Systems and Networking. Delivered through SLIITs Faculty of Computing, upon completion of the BSc Computing degrees in the Software Engineering & Information Technology majors, graduates receive the esteemed Australian Computer Society (ACS) Accreditation.
The Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) program degrees are offered in Civil and Construction Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and in Electrical and Electronic Engineering. Led by SLIITs Faculty of Engineering, graduates are eligible to apply for the prestigious Engineers Australia (EA) Accreditation.
In addition to these impressive programmes conducted at SLIIT, students may also choose to get global exposure, by completing their degrees at Curtins Bentley Campus in Perth, Australia, or any one of Curtins offshore campuses in Malaysia, Dubai and Singapore.
Prof. Mahesha Kapurubandara, Dean, International, SLIIT stated, SLIIT and Curtin University have enjoyed an enviable partnership. Curtins growing reputation has seen the university rapidly rise in international rankings in recent years and we are proud to create pathways for local and international students. We look forward to welcoming our new intake for 2019.

==============================
## Title: Spa Ceylon Wellness Club  Mobile App Launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Spa Ceylon Wellness Club  Mobile App Launched
Spa Ceylon, the Worlds largest luxury Ayurveda chain, has launched their Spa Ceylon Wellness Club mobile App, offering members the convenience of fast, easy access to a world of wellness information.
The App will also provide information about Spa Ceylons vast portfolio of products and services, in-app spa reservations, in-app product purchases, details of spa and store locations internationally, plus access to the brands revamped customer rewards program as well.
Dedicated to providing Everyday wellness, everywhere, the app will also feature regular wellness tips and guides, special offers, online wellness consultations, invites to special wellness events and a host of other features to help enhance the well-being of the members.
Being Sri Lankas foremost wellness brand we look at every possible way to integrate wellness into the lives of our customers. The app will no doubt further enhance this by providing a host of wellness benefits right at their fingertips even to the extent of customizing information and services to their specific wellness needs, said co-founder and CEO, Shiwantha Dias.
The app will also serve as a valuable tool to tourists as well, providing information on Sri Lankas heritage of Ayurveda, wellness tips when travelling and access to Spa Ceylons network of boutiques and Spas internationally. The second phase of the app implementation will add on multilingual communication that will no doubt make the interaction that much more user friendly across nationalities, said co-founder, Shalin Balasuriya.
This app can be downloaded now from the App store and Google play store.
Spa Ceylon is poised to further expand its European footprint with many new locations scheduled to be opened soon, including Paris, France; Poland, Germany and more locations in Bulgaria and Eastern Europe. They expect to firmly establish their position as the Worlds largest Luxury Ayurveda chain by reaching the milestone of 100 branded outlets internationally, by mid 2019.
==============================
## Title: Sparkling 172 by Nishan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sparkling 172 by Nishan
A scintillating unbeaten 172 runs by the Captain of Moratu Vidyalaya and Sri Lanka under 19 cricketer Nishan Madushka was the highlight of the drawn first eleven game between Prince of Wales College and Moratu Vidyalaya which was worked off at Vidyalian Grounds. However Cambrians led by 38 runs on first innings.
Batting first Vidylains were all out for 13 runs with Kaumal Nanayakkara claiming 5 for 33 and in reply Cambrians were all out for 151 runs with Devaka Peiris scoring 50 runs. In their second essay Vidyalians scored 225 runs with Nishan Madushka 172 hitting 6 fours and 7 sixes and occupied the crease for 213 minutes and faced 209 balls and also he along with Hashen Adithya put on 175 runs for the 6th wicket record partnership who contributed 20 runs. This is the highest score ever by a player for both schools and first for Vidyalians. Both schools met for the first time in 1975 and since to date a player from either school could not score a century and this is the first ever instance that a century was scored from both schools and the sixth wicket partnership too is a record for both schools. The highest score for both schools was 95 runs by Vidyalian Tilan Kavishka in 2014.
Moratu Vidyalaya  113 in 48 overs (Chamalka Pushpakumara 28, Ashen Adithya 29, Kaumal Nanayakkara 5/33, Nadeeka Fernando 2/12, Suhath Mendis 2/37 and 225, Nishan Madushka 172 n/o, Hashen Adithya 20, Suhath Mendis 6/112, Kaumal Nanayakkara 3/87.
Prince of Wales 151 in 68.2 overs (Devaka Peiris 50, Suhath Mendis 26, Vishwa Fernando 3/40, Hashen Adithya 2/12, Nadith Mishendrra 2/39 and 54/2 Vinuja Ranpu8l 30).
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Insurance opens branch in Ruwanwella
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lanka Insurance opens branch in Ruwanwella
Sri Lanka Insurance unveiled its latest branch in Ruwanwella on October 15, bringing its expertise to the residents as a part of its expansion to widen its geographical footprint across the island.
The newly opened branch is located at Awissawella Road, Ruwanwella. With this new opening, Sri Lanka Insurance extends their outreach to 152 branches island-wide.
The ceremonial inauguration was graced by SLIC Chairman Hemaka Amarasuriya, Chief Executive Officer Chandana L. Aluthgama, Chief Officer Business Development, Rukman Weerarathna, and Chief Information Officer Aloka Jayawardhana, members of corporate management, customers and well wishers.
As a pioneer in insurance, SLIC is eager on expanding further to better serve its customers from around the country. SLIC continuously reach out to customers from all segments of society and offer innovative insurance solutions that are convenient, affordable and reliable to everyone.
Established in 1962, Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation is the largest government-owned insurance company in Sri Lanka, with a managed asset base of over Rs. 193 billion and a Life fund of over Rs. 100 billion, the largest in the local insurance industry.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan designs worlds first Motivator chat App
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lankan designs worlds first Motivator chat App
A young Sri Lanka entrepreneur has designed the worlds first academic social network, Motivator chat App which would be launched end of this year.
The mentor behind this App Jude Lakshan Ukwatte said that this App would have a global patent and it would be launched in Copenhagen. This is because the intellectual property laws are very strong in Copenhagen. He said that this Motivator Chat App would be different to any other App or system since it would motivate users. Motivator chat inspire and empower people to overcome their hurdles. He said that he expected over 5 million users in the first year of its operation. My target is 20 million users by 2020. I will promote Motivator chat App through social media.
I expect many CEOs and influential people using this App and they would communicate and share their experiences. He said that the idea behind the creation of this App was generated, when he was at the London South Bank University (UK) where he received both his BSC in Business Management and the MBA.
He said that the App would be operated on a subscriber model and they would also entertain certain amount of advertising.
We will first invest around Rs. 75 million for the launch and also to maintain a Data Farm to store information of our users. Data farming is the process of using designed computational experiments to grow data, which can then be analyzed using statistical and visualization techniques to obtain insight into complex systems. After two years we hope to have a second Data Farm in Kandy where over 100 would be employed. Investment would be over Rs. 150 million. The second stage of the Motivatorchat App would be to introduce to other languages such as Nigerian, Spanish, Tamil and later Sinhala.
Jude Ukwatte based in Copenhagen is also a Director of Lanka Property Club. (SS)
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan weaving has immense potential  for export - Niharika Momtaz
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lankan weaving has immense potential  for export - Niharika Momtaz
I have started designing sarees and I have found that Sri Lankan weaving is very neat and has immense potential for export. I will be meeting some of the weavers soon, said Niharika Momtaz, Fashion and Jewellery Designer.
I have done Trunk Shows and participated in fashion shows in Bangladesh, UK, France, Singapore, Doha and Dubai, showcasing my latest jewellery collections. My last show was in Colombo at Massira Inclusive - Asian European Charity Fashion Show. We are planning to do something big in Sri Lank soon, she said.
From an old age concept of Brick & Mortar, now it has moved to Click and Mortar model. For a good product with a good design, it could be marketed globally through online business model. There is a good demand for sarees and jewellery in Asia, the Middle East and North America. This demand could be increased manifold if we could offer good products at a competitive price. We have started hand-loom projects in Bangladesh recently and we wish to expand it to Sri Lanka too, she said.
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh has had close ties for centuries, while they share similar tastes in fashion and culture. When two countries join together for a purpose, they achieve more and are more successful than if they worked separately. As such, I wish to bring out the best of both the countries in terms of design and quality, while creating a larger market where everyone could be benefitted, she said.
I always have a keen designing skill and now I have created a line of silver and other metal  jewellery. We make exclusive jewellery by using brass, copper, mix silver, pure silver and gold. We do a lot of bridal jewellery in gold and my next target is to promote silver and semi-precious jewellery in bridal ware, she added.
Niharika has showcased her new collection called Colours of Life in Tiffanys Red Carpet Week - Cannes during the 71st Cannes Film Festival in May, representing Bangladesh at the International platform. Moreover, she was one of the Jury and the official Fashion consultant for Miss Universal 2018 held in Turkey.
Hailing from an upscale neighbourhood of Chittagong, Bangladesh, Niharika stepped into the domain of clothing design at the very early age of 18. The stint was brief and after having veered into the world of corporate finance for a decade, she has once again resumed her passionate path by designing jewellery and fashion labels. Come year 2012 and her jewellery labels Outliner and 1972 Couture Jewellery were launched from such inspiration. Point to note that as a professional, she did her Chartered Accountancy Articleship with KPMG Bangladesh.
Under the creative direction of Niharika Momtaz, the company has positioned itself as a high-end luxury brand. The products appeal to a sophisticated and modern clientele that appreciates the unique statement pieces. The launch of the products is part of a well-planned and carefully executed strategy, always consistent with the brands strong philosophy to engage local craftsmen. As a result, Niharikas jewellery line has developed signature lines embodying funk and radical femininity. Looking on, the company would continue its focus on creating design icons: pieces you can keep in your accessories collection forever. (DJ)
==============================
## Title: Starlight goes green with Super-8 Technology
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Starlight goes green with Super-8 Technology
StarHoldings International (Pvt) Ltd, a 100% Sri Lankan Fabric Care Company with a rich history spanning three decades, unveiled Starlight herbal detergent powder recently, revolutionizing the market with a novel super 8 technology.
The inauguration was commenced with a motivational speech by the companys Director Sulaiman Siraj, We will never stop innovating and introducing great products to our beloved consumers. Today we stand by that promise and yet again we launch a product to revolutionize your household.
Our ability to penetrate the market with innovative first-to-the-market products come about because we do not follow our competitors, rather we follow the best interest of our valued consumers said Hashan Haputhanthri - GM - Sales and Marketing of Star Holdings. Our focus is to keep penetrating the market with products that will overwhelm the mind of consumers and keep them on the lookout for STAR products wherever they go.
A line up of dynamic guest speakers such as Mr. Nandana A Wickramage a leading marketing and business strategist & Mr. Ravi Liyanage -CEO of TVS Lanka also commented the fact that Starlight has now become a force to reckon with and is getting ready to positively face the challenges at the next level, while Mr. The Neeraj Gupta -a reputed raw-material supplier also expressed similar sentiments.

==============================
## Title: Superb double by Deneth Prasanga
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Superb double by Deneth Prasanga
An excellent Performance of 106 runs and a match bag of 10 for 23 (4/5 and 6/18) runs by all rounder Deneth Prasanga helped St. Johns College Panadura to beat Veluwana College Colombo by an innings and 117 in their inter school under 13 division one tournament cricket match played at Panadura.
Deneth had ten hits to the ropes and two over it and occupied the crease for 97 minutes and faced 81 balls. Also he was associated in a third wicket partnership of 88 runs with Geethama Himasara who contributed 20 runs. Young Johnians are coached by former St. Johns College Nugegoda cricketer Sameera Palliyanguru.
Batting first Johnians declared at 208 for 4 and in reply visitors were shot out for 35 runs and Senura Sandeepa too capturing 5 for 6 and following on visitors were all out for 56 runs.
St. Johns 208/4 dec (Deneth Prasanga 106, Senura Sandeepa 32, Geethma Himsara 20.
Veluwana 35 (Deneth Prsanga 4/5, Senura Sandeepa 5/6 and 56 (Deneth Prasanga 6/18, Harith Randiv 3 /4).
==============================
## Title: Suspect with 3,000 live cartridges nabbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Suspect with 3,000 live cartridges nabbed
A suspect travelling in a van with 3,000 live cartridges was nabbed by police officers in Siyambalaanduwa area yesterday evening.
Police media spokesmans office said the suspect identified by police as Laddu Roshan is from Hikkaduwa and a close relative of underworld figure Jayalath Suddha, currently in remand. He is said to be a henchman of Kosgoda Sujee.
The bag contained 2,958 cartridges which can be used in T-56 weapons and another 32 bullets which can be used in 9 mm pistols.
==============================
## Title: Teachers, students combat dengue
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Teachers, students combat dengue
The Education and Health Ministries formed a group to combat the spread of dengue in the North Western Province (NWP) with the participation of school teachers, students and their parents, recently.
As such, 250,000 students, 16,000 parents and 12,000 teachers in Kurunegala and Puttalam are destroying mosquito breeding grounds in their home gardens and school premises.
Volunteers were given papers to record their findings and note their routines.
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam told the media that all university students were requested to help in the project as well.
==============================
## Title: TEC Global Campus hosts Young Innovator Camp
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
TEC Global Campus hosts Young Innovator Camp
TEC Global Campus is hosting a Young Innovator Camp October 27-28, 2018 (Saturdays and Sundays) to celebrate the Childrens Day which fell on October 1. This is a CSR event conducted free of charge for all kids between the ages of 5-8 years and 9-15 years at TEC Innovation Nawala from 9.30 am onward. The Young Innovator Camp successfully commenced on October 20-21.
This is a CSR event conducted free of charge for all kids between the ages of 5-8 years and 9-15years at TEC Innovation Nawala from 9.30 am onwards.
Niranjan Nanayakkara
This is a two hour program and children can participate on any one of the above days. All the material needed for the different activities will be provided by the organizers and kids will get to carry home the models they make. Prior reservation has to be made to reserve spots. TEC Global Campus is a subsidiary of TEC Sri Lanka which is the first institute to introduced Information and Communication Technology (ICT) education to Sri Lanka. Since 1982 TEC Sri Lanka has opened doors to globalization and it has contributed much to the development of the nation by conducting numerous higher education and professional programs. This is the first educational institute in the island to be awarded ISO 9001/2000 quality standard. The visionary behind this all this is Niranjan Nanayakkara the Managing Director and Chairman of the TEC Group.
TEC Global Campus is not yet another tuition campus but a futuristic learning center that has identified the needs of the future. At TEC Global Campus students are encouraged to think out of the box bringing out the hidden talents and skills in them. As of present, courses are conducted from kindergarten to diploma level. For school leavers, job seekers and professionals TEC Global Campus has introduced professional diploma courses specializing in IT, Computer Hardware, Networking and English Language. All these courses are accredited by the relevant professional body. Students get to learn from the best resources and platforms that are even used by corporations like IBM! These courses and material are used by renowned universities and corporations to simulate the theoretical learning to practical applications. At the end of the courses, students are prepared to sit for certificate exams like Microsoft Office Specialist.
The TEC Young Innovator Program is a specially designed program for kids between the ages of 5-7 years 8-11 years & 12-15 yrs. Purpose of these courses is to introduce kids to a Maker Generation. The present generation is too engaged in using technology and hardly anybody take initiative to invent new technology. This trend is not very healthy. Hence TEC Global Campus has identified that it is important to shift the User Generation to a Maker Generation. At Kid Young Innovator Program kids will use different materials to invent their own working models of different appliances, putting their creative and analytical skills to work. They will be guided and supported by an experienced panel of staff. Step by step kids will be introduced to technologies like robotics too. They will be designing their own robots using algorithms and coding. This is different from the formal classroom schooling but it is more practical and a fun way for kids to learn and practice. These types of programs are testes and used in countries like Canada, USA and Hong Kong.
==============================
## Title: Ten years RI, fine for attempted murder
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Ten years RI, fine for attempted murder
Panadura Provincial High Court Judge Dhamith Thotawatte sentenced an accused to ten years rigourous imprisonment and find Rs 5,000 when he was found guilty of the attempted murder of Merril de Mel of Moratuwa on December 10, 2007.
He was ordered to pay Rs 100,000 compensation to the injured complainant.
The judge also found the accused guilty on a charge of committing the robbery of the brief case of the complainant and sentenced the accused to five years rigourous imprisonment and fined Rs. 5,000.
The case trial concluded on October 19. In this case, Ashan Pradeep Bandara of Moratuwa was indicted with the the attempted murder of Merril de Mel of Moratuwa by stabbing him and committing robbery while he was walking on the road in December 2007.
State Counsel Jayani Wegodapola appeared for the prosecution.
==============================
## Title: `Theli Thudaka Viskam' encourages schoolchildren
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
`Theli Thudaka Viskam' encourages schoolchildren
Sudumenike Wijesooriya conducted her second Art Exhibition at Warakapola Town Hall Auditorium recently by displaying over 300 paintings from students of `Shashika Art Gallery  at Thulhiriya and of Thulhiriya Junior School .
The three-day Exhibition ` Theli Thudaka Viskam  was opened by School of Fine Arts, Senior Lecturer, Sarath Gunasiri Perera , Warakapola Division Cultural Affairs officer Shiroma Priyanthi Senevirtana , Thulhiriya Junior School, Principal M.D. Basnayaka, Vice Pricipal Chula Athauda and Warakapola Town Council, Chairman Sarath Sumanasuriya.
Sudumenike who was an art teacher by profession at several government schools including at Tolangamuwa Maha Vidyalaya from 1999 until her retirement said her paintings are never forgotten by thousands of people in the country who studied art and paintings under her .
She said she had an early retirement to sacrifice her life to develop the artistic skills of future generation and started an Art Institute for those who are interested in drawings and paintings.
Over 150 local and foreign students and school leavers are currently undergoing various painting courses under me and I train them to make paintings that depict ancient temples including Dalada Maligawa and Srimaha Bodiya , religious places, the rural life, Sinhala and Tamil New Year traditions, ancient dances, paddy fields, religious processions, humans, animals, religious dignitaries, the life of village folk etc she said.
Sudumenike says that she has so far produced thousands of school children, university students, teachers, architects, lecturers and also various other academics in this field.
She adds that the completion of wall paintings at the Navgala Bikkuni Centre was her lifetime achievement. She also got a rare opportunity of sending her paintings to all over the world via internet. As a result she received encouraging responses from several countries.
According to Sudumenike after her maiden solo painting exhibition at Colombo National Art gallery in 2001, she had conducted art exhibitions at prominent places including at Lionel Wendt Theater, Kandalama Hotel and at French Friendship Association Art Gallery in Kandy.
She also thanked thousands of painting lovers for watching the three- day `Theli Thudaka Viskam exhibition. Sudumenike also stated that the `Shashika Art Gallery is located at No 6, Colombo-Kurunegala Road, Thulhiriya (near MAS Group of Company) and anybody could visit it without paying any admission fee.
==============================
## Title: Toddler killed by reversing lorry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Toddler killed by reversing lorry
A one-and-a-half-year-old girl died after she was run over by a reversing Dimo Batta close to her home in Maradamuna, Kalmunai, on Saturday morning.
According to police, after the accident, the toddler was admitted to the Maradamuna Government Hospital where she died. She was identified as Saara Mohamed of Periya Nilaawani, Kalmunai.
The driver of lorry was arrested by Kalmunai Police and was to be produced before the Magistrates Court in Kalmunai.
The postmortem was to be carried out yesterday. Kalmunai Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Towards a stronger House
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Towards a stronger House
Every five years, Sri Lankans elect 196 Members of Parliament (MPs) at a General Election, while 29 more MPs are selected by their respective parties from the National List. Thus there are 225 MPs in Parliament. This is a comparatively high number of MPs for a 65,610 Sq Km country of 21 million.
It has now been revealed that the Government spends around half a billion rupees annually to maintain the MPs alone, without taking into account the expenditure on Parliament staff and buildings. The total expenditure on Parliament inclusive of those costs in 2017 stood at Rs 2,443 million, out of which Rs.939 million was spent on the salaries and allowances of nearly 900 Parliamentary staff.
A breakdown of the expenses on MPs reads as follows: Rs.118 million to pay the MPs salaries and sittings allowance, Rs. 115 million for the fuel allowance, Rs.135 million the postal and telecommunication allowance, Rs.259 million for rental and Rs. 25 million for the MPs transport allowance. This does not include the US$ 55,000 duty free car permit for MPs, which is generally sold to third parties, thus depriving the State of duties and taxes amounting to millions of Rupees. Newspapers reported that most MPs have already made use of this facility.
If one divides the total expenditure on Parliament by 365, Rs 6.6 million is spent average for a day. Although the staff members work for nearly 250 days, there are only around 100 sittings of Parliament per year. On each Parliament sitting day, the Government spends Rs.300,000 to prepare meals for about 150 MPs, plus the costs for electricity, water and Members sitting allowances. If the total expenditure is divided by the average number of sitting days, the figure is about Rs.24 million per sitting.
This is a truly staggering sum and the people have every right to know whether they are getting their moneys worth  after all, it is public funds that are being used for the MPs welfare. The ministers salaries are not included above as those are paid by the respective ministries, but ministers too are entitled to the above mentioned fuel, postal and telecommunication, rental and sittings allowances. Naturally, ministerial salaries too are paid from the public purse.
But are MPs actually making use of this August Assembly to further the lot of the public It seems that only a few MPs from both sides of the divide are interested in doing so. There were recent reports that many MPs had attended less than seven sittings per year. Around three or four MPs had not spoken even one word during the many debates held through the year.
Sometimes sittings have to be adjourned because there is no quorum. Even the live televising of debates has not put a dampener on the lack of MPs enthusiasm, where row upon row empty benches are in full view of the entire country. Several websites and social media accounts have begun naming and shaming MPs who do not attend Parliament regularly, but it remains to be seen whether this will have any effect.
President Maithripala Sirisena has also weighed in, noting that Parliament wastes the most amount of food in the country, since only a few MPs are there to consume the food prepared for 225 MPs. In the light of this observation, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has instructed the relevant officials to take steps to minimize food wastage in Parliament.
It is time that all political parties impress upon their elected representatives the need to attend Parliament sessions regularly. This situation clearly calls for firm action  for example, MPs can be told that nominations would not be given at the next election if they do not attend at least 75 to 80 sessions out of the 100.
If some MPs are too shy to speak or do not know much about the subjects being discussed, they should be coached and educated appropriately (As an aside, this is a wake-up call to include educated young professionals in the nomination lists). In fact, the same monitoring and mentoring processes could be followed for local bodies and provincial councils, which are thought of as stepping stones to Parliament.
There is another factor at play  most of the important work of Parliament is conducted through Consultative Committees on various subjects, which are not open to the press or televised. There is very little information on the attendance levels for these meetings, but if the main assembly is any indication, things cannot be so rosy at the committees either. Again, leaders of political parties must ensure that their representatives participate in these vital meetings.
The purpose of a Parliament or any other such body is to give a voice to the voters  the simple fact is that 21 million people cannot convene in one place to discuss the issues affecting them. Therefore, the MPs must voice our opinions and express our sentiments in the House. Those who fail to do so have clearly betrayed the trust placed in them by the people. This should be rectified immediately for democracy to flourish.
==============================
## Title: Tributes for former top Asian football official Velappan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Tributes for former top Asian football official Velappan
KUALA LUMPUR, Sunday: Tributes have poured in after the death of Peter Velappan, a former top Asian football official who was credited with helping transform the game in the region.
The Malaysian, who died Saturday at the age of 83, was Asian Football Confederation (AFC) general secretary for 29 years.
His was an important position at a time of rapid expansion for football in Asia, and he was for many years the face of the game in the region, serving under three different AFC presidents.
He had a shoot from the hip style that delighted journalists -- but landed him in trouble on more than one occasion.
AFC president Sheikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al-Khalifa led the tributes to Velappan, hailing him as one of the most important architects of growing the game in Asia.
Peter served Asian football with passion and professionalism and the news of his passing will shock and sadden all those who are involved in our great game on this continent.
He deserves immense credit for everything that he achieved with the AFC and beyond.
Windsor John, current AFC general secretary, added that Velappans vision for Asian football has been an inspiration to us all and his achievements both here at the AFC and at the Football Association of Malaysia stand as a monument to his love of the game.
Born in 1935, Velappan studied in Britain and Canada before becoming a teacher in Malaysia. He became assistant general secretary of the Football Association of Malaysia in 1963.
He was also assistant manager to the national team when it qualified for the Munich Olympics in 1972.
Velappan became AFC general secretary in 1978, a role he held until retiring 2007.
Among his achievements were helping secure the 2002 World Cup for co-hosts Japan and South Korea, the first time the tournament was held in Asia.
But the outspoken official regularly ruffled feathers.
At the 2004 Asian Cup finals in Beijing, he was forced to apologise for blasting Chinese fans and questioning whether Beijing should host the 2008 Olympics.
And in 2006, he called Southeast Asian football chiefs unprofessional and blamed FIFA for not training them properly -- prompting senior football officials from the region to fire off a letter to then FIFA president Sepp Blatter. AFP
==============================
## Title: Trinity emerge champs after Sylvestrian boxer is disqualified
## Supertitle: 49th TB Jayah memorial boxing
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
49th TB Jayah memorial boxing
Trinity emerge champs after Sylvestrian boxer is disqualified
The five-day boxing meet held in memory of a trophy presented in the name of Tuan Burhanuddin Jayah, though it was a five day meet ended in four days with Trinity College emerging champions with 3 gold, 1 silver and 2 bronze.
St. Sylvesters College took second place with 3 gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze and third place went to Mahanama College with 2 gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze.
The Sylvestrians were upset after they were declared joint champions with Trinity and then relegated to second position by the Schools Boxing Association.
According to the POG of St. Sylvesters, the association had found that one of the Sylvestrian boxers had taken part in a kick boxing meet and was disqualified. This enabled Trinity to emerge winners.
The best boxers award went to M.M. Faris of St. Sylvesters, best losers to R.M.T. Raymond of Bandaranayake Central College Veyangoda.
The meet was conducted by St. Sylvesters College with the collaboration of the Sri Lanka Schools Boxing Association and the meet was held at the Sylvestrian ring at Asgiriya.
Participation wise there were 187 boxers from 41 schools.
==============================
## Title: Troll alert!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Troll alert!
Over the summer, the Morton Arboretum in northern Illinois welcomed some peculiar new guests: a whimsical tribe of wooden trolls.
Crafted by Danish artist Thomas Dambo, these mythical creatures are the sought-after stars of the outdoor museums site-specific exhibit, Troll Hunt.
Troll Hunt invites the public to find six folkloric figures hidden within the arboretum: Niels Bragger, Furry Ema, Sneaky Socks Alexa, Rocky Bardur, Little Arturs, and Joe the Guardian. Full of personality, each troll plays a distinctive role in the forest, whether theyre keeping watch over their beloved trees or mischievously catching children in traps.
Like all of Dambos sculptures, each troll has been shaped out of reclaimed wood, illustrating the artists self-described ability to make anything you can imagine out of trash. While the figures gesturing hands, giant feet, and expressive faces were crafted in Copenhagen, their colossal bodies were built on-site. Once assembled, most of the trolls came to measure anywhere from 15 to 30 feet tallthough Little Arturs, the lounging figure, boasts an impressive 60-foot height.
To spot these curious creatures, each guest is given a Troll Hunters Handbook. When paired with the Arboretums tips, this magical guide helps troll hunters of all ages find the fairytale figures.
Troll Hunt will be on display at the Arboretum through the end of 2018. Depending on the weather, the enchanted exhibition may even extend into 2019.
My Modern Met
==============================
## Title: Two senior citizens die in accident
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Two senior citizens die in accident
Two women were killed and another person seriously injured after the three-wheeler in which they were travelling was involved in a collision with a lorry in Pallebedda, Ratnapura.
The three victims including the three-wheeler driver were admitted to the Pallebedda Hospital, where the two women died.
The three-wheeler driver who was critical was transferred to the Embilipitiya Hospital.
The women were identified as Swarna Gunawardena (62) of Dolaswala, Nivitigala, and Ratgamkattadiyage Sumana Samaraweera (69) of Colombagama, Nivitigala. The postmortem was to be carried out on Saturday.
The lorry driver was arrested by Godakawela Police.
Godakawela Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Virginia Woolfs Little-Known Biography of a Cocker Spaniel
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Virginia Woolfs Little-Known Biography of a Cocker Spaniel
In her 1911 opus Toy Dogs and Their Ancestors, Judith Blunt-Lytton, sixteenth baroness of Wentworth, great-granddaughter of Lord Byron, wrote, It has cost me years of research both in the British Museum and in the picture galleries of Europe to disentangle the truth from the cocoon of falsehood into which it was spun.
What Blunt-Lytton sought to recuperate from the cobwebs of history was the lapdogs true form. Blunt-Lytton contended that many breeds had recently strayed from their roots, in large part due to the Victorian proliferation of dog fancying: a British term that evokes, at once, a group of people who like dogs and a group people who fluff up dogs fur and tie ribbons around their necks. Of the spaniel, Blunt-Lytton asserts that the contemporary model was introduced comparatively recently, certainly no earlier than the year 1840, and compiles visual evidence of its transformation.
The spaniel in Titians Venus of Urbino is technically correct, as are eighteenth-century pooches painted by George Stubbs; for comparison, her book contains a mug shot of a puppy described as noseless atrocity, bred by author, while another dogs portrait is captioned: noseless toy spaniel, with wrongly carried ears and bad expression.
Twenty-two years later, Virginia Woolf published Flush, a biography of Elizabeth Barrett Brownings cocker spaniel, and immediately regretted it. She began work on the book after the draining effort of The Waves. As she read the love letters of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning, she was amused by Barrett Brownings mischievous, cosseted little dog and set out to write its biography. It was easy work at first, miserable by the end (she called the book that abominable dog Flush).
On the eve of the books publication, Woolf felt resignation rather than pride. She wrote in her diary: I open this to make one of my self-admonishments previous to publishing a book. Flush will be out on Thursday and I shall be very much depressed, I think, by the kind of praise. Theyll say its charming, delicate, ladylike  I must not let myself believe that Im simply a ladylike prattler. In her letters, she dismissed the whole thing as an embarrassing joke. But after her friend Sibyl Colefax praised the book, Woolf confided: Im so glad that you liked Flush. I think it shows great discrimination in you because it was all a matter of hints and shades, and practically no one has seen what I was after.
In Woolfs Flush,the young dog travels from the hamlet of Three Mile Cross to Wimpole Street in London, trading grass and flowering shrubs for the gloom of Elizabeth Barretts back bedroom in her fathers home. It is the room of an unmarried, bookish invalid, redolent of cologne, cluttered with gleaming marble busts, the window shaded by a blind painted with the image of several peasants taking a walk. As Elizabeth and Robert Browning elope, Flush travels to Pisa and Florence. He is kidnapped once, ransomed, and has his liver-colored coat trimmed off after a bout of mange. He is skeptical of spiritualism. He dies, peacefully, in Casa Guidi, the Brownings home in Italy.
Woolfs spaniel is a product of history. The breed first appeared in Wales in the tenth century, a hunting dog imported from Spain, then transformed into its Victorian-era Kennel Club regulationcorrect points, Woolf writes, include dark eyes full but not gozzled, straight ears, and a round skull shape. A light nose was an irrevocable flaw. Flush is an exemplary specimen, a realization he makes soon after arriving in London and apprehending that there are higher- and lower-class dogs:
Which, then, was he No sooner had Flush got home than he examined himself carefully in the looking-glass. Heaven be praised, he was a dog of birth and breeding!  He noted with approval the purple jar from which he dranksuch are the privileges of rank; he bent his head quietly to have the chain fixed to his collarsuch are its penalties.
So hes foppish. But only in London, in his adolescence. When his silky coatthe proof of his rankis sheared, near the end of his life in Florence, Flush is freest. After the haircut is complete, he stares at himself in the mirror and discovers that hes disfigured, deprived of his identity. Hes no longer a technically perfect cocker spaniel. But a perverse glee comes over him, and he shimmies the clownish ruff of his remaining fur.
To be nothingis that not, after all, the most satisfactory state in the world  To caricature the pomposity of those who claim that they are somethingwas that not in its way a career And thats how Flush becomes a modernist: liberated from history by a goofy haircut, he wanders the hot ocher streets of Florence, a dog of the crowd.
Although the British have kept pet dogs since the middle ages, it was primarily the provenance of courtiers. Pet owners were caricatured as sentimental oddballs. During the Victorian era, the practice was adopted by the middle class, and dog fancy became widespread. Dogs expressed their owners taste; to paraphrase one breeder, no one who was anyone could afford to be followed around by a mutt.
It was fashionable in part for its orthodoxy, which proved a bit impossible to maintain as kennel clubs handed down competing standards with Delphic authority. In The Animal Estate, historian Harriet Ritvo writes, The juxtaposition of arbitrarily established criteria  with swiftly changing fashions not only in favorite breeds but in preferred types within those breeds symbolized a society where status could reflect individual accomplishments and was, as a result, evanescent, lacking in foundation, and in constant need of reaffirmation.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning was born into a wealthy family whose ancestors owned sugar plantations in Jamaica, though she herself was an abolitionist. She began to suffer from chronic illness at the age of fifteen, and by the time Flush came into her life, she was in her midthirties and her illness, likely exacerbated by opiate painkillers, and her grief over the death of her two brothers had driven her into reclusion. After Robert Browning wrote a fan letter praising her popular 1844 Poems, she began a secret courtship with him, and they eloped two years later, when she was forty.
Barrett Browning addressed two works to her spaniel: Flush or Faunus, a sonnet comparing her pet to the goatly god as he leaps into her lap, and To Flush, My Dog, a tongue-in-cheek benedictory ode. She praises his beauty, his golden coat, and feet canopied in fringes, but concedes that there are other perfect spaniels with the same unimpeachable qualities. To praise Flush in particular, she writes:
Other dogs in thymy dewTracked the hares and followed throughSunny moor or meadow This dog only, crept and creptNext a languid cheek that slept,Sharing in the shadow.
- Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Workshop on emerging sceincfic developments
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Workshop on emerging sceincfic developments
The Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC) completed a workshop on science and technology communication recently. The workshop was attended by 23 participants including journalists, professionals and government officers.
The course was based on the underlying principles and applications of the emerging fields of science and technology and how the development in science can be used in media and communications. It was conducted under the guidance of Ministry of Science and Research and gave the participants an opportunity to visit all laboratories and observe research work conducted in them.
==============================
## Title: Youth shot in Maligawatte
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, October 22, 2018 - 01:00
Youth shot in Maligawatte
A twenty-four-year old youth was injured when he was shot at by two unidentified gunmen in Maligawatte on Saturday afternoon.
The victim, Mohamed Nishamdin Mohamed Admeen is a resident of Jumma Musjid Road in Maligawatte and was admitted to the National Hospital, after the incident. The gunmen who were on a motorcycle had fled after opening fire at the victim, police said.
The youth was previously injured in a similar shooting near a housing complex in Maligawatte in early September, police also said.
==============================