## Title: No interruption in power generation, distribution due to CEB strike
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
No interruption in power generation, distribution due to CEB strike
Countrys power generation is 100 percent successful, while power distribution is carried out smoothly at 65 percent despite the strike carried out by the Ceylon Electricity Board Trade Union Alliance, Power and Energy Ministry Media Spokesman Pathum Pasqual told the Daily News.
According to Pasqual, during the last two days, CEB employees were reporting to work as usual. Pasqual said many retired CEB workers reported to work following the announcement made by the CEB asking for their service.
Pasqual said the Sri Lanka Army was not requested to provide their service as yet. They would make an official request if the need arise, he said..
Military Spokesman Major General Roshan Seneviratne yesterday said the Sri Lanka Army would deploy soldiers to assist CEB, provided that the Power and Renewable Energy Ministry makes an official request.
The CEB made a request from some employees of the CEB via its official Face Book page to stay away from using social media to spread false information and insult CEB employees. We like to bring your attention to clause (19) Schedule A: Major Offences of the CEB Rules of Disciplinary procedure which says Any act which brings CEB into disrepute or cause harm to CEB by use of social media, email services, web services or any other online interactive media which as provisioned can be taken as a major offense, the statement said.
==============================
## Title: No reports of Rohingya Muslims fleeing to Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
No reports of Rohingya Muslims fleeing to Sri Lanka
There are no reports of Rohingya Muslims fleeing to Sri Lanka in the wake of a mass exodus taking place in Myanmars Rakhine state, Foreign Affairs State Minister Wasantha Senanayake said.
Countering the claims, he pointed out it is highly unlikely that those refugees would come in large numbers to Sri Lanka.
If such refugees land on Sri Lankan shores that would be in small numbers such as 20-25, and they will be registered under the UN Refugee Agency. Under humanitarian grounds we will provide them with basic needs such as food and health facilities. They will either be sent back to Myanmar as the situation improves or will send them to another country that matches with their way of living. We will not be keeping them for long, he told the Daily News.
In the meantime, Immigration and Emigration Department Controller General M. N. Ranasinghe refuted the media reports that stated Sri Lanka has suspended granting visa to Myanmar nationals following the Rohingya crisis.
There is no truth in such reports. Those in Myanmar can apply for visa online or by going to our embassy in Myanmar, he said.
He stated that no Rohingya refugee has been reported in Sri Lankan shores since April, adding that fears of mass arrival of Rohingya Muslims are pointless.
In April 32 Rohingya Muslims landed on the shores of Point Pedro by boat and they were later handed over to the UNHCR.
==============================
## Title: REITs hold potential to drive growth,  job creation, FDI in SL market 
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
REITs hold potential to drive growth,  job creation, FDI in SL market 
Global real-estate consulting powerhouse Jones Lang La Salle (JLL) called for a re-evaluation of the regulatory and legal mechanisms around Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) as a vital first step towards their introduction into the domestic market.
In a global context, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) have become an integral part of the investment landscape, accepted by individual and institutional investors, alike, as providing greater access to commercial real estate projects.
In Sri Lanka too, the potential benefits to the domestic economy from the introduction of REITs are significant. Their introduction will likely signal stronger economic growth and job creation, but, moreover, REITs provide a platform for much needed foreign direct investment in Sri Lanka without transferring the ownership of the real estate asset to the foreign investor. Given the current regulations around foreign ownership, we believe that REITs are one of the most viable mechanisms for attracting investment into Sri Lankas commercial real estate sector, JLL observed.
Defined as a company that acquires, owns and operates income producing real estate assets, which typically include apartment blocks, commercial office buildings, shopping malls, hotels, warehouses and industrial buildings, their requirements for external funding means that REITs are typically listed on a countrys stock exchange and unit holders are able to purchase shares via an initial public offering (IPO) or on an exchange platform.
However, JLL noted that prior to the introduction of REITs to the domestic market, significant reforms would be necessary in relation to Sri Lankas legal and regulatory frameworks in order to ensure sufficiently robust safeguards and procedural mechanisms to enable a secure foundation for REITs to flourish.
Establishing REITs in a new market depends heavily upon support from local regulatory bodies and authorities including the implementation of a Unit Trust Code, but there also needs to be an efficient and stable tax regime in place to instill confidence in investors. In addition to transparent taxation policies, that are required to be applied in an equitable fashion, there is a need for certain limited tax concessions to stimulate yields and make REITs more attractive, JLL said, citing the example of stamp duty as one area where concessions could be applied.
Current restrictions on foreigners owning land in Sri Lanka have been a significant hurdle to foreign capital inflows in Sri Lanka, however JLL noted that if regulations were enacted to help mitigate these challenges while still ensuring that the title of a given property is not directly transferred to a foreign investor, then a significant obstacle to the establishment of REITs in Sri Lanka would have been cleared.
While REITs are yet to be introduced in Sri Lanka, the Asian REIT market is now valued at approximately US$180 billion with Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan being the clear market leaders. The REIT market in Singapore alone was worth US$38 billion, in 2012, and these figures encouraged Pakistan to launch the first South Asian REIT ahead, even, of India in 2015.
The raft of benefits to the Sri Lankan economy presented by the introduction of REITs is surely too tempting to resist for much longer, but, this is only one side of the coin. Authorities and regulators in Sri Lanka must clearly understand that for REITs to flourish in the longer run, they must focus on establishing a conducive environment to encourage corporate and investor participation.
==============================
## Title: Withdrawal of concessionary income tax rate major debacle
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Withdrawal of concessionary income tax rate major debacle
The withdrawal of concessionary income tax rate applicable to direct- indirect exports is a major negative factor for exporters and it will discouraging exporters in a big way, said Tissa Seneviratna, Chairman of the Ceylon National Chamber of Industries.
Successive governments have made a concerted effort to promote Sri Lankan exports. In their endeavor to promote exports a concessionary tax rate was granted to profits attributable to export related turnover.
Its known that even a small price differential can result in securing an export order or losing it altogether to a competitor from another country.
The concessionary income tax rate offered to exporters was an incentive for companies to enter into the export market. Under the new inland revenue Act only a business with exports of at least 80 % of their turnover will qualify for a concessionary tax rate.
An existing business cannot enter an export market to export 80 % of their production initially. Most exporters entered the export market with small orders & gradually increased export volumes.
It is therefore important to incentivize every individual export if the intention of the Government is to encourage newcomers to enter the export market.
This was achieved hitherto by granting a concessionary tax rate to the profit attributable to export turnover, irrespective of its value to total turnover.
Our Chamber represents many indirect exporters who have immensely benefited from such tax concessions.
They were able to price their products to exporters lower than what they would offer to the local market considering the benefit of taxation he said.
Only established exporters stand to gain from tax concessions offered to companies achieving a 80 % export target. Some of the large exporters today too would have had a low % of their turnover as exports in their initial years of operations.
Would they have pursued an export strategy if tax incentives were not available even with a lower % of export turnover
We recognize the importance of additional revenue by removal of tax concessions. However, we are mindful that the government also considers the growth of exports as an integral component of economic development of the country. What would be the overall impact when a concession enjoyed by many businesses up to now is withdrawn overnight We appeal to you to maintain the concessionary tax rates granted to exporters and indirect exporters irrespective of the volume of their exports, he added.
The Government launched a National Programme this year to nurture 2000 new entrepreneurs to become exporters.
The proposes increase of taxation will adversely impact on the entrepreneurs coming under this programme which certainly is not the intention of the Government. These entrepreneurs would have prepared their business plans considering the concessionary tax rate applicable to exporters.
==============================
## Title: I am living coz of you!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
I am living coz of you!
Pop sensation Selena Gomez took to social media on Thursday and shared a heart-warming story about a gut-wrenching struggle and a friendship that carried her through.
Gomez, who was noticeably laying low during summer even though she had launched new music which she said in the Instagram post she was "extremely proud of".However, the 25-year-old pop star said she needed to take care of her overall health as she had been needing a kidney transplant due to Lupus, a chronic inflammatory disease that occurs when the body's immune system starts attacking its own tissues and organs, causing permanent damage.Saying that she is healing and looking forward to sharing with her fans, Gomez found herself at a loss for words to thank her friend, Francia Raisa, who donated her kidney to the artiste. "There arent words to describe how I can possibly thank my beautiful friend Francia Raisa," she says in the post with a picture of herself and her friend, all tubed up, in hospital beds. "She gave me the ultimate gift and sacrifice by donating her kidney to me. I am incredibly blessed. I love you so much sis," Gomez adds.
The star said her disease "continues to be very misunderstood but progress is being made", inserting a call to action toward the end for those wanting to learn more about Lupus. It's incredibly tough and incredibly brave dealing with any chronic illness. We wish you get well soon, Selena!
-Dawn
==============================
## Title: 153rd birth anniversary of Srimath Anagarika Dharmapala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
153rd birth anniversary of Srimath Anagarika Dharmapala
A Sanghadana to commemorate the 153rd birth anniversary of Srimath Anagarika Dharmapala was held at the Maha Bodhi Society premises yesterday. Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and the chief prelates participated in the proceedings held in India yesterday.
==============================
## Title: 2017 State Literary Awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
2017 State Literary Awards
Minister Dr. Amunugama received an award at the 2017 State Literary Awards for his highly-acclaimed recent book Lions Roar, which is based on the life and times of Anagarika Dharmapala. He received this award under the award category of special work written in English. Here, Dr. Amunugama receiving the award.
==============================
## Title: Advantis Projects upgrades national transport infrastructure
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Advantis Projects upgrades national transport infrastructure
As Sri Lanka takes its first steps onto the world stage with a focus on ambitious economic goals, a solid transportation infrastructure will continue to be key. An improved transportation infrastructure allows for the easy movement of goods, provides people with greater access to essential facilities and employment and opens up previously inaccessible areas of the country for tourism. All of this equates to national economic growth and the acceleration of economic development in rural areas.
This is why the Southern Railway project is essential for the future of the nation as railways in particular provide a cost effective mode of transportation for goods and passengers alike. The first phase of this project, from Matara to Beliatta, will consist of a 26.75km long railway track.
One of the major hurdles of constructing the railway has been the transportation of the massive rails from the Hambantota Port to its destination along the Mattara-Beliatta track. The 25-meter length and 1.5 metric ton weight of each rail means specialized equipment and logistical expertise will be needed to transport them through the narrow road network of the country.
Providing these necessary skills and equipment to the project are Advantis Projects, a subsidiary of the Hayleys Advantis Group, renowned for their expertise in transporting oversized and specialized cargo.
As a member of the Global Project Logistics Network (GPLN), Advantis Projects has the ability to work in partnership with a network of project logistics professionals in meeting the needs of any client, whilst ensuring that all projects are managed by local experts. Additionally, their array of specialized equipment allows them to cater to a myriad of requirements and tackle the hardest logistical situations.
To transport the rails Advantis Projects utilized an 80ft specially modified extendable trailer with heavy duty pullers and over 25 professionals and trade specialists. They also used their four-acre storage facility near the Hambantota Port to temporarily store the rails.
Ultimately, Advantis Projects conducted route surveys and road selections, liaised with local authorities and provided all other end-to-end logistics services to ensure that the rails reached their destination on time for the project.
Utilizing the latest technology and the most modern methods Advantis Projects was able to securely transport the clients goods safely and in record time. This was in part thanks to the detailed simulations and safety briefings their team received beforehand to ensure the process ran smoothly from start to finish.
Backed by Hayleys Advantis Limited, the transportation and logistics arm of Hayleys PLC, Advantis Projects has continuously expanded its service offering and is recognized as the market leader in providing project logistics solutions to local and international contractors who are involved in large-scale infrastructure development projects.
The company brings over 16 years of experience and a proven track record that has been driven with technology innovation and adherence to industry best practices.
==============================
## Title: All-Island Justice of the Peace appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
All-Island Justice of the Peace appointed
Kumaran Chandrika of Wattala took oaths before Negombo District Court Magistrate Lakmali Hewawasam at the Negombo Magistrates Courts as an All-Island Justice of the Peace, recently.
She is the daughter of Kumaran Wigesnewari of Wattala and an old student of Wattala St. Annes Ladies Convent. Presently, she teaches at OKI International School, Wattala and is also the coordinator of the teaching staff. She is a Social and religious worker in the area and a member of the Mutuwal South Lions Club.
==============================
## Title: Appointment of new  Assistant Governors
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Appointment of new  Assistant Governors
The Monetary Board, at its meeting held on August 31 has promoted K.M.A.N. Daulagala, S. Gunaratne, N.W.G.R.D. Nanayakkara, T.M.J.Y.P. Fernando, J.P.R. Karunaratne and K. Gunatilake, six Staff Class Grade IV officers, to the post of Assistant Governor with effect fromAugust 31.
These promotions have been made to ensure the smooth functioning of the Bank by filling the vacuum created in the Assistant Governor position due to promotions and retirements during the period from May 2016 to August 2017.
K.M.A.N. Daulagala
Deputy Secretary to the Monetary Board as the Assistant Governor in charge of Finance Department and Staff Services Management Department in addition to her duties as the Deputy Secretary to the Monetary Board.
Daulagala has served the Central Bank for more than 26 years and has worked in the Departments of Banking, International Operations, Finance, Supervision of Non-Bank Financial Institutions, Financial Stability Studies, Department Level Regional OfficeNorth Central Province and North Western Province, and Secretariat. Further, she was on release to the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MoFP) where she served as the Director General of Public Enterprises.
While holding the position at the Ministry she served as an Ex-Officio Director of the Bank of Ceylon and a member of the Employees Trust Fund Board. At the Central Bank, she served as a member of several committees including Financial System Stability Committee, Risk Management Committee, Foreign Reserve Management Committee and Audit Committee.
S. Gunaratne
Former Alternate Executive Director (AED) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Washington DC, USA, representing the constituency of India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Bhutan as the Assistant Governor in charge of Economic Research, Statistics and Macroprudential Surveillance Departments.
Gunaratne has over 31 years of experience in the Central Bank and has worked in the Economic Research Department for more than 21 years in different capacities before serving as the Director of Economic Research Department from 2012 to 2015.
She had worked in the Banking Department prior to Economic Research Department. Gunaratne has also made a significant contribution to the Bank by representing committees, including Monetary Policy Committee, Monetary Operations Committee, Financial System Stability Committee, Foreign Reserve Management Committee and Risk Management Committee. While holding the position of AED at the IMF, she has contributed immensely towards the implementation of Stand By Arrangement (SBA) and Extended Fund Facility (EFF) programmes for Sri Lanka during the period.
N.W.G.R.D. Nanayakkara
Former Director of Macroprudential Surveillance Department as the Assistant Governor in charge of the departments of Public Debt, Supervision of Microfinance Institutions and Security Services.
Nanayakkara has served the Central Bank for more than 24 years and worked in the Departments of Macroprudential Surveillance, Public Debt, Bank Supervision, International Operations, Domestic Operations and Banking.
With his expertise in core central banking areas of financial system stability, supervision and regulation of financial institutions, debt and portfolio management and international finance, foreign reserves management, and implementation of monetary policy, Nanayakkara has made a significant contribution in achieving CBSL objectives. Further, Nanayakkara was involved effectively in enhancing the effectiveness of regulation of banks, formulating and implementing of debt strategies, improving the risk profile of the government debt portfolio, while minimizing the cost, managing multi-currency foreign reserves portfolios, revamping the foreign reserve management system of the Central Bank, and automating the foreign reserves management process for the first time. Nanyakkara has served as a member of the Governing Council of the Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka, Governing Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Financial System Stability Committee, Steering Committee on the International Sovereign Bond issue by the Government of Sri Lanka, and as the Chairman of the Domestic Debt Management Committee.
T.M.J.Y.P. Fernando
Former Controller of Exchange as the Assistant Governor in-charge of departments of Exchange Control, Bank Supervision, and Legal and Compliance.
Fernando has over 27 years of experience in the Central Bank in the fields of Bank Supervision, Exchange Control and Banking Development.
Fernando has played a key role in maintaining financial system stability, by providing leadership to implement a strong regulatory framework in line with international standards. She has represented CBSL as a Director of Credit Information Bureau (CRIB), National Gem and Jewellery Authority, Golden Key Credit Card Company Limited, GK Hospitals Limited, Jetwing Symphony Limited and as a member of the Committee to review the code of corporate governance  Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Sub-committee on Investment for negotiation of Free Trade Agreements and South East Asian Central Banks (SEACEN) advisory committee on training.
Fernando has participated in several local and international training programmes, seminars and other forums to enhance and update the knowledge on different aspects of bank supervision and regulation, general banking operations, risk management in financial institutions, corporate governance, resolution of weak banks, etc. She has been a resource person in several training programmes and panel discussions on work related subjects, both local and overseas.
J.P.R. Karunaratne
Former Superintendent of Currency Department as the Assistant Governor in charge of Departments of Currency, Supervision of Non-Bank Financial institutions and Facilities Management.
Karunaratne has served in the Central Bank for more than 26 years and has worked in the Departments of Secretariat, Economic Research, Bank Supervision, Policy Review and Monitoring, Supervision of Non-Bank Financial institutions, Public Debt and Currency.
During this period in the Central Bank, Karunaratne has acquired wide experience in the areas of financial sector, currency management and the corporate sector.
He was actively involved in improving currency management systems and operations, and implementing Basel II framework in Sri Lanka. He has also been appointed as the Chief Operating Officer by the Supreme Court to assist the external committee set up to find a mechanism to make payments to the investors of collapsed Golden Key Credit Card Company. Karunaratne has played an advisory role in number of important areas, mainly in establishing Api Wenuwen Api Fund under the Ministry of Defence.
K. Gunatilake
Former Director of the Internal Audit Department as the Assistant Governor in-charge of Centre for Banking Studies, Training and Development Department, and Policy Review and Monitoring Department.
Gunatilake has more than 31 years of experience in the CBSL in different capacities in the areas of Rural Credit, Economic Research, Regional Development, International Operations, Training, Employees Provident Fund, Human Resources and Internal Audit.
During her long service in the Bank, Gunatilake conceptualized and initiated the digitalization of EPF records leading towards a near paperless office environment and many projects to improve the efficiency of member services of the EPF. She has also made a significant contribution towards Human Resource management of the Bank, among others.
Gunatilake is a resource person at Centre for Banking Studies and has served as a Visiting Lecturer at the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka. She has also served as a member of the Board of Directors of Distance Learning Centre Ltd. and functioned as a member of Advisory Committees of Farmers/Fishermens Pension and Social Security Benefit Schemes of the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Board.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (18-09-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (18-09-2017)]
Nemsiri Mutukumara
A purveyor of Buddhist news
The 12th death anniversary of Nemsiri Mutukumara, Associate Editor of the Ceylon Daily News, veteran journalist, writer, broadcaster, advertising consultant and international Buddhist activist, fell on September 15, this year.
His loss is deeply felt by the international Buddhist community in which he had been an active participant for more than four decades. He is still remembered for his pioneering role in the early 1970s to organize the world Buddhist youth to be internationally active. His leadership in the movement was recognized when he was unanimously elected the founding President of the World Fellowship of Buddhist Youth in 1972. His devoted services to both this organization and its parent body the World Fellowship of Buddhists are regularly recalled with grateful appreciation as it was done at the General Conference of the two organizations held in Taiwan.
The international community misses Nemsiris dedicated service as a purveyor of Buddhist news in the current year. His unassuming and genial personality won him many admirers.
Whenever an issue had to be faced, he showed unusual courage and determination. He would use his excellent command of written and spoken English and Sinhala to combat all opposition. He often did in the background as a patient negotiator who would convince people of his point of view and enable important decisions to be taken in an imformed an objective manner.
Nemsiri was educated at Vidyaloka Vidyalaya in Galle and Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa. He has started youth work as a member of the UNP Youth league in Moratuwa in 1950 as a student of Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa.
He worked in the Post and Telecommunications Department as a Postmaster for nine years and served as a secretary of the Union of Post and Telecommunication Officers.
Nemsiris journalistic career at Lake House covered a period of 35 years. He was a outstanding writer and a journalist and rose to the position of Associate Editor of the prestigious English Daily; the Ceylon Daily News.
He adorned its poya day page with information reflective and practical articles, conveying sagacious messages.
Nemsiri, without confining his writing abilities to the newspaper, started an international Buddhist magazine New World Buddhism for propagating Buddhism throughout the world. His work on Dr. Gunapala Malalasekera are invaluable tributes to the founder of the World Fellowship of Buddhists. He has widely travelled in Asia and Europe. He became the founder vice president of the Asian Youth Council based in Kuala Lumpur and became the President of the Lanka Taruna Mandalaya, the national committee of the World Assembly of Youth based in Belgium. He was an active member of the All Ceylon Buddhist Congress and the Sri Lanka regional centre of the World Fellowship of Buddhists. Up to the time of his death, he had served as the chairman of the international committee on Dharmaduta service of the World Fellowship of Buddhists based in Bangkok.
The Buddhist News Review broadcasted by the English service of the Sri Lanka Broadcasting cooperation, was compiled and presented by Nemsiri uninterruptedly more than 15 years, giving current affairs of Buddhist evens anywhere in the world.
He was a eloquent speaker and an excellent instant interpreter having an excellent command of both English and Sinhala.
Nemsiri never wanted any fame or self glory for all the Buddhist activities he carried out throughout his life here and abroad. His contribution towards the growth of Buddhism has created a great impact on the Buddhist community. Nemsiris deep concern for fellow humans and dedication to promote Buddhism did not end with his demise.
The most admirable act by Nemsiri was the donation of his dwelling house and property at No. 7, P. B. Alwis Perara Mawatha, Katubedda, Moratuwa and all moveable and immoveable articles for the use of Bhikkhu Sangha, Buddhist Nuns and students of Buddha Dhamma. This centre will pave way for many others to promote the noble teachings of the Buddha which was the Nemsiris one and only wish. Nemsiris memories will undoubtedly be treasured for generation to come and will serve as a source of inspirations for all those who wish to follow the Buddhist way of life.
May his journey in sansara be short and may he attain the ultimate bliss of Nibbana.
Ven. Amugoda Somananda
Nayaka Thera,
Advisor,
Nemsiri Mutukumara International Buddhist Research Centre
Daya Jayasundera
He was aloving father
Born to a family of five children as the eldest son of Don Edwin Jayasundera and Emelia Elawathi Jayasundera, my father, Don Dayarathna Jayasundera (better known as Daya Jayasundera) was brought up in Welipotha, Galle. He got his primary education in Welipotha Sri Wijayaraja Buddhist Mixed School and moved to Mahinda College, Galle, when he was in grade seven or eight following a short period of time at Aretheusa College, Colombo 6, under care of his maternal uncles.
At the age of 16, the effect of his mothers death due to a womb cancer made him understand several realities of life at a very young age. Thereafter, he had become a vegetarian and took up many responsibilities of his younger siblings. Being a very methodical person by nature, he has guided and looked after his three sisters and brother. As a result of the conditions maintained at home, all of them have become very methodical, capable and disciplined persons despite the fact that their father had been away from home frequently due to the needs of his profession as a conductor in the plantation industry run by the British.
Following a successful school career at Mahinda College, Galle, he had entered the university of Peradeniya then know as Ceylon University. There, apart from the academic work, he had been an active member of the Buddhist Society and had been a member of the chorus in Maname, the historical stage play by Prof. Ediriweera Sarathchandra when he created the drama originally taking university students for its cast.
After passing out from the university in 1956, Dayarathna Jayasundera started his career as a teacher at Vidyaloka Vidyalaya, Galle, completed his diploma in education and then joined the Balapitiya Teachers Training College as a lecturer and later joined the Unawatuna Amarasooriya Teachers Training College. There he was the principal for several years until he moved to Australia on a fellowship for a period of 10 months in 1983. In Australia, he studied further on teachers education and despite their offers to employ him there, he came back to the island at the end of 10 months.
But to his great disappointment, he was recruited in a UN Project related to the newly-introduced field of Life Skills in the school curriculum. I very well remember him commenting on this issue with frustration and at several occasions he has pointed out that we may live in a society where we are valued according to our qualifications, skills and abilities. He always emphasised the value of education and convinced us that it is the mainstay when a person is valued in a civilized society, but education is not the mere book knowledge or the number of certificates we possess.
The first thing he wanted for us to get a good wholesome education and if we decide that this is not the society for us to settle down, he told us clearly that we should not hinder our desire or decision because of them (the parents), instead we can go ahead with our decision and they will manage to look after themselves.
At the very beginning of his career, he had joined the Sri Lanka Army in its Volunteer Force as a Captain and since our small days, I have memories of him away from home for months on mobilization in far away areas like Jaffna, Mannar, Baticcoloa, etc. from time to time. During that period, we did not have telephone facilities and the mode of communication was only through letters. He frequently wrote to my mother and to the three of us, separate letters which came in one pack. He wrote to us giving many details, advice, instructions and even made corrections regarding what we wrote to him the previous times. Each of us had certain assigned duties at home even during small days. He always instructed us that we have to help at domestic chores and that is how we learnt to do things. He himself did lot of house work, setting an example.
As a very dedicated government servant, my father went for work almost around the calendar despite the school vacations and the week ends when he was the principal at the Training College. Then the principal at Mahinda College and as the Additional Director of Education for the Southern Province. Still he was very active at house hold work whenever his duty and social work permitted.
The time that all five of us got together was at the dinner table. There we discussed the events of the day what happened in school, in the tuition classes, in the bus or what interested us. My father used to give his views on certain events, corrected our views on certain issues and explained many important aspects. Now I realize that this habit has guided us immensely in building up our attitudes on life and society. What he always discouraged was talking about or taking an interest on other peoples affairs. And a topic we almost never discussed was politics. I remember that there were certain situations that he explained taking examples from Jathaka stories. We usually slept late and those dinner table discussions went on for hours. There was a particular habit, he never missed was writing a full page of a diary documenting the days important events. He dropped this habit only after he developed dementia around his mid-seventies.
My father was the most simple and humble person I have ever known. He had a light blue colour vespa which was the only vehicle he used in his life. He had bought it with his own money after he started earning. He always wore the full white national dress along with a block pair of tailor-made shoes. Even for the functions in the Army and when he went to Australia in 1983, that was his official dress. He had started wearing the national dress after he has passed out from the university and to the great disappointment of his father who had worked for the British, my father had not given up this dress even when his father had insisted, especially during the time he had been looking for a partner for his son.
He practiced honesty in every deed he carried out. During the times of school admissions for my brother and myself respectively in 1975 and 1977, he had not arranged to prove our residence in a false way as it is done nowadays, although he had sent applications to schools like Mahinda College, Richmound College, Southlands College and Sanghamitta College, which are not close by schools to our residence. As a result, he had to make appeals and I remember both of as started schooling at the end of the first terms. His policy at our school admissions was that he should not practice false and wrong things at the very beginning of our lives. All there of us had not been sent to pre-school and we were taught at home by our parents. I remember when he was eligible for the Government vehicle permit as the principal of Mahinda College, he did not apply for it as he thought that he does not have an adequate income as a government servant to maintain a brand-new vehicle and decided to be content with his vespa. He also said that it is wrong to obtain the permit if he is not going to buy the vehicle for himself.
His life was so simple as he had only limited needs and had no craving for luxuries. He was so calm as he respected everyone and so had no conflicts. He was never indebted as he was so economical and used to balance his expenses with his income. He was not bothered by stress or anxiety as he had nothing to conceal because honesty and transparency in everything were his policies. He was a devoted Buddhist by adhering to and practicing what the Buddha taught rather than paying homage with various worldly offerings. I feel my father is the perfect example for somebody to learn how we can lead stress-free life by just being simple in every aspect of our lives. He never had many plans and high expectations even on us and he never had a competition with anybody. His goal was to live a simple, calm, independent and peaceful life.
I think my father was able to live such a life because he had all the support at home, especially from my mother who was a dedicated housewife and she managed the household in a way that my father need not have any worries regarding domestic issues. I am so proud to say that all three of us grew up under our parents shelter and guidance to become what we are today, without giving them unnecessary troubles and worries.
Dear thaththi, May you attain the superme bliss of Nibbana!
Dr. Rasanthi Jayasundera
D. M. Senaviratne
A dedicatedman
Loku aiya, you left us three years ago with our hearts bleeding and our eyes full of tears and yet those memories of your presence and closeness still lingers on. When you were sick, I could still remember the times you called me like a small child from your sick bed and how I advised you to come to Colombo or seek advice from Dr. Darshini and inform family members thereafter.
I also recall how you carried me to the Gelioya town when I was a child for my haircuts, singing ara kandath ape thamai, me kandath ape thamai on our way to the salon.
When our father died at the age of 46 years, you were just 23 years old and an undergraduate at the Jayawardenepura University. I remember how you came home after hearing the news of our fathers death. We were waiting patiently for your arrival, when we saw you at a distance walking very calmly towards the house, clad in white and also how you wept bitterly.
Due to your political ideology, you would criticize any injustice that took place in our hometown and take appropriate action to remedy the situation. As such, you were under the impression that your close relationship with the prelates of the village temple had suffered.
It was for this reason I suppose that you brought some Buddhist monks from the university to perform the last rites for our father.
Involved in politics, besides being the Secretary of the Students Society at Jpura University, led to the suspension of your classes. When my eldest sister received the letter of suspension, she read it aloud to my mother as though you had been promoted to the next session. During the difficult period following our fathers death, as an elder brother, you took up the responsibilities to care for us, giving private tuition and working as freelance journalist. During the run-up to the General Election in 1977, you were actively involved in SLFP politics, giving leadership to the Youth Federation of the Party in the Nuwara Eliya District.
After the election, the suspension on classes were removed and you continued with your studies and obtained an Honours Degree in Bachelor of Arts in the year 1972, specializing in European history.
After graduation, you started your career as a divisional manager at Building Materials Corporation until the year 1977 and thereafter, you were transferred to various places due to political interferences and subsequently dismissed from service by the then government.
After the dismissal, you were heavily involved in politics, qualified yourself as an Attorney-at-Law from the Colombo Law College and worked under late Sarath Muthetugama, the eminent lawyer, for a short while in Colombo before shifting to Ratnapura
Due to your dedicated service to the poor of the area you earned the name deiya, which made you famous. Being a Provincial Council member during the Period 1988-1998, you were supposed to succeed Nanda Ellawala in the event of his death. Even though you declined this offer, you become a Member of Parliament. You performed an eminent service for the poor as a provincial council member for nearly two decades.
Every year on the 9th of September, your death anniversary, our younger brother provides meals to the Children Welfare Society at the Apeksha Hospital in your memory. We, the family members too, give alms to the temples of our village. Loku aiya, I feel one day the sun may not arise, the moon may not shine, but the bond between us will never die.
Loku aiya, with all these merits we hope that you will attain Nibbana.
Your ever-loving sister,
Menik Randeniya
Rukie Eheliyagoda
Six months remembrance
God looked down on his creationSaw a life that was a godly celebrationHeld out his hand and invited her inThe crown of life for her to win.She brought me happy days, day after dayThough I willed it, she could not stayMy need for her will never abateBut heavens need was not for debate.Broken I whispered, God knows bestAs she entered Gods eternal restLeaving behind a powerful legacyFollowing her footsteps wont be easy.When the setting sun paints the canvass of the skyWith sweeping colours that enchant the eyeLingering golden memories in cascading poignancyEmbrace me leaving me lonely.At her feet the valuable lessons learntKeep me happy, wiser and unhurtNo path in life is easy and straightThose words of wisdom reverberate.Until someday on that golden shoreTogether again forever moreIn Gods eternal home on highNever again a need to say goodbye.Forever my love,
Charmaine Madurasinghe
==============================
## Title: Art for all
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Art for all
A recent headline in the Los Angeles Review of Books (LARB) caught our attention: Is Cultural Appropriation Ever Appropriate Cultural appropriation is an offshoot of post-colonial studies which holds that it is a form of oppression for members of an identifiably dominant social or ethnic group to make use of the history, personages and/or habits of another, for the purposes of literature, music, art, entertainment, fashion. In short, for culture.
Many recent objections to cultural appropriation have been about white people making use of black history and black life. The classic literary example is William Styrons novel The Confessions of Nat Turner (1967), in which the socially privileged Southern novelist invented a narrative  and a voice: the tale was told in the first person  for the insurrectionist slave Nat Turner, who led a revolt against slaveholders in Virginia in 1831. The history of Styrons novel, and the travails he endured as a consequence of having written it, are frequently mentioned in tandem with the fact that he was supported in his endeavour by James Baldwin. He has begun the common history, Baldwin said. Ours.
Angry fizz
Times have changed; the common history turned out not to be as common as hoped. Cultural appropriation was recently given an angry fizz of energy by the Black Lives Matter movement, and the events that led to its formation.
The article in the LARB, Is Cultural Appropriation Ever Appropriate by Arthur Krystal, concerns a screenplay he wrote some years ago about Tom Molineaux, a freed American slave who turned up in London in 1809 and quickly proved himself a boxer capable of wresting the title from the British champion. Mr Krystal saw in the story an opportunity to range over black and white American territory, as well as Regency England. Having had no success in selling his screenplay to Hollywood, he turned it into a treatment for a television series.
It is currently making its rounds of studios, eliciting both enthusiasm as well as regretful demurrals, he writes. Nothing unusual about this, but this time something new had been added to the mix. As one well-known producer put it, the fact that neither the director nor the writer is black is a huge red flag. People in the film and television industry, he was told, are going to be wary. The director Lee Daniels is straightforward: I hate white people writing for black people. Its so offensive. So we go out and look specifically for African-American voices. Yes, its all about reverse racism.
The subject is complex, but in one respect quite simple: the headline in the LARB should have read: Is Cultural Appropriation Ever Inappropriate It is hard to think of a well-read, disinterested person breaking off from Anna Karenina or Heart of Darkness or A Passage to India or The Sound and the Fury or The Grass Is Singing, to pen a letter of outrage to author or publisher. If the art is good, it justifies its own creation. If bad, it predicts its own oblivion.
Eric Clapton might be guilty of cultural appropriation for having devoted a lifetime to the blues, but isnt the world better for it Youd have to be Lee Daniels to say no. The Rolling Stones are equally culpable. The blues, as it happens, are an amalgam of plantation life, African rhythm and British folksong.
The cultural appropriationists recently turned on a white painter who depicted the teenage lynching victim Emmett Till in his coffin. If you are tempted to sympathize, then lock up your Picasso paintings and Matisse sculptures, the ones that borrow from African art. The appropriationists will burn these, too. Many examples may be found of white biographers writing of black musicians and dancers. Baldwin himself appointed as his biographer a white American, David Leeming, who was denied access by the Baldwin Estate. Whos appropriating whom
Selling point
We asked Mr Krystal about the evolution of his article at the LARB. I knew I was up against it, he told us, when the phrase, near the beginning, I thought this particular story had a strong selling point, worried the editors because selling point might evoke the idea of a slave auction.
He was happy to make the change to a decent hook, but there were a half-dozen other phrases that I had to excise or tone down before they would run the piece.
Mr Krystal, who lives in New York, concludes his account sweetly: If a black writer or a Chinese writer or an Egyptian writer wants to write about the Holocaust, which decimated my family, then may the Muse be with you. Cultural appropriation is culture. The rest is philistinism.
It is the year of Chatwin, according to the publishers Vintage. In Patagonia, his first and most famous book, published in October 1977, is reissued in a fortieth-anniversary edition with a slim dossier of archive material.
It includes Chatwins three-page proposal to Jonathan Cape for a book to be called O Patagonia, a telegram from his agent to the effect that an American house has paid $5,000 for US rights  not bad for a first-timer in the 70s  and a letter to his Sunday Times colleague Francis Wyndham: I have done what I threatened. I suddenly got fed up and ran away to South America.
In a previously published introduction, Chatwins biographer Nicholas Shakespeare broaches questions of veracity that have pursued In Patagonia down the decades. Some of the people Chatwin encountered were unused to scrutiny and they resented his treatment of them, Shakespeare writes.
He turned them into stories as tall as . . . the legendary Indians 11 feet high who once populated Patagonia. The daughter of the British consul wrote letters to the press about his disgraceful book. It contained some elements of truth, she said. But in places it is pure lies.
Boom years
Shakespeare defends his author  He was not writing a government report  but the problem has dogged travel writers from the boom years of the 1970s and 80s to the present. The reader assumes that this is a true story; the writer sheepishly admits that it isnt entirely.
It was to cope with this sort of objection that the term creative nonfiction was born. Few guessed what he was up to, Shakespeare says of the people Chatwin encountered on his journey. When they read about themselves in his book, it was as though they had been blasted by the Patagonian wind.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Bob Holland dies aged 70
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Bob Holland dies aged 70
Bob Holland, the leg-spinner who in 1984 became Australia's third-oldest Test debutant of all time, has died at the age of 70. Holland had been diagnosed with an aggressive form of brain cancer in March this year.
He died on Sunday after suffering a brain bleed while in a Newcastle hospital, where he was being treated for broken ribs suffered in a fall last week. On Friday night, Holland had attended a function in his honour, hosted by former Test captain Mark Taylor.
"He had the best time of his life on Friday where he spent time with a lot of his mates at his dinner," Holland's son Craig told the Newcastle Herald on Sunday evening. "He showed no pain on the night and stayed till the end of the show. My family was amazed as we thought he might stay an hour or two."
A latecomer to first-class cricket, Holland made his debut for New South Wales at the age of 32, but still managed to accumulate 316 first-class wickets at 31.19. His Test debut came at the age of 38, against West Indies at the Gabba in 1984; the only Australians to make their Test debuts older than Holland were 46-year-olds Don Blackie and Bert Ironmonger in 1928.
He made his Test debut alongside David Boon in what was to become the memorable final Test as captain for Kim Hughes, who resigned in tears as West Indies dominated. Holland played 11 Tests and two ODIs during the mid-1980s, and twice bowled Australia to victories in SCG Tests with ten-wicket hauls.
Against West Indies in his debut series, Holland collected 10 for 144 to set up an innings win against an all-conquering team boasting Viv Richards, Clive Lloyd, Desmond Haynes, Gordon Greenidge, Richie Richardson, Malcolm Marshall, Michael Holding and Joel Garner. On an SCG surface offering plenty of turn, Holland was Player of the Match in what was West Indies' first loss in 28 Tests.
"New South Wales had played the West Indies a few weeks before that Test and beaten them," Holland told the Dandenong Leader in 2014. "So it wasn't altogether a surprise result, even though they hadn't lost for 20-odd Tests. It was fantastic for us to knock over such a great cricket team."
==============================
## Title: Bodhiraja Foundation, TUM join hands to aid destitute children
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Bodhiraja Foundation, TUM join hands to aid destitute children
Being in a safe, suitable and stable accommodation is critical all the way from the basics of a childs development, to the exercising of their cultural worlds. Moving multiple times to temporary accommodations, not having the right space to develop and become autonomous and not having a home at all significantly impact childrens development in a physical, emotional, social and cultural sense. A home is a vital component in the development of children, a starting base if you will and to deny a child that fundamental rights for whatever reason, threatens the good development and outcome for each child who is subject to it.
Ensuring equal opportunities while safeguarding the rights of children who are turned destitute, abandoned and helpless and other children confronted with legal issues as per national policies and international standards is the aim of the Department of Probation and Child Care Services. However, even the department is facing issues to give safe and viable shelter to all destitute children who come under their care due to lack of resources and facilities and third party help at times has been immensely beneficial and most welcoming.
Since 1993, the Sri Bodhiraja Foundation in Embilipitiya, Sri Lanka, has been doing social projects in the poorest areas of Sri Lanka, addressing basic needs of the people and all living beings. More than 10,000 people benefit from the foundation every month. The newest Social Service venture launched by the Bodhiraja Foundation is helping destitute children in the country, those too Tamil speaking ones who have come under the care of Department of Probation and Child Care Services from the Sabaragamuwa province.
Most Ven. Dr. Omalpe Sobhitha Thera, the head of the Foundation, speaking about the latest programme by his organization said, Recently, we were faced with a wonderful, yet stressful problem. Two years ago, the Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services asked the foundation whether we could build a Childrens home for destitute Tamil children in Rakwana, Ratnapura District.
This idea had been close to our hearts for a long time. We didnt have the money to build yet. Despite obstacles we were determined to do this worthy endeavor.According to Ven. Sobhitha Thera, his foundation had tapped into both local and international contacts for help to make this endeavor a success. Then we received a call from a university professor in Germany whose summer project for his students was suddenly canceled. He was wondering if we had a social project where they can plan and build a building that his group of 35 developing architects can complete by September 22. Our desire to build the Tamil Childrens home immediately came to mind, Dr. Omalpe Sobhitha Thera added.
Sobhitha Thera did not hesitate and invited the Professor and his team of budding architects from the Technical University of Munich in Germany to come here and help build a shelter for 25 Tamil-speaking boys under the care of Probation and Child Care Services. A land on a mountaintop in Rakwana was chosen as the children were from Sabaragamuwa province.
The team from the Munich University was headed by Prof. Hermann Kaufmann, Prof. Matthis Kestel, Prof. Hubert Anneser, Prof. Anne Karina Voeikel and included around 27 developing architects under their command.
Ven. Sobhitha Thera, after contacting the team from the Munich, went ahead with the plans to build the childrens home. We had already spent two years struggling to get all the building permits, legal permissions and community acceptance. So, we were ready to move forward. The Commissioner of Probation and Child Care services was thrilled. Now we are underway with a commitment to finish the project by the end of September and celebrate the building on International Childrens Day on the 1st of October. The home will open in early November, the Thera says.
The team from Germany came in early August and currently, they are putting the finishing touches to the main building and other facilities in the complex. The German team of around 30 not only came up with the design but put in hard labour as well voluntarily for this endeavour.
This writer recently visited the site for the childrens home in Rakwana and spoke with the team from the Technical University of Munich. Prof. Voeikel, speaking on behalf of her team members, said that after receiving the invitation to implement the project, the budding architects were asked to come up with a viable design and one of the designs was chosen.
She said that this programme is called designer build project and the team had designed an enclosed structure with an open area in the middle which will be used as a courtyard.
According to the Professor, the project for the team is half volunteering to realize a worthy endeavour and half study.
The Professor says that her team tried to use less concrete and use natural products as much as possible and the oval shape will ensure maximum ventilation.
Professror Voeikel added that the land the home is being built is beautiful with healing views, moderate weather in the hills, a playground and natural areas for the boys to grow with a community of loving and caring caretakers to help them.
According Sobhitha Thera, the 25 children will be sent to the nearby school and when they finish school, they will be able to choose what they want next in their lives.
They will be able go on to further higher education that the foundation will sponsor, job training, return to their villages, raise families, or whatever choices they make for themselves. They will be ready to support the next generation with love.
However, the Bodhiraja Foundation also need funds to sustain this worthy endeavour and thus, is seeking public help. Those who want to contribute to make these childrens lives happy and prosperous in the future can contact Sri Bodhiraja Temple in Embilipitiya on 0474931725.
==============================
## Title: BOI celebrates four decades of investment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
BOI celebrates four decades of investment
In celebration of The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, the countrys central facilitation point for investors, stepping into its 40th year, a ceremony was held at the Katunayake Export Processing Zone, on September 15.
Graced by President, Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, Minister of Development Strategies and International Trade, Malik Samarawickrama and several key ministers, the event which was hosted by BOI Chairman Dumindra Ratnayake and Director General Duminda Ariyasinghe, was also well attended by significant members of the investment community, along with employees of the BOI and BOI companies, both past and present.
The proceedings commenced with the opening of the Exhibition Centre and the unveiling of a sculpture of former President J.R. Jayewardene. BOI Chairman Ratnayake in his welcome address stressed on the BOIs contribution to the economic transformation of the country, while confirming the organizations continued commitment towards delivering on its mandate to be a driving force of the economy.
While both the President and Prime Minister addressed the gathering, a highlight of the celebrations was the distribution of awards to 'Outstanding BOI Enterprises by both the President and the Prime Minister. Forty such organizations were honoured based on criteria such as investment value, employment generation and length of operation in Sri Lanka.
In addition to this, recognition of service of both employees of BOI enterprises as well as BOI staff took place with Minister Samarawickrama along with BOI Chairman Dumindra Ratnayake and Director General Duminda Ariyasinghe presenting the awards. Since its establishment in 1978, the BOI has contributed immensely to the Sri Lankan economy, by means of enhanced export earnings, diversification of the export base, creation of employment opportunities, transfer of advanced technology and skills, local skills development, infrastructure development, rural development and poverty reduction.
With 1,700 projects in commercial operation and providing almost half a million employment opportunities, the BOI remains a significant change agent in transforming Sri Lankas economy from a largely agrarian base into the modernized, manufacturing and services based platform it is today. Industries operating under the BOI contribute to over 70% of the country's total export earnings and for 85% of the national industrial export earnings.
==============================
## Title: Book Launch : Cloudless Blue Skies
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Book Launch : Cloudless Blue Skies
The wait is over! Aditha Dissanayake, best-selling author of Somewhere in the Green Hills and the winner of the H.A.I Gunetilleke Award 2016, is back.
Her new novel, When a Cloud Left the Sky has now been published by M.D Gunasena.
Ive been working on Cloud for three years, and Im so excited to share it with readers this September, says Aditha. This is my attempt to chronicle life after the war in Sri Lanka. The setting is Galle, my hometown. So, while the story is fictional, it is also quite personal.
The first chapter, however, begins in New York  immortalizing a young Sri Lankan writer, seated on a bench in Washington Square Park, NY, USA. As you read on, you will realize the story unfolds simultaneously  moving between nights in New York to mornings in Sri Lanka  until finally, the characters meet in Unawatuna, Galle.
Among the central characters are Orinth who dreams of writing the perfect novel, Kanishke who wishes to bring ethnic harmony to his country now recovering from the ravages of war while Sanith just wants to live in peace in the place he calls home. Over the time span of four months, their lives are destined to meet in quite unforeseen ways, under the dark clouds of a turbulent past.
Aditha Dissanayake brings to this story all the warmth and power of insight that characterized her first novel, Somewhere in the Green Hills and her collection of short stories, My Mind is Made Up, I'm Afraid its You'.
When a Cloud Left the Sky is filled with the magic of her writing, capturing with heartwarming clarity the moods of men and women of different races - in peace, in war, in love.
An author, columnist, and translator, Aditha has a BA in English (Hons) First Class, from the University of Kelaniya. She has studied journalism at the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute of the New York University, USA, was a lectuere at the Dept of English, University of Kelaniya and the Features Editor of the Sunday Observer, before she decided to become a fulltime writer.
If you have read and fallen in love with her previous books, here's a chance to go through the same process all over again.
-KD
==============================
## Title: Cargills Bank divests  controlling interest  in CTF to Dialog Axiata
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Cargills Bank divests  controlling interest  in CTF to Dialog Axiata
Cargills Bank Limited has announced the divesture of 80.34% stake controlling interest in Colombo Trust Finance PLC (CTF) to Dialog Axiata PLC.
Upon obtaining approval from the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka the transaction was successfully completed on September 12 through a crossing transaction on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) for a consideration of Rs 1,072 million.
Cargills Bank Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Prabhu Mathavan said, The Banks investment in the finance company was re-evaluated and the board of directors recommended a focused effort and energy on core banking activities and endorsed a total exit from its investment in CTF.
The proceeds from the divesture of CTF would support to fast track the banks growth momentum while strengthening its balance sheet. The bank is optimistic of capitalizing its strengths in the newly evolving digital sphere and, with the confidence that digitalization is the future of the banking industry, has earmarked several exciting initiatives, he said.
Mathavan further added, Cargills Bank is investing to serve a wider spectrum of customers through innovative fintech to reach out to the unbanked and underbanked fulfilling its core ethos of bringing financial inclusion to all Sri Lankans.
Cargills Bank is a fully fledged commercial bank in Sri Lanka with rapidly expanding customer access through its unconventional business model built on access, convenience and inclusivity founded on the retail legacy of its promoters.
==============================
## Title: The case for books
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
The case for books
Several small studies suggest that reading on paper instead of an electronic screen is better for memory retention and focus. The Guardian reported on an experiment from Norway where people were given a short story to read either on a Kindle or in a paperback book; when they were quizzed later, those who read the paperback were more likely to remember plot points in the right order.
When you read on paper you can sense with your fingers a pile of pages on the left growing, and shrinking on the right, the lead researcher, Anne Mangen, of Norways Stavanger University, told the Guardian. You have the tactile sense of progress ... Perhaps this somehow aids the reader, providing more fixity and solidity to the readers sense of unfolding and progress of the text, and hence the story.
Paper suits readers with sleep problems and eye strain High levels of screen luminance from an electronic device can contribute to visual fatigue, a condition marked by tired, itching, burning eyes.
There are also potential considerations for those reading e-books on light-emitting e-readers at night (although a number of e-readers do not use light-emitting screens), says Dr. Margaret K. Merga, a reading and education expert. Artificial light exposure from light-emitting e-readers may interfere with users ability to sleep, ultimately leading to adverse impacts on health.
A 2014 study published in the journal PNAS found that reading an e-book before bedtime decreased the production of melatonin, a hormone that preps the body for sleep. E-books also impaired alertness the following day.
The human touch
Many book-lovers still prefer the traditional option and value the tactile sensation of a bound paper book. Paper books are, as a rule, very well designed, they look and smell good, and they carry with them a more human touch. say the experts.
==============================
## Title: CEB strikers to get paid leave
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
CEB strikers to get paid leave
Power and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjith Siyabalapitiya yesterday gave instructions to the CEB administration to consider the two day strike launched by the Ceylon Electricity Board Trade Union Alliance as paid leave.
The CEB Trade Union Alliance launched and continued to strike on September 14 and 15 which now shall be considered paid leave as instructed by Minister Siyabalapitiya.
Accordingly, Minister Siyabalapitiya requests all the CEB workers on strike to report to work today.
According to the workers who are on strike, they have nothing against me, the ministry or the government. The issue is an internal one. Thus, for an uninterrupted service, I request your presence work on September 18, Minister Siyabalapitiya states in a press release.
==============================
## Title: Cemetery in-charge, assistant to be produced in court today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Cemetery in-charge, assistant to be produced in court today
The Chief Administrator of the Anuradhapura Silent Valley Public Cemetery and his assistant who are in remand custody would be produced in court on September 18.
Earlier they were arrested on suspicion by Anuradhapura Police following allegations that they had buried bodies intended for cremation in half-burnt condition.
They were produced before Anuradhapura Additional Magistrate Harshana Ratnayake, who ordered them to be remanded till September 18.
Police investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Ceylon Chamber of Commerce upbeat on new Inland Revenue Bill
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Ceylon Chamber of Commerce upbeat on new Inland Revenue Bill
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce congratulates the Ministry of Finance on the successful passing in Parliament of a new Inland Revenue Bill that aims to modernize and streamline Sri Lankas income tax system.
We are particularly encouraged by the recent decision to change the implementation date of the Act to April 1, 2018  a proposal that the Ceylon Chamber had been strongly advocating, a communiqu said.
The Ceylon Chamber stayed extensively engaged throughout the process of drafting the new legislation, and are grateful for the space provided by the government to have their views heard. Ministers Mangala Samaraweera, Malik Samarawickrama, and Eran Wickramaratne, as well as officials of the Ministry of Finance were sensitive to private sector concerns and suggestions submitted by this Chamber.
This was a fine example of a collaborative approach to policymaking, and we hope that other policy makers too will adopt a similar approach. We look forward to the same level of openness and consultation in the formulation of the National Budget 2018. The Chamber has always advocated for, and supported the process of, a healthy dialogue between the public and private sector on the basis that such consultations are essential for sustainable policy making, the statement said.
To achieve the governments Vision 2025 of An Enriched Country, a thriving private sector is essential. In order that the private sector may better contribute to achievement of this vision, we look forward to predictability in the levy of taxes.
The business community strongly opposes retroactive legislation in dealing with the tax regime. Domestic and foreign investors must have confidence in the stability of a tax system, when formulating their business plans.
The Chamber will continue to engage with the Ministry of Finance with regard to implementation issues that will be identified following an internal review process.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (18-09-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (18-09-2017)]
Ministers and mobile phones
It was reported that at the Cabinet meetings chaired by the President, certain Ministers were not attentive even to speeches made by the President, and were preoccupied with cell-phones plugged into their ears.
This is a sad revelation, to find that scant respect is being paid to state business by irresponsible and puerile ministers - how on earth could the country progress
It was encouraging to learn of the response of our President, taking the bold step of banning the use of cell-phones during Cabinet meetings. Well done Sir!
This practice is often seen at meetings of various Boards and Councils, where their members are not attentive to the business being dealt with, resulting in loss of integrity of these bodies. I hope the Chairpersons of Boards and Councils will emulate the example of our President, and ban the use of cell-phones during their meetings too.
Wimal Sirisena
==============================
## Title: Collapsed five-story building in Ahangama: Missing person rescued
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 13:00
Collapsed five-story building in Ahangama: Missing person rescued
(File Photo)
The individual who was trapped under the debris of the five-story building in Ahangama which collapsed earlier today was rescued a short while ago.
The rescued individual was rushed to the Karapitiya Hospital.
Five others who were injured by the collapse were earlier admitted to the Karapitiya Hospital.
==============================
## Title: Completes century of international fifties
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Completes century of international fifties
CHENNAI, Sunday - Former India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni on Sunday added another feather to his cap by scoring his 100th fifty in international cricket.
Dhoni achieved the milestone during the first ODI against Australia in Chennai where he helped India score 281/7.
The Ranchi stalwart, who scored 79 off 88 balls including 4 fours and 2 sixes, has 33 fifties in Test cricket, 66 in ODIs and one 50-plus score in Twenty20 internationals.
The 36-year-old is only the 14th overall and fourth Indian after Sachin Tendulkar (164), Rahul Dravid (146) and Sourav Ganguly (107) to score a century of fifties in international cricket.
Tendulkar is on the top of the list with 164 fifties, former Sri Lanka skipper Kumar Sangakkara has 153 and former South Africa all-rounder Jacques Kallis scored 149 fifties in his decade long career.
Dhoni now has 9737 runs in ODIs and requires 263 more runs to complete the 10,000-run milestone in the 50-over format.
Earlier, Dhoni received a rousing welcome from the crowd when he came into bat to pull India back from troubled waters. India lost three quick wickets and were reeling at 11 for 3 and 87 for 5.
Dhoni came in to bat when opener Rohit Sharma was caught by Nathan Coulter-Nile at deep square leg off Marcus Stoinis in the 16th over.
In Sri Lanka series, the 36-year-old batsman played his 300th ODI match. Not only this, the right-handed batsman also became the first cricketer to achieve the mark of 100 stumpings in ODIs. Dhoni had also become the first man in cricket to record 73 unbeaten ODI innings in the same series. - NDTV
==============================
## Title: Court recalls arrest warrant against MP Weerakumara Dissanayake
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 13:30
Court recalls arrest warrant against MP Weerakumara Dissanayake

Colombo Magistrate Court recalled the arrest warrant issued against the National Freedom Front (NFF) Parliamentarian Weerakumara Dissanayake after he appeared before the Court.
The Colombo Chief Magistrate issued a warrant againstDissanayake as he failed to appear before the court over a case filed by Cinnamon Garden Police, this morning.
==============================
## Title: Dangerous data
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Dangerous data
According to a report in an English daily of August 23, the Department for Registration of Persons (DRP) is to issue a new Smart ID within the next two months.
Sri Lankans are used to identity cards and may assume that this is a more sophisticated version of the card that they already carry. There are two important differences from the old card:
1. There is a lot more information being stored and most seriously,
2. The information is held in central registry or database.
As per the regulations gazette on the 22nd of August the following details are to be maintained in the National Registry of Persons:
1. Name
2. Place of birth (if foreign born, details captured separately)
3. Permanent residence
4. Place of temporary residence.
5. Telephone - residence and mobile
6. Email
7. Profession
8. Civil status (married, widowed, divorced including Divorce case ID, unmarried)
9. Details of father: full name, date of birth, NIC no.
10. Details of mother: full name, date of birth, NIC no.
11 Details of guardian: full name, date of birth, NIC no.
12. Details of spouse: full name, date of birth, NIC no.
13. Details of siblings: full name, date of birth, NIC no. and civil status
In addition to the above, as per section 18 of the regulations the Heads of All Public Institutions are obliged to provide whatever information requested to National Registry of Persons. This will enable databases within such institutions as the Inland Revenue, Land Registry, RMV, EPF/ETF, Stock Market, Registrar of Companies, etc to be linked to the National Registry of Persons providing a comprehensive database of citizens and their families.
Some of the data contained in the current paper ID also rests in various Government departments but they are held separately. No one department has a complete profile of a citizen. The registrar of births has details of births and the parents/grandparents. The land registry has details of property, the RMV has details of vehicle ownership and the Inland Revenue has details of income and tax.
These records are maintained within various departments for administrative purposes only. They are never issued to outsiders except by court order.
Central database
Any person trying to extract a profile of a person would need to be armed with multiple court orders and spend a lot of time going from department to department collecting data. It is a very time consuming and cumbersome exercise which cannot be undertaken lightly and is subject to many checks and balances. Apart from the requirement for court orders, internal administrative procedures within each department will need to be followed before information is issued.
Now details are to be held in a central database that is freely and legally accessible to a wide variety of officials with no necessity of recourse to court orders. Being automated, anyone can easily build a full profile of a person and it is not difficult to imagine the extent to which this can be misused.
In order to deliver improved public services, for example to improve tax compliance, the databases of different public bodies (and even private bodies) would need to be linked. For example if the Government is to enable automated filling of tax returns, the Inland Revenue IT system would need to access a persons bank details (for interest income), his employers salary details, the land registry, the RMV (for details of assets) etc.
Just think of how many transactions need an NIC. All of this could potentially be captured, stored and accessed. The information extracted could include:
1. Employment details
2. EPF. ETF details.
3. Details of bank transactions, credit cards.
4. Savings, fixed deposits, investments.
5. Income tax file nos.
6. Details of businesses registered and directorships held.
7. Share market trading accounts.
8. Vehicles.
9. Phone numbers.
10. Houses, property owned.
12. Travel details, airline tickets and visits to hotels.
13. Bio data could include email addresses, details of adopted children
The potential risks with this are vast. Quite apart from unauthorised access, the data is widely accessible: to any public officer or authority in the interests of national security or for the prevention or detection of a crime. The term public officer could include most categories of public servants. The term prevention or detection of a crime is also extremely broad; no crime needs to be committed, a mere suspicion of any potential crime, however remote or improbably linked to a person is ground to access the data.
The bill pays no attention to the handling of this sensitive data, once legitimately accessed. For example, a policeman investigating a suspect may extract the records connected to a person and then save the data on an unsecured desktop PC or worse, leave the printouts on a desk. Even the most secure IT system is easily undone by simple carelessness by users. The risks multiply with the number of users and since the number envisaged is large citizens may face a nightmare scenario of seeing their complete biographies and family details being circulated.
Is this too far-fetched
The experience of Pakistan and India suggests that it is not. Pakistan has a similar system to the proposed ENIC. Pakistan has a Computerised National Identity Card (CNIC) which is issued by Pakistan's National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA).
Privacy International a UK-based charity that defends and promotes the right to privacy has reported that since at least 2014, databases of Pakistani citizens have been illegally sold online containing hundreds of thousands of records with names, national ID card numbers, home addresses and phone numbers of mobile phone users.
The tax-related data of members of parliament was leaked in 2012, although it is not clear how. The Federal Board of Revenue (of Pakistan) informed the National Assembly Standing Committee on Finance that the tax-related data of the parliamentarians has not been leaked by the Board as the information was reportedly obtained from the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP). This illustrates the problem with linking of databases  leaks could occur anywhere in the chain. WikiLeaks has reported that the US and UK were given direct access to NADRAs (Pakistans central registry) records, which enabled them to access the data of Pakistani citizens stored in its system.
CNIC numbers
A system of linked databases also enables surveillance-of suspects-or anyone an interested party wants to track. Pakistans Police have embraced the digital ID and commissioned several software applications to monitor people.
A software called Hotel Eye has been developed to log the check-ins and checkouts of the guests at hotels, along with CNIC numbers and personal details of visitors. It helps to track activities of hotels and their guests.
This was not originally envisaged when the digital ID was rolled out but was developed later on the initiative of the Panjab Police. Sri Lankans are used to signing registers that hotels are supposed to maintain of guests, implementing Hotel Eye is only a logical extension of this. Predictive Crime Intelligence Software enables the police to obtain a full profile of any person. When a CNIC is entered into the system, it brings out all the information about the person. His/her family tree, ATM card(s), credit card(s), hotel bookings (past six months), out of country visits, call detail issued.
Another initiative is Geo-Fencing which uses GPS or RFID technology to create a virtual geographic boundary, enabling software to trigger a response to the local police when a mobile device enters or leaves a particular area. While this will undoubtedly help with policing it may well be abused to track and target people, whether political opponents or purely for personal gain. The UK attempted to issue compulsory ID cards in the wake of the September 11th attacks in the US but after a prolonged debate it was determined that the risks associated with such a project were too serious and the scheme was scrapped. If it was deemed too risky in the UK, should Sri Lanka venture down this path
==============================
## Title: Defending the indefensible
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Defending the indefensible
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in a lengthy statement, issued to the media, had gone to great pains to defend his one-time Secretary Lalith Weeratunga, recently sentenced to jail, for misuse of public funds to offer election bribes, as deemed by courts. Rajapaksa, in his statement, says that Weeratunga was only carrying out an order issued by the President of the country and had not acted against any election laws. He says that the issue of sil redi took place in the normal course of events, for which funds were set apart from the Presidents Special Development Fund, as also for seven other projects. Since Rs. 400 million had been reserved for a project of the Kotalawela Defence Academy, the Chief Accounting Officer of the Presidential Secretariat had issued a note to Weeratunga that there was insufficient funds from the budgeted Rs. 1,000 million, of the Special Development Fund, for the sil redi project, to which Weeratunga replied that Rs. 400 million be allocated to the KDA project, as already arranged, and the Rs. 600 million would be obtained from the TRC to be reimbursed later.
Rajapaksa goes on to state that the sil redi project was decided on as far back as May 2014, when no Presidential Election was in the horizon. In any event, the distribution of sil redi was akin to the distribution of free school uniforms, at the end of each year, and this, by no way, would influence the result of an election, like did the sil redi distribution, which was part of several projects already earmarked. The sil redi distribution also had no time frame and it was left to the chief incumbents of temples, to which the sil redi was handed over, to decide on the time, which could be any time.
Rajapaksa may attempt to wriggle out of a hopeless situation by offering explanations, to justify the actions of his one-time Secretary. But the fact remains that the sil redi distribution took place almost on the eve of the Presidential Election. It is strange, indeed, as to how ALL the temples in the country happened to distribute the sil redi at the same time, given Rajapaksas claim that the time of distribution was solely at the discretion of the chief incumbents of the temples. Comparing the sil redi distribution with the distribution of school uniforms too fail to stand up to scrutiny. School uniform distribution is, like the provision of free health and free education by the state, inbuilt in the system. This is an obligation on part of the government of the day, and is treated as such by the public. The question of the public being electorally influenced by a routine act of the government does not arise.
On the other hand, an act such as distribution of sil redi, which is an isolated instance, can certainly influence the public, especially when such an act takes place on the eve of an election.
Rajapaksa also states that that the mode of distribution of sil redi did not enable the beneficiaries to be selected on political grounds, since this was done through the temples, at a time decided by the chief incumbent and even daham pasal children, who were not of voting age, were recipients of sil redi. True, but any benefit accruing to a young member of the family no doubt, will make the parents obliged to the giver, and, since the sil redi bore the picture of Mahinda Rajapaksa and was accompanied by a clock, bearing his visage, the conclusion is inescapable that the whole project was intended as an election bribe.
When Rajapaksa say that the whole sil redi issue was decided as far back as May 2014, when no election was round the corner, one has to stretch ones imagination to come to terms with this assertion. Is Rajapaksa expecting the public to believe that he had not already decided to go for a snap Presidential Election, a full two years before its due, by May 14 More so, when there was heightened speculation of an impending Presidential Election, even in the early part of 2014, with ministers, such as DEW Gunasekera and Maithripala Sirisena, warning Rajapaksa against going for a premature poll, pleadings which appeared in detail in the newspapers. Was the distribution of sil redi, therefore, not a calculated act, for which the groundwork was laid seven months ahead
Why not them
It was moving indeed, the other day, to observe members of the Sangha, carrying begging bowls paathare, moving in single file, in all solemnity, to collect money from the public, to pay the fines of Lalith Weeratunga and Anusha Palpita. There are today hundreds of prisoners who are behind bars for the simple reason of being unable to raise money to pay their fines. How wonderful it would be, if those taking part in this meritorious act, spared a thought for these hapless souls and part with a portion of their collection to bring an end to the misery, of at least some of them.
==============================
## Title: Doctors save childs life: Remove air rifle pellet from skull
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Doctors save childs life: Remove air rifle pellet from skull
A team of doctors attached to the Peradeniya Sirimavo Bandaranaike Childrens hospital have saved the life of a child, aged three years nine months, by removing an air rifle pellet stuck in the skull after a four hour successful surgery.
The pellet which had pierced the childs head from near the left ear had passed through the head and got stuck on the right side. They were able to save the childs life because the pellet had not damaged any of the arteries in his head or brain, said ENT Specialist Dr. Sisira Bandara Athulgama who lead the team of doctors who performed the operation.
The mother said the child had been at play with her sisters child in the house at around 9 a.m on September 11. When her child suddenly started crying aloud she observed that our rifle had misfired and a pellet had pierced the childs head and they rushed him to the Kegalle hospital.
After initial treatment, the child was transferred to the Peradeniya hospital where surgery was performed to save the childs life.
The medical team which conducted the surgery also included Paediatic Cardiologist Dr. (Mrs) Sunethra Ilugalbandara and anaesthetist Dr. Kapila Hettiarachchi.
The child who was in the ICU after the surgery is now recovering well after being disengaged from the machines, said Dr. D.R.K. Herath.
==============================
## Title: Doctors who refuse to treat and students who refuse to learn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Doctors who refuse to treat and students who refuse to learn
It is a pity that the government has so far failed to act firmly using every possible means including new laws and executive orders to permanently ban strikes by doctors and prohibit the ludicrous boycott of classes by university students who are not workers at all but helpless dependents on public charity. It is hoped that such long overdue prohibitions will be instituted urgently in the public interest. That would not only have a strong moral justification. It would also be extremely popular with a suffering public enduring the abuse of power by doctors and the contempt of spoilt and pampered medical students enjoying the luxury of free education.
It is amazing how the prevailing societal distraction with the SAITM side issue has somehow diverted attention from the two monstrous scandals involving the outrageous behaviour of doctors and medical students in this country. That and not SAITM is what ought to be the real focus of public attention at this time. Millions of poor people grappling with the daily struggles of life would not even know what SAITM stands for.
Neither would they give a hoot about the chequered history of that initiative. Nor are people interested in the convoluted ideological arguments about private medical education, or the self righteous posturing and double standards of pundits who rant about standards of medical education. Nor do most people care a damn about the ponderous deliberations of a dull insipid body called the Sri Lanka Medical Council and its endless meandering over issues under the idiosyncratic leadership of posturing octogenarian showmen. All this is of little or no importance to the vast majority of people in this country.
On the other hand it is terribly important to people that when they go to hospital they should not be turned away and acutely inconvenienced by striking doctors who callously refuse to treat them out of slavish obedience to their ruthless trade union the GMOA. It is terribly important for those who are sick and in pain, who sacrifice a whole days pay and crawl to hospital at the crack of dawn to get an OPD number, that their time and money should have been wasted, their suffering prolonged and health endangered - all because doctors are on strike.
It is also of vital importance to millions of ordinary people (who despite their own financial difficulties yet generously contribute to the free education of medical students through taxation) that the fortunate beneficiaries of their charity should narrowly concentrate on their studies, quickly graduate as doctors and start serving the country without wasting taxpayers money. The cost of training a single doctor may possibly amount to a stunning Rs.4.5 million in public funds. Therefore it is not surprising if millions of taxpayers should be indignant that medical students who are the fortunate recipients of public charity should desert hospital wards and lecture halls for 8 months, and spend their time doing vigils squatting like street bums inside makeshift shanties and unsightly hovels by the roadside. That is when they are not engaging in mob violence, blocking roads, disrupting the normal life of city dwellers, and causing maximum inconvenience with rowdy street demonstrations.
Medical ethics and morality
People are entitled to their own opinion about SAITM and there are appropriate authorities where such issues should be discussed and resolved. But that does not take away from the abomination of doctors refusing to treat patients whatever the reason. Nor does it take away from the scandal of students enjoying the luxury of free education boycotting classes whatever the reason. These and not SAITM are the real issues demanding firm government intervention on a matter of fundamental principle. The principle is that for doctors to strike for any reason whatsoever is a gross violation of the most basic tenets of medical ethics and morality. It cannot be justified under any circumstances. Equally for medical students to boycott classes for any reason whatsoever is a gross abuse of the privilege of free education. It cannot be justified under any circumstances. That is the bottom line.
For a doctor to turn his back on a patient and refuse treatment is never ever permissible even under the most extreme circumstances. Even if a terrorist on the run were to rush into a doctors clinic bleeding from a bullet wound  the doctor is obliged to give what treatment he can and face the legal consequences of faithfully doing his professional duty. Even in the theoretical situation of a doctor being denied his legitimate pay, he is nevertheless momentarily obligated never to turn away a patient. Such are the uncompromising standards of ethical rectitude that are binding on all who enter the medical profession. Such is the glorious heritage of sacrificial service to which every doctor who enters the medical profession is heir. Such are the high ideals of selfless service to which every doctor is called.
The fact is that alongside the police, the military and the fire services doctors belong to an exclusive group of professionals who in the nature of their work simply cannot enjoy the right to strike because to do so might endanger lives. Those who opt to enter the medical profession do so accepting that in built limitation. Doctors who dont like it are in the wrong profession. Every profession has its own distinctive privileges and disadvantages unique to its particular ethos. One joins a profession accepting the rough with the smooth, the burdens as well as the benefits of a particular professional lifestyle and work ethic unique to itself.
The problem is there are too many doctors who cannot accept this reality and are in the wrong profession. They include the cantankerous firebrands of the GMOA (and its little piggy tail the dental GDSA ever obedient to its medical master). These are the ruthless bumptious union bosses more interested in politics and power play. Many other doctors nowadays are enslaved by money and they have made the practice of medicine into a thriving business. Still others are only in it for the vainglory of rank, title, prestige and public veneration.
Sadly they even include those in universities where great role models who inspire their students are a disappearing species. For too many the relentless drive to amass pedestrian publications in a bid to inflate a modest CV, the egotistic satisfaction of exercising power in some administrative position, and the leisurely life of committee rooms, conference tables and workshops, have replaced the supreme fulfillment of down to earth patient care and student teaching. Finally, to complete the catalogue of doctors in the wrong profession there is the growing tendency for institutionalised medical thuggary by radicals who incite students, discourage dissent, and bully colleagues into not opposing their agenda.
Sacred values and traditions
So doctors who are in the wrong profession have many different faces. What they share is a contempt for the great traditions of service, sacrifice, and dedication to duty in the practice of medicine. Together they corrupt an honoured profession from within. They undermine its sacred values and traditions. They drag whole generations of young doctors down with them into the mire. The fact that such medical misfits are to be found in the noblest of learned professions proves that there is something tragically wrong with the way students are admitted to medical faculties. Such admissions are no longer based on 100% merit. Nor is there any assessment whatsoever of attitudes, motivation, background, character and personality in the selection process.
One makes these criticisms with a heavy heart. During a 40 year career in the health sciences I have been privileged to associate with some of the finest and most dedicated doctors in the country. It is my esteem for them and the nobility of the great profession which doctors like them have adorned, that makes one despise those who bring that profession into disrepute in this day and age especially through the abomination of strikes.
Strikes by doctors who thereby deliberately refuse to treat is therefore the ultimate corruption of a decaying medical profession infiltrated by misfits and controlled by ruthless trade union activists. Deceptive assurances about maintaining essential services are ploys to fool the public. The truth is that the actual number of people who die, suffer some complication, are acutely inconvenienced, or whose health is in some way compromised by a doctors strike is an imponderable that can never be accurately estimated.
Accordingly with the benefit of public opinion on its side, it is imperative that without further dithering the government should move resolutely to ban strikes by doctors and speedily deliver the nation from the evil stranglehold of ruthless medical trade unions. The case for banning boycotts by medical students and forcing them back to work on pain of expulsion from the university - is just as strong. In this context what opinion one may have about SAITM is quite irrelevant.
University students receiving free education at tax payers expense are not workers. They are not eligible for any trade union rights whatsoever. By boycotting classes they spit in the face of their generous benefactors. There is a certain ingrained arrogance in the university student who imagines that he belongs to the cream of the nations youth and that consequently the rest of society is duty bound to support his education. Mature academic staff know better, having seen the dull intellectual mediocrity and ugly attitudes of many who have entered university through the back door of district quotas and the putrid coaching of tuition classes. Older academics will remember the sordid tendency for vicious campus violence by the ancestors of todays striking medical students that has marked the troubled history of higher education in Sri Lanka.
The current instigation of traffic chaos in Colombo by the GMOA follows previous inflammatory rhetoric about students being left with no option but to take up arms. The country is at the mercy of a dangerous coalition of unscrupulous doctors and desperate students whom they manipulate. It is hoped that even now the government will move with resolution to crush their anti-social agenda by legally prohibiting both strikes by doctors and boycotts by students.
==============================
## Title: Dog bites sleeping infant to death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Dog bites sleeping infant to death
A dog has bitten an infant to death in Namalpura, Habarana, Police said.
The dog had reportedly bitten the seven-day-old child while he was sleeping. The infant's mother was in the kitchen at the time.
The infant was admitted to the Habarana Hospital and later transferred to the Dambulla Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, police said.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Eighth Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition 2017 from October 24-28
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Eighth Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition 2017 from October 24-28
Oman International Exhibition Centre is to announce the eighth Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition (MIJEX) 2017 to take place on October 24-28, 2017 at Oman Convention and Exhibition Centre, Muscat, Oman.
Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition (MIJEX) has been organized and well received among traders and buyers for seven consecutive years as the exhibition features a wide range of masterpiece jewellery from various leading brands and newcomers from many countries.
Moreover, Oman is recognized as a gateway to the gems and jewelry business to other neighboring countries. Therefore, MIJEX is regarded as one of the most exquisite jewelry exhibitions in the region.
This edition of the fair will be held at the new state-of-the-art venue, Oman Convention and Exhibition Centre, the most iconic international exhibition center which is in close proximity to the new Muscat International Airport and leading hotels.
Thus, the 8thMuscat International Jewellery Exhibition is the perfect destination for buyers to seek the most beautiful jewellery and for sellers to generate a greater impact for business in the industry, while the event will also serve as the ideal business platform for brands and potential buyers and traders to meet under one roof.
Held under the concept of Discover the Treasures in Oman, the fair is a spectacular treasure trove of magnificent jewels, inspired by different countries. This edition will feature the highlight collection of precious and authentic gemstones, spectacular pearls, glittering gold, and fabulous diamonds. Jewellery machinery, jewellery materials, jewellery tools and equipment as well as jewellery accessories will also be showcased in the exhibition.
The 8thEdition of Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition is open to international companies as well as the general public, the fair will be held over an area of 4,000 sq.m.,featuring companies from all over the world including Oman, Lebanon, India, Italy, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Turkey and U.A.E. Organizer expects over 25,000 visitors during the five days.
Oman International Exhibition Centre, the sole state-owned organization holding large-scale exhibitions and trade fairs in the Sultanate of Oman officially organizes the 8th Muscat International Jewellery Exhibition, offering a shining opportunity for businesses in the region.
The gems and jewelry industry in Oman is growing both domestically and internationally, with exports amounting to US$250 million in 2015. The fair is expected to stimulate trading in the gems and jewellery industry in Oman as well as neighboring countries.
With long experience and expertise in gems and jewellery industry, Oman International Exhibition Centre strongly believes that the fair will bring about attention from participants which will lead to the success of the fair while propelling the gems and jewellery fair to become an annual highlight in the region.
MIJEX is an ideal business platform for exhibitors to meet potential buyers and traders from all over the world under one roof, and it is also a gateway for gems and jewelry business in Oman and neighboring countries in the Middle East.
More information could be obtained from [emailprotected],
www.omanjewelleryshow.com
==============================
## Title: Elephant House unveils LEMOKI,  lemon and kiwi combo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Elephant House unveils LEMOKI,  lemon and kiwi combo
Elephant House has unveiled its most exotic beverage, LEMOKI; the perfect combo of Lemon and Kiwi flavours. This is the first time that a beverage with kiwi and lemon has been introduced locally.
Available in a handy 350ml sized bottle, the ultra refreshing LEMOKI is a true blend of the two fascinating flavours that make up its name, LEMO(n) and KI(wi). As such, it combines the best of both flavours, the sweet and tart Kiwi mixed with the mildly sour Lemon, all thrown together to create an undeniably unique taste sensation.
LEMOKI is currently available at leading supermarket chains and major grocery stores island-wide.
Elephant House is always keen to introduce new products and flavours to the market, which is a key reason we are a market leader across several categories.
More importantly, these new products help us to deliver greater choice to our consumers, adding even more excitement into their everyday lives, said Mevan Peiris, Head of Marketing Beverage Category at Ceylon Cold Stores.
Commenting further, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC Head of Beverages/John Keells Holdings Vice President Belindra Weerasinghe said, LEMOKI is just the newest product and flavour in a long line of innovations from Elephant House.
This can be witnessed by our recent launches of FIT O fruit drinks, as well as F5 and Lime Crush previously.
==============================
## Title: Emmys 2017: The Handmaid's Tale and Big Little Lies the main winners
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 12:45
Emmys 2017: The Handmaid's Tale and Big Little Lies the main winners

Dystopian drama The Handmaid's Tale has scooped four of the major prizes at this year's Emmy Awards.
The show won best drama series, best director for Reed Morano, best actress for Elisabeth Moss and best supporting actress for Ann Dowd.
Producer Bruce Miller thanked author Margaret Atwood, "who created this world for all of us".
The show's win for best drama means Hulu has become the first streaming service to win a best series Emmy.
Riz Ahmed was among the British winners, taking home best lead actor in a limited series or movie for The Night Of.
Other British winners included Charlie Brooker, who won best writing for a limited series for his Netflix show Black Mirror.
One of the episodes, San Junipero, also won the trophy for best TV movie. Brooker said it "was a story about love, and love will defeat hate, it will win".
British comedian John Oliver and his writing team scooped two prizes for satirical show Last Week Tonight.
He said a show like his could definitely work in the UK
HBO series Big Little Lies was one of the big winners of the night in the limited series categories, taking home best lead actress, (Nicole Kidman), supporting actress (Laura Dern), supporting actor (Alexander Skarsgard), director (Jean-Marc Vallee) and best limited series.
Accepting the award for best limited series, Kidman said: "The power of television has astounded us, you allowed us into your living rooms... but as much as the show has the entertainment value, it's about the issues."
The series, which deals with themes such as domestic violence, also stars Reese Witherspoon, who encouraged the TV industry to provide "more great roles for women".
Julia Louis-Dreyfus won best actress in a comedy series for Veep - breaking the record for the most Emmys won by a lead actor for the same role.
Veep, which was created by Armando Iannucci, also won one of the night's top prizes for best comedy series.
Sterling K Brown's win for best lead actor in a drama series marked the first time an African-American actor had won in the category in almost 20 years.
He continued his acceptance speech in the press room after being cut off on the main stage.
Host Stephen Colbert and several of the winners made political references on stage.
"At long last, Mr President, here is your Emmy," said Alec Baldwin as he collected his prize for supporting actor in a comedy series, mocking Donald Trump's frustration at never having won for The Apprentice.
Baldwin regularly portrays President Trump on comedy sketch show Saturday Night Live, which also won best variety sketch series and best supporting actress in a comedy series for Kate McKinnon.
Several high-profile series failed to live up to expectations, including Westworld and Stranger Things, which both went home empty-handed.
Game of Thrones, a big winner at previous Emmys, was not eligible this year because episodes from its last series didn't air during the Emmys eligibility window.
Likewise, Twin Peaks will have to wait until next year to be considered.
==============================
## Title: Experience the best of Thai cuisine
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Experience the best of Thai cuisine
Offering a harmonious contrast of flavours to tickle and treat your taste buds Cinnamon Lakeside takes foodies on a culinary adventure with its Thai Food Festival!
Back for the 3rd consecutive year, the festival will take place from September 14 to 24 from 7 pm  11 pm. All guests will be treated to an all you can eat buffet with over 60 varieties of aromatic, exotic dishes coupled with beautifully intricate decorations which will truly transport all guests to Thailand for the evening.
The Master Chef Bongkot Sabpong and the talented team at Royal Thai will create over 60 dishes ranging from authentic staples like Tom yum to more adventurous variants such as homemade Thai dumplings to take you on a trip to Thailand. The buffet will also feature all the traditional favourites; red, yellow and green curries along with a few of Royal Thais signature dishes such as seafood homok in banana leaf, a Lanon seafood ball and Crispy fried pork belly with Thai tamarind sauce for which the restaurant has received both local and international acclaim.
Guests can feast on main courses that have something for everyone with popular favourites like Thai Fried rice, chicken red curry, and stir-fried beef. Guests would also be able to choose from a varied selection of different preparations of pork, seafood, poultry, a steamed and grilled bar, a crab station, a satay station and an action Thai sausage bar that will feature specialty Thai sausages. All these dishes will be complemented by a careful selection of sauces to perfectly pair each dish. Vegetarians will be spoilt for choice with an assortment of specially prepared mushroom, cauliflower, mixed vegetable and bean curd to name a few. The Buffet will also feature 11 action stations with salads, grills, a Satay and Thai sausage bar. Diners will also have a choice between a vast selection of noodles, rice and even a live noodle soup bar where a Royal Thai chef will prepare a noodle soup of the guests own design.
To end the evening on a sweet note; a delectable Thai desert menu is also on offer with 10 varieties of authentic Thai deserts to tantalize and satisfy your sweet cravings. Treat your taste buds to authentic deserts such as mango sticky rice, mung bean tarts, candied banana and date pancake. This years festival promises to out-do itself and offer lovers of Thai cuisine a culinary treat!
-TG
==============================
## Title: Finance company debt collector looted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Finance company debt collector looted
A debt collector of a private finance company was robbed of Rs. 53,000 by two unidentified persons who came on a motorcycle. Two mobile phones and a tablet computer were also taker from the debt collector by the looters, Angunakolapelassa Police said.
The debt collector was on his way to his firm after collecting dues in the Barawakumbura and Angunukolapelessa areas. The looters had threatened the finance officer wielding a knife.
The finance company is a engaged in providing micro loans to rural farming groups. The suspects have not been identified.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: First ever female Excise Department Commissioner General assumes duties
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 13:15
First ever female Excise Department Commissioner General assumes duties
(Picture by Azzam Ameen - Twitter)
The newly-appointed first ever female Police Excise Department Commissioner General Helena Meegasmulla assumed duties today.
She is a Special Grade Officer of the Sri Lanka Administration Service (SLAS).
==============================
## Title: Five-story building collapses in Ahangama, injuring five
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 10:45
Five-story building collapses in Ahangama, injuring five
(File Photo)
A five-story building collapsed in Kathaluwa, Ahangama injuring five individuals, a short while ago.
The Police said that the injured were rushed to the Karapitiya Hospital.
The building is said to have been a hotel.
Missions are underway to search for another missing individual.
Ahangama Police is investigating.
==============================
## Title: Flexible office hours in Battaramulla from today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 11:30
Flexible office hours in Battaramulla from today

The working hours of offices in Battaramulla will be flexible starting from today as a solution to the traffic congestion in Colombo.
It is a three-month pilot project on introducing flexible office times with the permission of the heads of offices.
Drivers should work for nine hours between 7.30 am and 5pm; minor staff should work for 8 hours and 45 minutes while other officers should work for 7 hours and 45 minutes per day.
It is compulsory for the public servants to stay at their offices between 9.15am and 3.15 pm to provide services to the public.
==============================
## Title: Fluffy cat with the world's longest tail
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Fluffy cat with the world's longest tail
This gorgeous Maine Coon from Detroit, Michigan is turning one year this Sunday, weighing in 15 lbs. His tail has always been long and just keeps growing longer and fluffier.
"His tail is currently about 18.4 inches long (if you count fluff it's like 24) measured from the tail base to the end of actual skin," said Dr. Will Powers, a family physician in Michigan.
Cygnus is a very healthy fluffy kitty, and at his age, he still has more growing to do.
"He's well over the world record now of 16.3 and showing no signs of stopping. The tail grows by about half an inch every month or so. It's starting to look almost weird on him." "He's exceedingly friendly, and almost like a Ragdoll when picked up. He just flops and lets me do anything to him like touch his belly or paws," Dr. Powers told Love Meow.
The current Guinness record holder for the longest tail on a cat is Mymains Stewart Gilligan (Stewie) at 16.3 inches, who also holds the record for the World's longest cat at 48.5 inches.
"Cygnus is only 41 inches from nose to tail tip, so he is nowhere near as large of a cat."
"He goes insane for the laser or other toys, always extremely high energy when not sleeping."
When Cygnus was two months old...
"People call him 'featherduster' or 'Door draft blocker' as the thing is so long and fluffy."
Almost one year old!
"Most of the time when he's holding the tail 'upright', it curls around at the tip and looks like a floofy question mark." Cygnus loves his humans and helps dust off things on a daily basis without even trying. "He's seriously such a docile and loving boy."
The Telegraph
==============================
## Title: Forum seeks expert views on proposed legal provisions on abortion
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Forum seeks expert views on proposed legal provisions on abortion
A meeting of religious leaders was summoned by Ven. Dr. Ittapana Dhammalankara Mahanayake Thera to discuss the proposed legal provisions on 'Termination of Pregnancy' in two specific situations with experts, the President of the Perinatal Society of Sri Lanka and the Chairperson of the Expert Committee on Ergonomics, Sri Lanka Medical Association, Consultant Community Physician, Dr. Kapila Jayaratne said.
The meeting was attended by Ven. Dr. Bellanwila Wimalarathana Thera, Rev. Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith, Ven. Theeniyawala Palitha Thera and several Muslim religious leaders, he said. Dr. Jayaratne pointed out that a team of medical experts from different fields including Dr. Ajith Tennakoon, Prof. Sujeewa Amarasena, Dr. Hemantha Herath, Dr. Clifford Perera and Dr. Shriyantha Amararatne elaborated on the background and the proposed mechanism. The medical team emphasised that the proposed legal provision is not to legalise abortion but to add a clause to existing laws to facilitate ending pregnancy for women who request it in two instances.
Religious leaders explained religious aspects of the issue at the discussion, Dr. Jayaratne said.
==============================
## Title: Fostering creativity, adapting to change
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Fostering creativity, adapting to change
On Saturday, the second International Forum for Teachers (IFT) was held at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall. Hosted by Pearson Edexcel, the University of Nottingham, and Gateway Graduate School and supported by the British Council and Microsoft, the theme of the forum was Touching Hearts, Transforming Minds. Its chief guest was Education Ministry Secretary Sunil Hettiarachchi.
The forum, which gathered over 350 teachers from schools across the island and ran all day, featured an array of speakers qualified to talk about the current state of education in the country and around the worldand also about where the future of education is heading.
Listening to Experts
A large part of the days programming was dedicated to interactive talks and presentations. First up was Professor Dr. Ganakumaran Subramaniam, Head of School, School of Education for the University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus. His talk was on how to creatively transform the learning experience. He emphasized the difference between teaching creatively, which many educators as of late do, and teaching for creativity, which requires teaching in ways that foster creativity within students themselves.
Professor David Shaw, the President of Unicorn ARC and a visiting professor at the Aberdeen Business School, spoke next, and hearkened back to the forums theme on touching hearts and transforming minds. Using real cases to help uncover the magic that some teachers bring into their classrooms, Shaw engaged with the teachers in the audience to explore how students educational targets and achievements could be expanded.
Then Professor Mark Carroll, an Associate Dean at the University of Adelaides Faculty of Arts, zeroed in on the role music plays, or rather should play, in the classroom. As a universal language, part of every civilization and culture in history, he demonstrated how music could be used to enhance students learning experiences.
The last speaker presenting was Jayanthi Kuru-Utumpala, a mountaineering professional and womens rights advocate. Her presentation was on Climbing Your Own Everestan apt title considering that Kuru-Utumpala is the first Sri Lankan, and first Sri Lankan woman, to summit Mount Everest, a record she achieved in May of 2016. In her presentation, she took the audience along her journey and focused on the importance of dreaming big and nurturing such dreams. She also focused on the need to challenge gender stereotypes and eliminate gender-based discrimination.
Panel discussion
After the speaker sessions came a highlight of the eventa panel at the end of the day, titled, Transforming Learning Experiences: Placing Learners First. The panel was moderated by Professor Dr. Ganakumaran Subramaniam and its members were four diverse education experts: Professor Andrew Walker, President and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Interim) at Monash University Malaysia, who specializes in educational innovation; Associate Professor Dr. Cynthia Yolanda Doss, Director of the Post Graduate Certificate of Higher Education Programme at the University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, who specializes in brain-based learning, among other topics; Nirmali Wickramasinghe, an educational consultant with 40 years of relevant experience in government, private, and international schools here and abroad and Felicia Brown, Asia-Pacific Senior Teacher Engagement Manager for Microsoft, who specializes in effective technology usage in the 21st century classroom.
The four panelists put forth their own ideas on how to center students in education before answering questions from the audience. Walker went first, defining innovation and emphasizing three main reasons why educators must innovate.
Why do we need to do this First, because we are operating in a dynamic and innovative environment and thats the environment in which our students will have to find jobs, Walker said.
He used Sri Lanka as an example, noting that the country is currently going through the transition from being a lower-middle-income economy to an upper-middle-income economy. Those sorts of transitions, he said, involve a fundamental shift in the structure of the workforce.
As educators, we need to be quite humble in acknowledging that in many respects, especially those of us teaching younger students, we are preparing them for jobs that we cant even imagine existing now. So thats one reason we need to innovate: because were operating in a very innovative environment.
The second reason he gave for educators to innovate is that young people, with easy access to technology and the worldwide web it opens up, are now learning in new ways.
One of the most profound things thats happening is that we teachers have lost our monopoly on information. They now have it literally at their fingertips, he said. So as teachers and educators, we now need to move from being providers of knowledge to being guides, navigators, and curators to help students assemble knowledge in a critical way.
The third and final reason he gave was that if educators dont innovate, someone else will do it for them.
Lets think of ourselves as educators as the taxi industry, ten years out from the invention of the app, Uber. What will Uber in education be like The answer is that we dont know. And thats why we have to be nimble, adaptive and innovative. Because if we dont, along will come Uber.
The next panelist was Doss, a specialist in brain-based learning and teaching.
Whats it all about she asked, Its basically knowing about the brain, knowing how it works, how it stores information, how you recall, and then applying those principles into planning and teaching the curriculum.
Doss explained that due to the advent of the MRI and PET scan 30-40 years ago and their applications to brain-based learning, several principles have been developed that can help educators understand the physiology behind effective learning. Doss first touched on the division between the functions of right and left brain.
What is important today, as teachers, is that we dont just develop the left side or the right side. What the PET scan and the MRI showed is that we need to use both sides of our brain simultaneously. Say you only develop the left, which is logic and analysis, and gear the child toward mathematics, or the child is good at music or art so you develop the rightno, not today. You need to develop both sides to fully utilize the potential of either side.
Doss also expounded on two principles that govern how the brain operates.
One of them is that the brain searches for meaning. You cannot just give information, you have to make meaning out of that information for the brain to take it from short-term memory and put it into long-term memory, she said, emphasizing that if students arent finding meaning in what theyre learning, they will actually be less likely to learn it successfully.
The other [principle] is the brain searches for patterns. Categorizing is a very powerful tool in teaching and learning. Why Because it helps with memory.
Wickramasinghe, who has been an educator in Sri Lanka for four decades, took a decidedly different approach with her advice than the previous two panelists. Speaking in broader strokes, she touched on the idea that students, rather than teachers, should be the ones leading the way forward.
Like Professor Walker said, you cant even imagine what learning is going to be like in another 10 years, because we never imagined ten years ago that learning would be what it is like today, she said. So much terminology that used to be new is being used in our classrooms very freely now. So I think leading the learning has to be from our students.
To conclude her remarks, Wickramasinghe posed two questions and a final appeal to the teachers in the audience.
How much are we ready to learn from our students Because I think they have a lot to give us. And are we ready to open up and let our students transform our minds and touch our hearts Because it should be a two-way process. Please allow your students to touch your hearts and transform your minds so that they can help you lead learning.
The final panelist to speak was Brown, from Microsoft. She emphasized that education was one of the companys core values and that is has done much work in many areas with regards to technology in education. One such area, she said, is around teacher preparedness and helping to build the capacity for teachers to use technology in the classroom.
I dont think we can think of one single career or job today that is not touched by some form of technology skills. Gone are they days when technology was limited to students who were studying computer science or engineering. Today, students of all levels need to have some form of technology skills.
But, she continued, I want to make one point very clear. Technology is not the answer, its not going to improve teaching, if its not used in a thoughtful manner. Giving an example of an effective and thoughtful use of technology in the classroom, Brown referenced a teacher here in Sri Lanka, who has been using Skype to connect his students with other students around the world.
And if you track the number of kilometers that the teacher and his students have traveled through Skype, its over one million kilometers. Imagine how the world has opened up for those students, and the opportunities they have.
After all four panelists had spoken, the floor was opened for questions.
Teachers spoke up, pressing the panelists on how to better engage parents in their childrens education, and on whether universities might soon give more weight in the admissions process to certain creative skills, which the panelists and speakers before them said were important but which are often neglected in the face of standardized test scores.
As the days programming came to a close, the hundreds of teachers in attendance left the committee room buzzing amongst themselves, all motivated to put into practice the skills and advice theyd gleaned from the day.
==============================
## Title: Four injured in carnival Well of Death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 17:00
Four injured in carnival Well of Death

A motorcyclist and three students were injured in an accident, which took place at a carnival at the public grounds in Wagawatta, Horana on Sunday.
This accident was reported from the Maraka Linda (Well of Death) attraction at the carnival when the motorcyclist was thrown from the bike.
The motorcyclist had fallen injuring himself and three others from the audience.
The three injured in the audience includes two 11-years-old female students and a 6 years-old female student.
One of the 11-years-old students was transferred to the Colombo National Hospital while the other two students and the motorcyclist were admitted to the Horana Hospital.
Horana police is further investigating.


==============================
## Title: Fun, freaky cocktails
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Fun, freaky cocktails
When freakshakes made an appearance on Pinterest, Instagram, and eventually on our tables, everyone lapped it up. And, why not It is has everything in it to become a favourite.
Theres chocolate ganache, marshmallows, whipped cream, pretzels, waffle and every 90s kids favourite, even Gems! So it is not a surprise when mixologists decided to make freakshakes interesting by adding a little boozy surprise to it.
It may look complicated and cumbersome, but it is exactly the opposite. In fact, your inspiration could come from whatevers available in the kitchen. All it needs is to have a creative mind and experienced taste buds, by which I mean everyone, can make it. Making a freak shake at home is really simple. All that you need to do is get a mason jar, chocolates, and whatever toppings are available in your kitchen. Think marshmallow, Oreo, colorful gems, wafer sticks, edible sugar sprinklers and any other toppings that youd like to garnish your freak shake with. There are no wrong ways to make a boozy freakshake. Leftover brownies Add it to your shake. A bar of Twix Plough it into your drink.
What makes this different from your regular milkshake is the spirit. Experiment with brandy, whisky and dark rum. These spirits mix well with your chocolate mish-mash. The infusion of dark rum and chocolate tastes spectacular. If you like Oreos, mix your freak shake with white rum or Baileys.
If you chose to pair this with food, I recommend you choose starts like wafers, cheeselings or even masala papad. While you can use starters too, this drink can be best had post your meals or its a perfect substitute to an alcoholic dessert.
A personal favourite is adding bourbon biscuits, fresh cream, chocolate sauce and Old Monk to the mix. Garnish with a scoop of chocolate ice cream, gems, chocolates sparkles and roasted marshmallows. One tip would be to freeze the mason jar after youve garnished the jar with the toppings of your choice.
While freakshakes tend to be cloyingly sweet for someone who doesnt have a sweet tooth, there is a worry that this boozy choice may disappoint. But I think the alcohol does a good job of reducing the sweetness. Adding alcohol cuts off the sweetness completely while balancing your desire to have dessert along with the alcohol at the same time. If you think you do not need as many garnishes, keep it simple. Remember, the only thing that is stopping you from experimenting with this drink is your apprehension. Cheers!
Deccan Chronicle
==============================
## Title: Gallant Peterites grab Milo U-14 Cup championship
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Gallant Peterites grab Milo U-14 Cup championship
St.Peters College Bambalapitiya dished out a fabulous brand of rugby to be crowned Cup champions beating arch rivals St. Josephs College Maradana by 14 points (2 tries, 2 conversions) to 7 (1 try, 1 conversion) in their Milo Under-14 inter-schools ten-a-side rugby Cup final played at the Royal College Complex yesterday.
The Peterites thrashed Piliyandala Madhya Maha Vidyalaya 36-7 in the Cup quarter finals and Trinity College Kandy by 33 points to 5 in the semi-finals.
The Josephians beat St Anthonys College 24-12 in the quarterfinals and DS Senanayake 17-14 in the semi-finals.
Zahira College Maradana grabbed the Plate championship beating St. Anthony's College Kandy 24-10 while Isipathana College won the Bowl beating Royal College Colombo 19-0. Lumbini College secured the Shield beating Ananda College Colombo 10-5.
Tournament results:
CUP QUARTER FINALS
D. S. Senanayake College 19 Science College 0, St. Josephs College 24 St. Anthonys College 12, Piliyandala M.M.V 7 St. Peters College 36, Trinity College 17 Zahira College 7.
BOWL QUARTER FINALS
Royal College Colombo 14 St. Benedicts College 5, Vidyartha College 7 Wesley College 10, Dharmaraja College 0 Thurstan College 19, Kingswood College 5 Isipathana College 20.
SHIELD QUARTER FINALS
Ananda College 19 Prince of Wales 5, Nalanda College 43 Maliyadeva College 0, Weluwana College 15 Sri Sumangala College 12, Lumbini College 5 Mahanama College 0
SHIELD SEMI-FINALS
Ananda College 10 Nalanda College 5, Weluwana College 0 Lumbini College 29.
BOWL SEMI-FINALS
Royal College Colombo 5 Wesley College 0, Thurstan College 0 Isipathana College 14
PLATE SEMI-FINALS
Science College 7 St. Anthonys College 14, Piliyandala M.M.V. 5 Zahira College 35
CUP SEMI FINALS
D.S. Senanayake College 14 St. Josephs College 17, St. Peters College 33 Trinity College 5.
==============================
## Title: Golovkin retains titles in thrilling draw with Alvarez
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Golovkin retains titles in thrilling draw with Alvarez
Gennady Golovkin retained his three world middleweight titles Saturday, fighting to a draw with Mexican star Canelo Alvarez in a showdown for middleweight supremacy that lived up the hype.
The 35-year-old Golovkin, making his Las Vegas debut, kept hold of the World Boxing Council, World Boxing Association and International Boxing Federation belts in front of a crowd of 22,358 at the T-Mobile Arena. Judge Dave Moretti scored the tense battle 114-114. Dan Trella saw it 115-113 for Golovkin but Adalaide Byrd had it one-sided, 118-110, for Alvarez.
Byrd's lopsided score didn't reflect the explosive drama of a bout in which Golovkin moved forward aggressively while Alvarez was the counter-puncher with fast hands.
This was a real drama show, Golovkin said. I want to thank all my fans for supporting me. Of course I want the rematch. This was a real fight. Asked if he thought he won, Golovkin said, Look I still have the belts and I am still the champion. The baby-faced champion with the steel jaw is considered one of the fittest athletes in boxing, but Alvarez was also well-prepared for a fight which both needed to validate their places in history. Golovkin won most of the early rounds but then got hammered a few times with Alvarez's uppercuts and right hands and seemed to be the more tired of the two near the end.
Golovkin established himself early with his stinging jab, all the while effectively cutting off the ring. There was no feeling-out process in this one as both fighters came to fight from the opening bell and tried to land big punches early.
Golovkin said he expected Alvarez's game plan to include a few surprises and the former two-time champion Alvarez didn't disappoint. In the fourth round Alvarez tried to press the attack, but he paid for it as Golovkin got the better of those exchanges. -AFP
==============================
## Title: Govt should bring in anti-dumping regulations soon - Tiwari
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Govt should bring in anti-dumping regulations soon - Tiwari
Government authorities should bring in anti-dumping regulations which will not only help the industries but also the ultimate consumer to get quality products at an affordable prices, said Sanjay Tiwari, Managing Director & CEO, Piramal Glass Ceylon PLC, President of the Sri Lanka Ceramic and Glass Council.
Speaking at the Sri Lanka Ceramics and Glass Council AGM last Friday in Kingsbury Hotel he said that they have been informed that Anti-Dumping regulations have been drafted for long and awaiting parliamentary approvals.
Cheap imports of tiles, sanitary ware, glass and tableware from China, India, Indonesia and other Asian suppliers still remain a significant threat to the local industry and Anti-Dumping legislation yet to be enacted has resulted in inferior items coming into the island.
The requirement of floor and roof tiles has gone up tremendously in recent past with the current focus on infrastructure and investments in real estate. Out of the total requirements of floor and roof tiles, almost 60% of the volumes are serviced through imports into the country.
Due to current restriction and limitation on clay and silica mining, the industry is restrained from investing in capacity expansion. Also cheap quality material continues getting dumped in the country.
The council continues to lobby with the authorities to provide licenses to genuine miners to extract silica sand which is found in Batticaloa, Puttalam and Mannar areas where no exploration has been carried out. With the banning of asbestos in 2018 Silica Sand is a vital ingredient of fibre cement which is a very good substitute for asbestos. With the proposed free trade agreement in the offing, the Council expressed its concerns over the investment being made by the Sri Lanka Ceramic and Glass Industry in building capacity to not only service the nation requirements but to have a global presence. With an employment of over 55,000 people and to further encourage the industry to invest and contribute towards growth of exports by doing value addition to the available natural resources. In line with this, our council had made representations to protect the domestic Ceramic and Glass Industry, he said.
Tiwari also said that the Council continued its lobbying for reducing the price of furnace oil which is used extensively in the Ceramic & Glass industry.
We have also submitted our representation to Chambers for the forthcoming National budget of the country seeking help in the areas of strategic developments and removal of hurdles, he added.

==============================
## Title: Hairy selfie nails exist now
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Hairy selfie nails exist now
Are you looking for a fashion style thats sure to turn a few heads Then look no further, because these hairy selfie nails are guaranteed to make people take noticefor one reason or another.
They were created by Dain Yoon, a Korean visual illusion artist with almost 200k Instagram followers. Shes known for making mind-bending body art, but her latest creations might just be her most bizarre yet. Not only has she painted five little portraits of herself onto her fingernails; shes also added hair to make each of the faces extra lifelike! Bored Panda
==============================
## Title: Hamilton wins crucial, chaotic Singapore GP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Hamilton wins crucial, chaotic Singapore GP
Singapore: Lewis Hamilton won a chaotic and rain-hit Singapore Grand Prix on Sunday to seize control of the Formula One world championship as his title rival Sebastian Vettel crashed out on the first lap.
Ferrari's Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen, and Red Bull's Max Verstappen all went out just after the start of the first wet race in Singapore, which saw three safety cars and finished with only 12 drivers.
It all played perfectly into the hands of Mercedes driver Hamilton, who went from fifth on the grid to first and held off Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo to clinch his third win in a row.
With his 60th race victory and seventh this season, Hamilton -- who had said he needed a "miracle" after struggling in qualifying -- stands 28 points ahead of Vettel with six grands prix left this year.
"Guys what can I say -- what a turn-around today! Fantastic job with the team strategy," Hamilton said over the radio, before leaping out of his car and hugging his engineers.
"God blessed me today, for sure," he said later, dripping with champagne. "I capitalised on the incident -- who would have known that would happen
"It was really unfortunate for the Ferraris but a great result for the (Mercedes) team."
Ricciardo had to settle for second, while Hamilton's team-mate Valtteri Bottas was third and Toro Rosso's Carlos Sainz finished fourth. Some drivers had expressed concerns about visibility in the wet under floodlights, but the night race had hardly started when it lost three of the first four cars on the grid.
Raikkonen ploughed into Red Bull's Verstappen on the first corner, taking both cars out of the race and also heavily shunting Fernando Alonso's McLaren.
Pole-sitter Vettel, who had been looking to reclaim the world championship lead from Hamilton, spun further ahead and lost his front wing, a crash that also ended his race.
"Obviously it sucks being on the wrong side of the track now, but that's what it is," Vettel shrugged after returning to the paddock. But Hamilton dodged the pile-up and he progressed from fifth on the grid to first, ahead of Ricciardo, as the race finally restarted after a safety car.
Alonso lasted just a few laps before the damage sustained at the first corner forced him to retire, and Toro Rosso's Daniil Kvyat became the fifth man out when he ploughed nose-first into a barrier -- prompting a second safety car. AFP
==============================
## Title: Hardus Viljoen takes 15 wickets in dramatic win at Hove
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Hardus Viljoen takes 15 wickets in dramatic win at Hove
LONDON, Friday - Hardus Viljoen took 15 wickets in the match as Derbyshire secured a dramatic victory over Sussex at Hove, all-but ending the hosts promotion hopes.
He took 8-90 in the second innings as the visitors bowled out Sussex for 344 to win by 45 runs.
Sussex had looked favourites when Luke Wright (80) and Stiaan van Zyl (85) put on a century stand to reach 267-3.
But in the evening session Sussex lost seven wickets, inspired Viljoen dismissing Wright and Van Zyl.
The South African pace bowler was on course to become the first player to take all 10 wickets in an innings in county cricket for 10 years before Harry Podmore took the final two wickets of George Garton and David Wiese.
It is the first time a Derbyshire player has taken 15 wickets in a match since Cliff Gladwin in 1952.
The defeat means Sussex have 161 points, 46 points behind second-placed Nottinghamshire with 48 available, making promotion to Division One highly unlikely.
The win for Derbyshire, their second of the season, sees them climb above Durham into eighth position.
Middlesex bowled out Hampshire for 146 on day four of a draw at Uxbridge - a result which confirmed Warwickshire's relegation from Division One.
Only 59 overs were possible on the first three days at Uxbridge, ruining any chance of a win for either side.
Middlesex posted 204 in their first innings, with Fidel Edwards taking 5-79 for the visitors, who were then dismissed in 36.1 overs. Rain brought an early finish with Middlesex 14-1 in their second innings.
Warwickshire were beaten inside three days by newly-crowned champions Essex and, with Somerset beating Lancashire on Friday, Middlesex's tally of bonus points in their drawn game sent Warwicks down with two matches remaining.
Middlesex, the 2016 champions, have now slipped into the relegation zone after Yorkshire's game at Surrey ended in a draw.
James Franklin's side are level on points with sixth-placed Somerset, who are above them in the table having won one more game this season. Hampshire's eight points have taken them 18 behind second-placed Lancashire.
Yorkshire remain in relegation trouble in Division One despite escaping with a draw against Surrey at The Oval.
Shaun Marsh (125 not out) and Alex Lees (102) both hit centuries as Yorkshire reached 281-2 following on, a lead of 83, when bad light brought stumps. The pair's second-wicket stand of 215 was a county record against Surrey.
Surrey are still not out of trouble themselves - they are just 13 points ahead of Middlesex despite being third in the table.
English county scores:
COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIP
(final day of four)
FIRST DIVISION
At Uxbridge: Middlesex 204 (F H Edwards 5-79) and 14-1 v Hampshire 146
Middlesex (9pts) drew with Hampshire (8pts)
At Taunton: Somerset 335 (S M Davies 111, M W Parkinson 4-68) and 69-3 v Lancashire 133 (M J Leach 5-47) and 269 (Haseeb Hameed 62, L S Livingstone 57, M J Leach 4-94)
Somerset (22pts) beat Lancashire (3pts) by 7 wkts
+At The Oval: Surrey 592 (K C Sangakkara 164, M D Stoneman 131, B T Foakes 110, R J Burns 75, J A Brooks 5-113) v Yorkshire 394 (S E Marsh 78, T Kohler-Cadmore 78, A J Hodd 57) and 281-2 (S E Marsh 125 no, A Z Lees 102)
Surrey (12pts) drew with Yorkshire (10pts)
SECOND DIVISION
+At Cardiff: Glamorgan 207 (A G Salter 59, R J Gleeson 5-60) and 320 (C B Cooke 69) v Northamptonshire 310 (R E Levi 101, R I Newton 67, M G Hogan 4-58) and 221-3 (S C Kerrigan 62, R I Newton 53)
Northamptonshire (22pts) beat Glamorgan (4pts) by 7 wkts
+At Bristol: Gloucestershire 385 (C T Bancroft 206 no, C D J Dent 59) and 294-9 dec (G H Roderick 78 no, C T Bancroft 72, D I Stevens 5-77) v Kent 386 (S A Northeast 66, D I Stevens 65 no, D J Bell-Drummond 58, J L Denly 57, J Shaw 5-118)
Gloucestershire (11pts) drew with Kent (12pts)
+At Hove: Derbyshire 338 (B A Godleman 51, L M Reece 51, D Wiese 4-63) and 322-8 dec (H W Podmore 66 no, H R Hosein 52, M J J Critchley 51, S G Whittingham 5-80) v Sussex 271 (L J Wright 70 no, G C Viljoen 7-80) and 344 (S van Zyl 85, L J Wright 80, L W P Wells 77, G C Viljoen 8-90)
Derbyshire (22pts) beat Sussex (5pts) by 45 runs
+At New Road: Leicestershire 404 (N J Dexter 114, M J Cosgrove 74) and 220 (Z Chappell 66, L J Hill 60) v Worcestershire 493 (B L D'Oliveira 138, O B Cox 77, D K H Mitchell 58, C F Parkinson 8-148) and 132-4
Worcestershire (24pts) beat Leicestershire (6pts) by 6 wkts  AFP
==============================
## Title: HAYL acquisition of SINS records highest YTD turnover
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
HAYL acquisition of SINS records highest YTD turnover
The Bourse ended the week on a positive note as the ASPI increased by 26.17 points (or 0.41%) to close at 6,402.03 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also increased by 7.76 points (or 0.21%) to close at 3,682.34 points.
Turnover and market capitalization
Singer Sri Lanka was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 10.95Bn or 74.24% of total turnover value.
Colombo Trust followed suit, accounting for 7.48% of turnover (value of LKR 1.10Bn) while JKH contributed LKR 0.84Bn to account for 5.67% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 14.75Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 3.74Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 2.95Bn (+215.39% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.94Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, increased by 0.41% W-o-W (or LKR 11.87Bn) to LKR 2,903.27Bn cf. LKR 2,891.40Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Trading Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 74.26% (or LKR 10.95Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by Singer Sri Lanka which accounted for 99.97% of the sectors total turnover.
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector meanwhile accounted for 12.18% (or LKR 1.80Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by Colombo Trust, Commercial Bank, HNB & Sampath Bank which accounted for 84.64% of the sector turnover.
The Diversified Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 7.15% (or LKR 1.05Bn) to the market driven by JKH & Melstacorp which accounted for 91.13% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Trading Sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 61.90% (or 233.24Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 10.95Bn.
The Banking, Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 16.26% to total turnover volume as 61.26Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR 1.80Bn of total market turnover value. The Diversified Sector meanwhile, contributed 16.56Mn shares (or 4.40%), amounting to LKR 1.05Bn.
Top gainers and losers
Colombo Trust was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 81.3% W-o-W from LKR 15.00 to LKR 27.20.
Lankem Developments gained 41.4% W-o-W to close at LKR 8.20 while Kotagala Plantations gained 35.9% W-o-W to close at LKR 19.70. Lankem Ceylon (+28.4% W-o-W) and Madulsima(+25.9% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
SMB Leasing(NV) was the weeks highest price losers, declining 33.3% W-o-W to close at LKR 0.20 while Adam Investments (-20.0% Y-o-Y), Blue Diamonds(NV) (-20.0% W-o-W) & Amaya Leisure(-13.2% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net selling position with total net outflows amounting to LKR 10.91Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 0.25Bn (-4,504.1% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases decreased by 29.7% W-o-W to LKR 1.39Bn from last weeks value of LKR 1.98Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 12.30Bn relative to LKR 1.74Bn recorded last week (+608.4% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, JKH & Access Engineering led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka & Commercial Bank led foreign sales.
In terms of value, JKH & Ceylon Tobacco led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka and Commercial Bank led foreign sales.
Point of view
Despite a slow start, ASPI picked up towards the latter half of the week with 26.17 points (+0.41% W-o-W) to end at 6402.03 on Friday supported by the Rs.10.90Bn transaction on SINS. Rs.10.90Bn crossing took place today at a price of Rs.47.00 per share by HAYL gaining 61.73% of controlling stake in SINS recording the countrys biggest acquisition thus far1.
Consequently, weeks turnover hit Y-T-D high Rs.14.75Bn (294.2% W-o-W) with average turnover pushed to Rs. 2.95Bn  highest seen since Dec 2016.
Followed by the large deal on SINS, Crossings for the week (Rs.12.69Bn) amounted to ~86% of total weeks turnover, with SINS & CALF accounting for 73.9% & 7.3% of total crossings.
Weeks total turnover excluding crossings, amounted to Rs.2.06Bn which was supported by stocks i.e. JKH, contributing 31% (Rs.0.63Bn), CTC, TJL, SAMP & LDEV that jointly contributed to 13% of total market Turnover.
The week ended with a net foreign selling position of Rs.10.91Bn in contrast to a net foreign buying position of Rs.0.25Bn recorded in the previous week with large Crossing on SINS accounted to 88.6% of total foreign sales for the week.
In terms of value, JKH, CTC and HNB topped the weeks foreign purchases list, while SINS and COMB lead the foreign sales.
Following the edge up of tea and rubber prices, we expect some retail interest in Plantation sector over the next week.
Rs. 45bn additional tax revenue from new IR bill
Corporate tax proposals of the Inland Revenue Bill passed in parliament last week is expected to be effective from 1st April 2018 while individual tax proposals is expected to be effective from 1st October 2017.
The Act aims to reduce the gap between direct and indirect taxes by simplifying the tax structure where the multitude of tax rates prevailing in the current law have been rationalized into a three band income tax structure.
Accordingly, corporates in sectors including Banking, Finance & Insurance, Construction, Healthcare will be taxed at 28%, while sectors including Exports, SMEs, Education, Tourism and IT is to be taxed at 14%.
Liquor, tobacco and gaming meanwhile will be taxed at a higher 40%. Threshold for annual PAYE tax has been increased to Rs.1.2Mn cf. to Rs.0.75Mn earlier and monthly interest income of senior citizens has been exempted from tax up to Rs.125,000.00 while their rental income will be tax free up to 25%.
Meanwhile, WHT changes would increase Dividend income by 4% (cf. 10% currently) and the demolition of WHT on government securities (excluding Dollar denominated Development bonds) would draw local and foreign interest.
According to Moodys, the new Act is anticipated to increase State revenues to help ease off the high fiscal deficits which weighs downs the countrys credit profile, and increase government revenues to 14.7% of GDP in 2017 & 15.0% in 2018.
IMF on the other hand, projects revenues at 16% of GDP by 2021 followed by the successful implementation of the new Inland Revenue Act.
==============================
## Title: Hayleys Group acquires Singer (Sri Lanka) for Rs 10.9 bn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Hayleys Group acquires Singer (Sri Lanka) for Rs 10.9 bn
Hayleys PLC and its subsidiaries has purchased 61.73% of shares of Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC, for a consideration of Rs 10.9 billion, making it the single largest acquisition for a listed company in Sri Lanka in recent times.
This strategic acquisition by Hayleys PLC and its subsidiaries is anticipated to yield substantial opportunities for new business synergies within the Hayleys Group. Both Hayleys PLC and Singer (Sri Lanka ) PLC collectively account for over 280 years of experience in the Sri Lankan market.
Commenting on the transaction Mohan Pandithage, Chairman and Chief Executive, Hayleys PLC stated, This is a historic milestone for the Hayleys Group. It is in alignment with our Groups growth-oriented approach to the Sri Lankan market, as we have been seeking a strategic partner to strengthen the Groups retail sector. Leveraging on the diversity of the Hayleys products and services portfolio and combining it with the time-tested and extensive expertise of Singer Sri Lanka, we anticipate unprecedented new business opportunities for both entities moving forward.
Elaborating further he added, It is the vision of Hayleys to offer enhanced lifestyles to Sri Lankans, with extensive ranges of innovative, high quality lifestyle products which are affordable to all segments of society.
The diversity of our products and services portfolio will now be driven to greater heights, opening doors to new business opportunities for both entities moving forward. We will leverage Singer Sri Lankas brand and extensive retail network, with its strong customer base to pave the way for significant upscaling of the Groups domestic retail sector presence.
Dhammika Perera, Co-Chairman, Hayleys PLC, stated, This acquisition is no doubt the biggest in Sri Lanka. Given the strength of Singer Sri Lanka, one of the most iconic and trusted retail brands in the country, we believe that with this move, the Hayleys Group will be able to leverage and amalgamate the expertise and know-how of two corporate giants and boost the Groups growth trajectory.
==============================
## Title: Healing with a screen
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Healing with a screen
Receiving expert medical advice from best consultants without visiting them would be a great news to almost every one. Carrying previous medical reports will not be required in future. Everything will be done through an electric screen which can be big as a television or just the screen size of the mobile phone.
Today the Coordination Officer of the National Hospital of Sri Lanka (Colombo General Hospital) General Physician Dr. Ramya L. Premaratne speaks about how Sri Lankan patients will receive those benefits in near future.
Q - What is Electronic Medical Records
A - Management of Patient Information and access to patient information plays a vital role in the provision of effective clinical care by health professionals. Medical professionals can use Electronic Medical Records to assist decision-making and treatment. Diagnosis and treatment can be improved if medical professionals have easy access to accurate and comprehensive medical records of patients. Data found in a record may include patients demographics, past medical history, vital signs, examinations and progress notes, medications, allergies, immunizations, laboratory test results, radiology reports, etc.
It can be made rapidly available through ICT to authorized personnel providing patient care in different locations including cross national boundaries. It can also support the collection of data for other uses such as quality management, public health disease surveillance and reporting. Most of the hospitals in the country use manual health records. Serious challenges that need to be addressed will be ensuring the privacy and security of personal and health-related data. The privacy and security of personal and health-related data of all individuals is protected in most countries by specific data protection legislation. The manual patient record in Sri Lanka is considered as a legal document and it is supposed that only the authorized persons can have access to the patient records. Sri Lanka has not formulated any legislation to ensure privacy of personally identifiable health data in digital format. However, some applications that are used currently have some inbuilt features that facilitate the confidentiality of the patient information.
Q - What is Mobile Health (m-Health)
A - Mobile Health (mHealth) is an emerging term for medical and public health practice supported by mobile devices such as mobile phones, patient monitoring devices, Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), and other wireless devices. mHealth applications include the use of mobile devices in collecting community and clinical health data, delivery of healthcare information to practitioners, researchers, and patients, real-time monitoring of patients vital signs, and direct provision of care. It is a web based collaboration tool that not only supports the disease surveillance system but also it addresses common coordination problems during a disaster from finding missing people, managing aid, managing volunteers, tracking camps effectively. In addition, the system has the capability to transfer the message through mobile technology and integrate and make reports for decision making. Poison information Centre located in the National Hospital of Sri Lanka (NHSL) provides information to anybody who needs information regarding any poisoning incidence and emergency management through toll free hotline. Voice communication technology is mainly used for the purpose. Voice telephony is used to coordinate the activities to provide the health care services for the internally displaced population.
Q  How popular is Tele-medicine in Sri Lanka
A - There are few organizations namely the WHO, Ministry of Health, University of Colombo that had launched tele-medicine initiatives for example the Vidusuwa tele-medicine initiatives were led by ICTA in 2009. The Human Genetics Unit of University of Colombo has established a tele-consultation project through Nanasala. The project has been made possible through the partnership of the ICTA with the Human Genetics Unit of the Medical Faculty University of Colombo and the Kurunegala Teaching Hospital. The significance of this latest initiative is that it opens up opportunities in healthcare for remote rural communities. A patient in a remote rural area is able to obtain expert advice from a specialist in Colombo without having to move out of his local environment.
Q How do people accept e-Health in our country
A  The health information centre of Ministry of Health, ICTA and the University of Colombo, can be identified as the main institutions that provide organizational support for eHealth initiatives of the country. The Postgraduate Institute of Medicine has introduced web based post graduate courses in toxicology and some professional colleges now has begun to use eLearning as a tool to promote continuing professional development for their members. The foundation for e-Sri Lanka is led by Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) of Sri Lanka. The country has a favourable foundation and organisational support to introduce eHealth activities. One of the sections the survey looked at was the eHealth foundations for actions in Sri Lanka. In Sri Lank,a funding for eHealth usually come from government or donor agencies. The World Bank and the World Health Organization has been identified as the two main leading organizations that fund eHealth related activities in the country.
==============================
## Title: Health Minister attends WHO 70th Regional Committee in Male
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Health Minister attends WHO 70th Regional Committee in Male
Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne attended the 70th Session of the WHO Regional Committee for South East Asia in Male, Maldives from September 6 to 11, Health Ministry spokesman said.
Minister Senaratne. who was the Chairman of the committee, handed over the Chairmanship to Maldivian Health Minister Abdul Nazim Ibrahim.
Special attention was paid to the Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and climate change during the session, the spokesman said. The Minister delivered a special speech and thanked all who supported his work during the period he held the Chairmanship. Last years session was held in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Minister Senaratne held bilateral talks with the health ministers of other regional countries during the event, he said.
==============================
## Title: Hotel Asia 2017 begins today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Hotel Asia 2017 begins today
A must attend for resorts, guest houses, HORECA, all in hospitality industry
Hotel Asia 2017 will be held from September 18 to 20, 2017, Maldives hospitality and partner industries will converge at Hotel Asia 2017, the largest trade exhibition and culinary competition of its kind in Maldives.
This year the Hotel Asia organizers, sets a more interactive tone to in run up to the event with Master-chef styled Masterclasses and specialized seminars.
The exhibition has a history of drawing in crowds to Dharubaaruge where it will continue to be held this year. Over 175 exhibitors will showcase portfolios covering aspects of the industry including in THE BEST IN food and beverage, room technology, laundry, air conditioning, hygiene and catering, architecture, gardening, landscaping, outdoor furniture, swimming pools, waste management, software systems and modern security systems and a wide array of hotel supplies. The annual International Culinary Challenge is a much looked forward to aspect of the show.
The overriding purpose of the show is to cultivate healthy relationships between hospitality providers, suppliers and the community, explained Ahmed Jaamiz, Director of MECS, the organizers of the event. The only way to achieve any growth potential is through harmonious relationships. Hotel Asia is a platform for counterparts to speak to each other. It is a one stop shop for anyone in the hospitality field.
Describing the International Culinary Challenge, Mohamed Mazloom, Director / CEO of Bestbuy Maldives, Main Sponsor of the Culinary Challenge went on to say that Having studied market developments, we decided to introduce many new competitions that will give contestants the opportunity to display personality, showmanship, technique and presentation skills. The Culinary Challenge competition recognizes the pressure of the F&B and Restaurant industry, he elaborated.
The competition will recognize contestants skills in preparation of specialty dishes specifically looking at cooking techniques, use of ingredients and plating.
The criteria is based on international standards and will select winners who represent some of the leading chain of hotels and resorts in Maldives. Category winners will represent their resort on the international stage as well.
This years event will introduce a series of seminars and masterclasses in conjunction with the exhibition and culinary challenge. It is a forum for General Managers, Resort Managers, Owners of properties and aspiring Chefs to exchange insight on several related topics, with a focus on improving the standards in hotels and resorts.
Hotel Asia is organized by Maldives Exhibition and Conference Services. The event is endorsed and supported by the Ministry of Tourism and Ministry of Economic Development together with the support of the Maldives Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Liveaboard Association of Maldives. Bestbuy Maldives (BBM) continues its support as the main sponsor of the event since its inception.
The Hotel Asia International Culinary Challenge is the regions premier culinary competition which also obtained due recognition and endorsement from the World Association of Chefs Societies (Worldchefs -WACS). This year the number of entries have surpassed all expectations and reached a record high of over 600 entries from 63 resorts to date.
The organizers have achieved this milestone and had to bring forward the deadline due to the demand and space restrictions. An array of 18 distinguished world qualified judges will be flown down from all parts of the world to witness the culinary magic provided by the chefs taking part.
The star studded panel of judges is another key factor that contributes greatly to the credibility of the event.
The judging panel includes, Alan Palmer (Chief Judge), Thomas A. Gugler, Martin Kobald, Otto Weibel, Tarek Ibrahim, Adrian Bader, Rohan Fernandopulle, Michael Strautmanis, Jodi-Ann Palmer , Edwin Leow, Edmund Toh Heng Wee, Eric Low, Erich Roos, Richmond Lim, Stefan Mueller, Bruno Menard, Leslie Teong, and 3 locals Ishag Solih, Aminath , Shaanee, Abdulla Sobah
The exhibition itself is a tremendous opportunity for resort owners to see what new technology, products and services are available in the market. Recognized as an International Standard Exhibition, Hotel Asia is considered the purchasing forum for resorts and hotels annually. Maldives invest millions of dollars into food imports and hospitality equipment and the international attraction towards such a rapidly evolving market ensures the most influential exhibitors and visitors participate.
Hotel Asia is more than a regional event, it is an international showcase and a global business arena. The exhibition is a sold out event, and currently has a wait list of companies enquiring about participation.
The 22 Competition Categories: Dress the Cake, Fruit & Vegetable Carving, Novelty Cake, Plated Hot Dishes, Desserts (Display), Tapas / Finger Food, Bread and Pastry Display, Hot Cooking - Fish Fillet, Hot Cooking  Beef, Hot Cooking  Seafood, Hot Cooking  Poultry, Hot Cooking  Lamb, Desserts, Hot Pasta Appetizer, Creative Asian Dish, Cold Salad, Team Challenge, Maldivian Dish, The Perfect Steak & Omelette, Young Chef, Tea Challenge, Iced Mocktail.

==============================
## Title: How to master the art of reading
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
How to master the art of reading
Believe it or not, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichieacclaimed novelist, famous feminist, certified geniusturns 40 today. In recent years, Adichie has become an international authority on feminism, and her TEDx talk We should all be feminists and the resulting book version have become so iconic that the sloganized title is gracing t-shirts everywhere these days. (Some of those t-shirts are made by Dior, and the whole designer feminist t-shirt thing is a complex issue that I wont get into here, but remember that buying things does not actually make you more feminist.)
But while I am grateful for Adichies perspectives on feminism and her compelling arguments that we should raise boys and girls the same, and though I love and have taught We Should All Be Feminists, I sometimes get the feeling that in all the commotion people forget the fact that Adichie is, before all else, a fantastic writer of fiction. This isnt so unusual for writers of color or anyone else who can be asked questions about identity rather than craft, but at the very least, Id like her to be recognized as much for her contributions to contemporary literature as for her contributions to contemporary feminist discourse. So today, for her birthday, I spent some time reading (and listening to) Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie on her writing process, what she values in literature, and her advice for aspiring writers. Highlights below.
On reading to learn:
[I tell aspiring writers in my workshops] to read and read and read. Im a believer in reading, to see the wide range of whats been written. Im also a believer in reading what you dislike at least once, just to know. I often say to my students, Im going to have you read something I dont like. I dont like cold fiction. I dont like fiction that is an experiment. I find that often its the boys in the class who love the fiction I dont like. I say to them, Ill tell you why I dont like it. And, then, if you like it, I want you to tell me why. Most of all I believe in reading for what you can learn in terms of not just craft and technique but worldview. Its important to think about sentences and how one develops character and all of that, but also to think about what the story is as a big thing. Most of all, we have fun in the workshops. For me, its important that we find reasons to laugh. And we mostly do. from an interview in Image
Read, read, read. Im not sure that one can be a good writer without being a good reader. If youre going to build a desk its very good to see what other carpenters have done. from an interview with the Stylist Book Club
On writing from life:
I have many writer friends who get offended when theyre asked about the story behind the story. I dont. Imagination doesnt fall from the sky; you have to work with something. My fiction borrows from my life, but even more so from the lives of other people. And because I write realistic fiction, it doesnt fall from the sky. I dont feel threatened when Im asked that. from an interview in Salon
Sometimes a character just forms in my head; other times a character is based on somebody real (although the character often ends up being quite different from the real person). Ifemelu is a more interesting version of me. Both Ifemelu and Obinze are me, really. . . . I think I have Ifemelus questioning nature, Obinzes longing. Like them, Im always looking to learn. A bit of a romantic, but I hide it well. from an interview with Parul Sehgal at Tin House
On why the love story in Americanah is not a descent:
I dont even accept the premise. Its not as though I set out to destroy something that I didnt agree with. I didnt agree with it in the first place. I dont much care about these distinctions between, for example, literary and genre. I read what I find interesting. Its also very interesting, isnt it, that when a woman writes a love story, its a love story. But when a man writes a love story . . .
But yeah, I love the love story, I wanted to do that very much. But its a love story thats very much rooted in reality. Its the kind of love story where your inability to get a visa gets in the way of love. I loved the ending, for example, which I hoped would annoy some people. Its always a good thing to annoy some people. But heres the thing: the ending is me thinking, You know what I want to have this lush, ridiculous thing happen, and its going to happen! from an interview in Salon
On (not) writing to prove something:
I dont start out writing to challenge stereotypes. I think that can be as dangerous as starting out to prove stereotypes. And I say dangerous because fiction that starts off that way often ends up being contrived, burdened by its mission. I do think that simply writing in an emotionally truthful way automatically challenges the single story because it humanizes and complicates. And my constant reminder to myself is to be truthful. from an interview with Parul Sehgal at Tin House
On the difference between writing short stories and writing novels:
I sometimes sense that when people talk about short stories the assumption is that the short story is somehow less accomplished than the novel. And I dont think so at all. Sometimes people talk about starting out with the short story and then moving on to a novel, and I just think I find both forms to be equally difficult. Its very difficult for me to know why I am drawn to the short story for a particular subject. I think the particular subject wants to be a short story. Its very hard to know why you do what you do. - Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: JO meets President, wants Enforced Disappearance Bill dropped
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
JO meets President, wants Enforced Disappearance Bill dropped
A group of Joint Opposition members led by MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardena met President Maithripala Sirisena at his Paget Road residence on Saturday night and urged him not to proceed with the proposed bill for protection against enforced disappearances.
JO Parliamentary Group Leader Dinesh Gunawardena speaking to the Daily News yesterday, said two main points were discussed at the meeting that extended for over one and a half hours.
We asked the President not to move the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance Bill in Parliament next week. We told him the dangers the security forces would undergo if it was passed into law. We pointed out that this legislation undermines the sovereignty of the country, he said.
Observing that the talks had been very cordial, the MP said they expect a positive reaction from the President.Asked as to how this legislation could pose a danger to the war heroes, if it does not apply to the past but only to the future, MP Gunawardena said the JO has no trust in what the Prime Minister says.
There have been many flaws in the laws brought in by the Prime Minister. We cannot accept what he says and that is why we met the President, he commented.
He said the other main point discussed at the meeting was the recent Amendment brought to the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance that hindered the space for field officers to contest in Local Government Elections.
We requested the President to withdraw this Clause and allow Samurdhi and other field officers to contest Local Elections as before, he said.
When pointed out that the Amendment has been proposed by the Elections Commission Chairman, the MP argued that the laws are prepared by the legislature and not by the Elections Commission.
MPs Dullas Allahapperuma, Bandula Gunawardena, Jayantha Samaraweera and former MP Prof Tissa Vitharana took part in the special discussion held a day before the President left for New York to attend the UNGA summit.
==============================
## Title: JRJ commemorated today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
JRJ commemorated today
The 111th birth anniversary of the first Executive President J.R. Jayewardene will be commemorated today at J.R. Jayewardene Centre, Colombo under the patronage of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe at 3.30 pm.
The late President J.R. Jayewardene was born on September 17,1906 and commenced his political career at the age of 36 from Kelaniya. He held several Cabinet portfolios for 15 years during his political career. The yeoman services he rendered as the Finance Minister and Agriculture Minister are much appreciated and recognised even today. He was the leader of State for ten years from 1977 and was the opposition leader for seven years from 1970 to 1977.
Late President Jayewardene became Sri Lankas first Executive President in 1978 with introducing a new constitution. Besides, the successful Colombo Plan, accelerated Mahaweli Scheme are considered to be milestones in the countrys development path. He was defeated only for a short period of four years from 1956 to 1960 .
==============================
## Title: Kandy highway to be complete by 2020 - PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Kandy highway to be complete by 2020 - PM
It has been planned to complete the construction of the central highway to Kandy by 2020, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.
The Prime Minister added that construction project of the Kandy highway, which consists of four phases, is in progress now, will be commissioned by 2020.
The Prime Minister made these remarks while presiding over the opening ceremony of the newly established Police Station in Mawathagama on Saturday.
The Premier addressing the gathering said the first phase of the construction from Kadawatha to Kossinna is being carried out by a Chinese company while the second phase from Kossinna to Pothuhera is being carried out by local constructors.
The third phase from Pothuhera to Galagedara has been undertaken by a Japanese construction company while the fourth phase has been undertaken by an Indian construction company, the Prime Minister said.
He said construction of the central highway began during the Rajapaksa regime without any proper plan as it was a political event.
The former Government didnt allocate funds for the project but only for the opening ceremony. As a result of that, the project had been stagnating for years.
However, under this Government, the project will be completed, he said.
The local constructors, who engage in the construction of the second phase, will be able to enter the international construction arena once they complete the project, the Prime Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Labour Minister, Energy authorities to decide on CEB pay demands today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Labour Minister, Energy authorities to decide on CEB pay demands today
Power and Energy authorities will meet Labour Minister John Seneviratne to discuss the issue of salary demand by striking Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) trade unions, Power and Renewable Energy Ministry Secretary Dr. B. M. S. Batagoda said yesterday.
Electricity superintendents who did not participate in the strike extending their support to non-striking CEB engineers, have reportedly threatened authorities that they too will join the ongoing strike if the authorities did not implement pay increments and benefits that should bring them close to salaries and perks enjoyed by the engineers.
Power and Renewable Energy Ministry Secretary Dr. B M.S. Batagoda yesterday said the ministry has given a concrete solution to the CEB superintendents pay demand, but they are pushing the ministry to implement the recommendations in just one day.
I have made very good recommendations for them, he said.
Asked about the chances of power supply being interrupted by the ongoing strike, Dr Batagoda said they have been able to maintain the system without any major power interruptions despite 20,000 people keeping away.
There have been failures in some small pockets on account of minor maintenance-related issues, such as billings and minor repairs. Other than that 99 per cent of the supply has been there, and we are doing our best to have 100 percent efficiency in the distribution of electricity, he said.
As pointed out by CEB sources, the striking trade unions and workers compose CEBs non-technical staff. The technical staff consisting of electricity engineers and superintendents are crucial to maintain the supply.
The superintendents have threatened the authorities that they too will join the strike if they did not implement pay increments to them taking advantage of the strike, a CEB official explained.
He said the CEB engineers have assured the power authorities that they can maintain electricity power generation without any significant interruption despite the situation that non-technical staff striking. But the situation could change should superintendents strike work, he said.
Ministry Secretary Dr. Batagoda said the problems surged in terms of salaries of CEB workers since the engineers got a 75 percent increase in their salaries in January 2008, which made their salary nine times higher than the non-technical workers.
It was earlier set at the ratio of one to six.The CEB striking trade unions demand that their pay be increased so as to roll back to the previous ratio.
As explained by Power and Energy Ministry officials, the engineers are against it.The CEBs non technical staff actually started their strike action to oppose the engineers.
==============================
## Title: Lankas GDP expected to  grow by 4 % in 2Q- 17
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Lankas GDP expected to  grow by 4 % in 2Q- 17
Sri Lankas Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for second quarter of 2017 is expected to grow by 4 percent, the Department of Census and Statistics Sri Lanka said.
The GDP for the second quarter of 2017 at constant (2010) price reportedly reached up to Rs. 2,211,612 million and the GDP reported for the second quarter of 2016 was Rs. 2,125,848 million.
The four major components of the economy; Agriculture, Industry, Services and Taxes less subsidies on produces has contributed their share to the GDP at current price by 8.2 percent 25.9 percent 56.6 percent and 9.4 percent respectively in the second quarter of 2017.
During the second quarter of 2017, the Industrial and the Services activities have recorded higher growth rates of 5.2 percent and 4.5 percent respectively, However, overall agricultural activities have reported a negative growth rate of 2.9 percent. Agriculture sector of the economy has been affected badly from the unfavourable weather conditions (severe drought as well as heavy rainfalls) prevailed during the last 18 months in many districts of the country and as a result, agriculture sector has reported negative growth rates during last 6 quarters.
Among the three major activities, the services activities which gave the highest contribution (56.6 percent) to the GDP, recorded a positive growth rate of 4.5 percent during the second quarter of 2017, when compared to the same quarter in the year 2016. The performance of services sector was underpinned specially by the sub activities of financial service activities, human health activities and telecommunication which reported significantly higher growth rate of 16.4 percent 13.2 percent and 12.4 percent respectively. In addition, wholesale and retail trade and transportation of goods and passengers which contributes in higher shares to the GDP, have expanded by 4 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.
==============================
## Title: Lankan doctor appointed Fellow of American College of Physicians
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Lankan doctor appointed Fellow of American College of Physicians
Dr. Claude Luvis, MD, MRCP (UK); of Gastonia North Carolina, USA; originally from Kandana, has received the honour of being invited to be a fellow of the American College of Physicians by the Governor of American College of Physicians in North Carolina.
He is one of the few physicians who graduated from the University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, who has been invited to receive the honour of Fellow of the American College of Physicians. This is considered to be a Pinnacle of achievement for US Internal Medicine Physicians.
He was invited on account of his volunteer work over a span of more than twenty years and because of his commitment to teach medical students, physician assistant students and nurse practitioner students. He was awarded the preceptor of the year in 2017 by VCOM (Edward via College of Medicine) Spartanburg, South Carolina.
He started the volunteer work in Nicaragua in 1996, establishing a new medical clinic in Chacrasega, a remote village close to Leon. He continued serving the medical needs of the people visiting few times a year with supplies and equipment. With the help of the Catholic sisters, well-wishers and NGOs, a well-equipped medical clinic, well stocked pharmacy and a dental clinic was established and the government started sending physicians to service the area.
Then he continued his volunteer work for the next fifteen years in Dominican Republic with the free clinics conducted by volunteer organizations and Catholic nuns, taking supplies and equipment almost every four months.
He responded to major international catastrophes, where he conducted medical clinics following Hurricane Mitch in Nicaragua in October, 1998, was part of a medical team distributing medical supplies and essentials in Panadura Sri Lanka in December 2004 following the Tsunami. He was part of a team which collected funds and built seven houses in Balapitiya and twenty houses in Matara, which were given to the displaced residents as part of Lumiere medical team.
He worked in a hospital in Port Au Prince in January 2010, following the major earth quake in Haiti.
In 2005, as the President of SLMANA (Sri Lanka Medical Association of North America) he and his team organized a dinner dance in Chicago and raised funds and donated equipment to Colombo accident unit. He was the President and Patron of De Mazenod College OBU in USA for the past four years, and has been the benefactor of numerous scholarships in years 2012  2016.
He has been practicing Medicine in North Carolina for the past 40 years and now joined by his two daughters who are physicians following his footsteps.
Susantha Payoe
==============================
## Title: Lankan in UK jailed for killing wifes paramour
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Lankan in UK jailed for killing wifes paramour
A husband who beat his estranged wifes paramour to death after kidnapping him in Milton Keynes, was jailed for life with a minimum sentence of 18 years.
The husband, Gnanachandran Balachandran, 38; organised the abduction of his wifes lover, Suren Sivananthan, 32; from the Secklow Gate shopping area near Milton Keynes Theatre on January 20, ITV news reported.
For 12 hours, Suren was held captive, plied with alcohol and beaten in three different locations. He suffered 87 injuries. Two head injuries were the cause of death. The body of Suren, who lived in Canada, was left on the ground in sub-zero temperatures outside a parade of shops in Great Linford.
A jury at Luton Crown Court found Balachandran guilty of murder, recently.
Judge Richard Foster jailed him for life, ordering that he serve a minimum sentence of 18 years.
A 17-year-old accomplice was also convicted of murder and was sentenced to custody for life with a minimum term of 11 years.
==============================
## Title: Lawful, disciplined drivers in Colombo to be awarded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Lawful, disciplined drivers in Colombo to be awarded
A special programme to award lawful and disciplined drivers in Colombo will be launched by the police from Monday (18).
The programme will continue for few weeks in the Colombo area. Police officers will be posted at several locations in Colombo who will inspect drivers conduct, identify disciplined/lawful drivers and present them stickers and gift vouchers.
It is a concept of Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundara. He will participate in the first day of the programme in Colombo today. The police implemented a similar programme in Kandy from August 15 to 20 in Kandy and gave out gifts and vouchers for 300 selected drivers.
The Asiri Health provides its support to the Police in the programme.
==============================
## Title: Leaked A/L Chemistry paper: Tuition master, brother released on bail
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 11:45
Leaked A/L Chemistry paper: Tuition master, brother released on bail

The tuition master and his brother who were alleged to have published leaflets containing questions from the 2017 G.C.E. Advance Level Chemistry paper werereleased on bail today by the Gmapaha Magistrate.
The Police arrested the tuition master after carrying out investigations into the distribution of the handout near a leading school in Gampaha which contained several questions that appeared in the exact form as in the second A/L Chemistry question paper.

==============================
## Title: Lend an ear to hear a hushed yelp for help!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Lend an ear to hear a hushed yelp for help!
Sunday September 10 was World Suicide Prevention Day. A recent report detailing the mental health of adolescents in Sri Lanka and the World Health Organisation has revealed that seven percent of adolescents aged between 13 and 17 have attempted suicide one or more times.
The report also reveals that nine percent of adolescents have considered committing suicide and five percent of these youth suffer anxiety while nine percent experience loneliness. From a global perspective statistics reveal that one person commits suicide every 40 seconds.
A medically diagnosable condition
A study conducted by the WHO in 2014 had ranked Sri Lanka in the fourth position among 172 countries in terms of most suicide prone counties in the world. Several suicidal people do at times give out warning signs in the hope that they will be rescued. Most just want an end to the never ending emotional pain and hurt, not to die.
To certain people who have never experienced depression, the seemingly invisible condition can seem like a simple lack of will power. They take the condition far too lightly and often dismiss it asking them to cheer up or tell them they are making a big deal of some trivial problem.
Many may believe it is a desire for drama or attention, or worse still by accusing them of being selfish. The problem is that none of that is true. The real issue is that a person with depression suffers from a condition just as real as chicken pox or the flu. Society does not blame people who have chicken pox or the flu, but we do unfairly blame people with depression for their symptoms.
Most studies indicate that depression is either caused by an imbalance of chemicals in the brain or substance abuse. Whether it stems from other factors or not it is a clearly diagnosable condition that many people suffer from. It is not a moral failing. It does not mean they are weak or incorrigible. It means they are suffering from a medically diagnosable condition. As such there are many things that can be done for it.
What makes a person want to commit suicide This is not an easy question to answer. The answers vary from person to person. But usually the reply involves trying to block out unbearable emotional pain and hurt. Many times it is a silent cry for help. When you get to the point of contemplating suicide, you are often so distressed that you are unable to see any other options, any other way out.
Contemplating suicide
Everyone has problems and can usually find ways of dealing with isolated stressful or traumatic events and experiences reasonably well. But sometimes there is a build up of these kinds of events over a period of time. When this happens all the coping strategies that they have put into place are pushed to their limits.
These limits vary from person to person. Rape and abuse survivors are extremely vulnerable targets. They have to deal with all kinds of memories, flashbacks of terror, depression, relationship problems, trust issues to name but a few, on top of everyday problems that may crop up. It sometimes gets to the stage where it all becomes too much to deal with.
A person who is contemplating suicide is usually so distressed that they cant see that there are other options available to them. Their distress is overwhelming and they can feel totally isolated and alone with their feelings.
When someone tells you they are having suicidal thoughts and feelings it is imperative that you listen. Encourage them to talk about their feelings. They need to know how you feel about it. Tell them outright that you dont want them to die. Try to make yourself available for them. Never dismiss their problems lightly. Take them seriously. Try to extract a promise from them that when they feel suicidal they will contact you or someone who can help, such as a counsellor or a doctor, before they do anything.
Many may consider talking may not be doing much to help in such a crucial issue. Nothing could be further from the truth. Talking is certainly a healing therapy for troubled and confused minds. Yes, talking and listening can be extremely far more therapeutic than one could imagine. It is important that professionals who know how to help resolve the problems are informed with the least delay. People who have attempted to take their own life previously are more likely to attempt suicide again. Yet, counselling alone may not be able to cure the problems outright.
But it is an approach to finding a means of initially coping with the tortured mind. And it could possibly help in hitting on ways of resolving some of the concerns that may be contributing to a persons suicidal tendencies. The most frequently-used methods for suicides are pesticide poisoning, hanging and firearms.
The vital factor to remember
But leaping off high-rise buildings and jumping in front of moving trains are common methods in highly urbanised areas in Asia. The shrinks all agree that there remains a lack of psycho-social care targeted at individuals, especially those, traumatised by conflict experiences in Sri Lanka. Besides, issues surrounding mental health remain stigmatised here, as they do everywhere in the world. This stigma surrounding mental health is not a Sri Lankan problem, it is a global one, but it needs to be dealt with here as urgently as anywhere. But the vital factor to remember is that it is not just those suffering from trauma that we need to worry about. Mental health is a problem that strikes people across all ages, all communities, all levels of society, whether they are rich or poor, successful or not, from happy or broken families, from cities or villages.
Certainly the framework for helping people with mental health problems has been put in place, and that is a good thing, but the momentum must be maintained. Now, we need to work on constructing a society and a culture that understands mental health, and try to understand why people commit suicide, and to do everything we can to support and help people get through their battles with depression.
The most important aspect of recovery from depression is support. If someone does not have a strong support network and then feels alone and worthless due to depression it is much harder to see the light at the end of the tunnel. You could be someones hero just by giving them a kind word, letting them cry on your shoulder and being brave enough to ask them if they are okay.
The worst that will happen if you ask a friend or loved one who seems in pain if they are considering suicide is that they will say no and know that you care enough about them to ask. If they say yes, you might have just saved a life. Hard questions might not be politically correct, but they can save lives. It is better to overreact than to lose a loved one or a friend.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: LiCC Jeans sponsors Best Model mini pageant
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
LiCC Jeans sponsors Best Model mini pageant
Sri Lankas number One Jeans Brand, Long Island Clothing Company (LiCC Jeans) joined hands with Siyatha Miss World Sri Lanka 2017 to sponsor the popular Mini Pageant of Best Model.
The thirteen beauties, one of whom will represent Sri Lanka at the Miss World pageant later this year, paraded the catwalk in different variants of LiCC jeans to the appreciation of a high profile and well-represented audience at the Colombo Hilton.
Miss World 2017, will be the 67th edition of theMiss Worldpageant, it will be held on 18 November2017in Sanya, China PR. Miss Puerto Rico Stephanie Del Valle will crown her successor at the end of the event.
Were delighted to lend our patronage to the Sri Lankan beauties for the Miss World 2017 title, since this international pageant is one of the oldest and respected pageants in the world. These young women, with all their energy, enthusiasm and elegance, showed off our array of denim jeans which cater to all segments of society.
They brought out the fact that LiCC jeans are the most versatile piece of clothing you can have in your wardrobe and those which provide the most unique look to suit ones occasion, mood and attitude, said CEO of LiCC, Yasotharan Paramanantham.
As Sri Lankas premier denim-wear manufacturer which created history earlier this year by launching LiCC Libert, the first-ever water repellent jeans, were happy to break free of stereotypes and spearhead new styles, he added.
At LiCC were happy to have transformed the concept of jeans in Sri Lanka by creating styles and trends to suit the modern wearer. Our credo is to offer chic styles incorporated with maximum comfort. Denim jeans are compulsory in any wardrobe and we specialise in offering the most varied and versatile range through our creative collection to take the Sri Lankan fashion industry by storm, Yasotharan added.
CEO of LiCC Yasotharan Paramanantham and Marketing Manager Ashkar Hussain with the contestants at the Best Model mini pageant.

==============================
## Title: Life into Arts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Life into Arts
When James Salter died in June, at the age of ninety, the Review lost one of its defining voices. Over the past four decades, Jim published short stories, reminiscences, and an Art of Fiction interview in the Review; his novel A Sport and a Pastime first appeared with the short-lived Paris Review Editions in 1967. In 2011, he received our lifetime-achievement award, the Hadada Prize. Jim delivered the following lecture last October at the University of Virginia. We are grateful to the Salter family for allowing us to print it here.
In Bertolt Brechts diaries he writes about such things as the essence of art, which he describes as simplicity, grandeur, and sensitivity, and its form, coolness.
Looking through the journals that I kept through the heart, so to speak, of my writing life, from 1962 on, I dont find much of this sort of conclusion. There are more names than ideas, not necessarily well-known names and sometimes names that I dont recognizeIris Gazelle, who could that be Jay Julian. There are good descriptions and a lot of conversationtalkbut less than I would expect about writingwhat I was writing, what I felt about something Id written. The journals themselves are written comme a. Theyre meant to be used, not read by anyone. Some pages are written with more care, things I would regret not remembering the smallest detail of.
I had kept diaries or journals since my midtwenties, but like writing itself, I hadnt known just how to do it. I began by writing down everythingthat is, if I wrote anything at all. Eventually I saw that I should not be saving trash.
Lack of shape
I had written some short stories but they were not any good. I didnt know how to go on with writing. The trouble with the stories was their lack of shape and their earnestness. I read stories in The New Yorker and Esquire and tried to imitate them. This imitation was a discouraging thing. My stories seemed like theirs, but somehow they could be distinguished from the genuine, or so I was convinced. Of course, in some cases they were just imitations of imitations, and no one is looking for that.
My problem was also belief, even after I finished a novel. When I had finally decided to change course, to resign my commission and begin another life, it was a simple act physically: I wrote a letter of resignation and delivered it by hand. I thought there would be some reaction, someone would shake his head with regret at the departure of a regular officer with twelve years of service, but there was none. It was taken matter-of-factly, as if I were turning in a pair of boots. That afternoon I felt shaken and depressed. I wanted to talk to someone who would understand. My former wing commander, whom I respected and who liked me, was at the time stationed in Washington, and I called him. He immediately invited me to dinner. I told him what I had just done and why, and what I hoped to do. He said, You idiot.
Buried deep
I didnt want to write in the city. In the city, everyone was working or on their way to work, or it was afterward and they had done their work for the day. And there was always the faint hum of the city like some huge generators buried deep underground that fell silent sometimes but not really. If you listened, in the silence they were always going.
I had two or three friends, artists, who also had unconventional lives, but they werent married or had no children, although one of them was married to Yoko Onothis was long before John Lennonand they did. I tried to work in some borrowed places, but I couldnt bring any belief with me. I felt it was only possible at home, in the house early in the morning before my wife and two young daughters were awake or when they had gone to bed. I wrote in our bedroom on a long table.
I was able to be at peace with myself then. In the daytime I worried about how I was going to earn a living. I had some money from the movie sale of my one novel, the novel that let me believe I could change my life, but that wouldnt last very long. Id been a flying officer with experience, so I joined the Air National Guard. That paid a little.
One of my first published stories was about Barcelona. There are two German girls in the story, both of them unhappy.
I would describe it further by saying that not a lot happens. One of the girls is based on someone I met at a Fasching ball. I dont remember her costume exactly, but it was like a bathing suit with gold scales and a skirt. Her frienda manin Barcelona was a literary person and also seemed something of a playboy. He knew everything about the city but disappeared after that first night. The next day we went to the beach. And thats it. Thats the story, but the difference this time was that I was able to write it. It was the language, the assurance. I knew only a limited amount about the German girls, but I pressed down hard, so to speak. I somehow made it count. - Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Mahinda should pay Weeratunges fine: Hashim
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Mahinda should pay Weeratunges fine: Hashim
It is former President Mahinda Rajapaksa and not the public who should pay the fine imposed on the Sil Redi case, UNP General Secretary and State Enterprises Development Minister Kabir Hashim said.
Minister Hashim was responding to questions raised by the media following a meeting held at Mawanella on September 15,
The Minister said the accused in the case should have been the former ruler rather than a public official because it was the former ruler who had issued the order to distribute Sil Redi.
If the former ruler had a genuine intention to distribute Sil Redi as a meritorious act, he should have done that by with his personal funds.
He said the UNP always stood for justice. It never tried to win votes by dangling the patriotism card.
There was a Sinhala Saying, Patriotism is the last refuge of a rascal. In the past patriotism was used as a tool to win elections, the Minister said.
The UNP always gives prominence and support to Buddhism. The Cultural Triangle Project which was established to upgrade Buddhist plans of worships was a brainchild of the UNP.
The UNP allocated the largest sum of money to rehabilitate Buddhist places of worships. Therefore, the party should not be held responsible for personal opinions expressed by some of its members, the Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Man fined, sentenced to two years for rape
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Man fined, sentenced to two years for rape
Panadura Provincial High Court Judge Padmini Ranawaka Gunatilleke sentenced an accused in a rape case to two years imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 10,000.
The judge also ordered the accused to pay Rs 75,000 as compensation to the complainant within one months time.
The suspect, a resident of Ingiriya, pleaded guilty to the charge of raping an underage girl on December 20, 2004, at Hapugastenna in Ingiriya.
State Counsel K. V. Indika conducted the prosecution.
==============================
## Title: Man hacks wife to death
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Man hacks wife to death
A 27-year-old housewife was reportedly hacked by her husband using a sharp weapon and subsequently, she succumbed to her injuries on admission to the Hamabantota Hospital, Police said. The victim was identified as Weerakkodi Gurusinghe Eresha Samanmali of Pahala Andarawewa in Dimuthugama, Hambantota.
A family dispute had led to the killing, Police further said.
Hambantota Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Man sentenced to five years RI for abusing schoolgirl
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Man sentenced to five years RI for abusing schoolgirl
A man found guilty of abusing a 17-year-old schoolgirl travelling in a bus was sentenced to two years RI suspended for five years by Kandy High Court Judge Rohana Kumara Herath.
He was imposed a Rs. 5,000 fine and ordered to pay Rs. 250,000 as compensation to the victim.
The schoolgirl was abused in 2014 and the commuters in the bus had caught the accused and handed him over to police via hotline. The Kandy Police Women and Children Bureau prosecuted.
==============================
## Title: Massaging for a living
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Massaging for a living
The city of Colombo and suburbs have an ever increasing number of outlets advertising massages in spas etc. A phenomenon found in other cities too. Some are open 24 hours. Majority are staffed with women. Most from out of town.
Massage therapist certification
Massage therapy certification is a demonstration of your expertise as a massage therapist. Certification should be a requirement before becoming a qualified masseuse, legally practicing massage therapist.
Broadly a therapist should know about
 Knowledge of body systems
 Anatomy
 Physiology
 Kinesiology
 Pathology
 Business knowledge and ethics.
Facets insufficiently developed in Sri Lanka.
Another side of the profession
Most often currently, outlets offering services are sweat shops, exploiting women with rudimentary notions of massaging, licensed as spas offering Ayurvedic services. Its an essential service if engaged in professionally. However, due to a variety of reasons clients look for special services unrelated to conventional massages. Those who can deliver earn through tips. A vital need for women and some men desperate to earn a living. Since special services are deemed illegal, they are fare game to periodic police raids, exploitation, blackmail, trafficking and finally life threatening diseases if undetected or treated early. Some clients promise the moon and use them for sexual gratification and dump them after awhile. Once in this vicious existence most in it have to lie eternally to family, friends alike. If found out their entire character is denigrated. Some become outcasts hating men etc. Others may seek solace in different forms of substances.
Story of Renuka
Renuka is a thirty plus mother, one of three siblings from a farming family in a village in the North Western Province. The patriarch an extraordinarily tough farmer who fell ill and was treated for months for Chronic kidney disease of uncertain aetiology (CKDU) when in fact a massive tumor was growing in his stomach. Two of Renukas siblings are in the teaching and domestic worker profession. The latter spending many years working in Cyprus. The third with a family, is engaged in odd jobs. Renuka has three female children with the eldest a garment worker whilst two are still in their teens. She is in her second unhappy marriage.
The current husband who is older to her has no steady means of income. To support the family she has worked in Jordan, Lebanon etc. Currently she works in massage clinics. She has the aptitude to do the work of two men and is a very enterprising, hard working woman with the genes of her father. Due to long periods away from the family, her husband terms her a prostitute, has beaten her parents resulting in hospitalisation, the children are prevented by him from seeing her parents and he has threatened to kill her if she comes home. When she calls to talk to her children the father prohibits them from answering the calls. However, on every occasion he or the children need money they answer and she sends cash home. This includes by taking Samurdhi and SANASA loans and loans in the informal sector with high interest rates. Since the fathers malignant tumor was diagnosed, an operation was conducted at Maharagama to remove it. Expenses have been high. She has been the sole source and not her siblings with greater resources. Her last place of work, a long standing outfit had several girls known to each other through family connections.
Each placement a result of this extended network including women agents charging placement fees procuring rural women for jobs in massage clinics. When they run afoul of each other word is sent back to families destroying their character. Renuka had to leave under such circumstances recently and immediately found accommodation in a boarding with nangis in their twenties working nights at a ayurvedic massage clinic in Colombo 3.
Clients choose the woman by their looks and are charged Rs.1,300/. Its a variation of the flesh trade. She is sometimes able to earn 3,000-4,000 rupees on a good night providing special massages where the ayurvedic doctor provides the tissues etc sometimes at 2 am.
The nangis with whom she is staying has a wheel driving husband who drops them at night and picks them in the morning after 5 am.
This writer classifies the wheel driver, a pimp selling his so called wife.
Renuka works to pay loans, meet family expenses, her mother believes she works in a garment or has chosen to lie too and no one in the family really worries as long as Renuka provides the cash required on demand.
She lies profusely and seems unable to see whats in store for her next or too far gone to come out even though a whole new safe accommodation and decent job option was presented to her. She is in poor health.
She has given up on regaining her reputation.
Its a sorry, sordid tale.
The future fortunes of her three daughters is unknown for now. I have no doubt this story with variations is the narrative of so many young and older girls and women in a fast developing industry where quick bucks are there to be made. Can we improve their lot
What does a massage therapist do
A massage therapist job description at its most basic involves using the hands and fingers to relive stress and pain built up in patients muscles.
People seek out massage therapists for many different reasons. For example, an athlete may need a massage therapist to help them recover from a serious injury. On the other hand, some people just find massage to be a relaxing activity, or might hire a massage therapist when they are under stress.
Some of the specific duties of a massage therapist include:
 Meeting with patients and reviewing their individual needs and medical history
 Analyzing patients sore muscle areas and identifying solutions to correct their problems
 Using the hands, arms and fingers to relieve areas of stress and pain
 Providing patients with information about how they can care for their muscles on a daily basis
These are just a few of the basics of the massage therapist job description. The specific massage therapist job description will depend on the work environment and whether or not you specialize in a certain massage.
Specialized massage therapist job description
A specialized massage therapist job description usually involves specializing in a specific massage technique, called a modality. Some of these modalities include:
 Deep-tissue massage
 Swedish massage
 Sports massage
==============================
## Title: Match drawn at Beddagana
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Match drawn at Beddagana
Match drawn between Ananda Shashtharalaya, Kotte and Ashoka Vidyalaya, Colombo in their fixture of the Singer Trophy Under 19 inter schools cricket tournament at Beddagana on yesterday. Match called off earlier due to rain.
* At Baeddagana
Ashoka: 120 in 43.1 overs (Tharanga Sampath 30, Pasan Shalinda 22, Kavindu Senanayake 21, Thimira Malshan 3/51, D. Siriwardena 2/11, B. D. Hettiarachchi 2/20) and 67/6 in 25 overs (Renuka Elvitigala 34 n.o., Thimira Malshan 3/19, B.D. Hettiarachchi 2/7)
Ananda Shastralaya: 223/9 decl. (174/5 o/n) in 71 overs (I. Avinda 77, H. Piyumal 42, P. Perera 31, Sandeepa Jayalath 4/45, Chethana Vithanage 2/33, Tharusha Nethmika 2/45). YK
==============================
## Title: Matthews spins NWU South Africa to Red Bull Campus Cricket title
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Matthews spins NWU South Africa to Red Bull Campus Cricket title
Twenty-year-old, leg-spinner Dyllin Matthews ripped through the Business Management School(BMS), Sri Lanka top order, as he bowled North West University (NWU) to the Red Bull Campus Cricket title. Generally it is Sri Lankas own spinners who flummox South African batsmen on the island, but of such high quality was Matthews bowling in the final, that Sri Lankan batsmen who are generally well accustomed to countering spin could not cope with his bowling,
Matthews 3 wickets for 22 in the final makes him easily the most successful bowler in the tournament, in which he claimed 12 wickets in all. Thanks to his efforts, and those of tall seam bowler Julian Soutter who also took three wickets, Sri Lanka were bowled out for 121 inside 19 overs. Opening batsman Janneman Malan led the chase with an unbeaten 64 off 47 balls, topping the tournament batting charts in the process. They reached the target with seven wickets and 28 balls to spare.
It was the turn that Matthews gained from the Galle International Cricket Stadium surface that made him such a menace in this match. A physics and chemistry student with hopes of becoming a mechanical engineer, Matthews bowled immaculate line throughout his four overs,rarely failing to toss up the ball. Several Sri Lankan batsmen were lured into aggressive strokes, and those who were dismissed by him failed to account for the flight, dip and spin Matthews generated.
While Matthews removed the most dangerous men in Sri Lankas lineup  having the in-form Manoj Sarathchandra caught for 24, before dismissing the explosive Ranitha Liyanarachchi later in the innings, Soutter ravaged the middle order with his bustling medium pace. His figures of 3 for 16 won him the man-of-the-match award, but it is Matthews spells throughout the tournament that have contributed heavily to South Africas triumph.
The chase was little more than a formality, especially when Malan, who will feature in South Africas high-profile T20 Global League later in the year, took the innings by the collar. He was relatively measured throughout his knock, as the team was not chasing a tall total. Still, his innings featured seven fours and two sixes, The winning run was a bye as Sri Lanka wicketkeeper Sarathchandra missed a stumping chance. Though the partisan Sri Lankan crowd was quietened by the result, South Africas players stormed the field at the moment of victory in a jubilant mood. Players from both sides also displayed exemplary sportsmanship, North West University South Africas win re-establishes their dominance of the tournament.
This is the third time in four years a South African side has triumphed in the World Championship of College Cricket, with the University of Pretoria having won in 2014 and 2015. Business Management School, Sri Lanka had been victors in 2016, but failed to defend their title at home.
==============================
## Title: Mawathagama to get Free Trade Zone - PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Mawathagama to get Free Trade Zone - PM
The government has allocated 500 acres in Mawathagama to establish a free trade zone.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe speaking at the Mawathagama Samodaya ground said a new era will dawn in Mawathagama with the opening of several development projects.
"We have decided to construct a free trade zone in Mawathagama also. We have allocated 500 acres of crown land for the purpose," he said.
The Prime Minister opened a newly built police station, several school buildings and projects worth Rs 8 million in the Mawathagama electorate. The Prime Minister said the government had not run away from it and is trying to overcome the debt burden while offering relief to the masses.
He stated that countries like China, India, Japan, Russia and America are willing to invest in Sri Lanka. "They are with us and have pledged to invest in Sri Lanka," he said.
These countries are willing to construct the highway road from Kadawatha to Kandy and from Kandy to Kurunegala, he said.
The Prime Minister said unskilled labour was a major impediment for the development of the country and measures have been taken to hone skills among the youth and provide them with suitable employments to create a strong economy for them and upgrade their living standards.
He said Wayamba has undergone rapid development.
We will ensure a better future for our youth.So let us join hands in this forward march, he said.
Kurunegala District Parliamentarian J.C.Alawathuwala said several roads throughout the electorate will be carpeted and developed within the next few months.
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam, Wayamba Development Minister and Cultural Affairs S.B. Navinna and Deputy Minister of Transport Ashok Abeysingha addressed the meeting.
==============================
## Title: Measures needed to prevent decline of Lankan cricket
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Measures needed to prevent decline of Lankan cricket
Something should be done to prevent the decline of cricket in Sri Lanka. Talented members should be selected to the cricket team. Todays problem is with the cricket administration. Steps should be taken according to the law of the country to preserve the game of cricket for the future, said the Most Ven.Warakagoda Sri Gnanaratne Mahanayake Thera of the Asgiriya Chapter.
The Asgiriya Prelate expressed these sentiments when Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunga called on him at his temple in Kandy and received his blessings recently.
Earlier, Minister Ranatunga visited the Sri Dalada Maligawa and paid homage to the Sacred Tooth Relic and thereafter called on the Malwatte Prelate at his temple and received his blessings.
The Minister also briefed the two Mahanayake Theras about the future programme of work envisaged by his ministry.
Speaking to the media, Minister Ranatunga said both Mahanayake Theras requested him to take charge of the cricket administration and prevent its further decline, when asked by the media as to why he did not attend a cricket workshop organised by the Sports Ministry recently, Ranatunga said the workshop should have been organised by the Sports Ministry. But, it was not so because the telephone number given in the invitation card to acknowledge presence was not the telephone number of the Sports Ministry, but one belonging to a person called Gayathri attached to Sri Lanka Cricket. This proved that the workshop was a ruse adopted by Sri Lanka Cricket to tide over the present problems encountered by it, alleged Minister Ranatunga.
==============================
## Title: Meet the Indonesian Ambassador at the National Chamber
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Meet the Indonesian Ambassador at the National Chamber
To discuss Bilateral Trade Between Sri Lanka and Indonesia
Indonesian Ambassador to Sri Lanka, Gusti Ngurah Ardiyasa, will be the Special Guest Speaker on Bilateral Trade Between Sri Lanka and Indonesia on September 26, 2017 at the Chamber, from 3.00 p.m to 4.30 p.m, No 450 D R Wijewardene Mawatha Colombo 10.
He will be accompanied by the Head of Chancery and the third Secretary (Economic affairs) of the Embassy.
The Ambassador will speak on the current business trend, trade potential, and opportunities for export/import, investment, and other services available for Sri Lankans in Indonesia. The participants will get an opportunity to interact with the ambassador and officials at the session and get information on trade and services available.
Indonesia, consists of thousands of volcanic islands, with hundreds of ethnic groups and is known for its volcanoes, dragons, orangutans and tigers. Capital, Jakarta, population 264 million. Sri Lanka officially established diplomatic relations with Indonesia in 1952.
Sri Lanka exports to Indonesia - tobacco products and substitutes, wheat flour, apparel and tea.
Sri Lanka imports from Indonesia Unmanufactured tobacco, tobacco refuse, paper pulp, of paper or of paperboard; Portland cement, Export commodities of Indonesia: electrical appliances, plywood, textiles, rubber, oil and gas.
More information could be obtained from [emailprotected]; [emailprotected]

==============================
## Title: Minister calls for inquiries into three healthcare incidents
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Minister calls for inquiries into three healthcare incidents
Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne had instructed Acting Director General of Health Services Dr. J.M.W. Jayasundara Bandara to conduct investigations into three recent incidents, Health Ministry spokesman said.
The investigations called for the death of a PHI suffering from a heart attack who was admitted to the Hinguraggoda Hospital, denial of treatment for a student at the Rambewa Rural Hospital for a heart ailment and a report that a lady doctor on duty was scolded at the Matara General Hospital OPD.
Minister Senaratne had pointed out that no doctor can refrain from treating patients on the grounds that there is no electricity. All emergency medical treatment should be carried out irrespective of obstacles, the spokesmen said.
==============================
## Title: Monk cheats people promising greener pastures in Japan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Monk cheats people promising greener pastures in Japan
A number of complaints were lodged at Hanwella police against a Buddhist monk who allegedly cheated over 100 people of nearly Rs. 20 million.
The monk has taken money from the complainants promising them to send them to Japan. The accused, Navagamuwe Wimalaratana, is a resident of a temple in the area.
The monk has allegedly taken Rs. 200,000 from each victim. After money was collected, the monk has fled the area. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Monks collecting money by pindapatha against Vinaya Pitaka: Minister Amunugama
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Monks collecting money by pindapatha against Vinaya Pitaka: Minister Amunugama
Special Projects Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama said that to his knowledge, the Vinaya Pitakaya (Code of Conduct) does not permit bhikkhus to go on pindapatha rounds for collecting money. Bhikkhus doing pindapatha rounds to solicit rupees and cents was not a solitary trend from the angle of the sasana and he thoroughly regretted the practice undertaken by a section of the bhikkhus.
Dr. Amunugama was speaking to the media after participating in a ceremony held at the Galagedara Primary School on September 18.
Dr. Amunugama said that contrary to opposition claims, the countrys economy had registered a growth rate of 5 percent last year.
An economic down turn had been a habitual allegation levelled against the Government by opposition parties since independence. The correct management of the economy had enabled the Government to handle debt servicing prudently, he said.
It was an irony to see Bandula Gunawardena, who claimed that a normal family could make ends meet with a meager Rs. 2,500 income per month, taking the role of economic advisor of the Joint Opposition. While in opposition, Bandula Gunawardena had gained notoriety claiming on economic downturn of the country and countering such baseless allegations would be an utter waste of valuble time, he said.
==============================
## Title: Motor accident kills one
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Motor accident kills one
A pedestrian walking along the Elpitiya-Galle highway was knocked down by a motorcyclist at Rathnamehe and was admitted to the Arachchikanda Hospital at Hikkadwa, where he succumbed to injuries, Batapola Police said.
The accident took place on Friday around 5.15 am and the victim was identified as K. K. Dayarathna, 67, Police further said. The motorcyclist was arrested.
Batapola Police are investing.
==============================
## Title: NDB Wealth regular income plan, meets life's milestones
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
NDB Wealth regular income plan, meets life's milestones
No matter the financial goals one aspires to, whether it is buying a home or car, or paying to educate one's children, a regular income plan from expert financial planner NDB Wealth is one of the best options for true success.
NDB Wealth's regular income plan allows the saver to withdraw a predetermined amount, at regular intervals, from an existing saving or investment account at NDB Wealth. These intervals can be monthly, quarterly and will be credited to your bank account on the date specified by you.
Achieving a goal is incredibly satisfying and it is even better when you meet financial goals related to payments or income.
A Regular Income Plan takes care of it all, said Christina Wesley, Financial Advisor at NDB Wealth.
Wesley added, The Regular Income Plan from NDB Wealth can also help you with a variety of ongoing financial commitments, from paying your monthly insurance premium, or your kid's college tuition, to even securing your long term future by providing a steady retirement income.
The Regular Income Plan is so flexible it lets clients take out a part of the capital as well as income you make from it or, alternatively, only withdraw the income made on investments, enabling capital to stay invested.
Visit the NDB Wealth website and utilise the Auto Wealth Planner function to custom design a plan that meets your financial goals. Or visit NDB Wealth at your nearest. It is also advisable to get advice from a NDB Wealth representative prior to finalising any plan, so you are aware of the amount of savings or investments needed to meet your required withdrawal. For more information is visit our web via www.ndbwealth.com.
==============================
## Title: New cricket selection committee
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
New cricket selection committee
Having earlier made the announcement that former Sri Lanka fast bowler Graeme Labrooy will be the new chairman of cricket selectors, it is reliably learnt that Sri Lanka Cricket has sent the names of the following former cricketers Asanka Gurusinha, Gamini Wickremasinghe and Jerry Woutersz to the Minister of Sports for ratification.
Gurusinha who is the current cricket manager of the national team retains his position as national selector having served in the previous committee headed by Sanath Jayasuriya that resigned at the end of the Indian series on September 7.
The first task of the new selection committee is to pick the Sri Lanka squad for the two Test series against Pakistan in the UAE starting later this month.
==============================
## Title: NEW ELECTORAL SYSTEM A GREAT VICTORY FOR PEOPLE: PRESIDENT
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
NEW ELECTORAL SYSTEM A GREAT VICTORY FOR PEOPLE: PRESIDENT
President Maithripala Sirisena said he would take measures to conduct the forthcoming Local Government elections according to the new electoral system replacing the Preferential System as the new system was a great victory afforded to all sections of the people in the country.
Notwithstanding the objections of certain parties, we took the initiative to hold the next Local Government elections under the Ward System in the interests of the people at large, irrespective of party differences, the President said.
The President emphasized that he is dedicated to take necessary measures to replace the Preferential System of elections with the new system at the next Parliamentary election too.
President Maithripala Sirisena made this observation when he met SLFP members of the North Central Provincial Council for a discussion at his official residence on Saturday.
The discussion centred on measures to strengthen the SLFP to ensure victory at future elections and finding solutions to existing problems confronting the Provincial Councils.
Speaking further, President Sirisena said due to the current Preferential System of elections, politicians tended to place self before the country and work for personal victory.
This had prevented the country from achieving the victories envisaged by the people. As such he took the initiative and leadership to ensure that the forthcoming local elections is held according to the ward system in place of the current preferential system, the President said.
The President said he believed that all elections should be held according to a single system in the country. Necessary steps were also being taken to conduct the future Provincial Council elections too according to the electorate basis.
Replacing the Preferential System with the electorate system was a fundamental pledge offered to the people by him at the 2015 Presidential elections.
The President would take the initiative to introduce a new political culture on behalf of the people by introducing the electoral system of elections in place of the preferential system.
==============================
## Title: New Excise Commissioner General appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
New Excise Commissioner General appointed
Helen Meegasmulla, a senior administrative officer, has been appointed as the new Excise Commissioner General.
This is the first time in the history of the country that a woman has been appointed as Commissioner General of Excise and the Excise Trade Unions Forum has commended Finance and Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera and the Government for diving so.
She is due to assure duties in her new post at an auspicious time on September 18. Meegasmulla, who is the wife of Sustainable Development and Wildlife Ministry Secretary A. Meegasmulla, has completed 32 yeas of service in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
Earlier, she had functioned as the Municipal Commissioner attached to the Kandy Municipal Council, Deputy Chief Secretary of the Central Provincial Council, Akurana Divisional Secretary and District Secretary to the Matale and Nuwara Eliya districts.
==============================
## Title: New SLFP electoral organisers for NWP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
New SLFP electoral organisers for NWP
President Maithripala Sirisena has appointed several new Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) electoral organisers for the North Western Province.
Herath Banda, who was the Co-organiser for the SLFP in the Horowpothana electorate in the Anuradhapura district was appointed as the Chief Organiser.
In the Kekirawa electorate, Rohana Jayakody, who was the Co-organser, was appointed as the chief SLFP Organiser.
Chaminda Ratnayake was appointed as the SLFP organiser for the Hingurakgoda polling division in the Minneriya Electorate, Polonnaruwa district.
They had received the letters of appointment from President Maithripala Sirisena at the Presidents official residence in Colombo on Saturday afternoon.
==============================
## Title: New Zealand jet fuel shortage leaves passengers stranded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 11:15
New Zealand jet fuel shortage leaves passengers stranded

Thousands of airline passengers were stranded in Auckland on Monday after a burst pipeline cut jet fuel supplies to New Zealand's largest airport.
The damaged pipeline is Auckland Airport's only source of jet fuel.
The disruption is expected to last at least a week as work continues to repair the pipe, the operator said.
Fuel supplies have been rationed and airlines are looking to refuel in Australia and elsewhere to keep long-haul services running.
According to Auckland Airport, which sees about 18 million passengers a year, oil companies are responsible for the transport and supply of fuel used by airlines, and that supply has been reduced.
Air New Zealand said fuel supplies at the airport were down to 30% of normal capacity, forcing some long-haul flights to make additional refuelling stops at airports in Australia and the Pacific.
The carrier said about 2,000 passengers are affected by cancellations on Monday.
As well as Air New Zealand, Qantas, Cathay Pacific and Emirates said that some flights had been affected by the fuel shortage. At least 27 international and domestic flights were cancelled over the weekend.
Teams are working around the clock to fix the pipeline after damage from a digger caused it to burst last Thursday, operator Refinery New Zealand said.
But the firm said the repairs to build a new section of pipe, which have been complicated by safety concerns and heavy rains, will take a least a week.
The pipeline should return to service between 24 September and 26 September, the firm said.
That is likely to spell more pain for passengers and airlines.
The pipe also supplies petrol and diesel to drivers in Auckland, but the country's energy minister Judith Collins said it was unlikely that motorists would be inconvenienced, as fuel was being trucked in from the refinery.
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Obituaries
ABEYAKOON - DR. SARATH (Medical Director, Senior Oncologist, Ceylinco Healthcare Services). Beloved husband of Dr. Luckshmi, devoted father of Dr. Chathuri, loving brother of Mangalika. Cortege leaves residence 125, Abeyratne Mawatha, Boralesgamuwa at 4.30 p.m. on Monday 18th of September for cremation at 6.00 p.m. at General Cemetery, Borella.116159
DE SILVA - ASOKA. Son of late K.R. Alson De Silva and of Alice Chandra De Silva, son-in-law of late Stanley H. Abeysekera and Soma Abeysekera, beloved husband of Damayanthi, much loved father of Nayantara and Damesh, father-in-law of Jeremy and Ashana, brother of late Nimala, Padma, Mahanama and Pavithri, grandfather of Shari, Matthew, Apeksha and Dinethri. Funeral took place according to his wishes on September 15th, 2017.116114
EKARATNE - ARIYAWATHI - Wife of late S. Ekaratne - Attorney-at-Law (Ambalangoda), beloved mother of Prof. Uditha (Suki), Nilanga, Helani and Kumar Ekaratne, mother-in-law of Vajira, Kumudini, Abeya and Ananda, grandmother of Sidath, Tikiri, Chehani, Erandi, Sanuja and Tivanka Ekaratne, expired. Remains lie at The Restpect Funeral Home by Jayaratnes between AMW Showroom and Devi Balika Vidyalaya. Cremation at Borella Cemetery, on (Monday) 18th September 2017 at 5.30 p.m.116160
FERNANDO - THANAMONY - (of Vembar). Beloved wife of the late V.S.A. Fernando, loving mother of Josephine, Sr. Monica (RGS), Rose Fidelis and Stanis, loving mother-in-law of the late X.A.M. Fernando, the late Xavier Morais and of Niranjala and Renola, darling grandmother of Shirani and Mahadevan, Sudarshan and Margaret, Fr. Prakash, Sasikala and Selvaraj, Ashanti and Trevin Anoja and Alann, Dilan and Eronie, Radhika and Lacshika, loving great grandmother of Brindha and Arun, Vidhya and Arul, Navin, Joyal, Treshan and Shrenic, loving great great grandmother of Jayden and Joel. Cortege leaves residence 54, St. Marys Lane, Mattakkuliya at 2.30 p.m. on Monday 18th for burial at General Cemetery Kanatte, Borella.116143
NANAYAKKARA - SHALINI (Nee PERERA) - Dearly beloved wife of Nilmin, adored mother of Mandrinee, Uvindra and Janendra, intended mother-in-law of Kavishan Dissanayake, much loved daughter of Nimal and of late Duncan Perera, beloved sister and sister-in-law of Waruni and Ravi Fernando, Ishani and Chaminda Perera, Vasudeva and Wasanthi, Manoshree and of late Yasapalitha, Padma and Ira, Swarna and of late Asoka Meegama, Ranjini and Chandra Tennekoon, Lanka and Abhaya Panditharatne, Dharma and Kamal Gammampila, Hemakumara and Nedra and Asanga and Theja, expired. Cortege leaves residence No. 132/31, Kurulubedda, Nawala Road, Nugegoda at 3 p.m. for cremation at 4 p.m. on Monday the 18th of September 2017 at the General Cemetery, Borella.116116

==============================
## Title: Offshore Patrol Vessel arrives at Colombo Harbour
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Offshore Patrol Vessel arrives at Colombo Harbour
The Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) provided by the Indian Government to the Sri Lanka Navy to expand its operational capabilities arrived at the Colombo Harbour on Saturday.
The Navy received the ship in accordance with the naval tradition.
The ship was officially taken over by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Coast Guard, Rear Admiral Samantha Wimalathunge at the Port of Kochi, India on September 5.
The new platform manned by 10 officers and 98 sailors is led by Captain Nevil Ubesiri as its Commanding Officer. The vessel after assigning the pennant number CG 60 will join the Sri Lanka Coast Guard.
Commander Western Naval Area, Rear Admiral Niraja Attygalle, Deputy Director General Coast Guard, Nandana Jayarathne and a host of senior naval officers from the Naval Headquarters and Western Naval Command were present.
==============================
## Title: OMP agreement has no retrospective effect: PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
OMP agreement has no retrospective effect: PM
The agreement to set up the Office of Missing Persons (OMP) has been formulated to be effective to the future only. It wall not have any retrospective effect, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.
No one will be able to file cases regarding the Ekneligoda, Tahajudeen or other past incidents under this OMP agreement, the Prime Minister said.
Although Civil Society organisations questioned them as to why the Thajudeen and Ekneligoda incidents were not included, they were not in a position to change the law of the land in the implementation of the Constitution, the Prime Minister said.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe made this observation at a meeting held to mark the opening of a new school building at the Polpitgama National school on September 16.
The Minister said it was to develop the country that the two main political parties joined hands to form a national Government under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena. Their objective was to jointly develop the country and contest elections separately.
This is a system found in counties such as Germany, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister said he opened two school buildings and a Divisional Secretariat building during his visit to Polpithigama. They hoped to focus more attention on Wanni Hathpattuwa during their development programme in the Wayamba.
The people should thank state Minister T.B. Ekanayake and Achini Lokubandara for the interest shown in developing the Wanni Hathpatthuwa, the Prime Minister said.
He said the Kurunegala District had been lucky to have two Education Ministers representing it. The line Minister of Education and the Provincial Minister of Education both represented the Kurunegala District.
The Prime Minister said Education and Health are two important aspects of development.
Free education should not be confined to the world only. The background should be laid to provide education to every citizen in the country. The gap between city and village schools should be eliminated, the Prime Minister added.
A large amount of work was done by the Health Minister and through Provincial Council to develop the health services in the country. The governments endeavour was to ensure a healthy life to all citizen the Prime Minister said.
Public Administration should be properly conducted to ensure solutions to peoples problems. It is with this idea in mind that Minister Vajira Abeywardene provided a spacious building to the Polpitigama Divisional Secretariat to enable it to carry out it work more efficiently, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe added.
Another important factor was the maintenance of law and order. Everyone should be treated equally before the law, the Prime Minister said.
Since the war ended in 2009, the government signed the OMP agreement in December 2015 and passed the relevant legislation in Parliament.
According to Section 70 of the Constitution, it would be operational from the date of certification by the Speaker, the Prime Minister said. Although it is operational for the future it would not have any retrospective effect, the Premier added.
Although Prof. G.L. Peiris had maintained that this agreement would have retrospective effect. It would not be so according to Section 13:6 of the Contribution relating to fundamental rights, the Prime Minister added.
The government would not allow any Sri Lankan citizen to be taken before an international court. We have the potential to resolve our problems by ourselves, the Prime Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Osu Sala for Beruwala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Osu Sala for Beruwala
Health Minister Dr.Rajitha Senaratne opened the new Osu Sala store in Beruwela recently.
==============================
## Title: Pakistan by-election: Former PM's wife 'wins Lahore seat'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 09:45
Pakistan by-election: Former PM's wife 'wins Lahore seat'

The wife of Pakistan's former Prime Minister Sharif who stepped down over a corruption inquiry has won a key seat in Lahore, unofficial results suggest.
Kulsoom Nawaz stood in place of her husband Nawaz Sharif,who was disqualified from office in July.
She won 61,254 votes, 14,188 more than her nearest rival,local media say.
The vote was seen by both the ruling PML-N party and the opposition as a referendum on the Supreme Court's decision to disqualify Sharif.
The Pakistani former PMs wife is currently in London for cancer treatment. Her daughter, Maryam, spearheaded the campaign for the PML-N party in her absence.
"This is not an ordinary victory," Maryam told party supporters after the unofficial results were declared.
"You have defeated not only people who were in the field but also those who are invisible."
She said winning her father's former seat in the family's hometown showed that people had rejected the "unjust decision" to disqualify her father.
But, if the results are confirmed, the party's share of the vote in the key constituency has dropped by about 7%.
The Supreme Court barred Sharif from office after an inquiry into the 2016 Panama Papers dump linked his children to offshore companies.
He has always denied the allegations, but the Supreme Court has dismissed petitions seeking a review of its decision.
Media reports suggested a large turnout for the vote on Sunday, with long queues forming outside polling stations.
The election was contested by all the major parties, as well as two new Islamist opposition parties.
PML-N faced a strong challenge from the PTI party led by cricketer-turned-politician Imran Khan and the Pakistan People's Party of Bilawal Bhutto Zardari.
The by-election was also seen as a test of support for the Sharif family ahead of next year's general election.
Maryam Nawaz, who does not hold political office but is a high-profile figure in Pakistan, alleged that several PML-N party workers had been threatened ahead of polling day.
She took centre stage in the lead-up to the vote and during the campaign sought to portray it as the "people's verdict" on her father's disqualification.
In a recent BBC interview she said the issue had "galvanised his supporters" and that public sentiment was "very positive".
More than 320,000 voters took part in the poll, which for the first time in Pakistan's history was conducted using Biometric Voter Verification Machines in some the constituency's 220 polling stations.
==============================
## Title: Pandya stars in rain-hit win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Pandya stars in rain-hit win
Chennai: All-rounder Hardik Pandya starred with the bat and ball to help India defeat Australia by 26 runs in the rain-hit opening one-day international in Chennai on Sunday.
Chasing a revised target of 164 in 21 overs, the visitors were frustrated by wrist spinners Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav who shared five wickets between them. They ended on 137-9.
But it was Pandya's 66-ball 83 and two wickets that proved decisive in India taking a 1-0 lead in the five-match series.
Pandya put on a gritty 118-run sixth-wicket stand with Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who made 79, to lift India from a precarious 87-5 after electing to bat first.
In reply, the visitors had to wait for two hours to start their shortened chase as constant drizzle threatened to spoil the contest.
Pacemen Jasprit Bumrah and Pandya combined to hurt Australia's hopes of chasing a tricky target with three early strikes including skipper Steve Smith for one.
Bumrah bowled debutant opener Hilton Cartwright for one. He then took a stunning high catch at short fine-leg to send Smith trudging back to the pavilion off Pandya.
Left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav also joined the party after getting star opener David Warner caught behind for 25 as Australia's innings fell apart.
Glenn Maxwell tried to raise Australia's hopes with his 18-ball 39, including three fours and four sixes, but Yuzvendra Chahal cut short the batsman's blitz.
Leg-spinner Chahal ended with three wickets in his five overs. Pandya and Yadav took two each.
Earlier Australian fast bowler Nathan Coulter-Nile had made an impact with three wickets including the prized scalp of Virat Kohli for nought.
Coulter-Nile, who returned after a string of injuries that kept him out since June 2016, put India in early trouble at 11-3.
Rohit Sharma, who made 28, and Kedar Jadhav, who scored 40, tried to rebuild with their 53-run partnership before Marcus Stoinis sent the two batsmen back in the pavilion.
Dhoni, who has captained the successful Chennai franchise in the Indian Premier League Twenty20 tournament, then made his innings count along with Pandya for company.
The duo thwarted the Australian bowling with some stubborn batting before Pandya let loose to take the attack to the opposition.
Pandya took a special liking to Adam Zampa's leg-spin as he smashed the bowler for a four and three successive sixes in an over to bring up his third ODI fifty.
Zampa though did get Pandya out for his only wicket in the innings but the bowler's 10 overs cost his side 66 runs.
Dhoni soon took over to blast some vital runs in the last five overs as he added 72 runs with number-eight Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who finished unbeaten on 32.
The two teams now head to Kolkata's iconic Eden Gardens for the second ODI on Thursday. AFP
==============================
## Title: Parliament to take up 20th Amendment on Wednesday
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Parliament to take up 20th Amendment on Wednesday
The 20th Amendment to the Constitution, which proposes for holding the elections for all provincial councils on the same date, will be taken up for debate in Parliament on September 20 as per the Schedule, UPFA General Secretary and Fisheries Minister Mahinda Amaraweera said.
He said Speaker Karu Jayasuriya will announce the Supreme Court ruling on the legality of the 20th Amendment to the Constitution when Parliament meets on September 19.
If the SC rules that Parliament needs a two-third majority to pass the amendment, the house will debate the draft bill on the amendment on the following day. But, if it calls for a referendum, the party leaders will discuss and decide a way forward, he added. (IR)
==============================
## Title: PM opens new Mawathagama police station
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
PM opens new Mawathagama police station
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe opened the new Mawathagama police station last Saturday.IGP Pujith Jayasundera and MP J.CAlawathuwala looks on.(PMs Media Unit)
==============================
## Title: Policemen on cannabis bust attacked
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Policemen on cannabis bust attacked
A group of Police officers who went to bust a cannabis smuggling operation in Janakapura, Welioya, on Saturday were attacked by an unidentified group which left two policemen injured.
Police say that a group of villagers had set upon the policemen who were on their way to nab the cannabis smugglers.
A Police jeep was also damaged in the incident. The injured policemen have been admitted to the Sampathnuwara hospital. The Police have arrested 18 suspected attackers.
==============================
## Title: The Power of Paper
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
The Power of Paper
I havent counted them, but it could be that there are about 5,000 printed pages waiting to be read in the form of books, precariously stacked on the shelf in my bedroom. Even as I type this I see Ulysses frowning at me for being ignored for so long, Daphne du Mauriers Frenchmans Creek tries to seduce me to read her again for the hundredth time, while beyond in the far corner rests the Brothers Karamazov wondering why I could not read their story to the end. Now that the book fair is on, I know more books will join this mountain. I know I wont disappoint them. I hope to consume them all, some day, in the future.
I also know it would be a lot easier to manage them if I just downloaded all of them to my Kindle. But then, they will disappear from my room, and I cant imagine how lonely life would be without my roommates and their demanding, alluring, forbidding looks.
But, as Josh Catone points out in his article, Why Printed Books will Never Die, the writing appears to be on the wall: E-books are slowly subsuming the printed format as the preferred vehicle on which people read books. A recent study found that the percentage of children who have read an e-book has nearly doubled since 2010 to almost half of all kids aged 9 to 17, while the number who say theyll continue to read books in print instead of electronically declined from 66% to 58%.
For those of us who prefer their books printed in ink on paper, and who would be making our way to the book fair this week (if we havent done so already) that sounds depressing. But perhaps there is reason to hope that e-books and print books could have a bright future together, because for all the great things e-books accomplish  convenience, selection, portability, multimedia  there are still some fundamental qualities they will simply never possess.
Author Joe Queenan, in an article in the Wall Street Journal argues that e-books are great for people who care only about the contents, have vision problems or other physical limitations or who are ashamed of what they are reading.
He declares, rather harshly, for people who truly love books, print is the only medium that will satisfy. People who need to possess the physical copy of a book, not merely an electronic version, believe that the objects themselves are sacred, he writes. Some people may find this attitude baffling, arguing that books are merely objects that take up space.
This is true, but so are Prague and your kids and the Sistine Chapel.
Web entrepreneur, designer and novelist Jack Cheng, offers another view, (as given in Catones article). I feel like with e-books, you often just get a meal on the same white plate as all the other meals, he muses. But a nice hardcover is like having a place setting, having dinnerware selected to suit the food. The story is still the main thing youre there for, but the choices around it  the paper stock, the way the book is typeset, the selection of fonts  they add their own subtle flavors to the experience of that story. Printed books also possess the quality of scarcity, which means that your copy is unique on some level. For readers who truly love a particular book, an electronic facsimile is not an adequate replacement for owning a physical copy.
There are books that I need bound and sitting on my shelf. I need a copy of Fahrenheit 451. That book is important to me, says author Rob Hart. Digital technology is funny  you own an e-book, but you dont ... Youre paying for the right to access data.
Cheng has also felt the draw of books as collectible objects. Personally Ive gone out and purchased hardcovers of books I first read on my Kindle because I wanted them in a more tangible form, he explains. Having a hardcover on my shelf is like having a print by one of my favorite artists on the wall.
So, it is a mistake to assume that the e-book replacing the printed book is similar to the case of the MP3 replacing the CD, or the CD replacing the cassette. E-books are not simply a better format replacing an inferior one; they offer a wholly different experience.
This is obviously why in a surprising flip of the traditional publishing cycle, Random House printed hardcover versions of E.L. James bestselling 50 Shades of Grey trilogy, even though electronic and mass market paperback editions have sold 65 million copies. And Amazon has opened its first bookshop. And the BMICH is brimming right now with old fashioned book stores. Why Reader demand. You just cant collect an e-book.
To quote Queenan again: Books as physical objects matter to me, because they evoke the past. A Mtro ticket falls out of a book I bought 40 years ago, and I am transported back to the Rue Saint-Jacques on Sept. 12, 1972, where I am waiting for someone named Annie LeCombe. A telephone message from a friend who died too young falls out of a book, and I find myself back in the Chateau Marmont on a balmy September day in 1995. A note I scribbled to myself in Homage to Catalonia in 1973 when I was in Granada reminds me to learn Spanish, which I have not yet done, and to go back to Granada.
Maybe its just that simple. Virtual books, like virtual holidays and virtual relationships are not real. A book on the other hand, is beauty. A book is a shelf, a wall, a home, a friend.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: President leaves for New York to attend 72nd UN General Assembly
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
President leaves for New York to attend 72nd UN General Assembly
President Maithripala Sirisena left for New York, US yesterday to attend the 72nd General Assembly of the United Nations (UN).
The President and the delegation left from the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA), Katunayake around 10.35 am. He is due to address the General Assembly on September 19 evening.
This is the third time that President Maithripala Sirisena is addressing the UN General Assembly.
The General Debate will open with a focus on the theme, Focusing on People: Striving for Peace and a Decent Life for All on a Sustainable Planet. The 72nd United Nations General Assembly is due to be held at the UN Headquarters in New York from September 17 to 23. The President will meet several world leaders on the sidelines of the summit.
==============================
## Title: President Sirisena arrives at New York to attend UN General Assembly
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 09:45
President Sirisena arrives at New York to attend UN General Assembly

President Maithripala Sirisena arrived at the John F Kennedy Airport in New York today to attend the 72nd United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) Sessions.
The President was warmly welcomed by Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the United Nations Dr. Rohan Perera, and embassy staff in New York.  The President is due to address the UN General Assembly at 5.00 p.m., New York time, on September 19.
 The President along with First Lady Jayanthi Sirisena arrived by flight EK 207 from Dubai and proceeded by a special motorcade to Loews Regency Hotel that accommodated the Sri Lankan delegation.
 The President and First Lady were warmly welcomed at the Loews Regency Hotel by Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Prasad Kariyawasam .
 President Sirisena is scheduled to participate in a number of bilateral discussions that includes ones with Pakistans new Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi and Prime Minister of Nepal Sher Bahadur.
 The President is also scheduled to participate in bilateral meetings with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein on September 22 and UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres at the UN Secretariat building on September 23.
 The President will also participate in a dinner hosted by Dr. Rohan Perera, the permanent Representative of Sri Lanka to the UN on September 22.
He is due to meet the members of Sri Lankan Expatriate Community in New York and participate in a felicitation function for Most Venerable Kurunegoda Piyatissa Thera of New York Buddhist Vihara on September 23.
 The President is to conclude his six-day official visit on September 23.
==============================
## Title: Rampant Manchester City go top, Palace slump continues
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Rampant Manchester City go top, Palace slump continues
LONDON, Saturday - Manchester City thumped Watford 6-0 to move top of the Premier League on Saturday as Crystal Palace suffered their fifth successive loss in a 1-0 defeat by Southampton.
With joint leaders Manchester United playing on Sunday, along with Chelsea, City took their opportunity to lay down a title marker with another attacking masterclass and go three points clear of their neighbours at the summit.
Sergio Aguero scored his 10th City hat-trick, with strike partner Gabriel Jesus, Nicolas Otamendi and Raheem Sterling also netting against previously unbeaten Watford as City, who beat Liverpool 5-0 and Feyenoord 4-0 this week, romped home.
Aguero has now scored 175 goals for City and is closing in on the clubs all-time record of 177, set by Eric Brook between 1928 and 1940.
I was lucky to manage Barcelona with many outstanding performances but this week has been a lot of goals, said manager Pep Guardiola.
We have found our game, we can make short passes and we have a lot of energy from our fullbacks, added the Spaniard whose side had 28 shots on goal and inflicted Watfords heaviest top-flight league defeat. Former England manager Roy Hodgson would have loved to call on some of that firepower at Selhurst Park as he began his latest job at Crystal Palace, who look serious candidates for relegation after suffering the worst start to a season by any side in English footballs top-flight history.
Steven Davis scored the only goal of the game after six minutes and Southampton, for whom Virgil van Dijk came on as a substitute to play his first game in eight months, survived the odd second-half scare to take all three points.
We didnt deserve a fairytale ending, Hodgson said. We didnt play well enough. After the goal you could see the nerves and the anxiety.
It was hardly much better for Liverpool who completed a disappointing week by drawing 1-1 with Burnley at Anfield. The visitors remained unbeaten away from home in the Premier League this season after a win at Chelsea and a draw at Tottenham Hotspur. Even Philippe Coutinhos first start could not secure the points for Liverpool, who trailed to a Scott Arfield goal before Mohamed Salah equalised with his fifth of the season.
Newcastle United posted their third successive win, 2-1 over Stoke City, to cheer Rafa Benitez on his return to the dugout after ill health.
For the second week running, Jamaal Lascelles scored the winner to justify the expected award of a new five-year contract at the club.
Newcastle are fourth, two places and one point above fellow promoted side Huddersfield Town, who drew 1-1 with Leicester City.
Jamie Vardys second-half penalty earned the visitors a point after Laurent Depoitre had given Huddersfield the lead. West Ham United drew 0-0 with West Bromwich Albion in a game memorable only for Gareth Barrys record-equalling 632nd Premier League appearance for the home side at The Hawthorns.
In Saturdays late kickoff, suggestions that Tottenham Hotspur had cracked their home curse after their midweek Champions League victory over Borussia Dortmund proved shortlived.
Mauricio Pochettinos side were held 0-0 by Swansea City, the third successive time Wembleys new tenants have failed to win at home in the league this season.
- Agencies
==============================
## Title: Reckless riders over rail crossings fined
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Reckless riders over rail crossings fined
Galle Additional Magistrate Asanga Hettiwatte fined 11 motorcyclists Rs. 22,000, Rs. 2,000 each as they were found guilty of crossing a railway intersection at Hikkaduwa, Galle, while the gate was closed for a passing train.
The riders were arrested and prosecuted by a group of Special Railway Security Unit officers led by its OIC Ajith Prasanna.
The special security unit was established under directions of Director of Railway Security Force K.G. Anura Premarathne Assistant Director A.W. Sumith.
==============================
## Title: Record win not good enough, say All Blacks
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Record win not good enough, say All Blacks
AUCKLAND, Sunday - The All Blacks gave themselves a pass mark but said there was still a lot to work on as they reflected Sunday on their record 57-0 demolition of South Africa.
The eight-try victory in Auckland, a marriage of a scintillating attack and ruthless defence, kept the unbeaten New Zealanders in line to retain the Rugby Championship with only two matches remaining.
After taking a while to settle into the game and find their rhythm, the All Blacks produced their best display of the year, eliminating many of the errors that have littered their previous performances.
But scrum-half Aaron Smith said there were signs it was not the complete performance the All Blacks were searching for.
We came out in the first 10 in that second half and we were average and a bit sluggish, he said.
We have still got improvements. Nehe (Milner-Skudder) scored that try in the corner and we walked back and you always know that it's not a good feeling when you're not trying to get back (quickly).
It's really hard to do when you're up by a good score, to stay in that zone, but if we want to see where we can go we've got to stay in that zone for 80 minutes. The result exposed the huge gulf between the world number one All Blacks and the number three Springboks, but a year out from facing second-ranked England at Twickenham and two years from the next World Cup, coach Steve Hansen was not getting carried away.
We came in pretty clear about how we wanted to play and what we wanted to achieve and a lot of those things came off, he said.
We started a bit jittery. There was a lot of dropped ball or bobble ball, but once we got in to the rhythm of the game I thought we played probably as good as we've played for a long time. Assistant coach Ian Foster, widely tipped to take the top job when Hansen steps down after the 2019 World Cup in Japan, noted lapses that crept in once the result was beyond doubt.
We still weren't perfect.
There were parts of that second-half when we had a few opportunities and we struggled a little bit. But, overall we got a lot more right than wrong, he said.
It was the second time in consecutive Tests that the All Blacks have put more than 50 points past the Springboks following their 57-15 victory last year. They also bettered the previous 53-3 record loss the South Africans suffered against England in 2002.
This year, the All Blacks have played eight Tests for six wins, a draw and a loss but their performances have been perplexing.
The high-octane game Hansen is trying to perfect is mesmerising when it comes off, as it did against the Springboks and for the first 50 minutes of their opening Rugby Championship Test against Australia. But at other times the pace and intensity has been marred by inaccuracy. Defence coach Wayne Smith, in his sign-off Test in New Zealand before he steps away from the All Blacks at the end of the championship, rated it a special performance. It's been a while coming this year, he said. It's sort of a dream performance to finish on.
I think we knew there was going to be a whole-hearted performance, that there was going to be something pretty good. We were confident of that. But that was special.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Restraining order on garbage dumping extended
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Restraining order on garbage dumping extended
Batticaloa Magistrate M. Ganesharaja extended the restraining order for another 14 days when the request of the Batticaloa Municipal Council to allow them to dump garbage at the Thiruperunthurai Solid Waste Management Centre was taken up for hearing recently.
The case is to be heard on September 29. Dumping garbage in the Batticaloa town is causing serious health and sanitation concerns. The recent fires at the centre has worsened the situation. Residents of the area have filed a court case requesting a restraining order on the garbage dumping.
Thirty families were resettled in the area from distant places like Sammanthurai in 1990 by then Rehabilitation and Resettlement Minister A.H.M. Ashraff.
They are to be shifted to another place by authorities. But they oppose the suggestion saying that they would lose their residences as a result.
Civil organisations and residents of the area protest urging the authorities to resolve the issue.
==============================
## Title: Sarana Gunawardene further remanded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 15:15
Sarana Gunawardene further remanded

Former Petroleum Industries Deputy Minister and former Chairman of Development Lotteries Board (DLB) Sarana Gunawardena was ordered to be remanded till October 2, today.
He is alleged to have misused a state vehicle valued over Rs.8 million, while he was serving as the Chairman of Development Lotteries Board during the previous regime.
The former Deputy Minister was arrested by the Colombo Crimes Division (CCD) over offences he is alleged to have committed under Public Property Act.
==============================
## Title: Screw portraits
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Screw portraits
Half painting, half sculpture, a study of balance, chaos and harmony. This is Descent, artist Bruce Mackleys stunning piece, an industrial mosaic of over 20,000 decking and framing screws set meticulously into painted pine board at varying depths.
This medium can be tedious and challenging says Mackley, but it offers a fantastic level of undoing and redoing. He says that he spent hundreds of hours painstakingly working on the piece, adjusting and readjusting screws to get the desired effect. Patience and focus are required for this kind of 3D art!
Weighing over 350lb and standing seven feet tall, the mosaic is a challenge to transport. Mackley was forced to fabricate a special custom trolley just to move her. This is the second such piece he has created, the first was entered in a Midwestern art fair last year, where he found it appealed to new and unexpected demographics. My favorite part of the whole thing was some of the couples where the guy was just tagging along, probably wishing he were out golfing instead. Theyd walk up, discover what it was made from then, bang they could identify with the art. It really affected some guys in the trades. Super cool.
Descent will be exhibited at The B.O.B. (an acronym for Big Old Building) in downtown Grand Rapids this fall during ArtPrize 9, if you want to check it out yourself. Touching the piece is encouraged for the blind, as a way of creating a mental picture, using the tactile senses.
The Huffington Post
==============================
## Title: SEC to host GEM Annual Committee meeting on September 20
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
SEC to host GEM Annual Committee meeting on September 20
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka will be hosting the GEM Annual Committee meeting along with the APRC meeting in Colombo on September 20.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe will participate as the Chief Guest at the Opening Ceremony of the Public Conference.
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) is a member of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) which is the international body that brings together the worlds securities regulators and is recognised as the global standard setter for the securities sector.
IOSCO currently has a significant number of projects being carried out by its committees, task forces and working groups.
The Growth and Emerging Market Committee (GEM) is the largest committee within IOSCO and comprises of 88 members and include the worlds fastest growing economies and 10 of the G-20 members and is responsible for emerging market issues.
The Asia Pacific Regional Committee (APRC) addresses specific regional issues and comprises of 30 members.
==============================
## Title: Showers, strong winds expected today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 10:30
Showers, strong winds expected today

Strong gusty winds can be expected over the island in the Central hills of the country, Northern, North-central, Eastern and North-western provinces, and in the Hambanthota district and surrounding sea area, the Meteorology Department said.
Several Spells of showers will occur in the Western, Central, Sabaragamuwa, North-western provinces and in the Galle, Matara, Anuradhapura, Jaffna and Mannar districts.
The Meteorological Department warned that there may be temporary localized strong winds during showers and also requested to take adequate precautions to minimize damages caused by lightning.
==============================
## Title: Softlogic introduces  HappyOrNot automated solution
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Softlogic introduces  HappyOrNot automated solution
Softlogic Information Technologies, one of Sri Lankas premier IT companies and a subsidiary of Softlogic Holdings, have collaborated with HappyOrNot, a customer and employee satisfaction measuring and reporting automated solution with the aim of offering guaranteed satisfaction improvement for businesses in Sri Lanka.
HappyOrNot together with Softlogic aims to measure your emotions from smileys to frownies one touch point away. The smileys indicate the satisfaction level of the customers, who decide to press the button of their choice which best relates to their current experience.
The best businesses in the world are driven by the mechanism of measure, follow and improve. HappyOrNot enables businesses to follow this process with the real-time data made available to understand ones internal and external customers better.
HappyOrNot is leading to enhance the productivity of the businesses whilst ensuring customers receive the best services as a result.
The product has been designed to focus on business segments such as retail, healthcare, transportation, services and human resources, as well as any other industry which pursues customer satisfaction ranks.
Roshan Rasool, Director and CEO Softlogic Information Technologies said, To understand the satisfaction level of any customer is not an easy task especially when they seek a service and product and do not entirely respond with any remark in an instant manner. A terminal such as this will not only entice any customer to try feeding in a remark in a simple way as pressing a button but the businesses that use it will be able to gain vital information which would assist that company and leverage towards achieving their core business goals and improve their companys outlook as a result.
There are countless online survey sites that approach customers and seek their feedback but sometimes such platforms do not always provide an instant analysis. The HappyOrNot product acts in 3 ways - Measure, Follow and Improve.
An intelligent cloud-based reporting service will help understand the performance through the feedback results to track and follow the performance. Finally, it shares the feedback results internally and discusses improvement initiatives which will have further positive impacts on the business success.
Softlogic takes pride in introducing HappyOrNot, the global leader in instant customer and employee satisfaction reporting. HappyOrNot deliver clients world-class service on time  without exceptions.
HappyOrNots broad experience in both European and US markets has enabled to gather an extensive worldwide market intelligence database. It currently serves several global industry leaders such as Lego, Microsoft, McDonalds, Baptist Healthcare, Zara, eBay, NIKE and IKEA.
==============================
## Title: Spark - transforming the actuarial services landscape in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Spark - transforming the actuarial services landscape in Sri Lanka
One of the main challenges faced by the financial sector is quantitative assessment of future risk. Financial risk can arise due to unpredictable nature of factors such as interest rate and default rate.
An insurance company, on the other hand, is exposed to a multitude of additional risks such as mortality, longevity, and natural hazards.
An actuary is a highly trained business professional who is uniquely qualified to quantitatively assess these risks and make decisions on product pricing and reserving.
Actuaries provide assessments of financial systems, with a focus on returns, views on future economic conditions, and chances of realization. Globally recognized and a highly sought-after profession, actuaries use skills and expertise developed through an arduous professional qualification process.
Although a relatively unheard-of profession in Sri Lanka, actuaries are an integral part of an insurance business. However, due to the time and effort required to be a fully qualified actuary, the profession has experienced slow growth in Sri Lanka.
To be a qualified actuary, one is required to complete around 15 exams of a recognized professional body, such as the Society of Actuaries of US and the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries of UK, and have worked under qualified actuaries to gain necessary experience. Additionally, they are expected to meet professionalism standards and continuous professional development criteria set by these organizations. There are currently less than 10 fully qualified actuaries practicing in Sri Lanka.
At the same time, the demand for actuarial expertise has grown exponentially due to changing regulatory requirements, as well as the dynamic and competitive nature of the financial services industry.
Insurance companies in particular, stand to benefit immensely by integrating the actuarial function as part of their core operations and involving actuarial expertise in strategic decisions. This requires diverse global experience coupled with an understanding of local market dynamics.
Taking these factors in to consideration, Dr. Milanthi Sarukkali who has over 10 years of experience as a life actuary and is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, USA, with a Ph.D. in actuarial science from University of Connecticut, founded Spark Actuarial and Risk Consultants in 2015. It is the largest actuarial consulting firm in Sri Lanka and is a timely answer to the growing demand from the local financial services industry.
Led by Dr Milanthi Sarukkali, Spark prides itself on a team of fully qualified actuaries working in the life, health and general insurance sectors. Sparks senior team includes 4 Fellows from the Society of Actuaries, Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and the Casualty Actuarial Society.
Maureen Tresnak who leads the healthcare vertical of Spark, has over 20 years of experience in the US, many of which have been supporting Medicare, a government sponsored insurance program for the elderly.
Steven Glicksman, a veteran in the property and casualty space, leads the general insurance vertical, and is passionate about providing strategic input to clients on product design and pricing.
He is particularly skilled in working with emerging markets, specialized risks and incomplete data. Dr. Shayanthan Pathmanathan, who supports the life insurance vertical, has extensive experience in the life insurance sector particularly in asset-liability management (ALM) and Solvency II. He is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, and holds a Ph.D. in Mathematics from the University of Oxford.
Dr. Milanthi Sarukkali said, Our team in Sri Lanka has been successfully providing off-shore support to large global insurers in the U.S. and Asia for almost two years. Spark adheres to global professionalism, standards, processes and quality controls to ensure that the services we provide are on par with international requirements. Our aim is to also develop the actuarial profession in Sri Lanka through mentoring, providing global exposure and guidance, and support for obtaining actuarial science designations.
Spark is committed to bringing its experience and learnings from developed markets to add value to the local insurance market.
Further Spark supports the local banking industry with the changing regulatory environment that is calling for more sophisticated and accurate analysis of credit risk. Spark currently supports both local and large global insurance companies in product design, pricing, performance monitoring, regulatory reporting and ongoing operational support in life, health and general insurance.
Additionally, Spark provides advisory services on risk management through ALM, which helps insurers to comfortably fulfill future cash flow obligations while balancing regulatory capital requirements.
Uniquely positioned to support all sectors in the financial industry, even beyond insurance, Spark hopes to extend advisory services on areas such as risk management and employee benefits to any industry.
More information could be obtained from [emailprotected] or [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Special discussion on ending ongoing strikes to be held today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Special discussion on ending ongoing strikes to be held today
A special discussion will be held today at 2.30 pm at the Labour and Trade Union Relations Ministry to end the ongoing strike launched by the trade unions of the Electricity Board, Labour and Trade Union Relations, Ministry sources said.
According to the sources, the discussion will be held with the presence of Labour and trade Union Relations Minister W. D. J. Seneviratne, Power and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjith Siyambalapiyiya, the management of the Electricity Board and all trade unions involved in the strike.
The discussion will be headed by Minister Dr. Rajitha Seneviratne. The main objective of the meeting is solving trade union issues through discussing with all involved parties and ending the strike, the sources said.
The Electricity Board workers trade unions launched a strike on September 13 making certain demands and the discussions held to settle the strike failed, the sources added.
==============================
## Title: Steps to expedite suspects arrested under PTA
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 19:00
Steps to expedite suspects arrested under PTA

The Attorney Generals Department will take steps to expedite the cases of those arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA), said Minister of Prison Reforms, Resettlement and Rehabilitation D. M. Swaminathantoday.
The Minister addressing the National Prisoners Day celebrations held at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute explained that the Attorney General had assured him that steps are being taken to deal with 73 cases filed under the PTA.
The AG said they would push for these cases to be heard on a daily basis and if there are any postponements, they should be no longer than two weeks, said Minister Swaminathan.
The cases will be finished at the earliest, he added.
National Prisoners Day commemorated by the Prisoners Welfare Association together with the Prisons Department had many cultural performances put forward by the prisoners themselves. The Prisoners Welfare Association which celebrated 100 years this year also awarded scholarships to children of prisoners.
The Minister also took the opportunity to highlight the need to reintegrate prisoners into mainstream society once they leave prison. He asked that businesses hire them and that society accept them as rehabilitated individuals.
Swaminathan further highlighting weaknesses within the Prison Department said he could not tackle the long ingrained corruption within the Department overnight.
There is something radically wrong when prisoners start escaping prison, said the Minister as he admitted that they had serious shortage of staff which makes things harder to handle.
We have to fill some 600 odd vacancies and we are working on that and if the Ministry of Finance agrees, we will fill them as soon as possible, he said.
==============================
## Title: Sweet addiction
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Sweet addiction
It comes in a white, crystalline form and gives us a pleasurable high  but refined sugar is as habit-forming as cocaine or nicotine. According to a review in the British Journal of Sports Medicine, animal studies show that lab rats will switch from cocaine to sucrose in the twitch of a tail.
Sugar makes us obese, can promote the development of type 2 diabetes, raises our blood pressure and gives us fatty livers. But it also alters our mood, making us feel rewarded and euphoric.
The lead author of the review, James DiNicolantonio at Saint Lukes Mid America Heart Institute, says that, unlike salt, sugar has no aversion signal. Salt taste receptors will flip when youve had too much, but this doesnt happen with sugar  so we have a built-in safety mechanism that protects us from over consuming salt but not sugar, he says. People can eat an entire bag of cookies or endless bars of chocolate and still want more.
DiNicolantonio argues that refined sugars can produce bingeing and cravings  indicative of an addictive substance. And then theres withdrawal. He says: Withdrawal symptoms from sugar come from dopamine deficiency in the brain. This may lead to symptoms such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and it may even create a similar state in the brain as found in patients with depression.
There is some evidence of genetic differences in our response to sugar because we all perceive sweetness differently. But, overall, the review says, refined sugar gives us one of the most intense sensory pleasures of modern life.
==============================
## Title: TBWAri Lanka - the only awarded  Sri Lankan agency at AD STARS
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
TBWAri Lanka - the only awarded  Sri Lankan agency at AD STARS
TBWAri Lanka continued its winning streak and was once again the only agency to be awarded metal at the AD STARS 2017 annual advertising festival, which took place in Busan, Korea recently.
TBWAri Lanka, recognized with 1 Silver and 5 Bronze awards placed Sri Lanka on the global map, competing against 18,063 entries from 61 countries; 1,680 finalists from 42 countries and 196 jurors from 67 countries.
The awards were won for the After life campaign, created for a leading newspaper in Sri Lanka to promote recycling even the most tiniest piece of paper and I have a beautiful heart film to generate funding for the Little Hearts Project to build a much needed facility in Sri Lanka for children with heart disease and other critical illnesses. It is noteworthy that the Afterlife campaign has been consistently recognized at international awards festivals.
We are extremely honored to be recognized at AD STARS and proud to be the only Sri Lankan agency to showcase Sri Lankas creativity in the global arena by being awarded metal. My heartiest congratulations to the teams behind the work as well as appreciation to our business partners for their confidence, said Renuka Marshall, Managing Director, TBWAri Lanka. Subhash Pinnapola, Chief Creative Officer of TBWAri Lanka said, The Little Hearts project is very close to our hearts at the agency and it gives me great pride that it has been recognized on the world stage. I am very proud of the team behind this success. I appeal to everyone to donate as much as possible to save lives of our beautiful children.
TBWAri Lanka attributes its consistent success at creative recognition to Disruption, the tool which propels exponential growth as well as the deep understanding of local insights. This combination they believe is the key to deliver creative solutions that deliver results.
==============================
## Title: Teejay honoured at CNCI  Achiever Awards 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Teejay honoured at CNCI  Achiever Awards 2017
Teejay Lanka, a multinational textile manufacturer, was honoured at the recently concluded CNCI Achiever Awards 2017, organised by the Ceylon National Chamber of Industries. President Maithripala Sirisena was Chief Guest.
The company established its position among the Top 10 Corporates by winning the CNCI Top ten Special Achiever Award for industrial excellence and also became the National Level Bronze Award winner in the Extra-Large Category of the manufacturing sector.
These awards reinforce Teejays standing as one of the nations top corporate and business powerhouses of today and recognise continual achievements on both global and national platforms during past few years, in manufacturing and industrial excellence.
Teejay ensures this excellence by possessing ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 compliance while also being the first in the industry to develop green fabric and many more such accomplishments.
Commenting on the awards won, the companys Chief Operating Officer Pubudu De Silva said, These awards acknowledge Teejays contribution to the national economy and are a testament to our aspiration to become an innovative world-class knit fabric solutions provider in the region.
The performance of our employees, combined with our commitment to quality, speed, productivity and innovation have earned us these important accolades.
Teejay is listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange and last year entered the S&P Top 20 Index in Sri Lanka.
The Company was also named among the Forbes 200 Best under a Billion in Asia.
Teejay recently invested approximately US$ 15 million to double capacity in India in preparation for future growth through GSP and also invested in synthetic manufacture in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Thanksgiving Service for Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Thanksgiving Service for Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe
A special religious service commemorating the 40 years of service of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe as a Parliamentarian, Cabinet Minister and Prime Minister will be held at St. Marys Church, Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya, Colombo 4 at 5.15 pm on September 19. The special service will be presided over by Archbishop of Colombo Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith.
==============================
## Title: Third Space Learning to expand operations in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Third Space Learning to expand operations in Sri Lanka
Third Space Learning, a UK owned BOI approved company which has made significant investments in Sri Lanka, is looking to expand in key cities in the country, said Tom Hooper, Founder and CEO of Third Space Learning speaking to Daily News Business recently.
As a company we have raised 3.5 million for investment for offices in London and in Sri Lanka. We are creating a number of jobs for Sri Lankans, especially in Colombo and, in near future, in key cities in the country. We have given employment for 220 people at our new regional headquarters at Orion City, Colombo 9, he said.
We are planning to open offices in other key cities in Sri Lanka, while Colombo will remains as the core operation centre. Within the next 12 months we are looking at other options; we have not finalized anything as yet, he said.
We began operations in August 2015 in Sri Lanka and we strongly believe that Sri Lanka has talented people, great culture, and a stable economy. We had great success during the past two years in Sri Lanka and the location is well positioned to support for our global ambitions, he said.
Over the next one to three years we are targeting to double our tutors here in Sri Lanka and building other operational centres in key cities in the country, he added.
We are planning to create more than 1,000 jobs for young Sri Lankans to engage in the global digital economy, said Roshan Nilaweera, CEO of Third Space Global.
Third Space Learning is projected to grow 200% over the next 24 months as it expands to new markets and geographies. This will result in Third Space Global creating another 250 jobs and opening new offices across Sri Lanka. Third Space Global is an exciting statement of the innovation and development that Sri Lanka is capable of, he said.
We moved recently to our new regional headquarters at Orion Cityon a three-year lease and we have invested over Rs. 30 million. We are planning to set up new offices across the island. We are looking to set up two offices in Kandy and the South, between Galle and Matara and we are going to invest more for these expansions, he said.
Third Space Global is here in Sri Lanka for the long term and we see that Sri Lanka as playing the regional hub for South East Asia. Currently we have two offices in India and we believe that Sri Lanka would be the hub for the entire region, he added.
Third Space Learning is building the worlds first global and scalable teaching network of highly trained online tutors supported by cutting edge technology. Third Space Learning offers the largest network of one-on-one Math tuition in the UK. In the last four years, the company has worked with 16,000 children across 600 schools, delivering 200,000+ teaching hours.
More information could be obtained from https://thirdspaceglobal.com/.
==============================
## Title: Thirty one convicted for damaging Sigiriya wildlife reservation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Thirty one convicted for damaging Sigiriya wildlife reservation
Thirty one persons taken into Police custody regarding the damages caused to the Sigiriya wildlife reservation during the last three years were produced before the Dambulla District Magistrates Court recently, wildlife officials said. They were convicted for the offences and fined Rs. 376,000.
According to the Fauna and Flora Act, the charges were filed against them by wildlife officials.
Killing wild animals, illegal timber felling, clearing jungles for various purposes and damage to the environment were the charges.
Meanwhile, wildlife officers said that they do not have enough facilities to perform their duties properly, so the management should pay its attention on this matter.
==============================
## Title: Tokyo Cement, MEPA to clean beaches in Trincomalee
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Tokyo Cement, MEPA to clean beaches in Trincomalee
Together with the Marine Environment Protection Authority (MEPA), Tokyo Cement will take the lead to clean 15 beaches in Trincomalee, as part of the National Coastal and Marine Resources Conservation Week 2017.
Joining hands with the MEPA Trincomalee District office, Tokyo Cement will deploy resources and personnel to clean up the coastal environs of some of the world-famous beaches along our North Eastern Coastline, including Pigeon Islands, Nilaveli, Alles Garden and the beaches along the Dutch Bay.
MEPA carried out a nationwide series of programs covering 14 coastal districts of Sri Lanka to coincide with the International Coastal Cleanup day on September 15.
The National event was held at Crow Island Beach Park, Mattakkuliya with the participation of the President Maithripala Sirisena.
Similar events are planned in each of the 14 districts during the Marine Environment Week that falls during September 15-22 and will be conducted in collaboration with the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management, Central Environmental Authority, Department of Coast Guard, the Sri Lanka Navy, School Children, NGOs and the coastal communities.
Tokyo Cement comes forward as the main Partner of the Trincomalee District event held by MEPA, on September 21, at Trinco beach, with the participation of school children, the tri-forces, public servants and government officials, and the general public from the area. The company invites the public, living in and around Trincomalee to join hands with the cement giant to support this great cause to restore our famed beaches back to their pristine state.
In addition to the beach clean-up, Tokyo Cement will also support a two-day program on under water reef clean-up around the Pigeon Island and Alas Garden reefs.
The company will deploy its resources already engaged in their Coral Conservation initiative, to support reef clean-up activities with the help of the participating organizations.
The company, for many years leadsthe Coral Conservation program, where it facilitates coral reef research, rehabilitation and conservation.
The second of its impactful undertakings is, the Mangroves Reforestation program, where they collaborate with the Sri Lanka Navy to replant mangrove saplings along the Eastern coastline of Sri Lanka, in a bid to preserve these complex and endangered habitats.
==============================
## Title: Trap guns hinder Malwathuoya surveying project
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Trap guns hinder Malwathuoya surveying project
Anuradhapura Senior Surveying Superintendent K.P.G. Karunanayake has informed the Anuradhapura Government Agent and the irrigation authorities that the trap guns fixed in the jungle hinder the progress of the surveying areas for the proposed lower Malwathuoya Reservoir in Thanthirimale in the Anuradhapura District.
About 4,422 hectares will be submerged with the project including resettlement zones.
The proposed lower Malwathuoya reservoir will be the largest water source in the district. It will contain 169,440 acre feet water capacity with a 3.6 km long dam. The project will cost Rs. 12,300 million to the Government. The construction work of the project will be carried out by the CAMC Engineering Company, a Chinese company engaged in the Yan oya reservoir project. The Chinese Government funds the project.
Anuradhapura Assistant Wildlife Director W.S. Weragama has pointed out that resettlement would clear a large stretch of land from the high security reserves.
The Project Director said around 500 families would be evacuated to accommodate land for the project. They will be resettled in 997 acres of land between the Kaluwila and Narawala Junctions and also in Nalanda, Hatamuna, Randeniya, Handapangoda, Suriyathenna, Ratgama and Aluthgama divisions. Once completed, the reservoir would provide water to the Anuradhapura and Vavuniya districts and helps cultivate 35,000 acres.
==============================
## Title: Turn diabetes around
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Turn diabetes around
New research shows Type 2 diabetes can be reversed by going on a low calorie diet.
Type 2 diabetes is caused by having too much glucose in the blood because the bodys way of turning it into energy is not working properly. As the condition progresses, sufferers often need to maintain a healthy diet, exercise and a combination of medications to manage it.
Controlling blood sugar levels are also considered to be the key to reducing the risk of life-changing complications for those already diagnosed. Someones life expectancy with type 2 diabetes is likely to be reduced as a result of the condition, by up to 10 years.
Consuming just 600 calories a day for eight weeks can save the lives of millions of sufferers of the preventable condition.
Newcastle University scientists said that excess calories lead to a fatty liver, which causes the liver to produce too much glucose. The excess fat is then passed to the pancreas, which causes the insulin-producing cells to fail and thus causing diabetes. The researchers found that losing less than one gram of fat from the pancreas can re-start insulin production, reversing type 2 diabetes.
This reversal of diabetes remains possible for at least ten years after the onset of the condition, lead author Professor Roy Taylor said.
Such a diet helps bring about 15kg of weight loss on average. Weight loss has long been known to help reverse the condition. The study showed results within just a week of starting the diet. It caused a profound fall in insulin sensitivity.
Fasting blood sugar levels of diabetes patients, which were significantly higher, became normal within the same time frame.
Often thought of as harmless, type 2 diabetes is a hidden killer and can lead to heart failure, blindness, kidney disease and leg amputations.
-dailymail.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Union Assurance expands branch network
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Union Assurance expands branch network
With the aim of reforming its network within the Northern province, Union Assurance (UA) relocated its Mannar regional office and Mullaitivu, recently.
The two branches are relocated at Palamunai Street, Mannar and P.W.D. Road, Mullaitivu. In addition, Moratuwa branch was also relocated and is situated at Galle Road, Rawathawatta, Moratuwa. Making its first appearance into the Branch Map, UA was able to open its Pettah Branch at Sea Street, Colombo 11 on August 24.
All these branches and regional offices are conveniently situated with ample parking space, open from 8:30am  5pm. Service areas for Life Insurance customers, a training centre for staff and many other customer facilities are available at all times.
UA General Manager Marketing and Distribution Dharshana Amarasiynghe, commenting on the strengthening of the Union Assurance reach, stated We are extremely glad toaugment our services by extending and strengthening our branch network. Further we are pleased to be able to provide our valued customers with easy access to the wide range of services offered by Union Assurance.
Union Assurance is the first private insurer to celebrate over 30 years of unwavering operations in the country and is anchored by a team of experienced and dynamic professionals, a strong capital base and reinsurance partnerships with highly rated global reinsurers.
==============================
## Title: Unveiling Landmark in Sri Lankas real estate sector
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Unveiling Landmark in Sri Lankas real estate sector
The highly lucrative real estate development industry in Sri Lanka today had a new player added to its portfolio with the launch of Landmark Developers Holding (Pvt) Ltd.
The launch was held under the patronage of Chief Guests Isura Devapriya, Chief Minister of the Western Province, Dr. Nalin Jayasuriya, Chairman of McQuire Rens & Jones Group, and Guests of Honour Pandu Bandaranayake, Chairman of the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute at The Stables Park Street Mews.
Speaking at the launch Managing Director of Landmark Developers Eksith Hanpangama said, Sri Lankan real estate has come a long way to become one of the fastest growing markets in the region. With the facelift to urban infrastructure, Colombo in particular is becoming an attractive city for both local and foreign investors. Subsequently, to match this demand, the growing population with its increasing income levels are constantly seeking upgrades and for a better quality of life.
Founded in early 2017, Landmarks vision is to become the leader in Sri Lankan sustainable real estate solutions with a global presence. A family affair, their efforts are headed by Chairperson Neelangani Hapangama. A textile designer by profession, Neelangani is a pioneer in designing childrens furniture and childrens toys. Her excellence and dedication to the industry has not only made her one among the leading businesswomen in the sector but also a notable figure in Australian and European markets for the past 30 years.
Distinguished guests at the launch
Managing Director Eksith Hapangama takes up after his mother in his pursuit of business after having read for both his first and second degrees in Business Administration in Australia. Hailing from the marketing industry, Eksith has always been among the younger more enthusiastic businessmen keen on innovation and changing traditional business models to adapt to the rapidly changing industries.
Landmark Developers vast portfolio currently includes development of apartments and commercial buildings, facility management and maintenance, legal and financial consultations, blocking and selling of land plots for residential and commercial purposes, construction of property on existing land, compact or Nano Homes, interior designing, feasibility reports and facilitating overseas real estate investments in countries including Australia, the USA, the United Kingdom, the UAE and Maldives.
One of Landmark Developers pioneering projects, Park Residencies was also unveiled at the gala event. Park Residencies is home to twelve luxury boutique apartments in Pagoda Road. These luxury living spaces will include a yoga studio, fully-equipped gym, pool and a caf that will cater to the residents living in the property. Differentiating itself from others in the industry that promotes secluded living, Landmark Developers strives to create a sense of community and family among its residents.
We are driven by the need to provide housing for most Sri Lankans. We have seen a demand and a genuine need for housing and home-ownership in the country and the best way to start addressing this demand is by aligning our strategy to complement this growing need and building different types of living and commercial spaces for people with varying needs. Landmark Developers is keen on educating younger people who set out to buy their first home, the importance of sustainable lifestyles, Hapangama added.
The developers strongly believe in climate change and its adverse effects. The property developer hopes to contribute positively to the environment by adopting green building practices and developing sustainable properties across the country. Within their sustainable and green strategy in mind, they hope to initiate two Nano Home projects in Nugegoda and Thalawathugoda.
These luxury homes will be sold at an affordable cost and consist of facilities such as three bedrooms, back yards, solar power, plunge pool and more in a 1,400 plus square feet of space. More information could be obtained from www.landmarkdevelopers.lk
==============================
## Title: Wall Street closes  week at  record highs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Wall Street closes  week at  record highs
US markets climbed to new records on Friday, shrugging off weak economic data that was attributed to recent hurricanes.
The rally came despite another missile test by North Korea and a terrorist attack in London, extending Wall Streets remarkable rise this year.
Gains at Boeing, Verizon and Apple contributed to Fridays increase, with most sectors ending the day higher.
The Dow Jones increased 64.86 points or 0.3% to close at 22,268.34. The wider S&P 500 index topped 2,500 points, adding 4.61 or 0.18%, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq also rose 0.3%, adding or 19.39 points to 6,448.47.
The three major stock indexes have advanced steadily this year, gains analysts say are backed by strong corporate earnings and an improving global economy.
The Nasdaq is up more than 18% since the start of the year, with the S&P 500 up 12% and the Dow ahead 10%.
Shares in Apple helped buoy the index on Friday, rising 1% after having slid for several days. BBC News
==============================
## Title: Warrant issued against MP Weerakumara Dissanayake
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 10:15
Warrant issued against MP Weerakumara Dissanayake

The Colombo Chief Magistrate issued a warrant against National Freedom Front (NFF) Parliamentarian Weerakumara Dissanayake for failing to appear before court over a case filed by Cinnamon Garden Police, today.
Cinnamon Garden Police is expecting to file charge sheets against National Freedom Front (NFF) leader and Parliamentarian Wimal Weerawansa and six other party activists for allegedly providing leadership to a protest which blocks the main roads at Bauddhaloka Mawatha, causing disturbance to the people and the normal flow of traffic.
 However, when the case came up before Chief Magistrate Lal Ranasinghe Bandara, the suspect Weerakumara Dissanayake was not present in court.
 On February 6, 2016, the NFF staged a protest march against the visit of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein.
 Seven suspects NFF leader and Colombo District MP Wimal Weerawansa, Jayantha Samaraweera, Weerakumara Dissanayake, Piyasiri Wijenayake, Roger Seneviratne, Mohammed Muzammil and Don Lusian are currently out on bail.
 Police had informed Court that the suspects who organized the procession had failed to obtain the prior permission from Police to organise the march.
They further alleged that the organizers had also used loudspeakers without a valid license.
The Police further submitted to Court that the suspects steered the protest which blocks the main road at Bauddhaloka Mawatha towards Havelock Town, causing disturbance to commuters and the normal flow of traffic.
Further Magisterial inquiry into the matter was postponed to December 11.
==============================
## Title: We need caring homes!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
We need caring homes!
Hi Everyone, bad enough the weather is so awful, we were dumped in the pouring rain as if we were of no consequence. Luckily for us we were rescued , if not we would have drowned !! Almost like as if we were caught up in Hurricane Irma.
We are two girls and one boy sterilized, four months old and are cute, loving, playful and are dying for a permanent home. Right now we are at a temporary shelter so we need to be grabbed real fast.
Please call Rosy 0112910282.
Terms and conditions ; lots of good food, loads of cuddles. Chains and kennels Banned !
==============================
## Title: Welikada Prison Hospital Acting Chief Medical Officer to be transferred
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 15:15
Welikada Prison Hospital Acting Chief Medical Officer to be transferred

Welikada Prison Hospital Acting Chief Medical Officer Dr. N. Thenuwara who is alleged to have approved to give preferential treatment to politicians, was advised to be transferred to the National Hospital by Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne.
The Health Minister gave instructions today in response to the request made by nineteen Welikada Prison Hospital Medical Officers.
On September 11, Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation Resettlement and Hindu Religious Affairs Minister D. M. Swaminathan said that he decided to make a three doctor consent mandatory for prison inmate hospitalization after considering numerous complaints received by him from various sections of society that the prison inmate hospitalisation process is flawed.
==============================
## Title: Welikada prisoners call off hunger strike
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Welikada prisoners call off hunger strike
The hunger strike launched by the prisoners who were sentenced to death and life imprisonment in the Welikda Prison yesterday called off, Commissioner of Prisons T.N. Upuldeniya said.
Speaking to the Daily News, Upuldeniya said the prisoners took yesterday afternoon meal as a token of calling off their strike.
Over 150 prisoners who were sentenced to death and serving life imprisonment in the Welikada Prison launched a hunger strike last Friday (15). They demanded to be paroled via a common pardon.
According to Upuldeniya, the inmates who were on hunger strike were unaware of the committee appointed by the Justice Ministry which gives recommendations to the President on the fate of prisoners.
After they were made aware of the committee, they called off the hunger strike, Upuldeniya said.
The 50 inmates in the Bogambara Prison who were in a hunger strike from last Thursday (14), are still refusing food, Commissioner Upuldeniya said.
We are taking steps to make them aware of the committee appointed by the Ministry. We are positive that they will call off the strike, Upuldeniya said.
==============================
## Title: Wild elephants damage five houses, injure one
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Wild elephants damage five houses, injure one
Wild elephant damaged five houses, stocks of paddy and injured a 22-year-old, V. Suwaskaran, at Sinnawatta village in the Poraitivupattu Secretarial Division on Sunday (17). The injured youth has been admitted to hospital.
Residents had informed the Mandoor Police and officials of the Batticaloa wildlife department of the incident.
==============================
## Title: Windies considered walk-off in rain swept win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Windies considered walk-off in rain swept win
CHESTER-LE-STREET, Sunday  West Indies captain Carlos Brathwaite said his side were so concerned about the prospect of career-threatening injuries on a sodden outfield they considered abandoning before beating England in a Twenty20 international.
None of the West Indies team at Chester-le-Street on Saturday had been involved in their side's recent 2-1 three-Test series defeat in England.
Instead Brathwaite and his men had arrived directly from the Caribbean Premier League Twenty20 tournament.
Conditions at the Riverside, the home of northeast county Durham, were always likely to prove challenging for a team used to the rather warmer climate back home in the West Indies. But jokes about the weather gave way to major concern when Windies wicket-keeper Chadwick Walton, changing direction to field a deflected ball, slipped and jarred his knee on an already wet outfield that had been exposed to yet more rain during the game.
Walton recovered, however, and he was behind the stumps as West Indies completed a 21-run win -- their 11th in 15 Twenty20 internationals against England, a sequence including last year's World Twenty20 final triumph in India.
But it almost did not happen after Walton's injury, with Brathwaite telling a post-match news conference: I had a chat with a few of the boys in a huddle while Chadwick was getting treatment and most of them said it was unsafe.
I told the umpires the boys had some concerns -- it could be a career-threatening injury (next).
He added: We kind of gave it an ultimatum... we got the outfield roped and we were in agreement that if it continued to be unsafe or if anything dramatic or drastic happened we'd call it quits.
But cricket was the winner. Durham later revealed that three spectators were injured after falling on unstable flooring in the North East Terrace, with stewards evacuating the area as a safety precaution.
On the field, Chris Gayle (40) and heir apparent Evin Lewis (51) got West Indies off to a flying start with a rapid first-wicket stand of 77 before England, with Liam Plunkett and Adil Rashid sharing six wickets, held the tourists to 176 for nine. Last year, Brathwaite had punished England with the bat, hitting Ben Stokes for four sixes in as many balls in a dramatic last over as West Indies came from behind to win a thrilling World Twenty20 final in Kolkata. But on Saturday he starred with the ball by taking three for 20 -- the 29-year-old Barbados all-rounder's best figures at this level. We knew we had to stick in it, said Brathwaite.
The way we finished the game was really fantastic. The key passage of play started when paceman Brathwaite bowled Alex Hales for a rapid 43. Hales's exit sparked a slump that saw three wickets lost in quick succession, with key batsmen Joe Root and Twenty20 captain Eoin Morgan falling cheaply as England slumped to 68 for four on the way to a total of 155 all out.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Woman heroin trafficker sentenced to life
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, September 18, 2017 - 01:00
Woman heroin trafficker sentenced to life
A woman was sentenced to life imprisonment by Panadura Provincial High Court Judge Padmini Ranawaka Gunatileke for trafficking heroin in Moratuwa. She was arrested in Moratuwa in 2005 with two grams of heroin.
==============================