## Title: 3.8% economic growth for Q1
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
3.8% economic growth for Q1
The Department of Census and Statistics (DCS) states that economic growth rate for the first quarter of 2017 has been estimated as 3.8%.
The GDP at constant (2010) prices for the first quarter of 2017 recorded as Rs. 2,161,770 million, as against GDP reported for first quarter of 2016 which was Rs. 2,082,544 million.
The four major components of the economy: Agriculture, Industry, Services and Taxes less Subsidies on Products have contributed their share to the GDP at current price by 7.0 percent, 30.8 percent, 52.3 percent and 9.9 percent respectively for the first quarter of 2017.
In this quarter, the highest growth rate of 6.3 percent was reported for Industrial activities.
Service activities reported a growth rate of 3.5 percent.
Amidst unfavorable weather conditions, performance of Agricultural activities further contracted and reported a negative growth rate of 3.2 percent.
Among the sub-activities of Agriculture, Growing of Spices, Animal Production,  Forestry and Logging and Marine Fishing reported high growth rates: 6.1 percent, 6.9 percent, 9.3 percent and 5.8 percent respectively.
Substantial declines in growth rates were reported for Growing of Rice and Growing of Oleaginous Fruits by 53.1 percent, and 10.2 percent respectively in this quarter, due to continuous drought prevailing throughout the respective growing areas.
During this quarter, the activities of Growing of Tea and Growing of Rubber reported negative growth rates of 5.7 percent, and 17.2 percent respectively.
In the first quarter of 2017, overall Industrial activities further expanded significantly recording 6.3 percent growth rate.
Construction activity, which corresponds to the highest share of the GDP among Industrial activities, further increased remarkably by 16.1 percent during this quarter compared to the same quarter in 2016.
Significant growth rates reported for sub-activities of Water Cllection, Treatment and Supply Manufacture of Other Non-Metallic and Mineral Production, Manufacture of Machinery and Equipment, and Mining and Qarrying, by 21.6 percent 19.5 percent, 18.2 percent and 17.9 percent respectively, reinforcing the growth of Industry in the first quarter of 2017.
During this quarter, the growth rate of Manufacture of Textiles and Wearing Apparel recovered the contraction reported in the first quarter of 2016, and recorded a positive growth rate of 0.6 percent.
Meanwhile Manufacture of Food, Beverages and Tobacco recorded a slight contraction of 0.3 percent within this quarter. Service activities which contribute a highest share of 52.3 percent to the overall GOP grew by 3.5 percent during the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same quarter in the year 2016.
Performance of the Service activities was buoyed by the sub-activities of Wholesale and Retail Trade, Transportation of Goods and Passengers Including Warehousing, Financial Service activities and Human Health, Residential Care and Social Work activities which reported significant growth rates of 4.5 percent, 3.1 percent, 14.9 percent and 11.1 percent respectively compared to the respective quarter in year 2016.
Other Personal Service activities reported a slight growth by 2.0 percent during the first quarter of 2017.
==============================
## Title: Lankas future depends on how well it leverages maritime opportunities
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lankas future depends on how well it leverages maritime opportunities
Sri Lankas future depends on how the country can leverage the maritime opportunities in front of it, said Dr Harsha De Silva, Deputy Minister of National Policy and Economic Affairs on Friday in Colombo addressing the Post Business Session of the 47th Annual General Meeting of Sri Lanka Shippers Council .
The minister said he did not consider Sri Lanka as a South Asian Nation but an Indian Ocean Nation.
We are an ocean nation. Our history tells that every time we were prosperous we had leveraged maritime opportunities. And it is going to be the same in the future.
The near future is pregnant with hope and the Indian Ocean will be the ocean that creates wealth and we are the centre of the Indian Ocean. We will become the hub of the Indian Ocean, he said.
The minister said that the government has a vision and that vision could be achieved by working hand in glove with the private sector. Looking from a historic context Sri Lanka was a trading nation leveraging the maritime resources and opportunities available to it, he said.
Commerce cannot happen because people want to do trade.
For commerce to happen there must be that conducive environment. Citing Qatars issue with its neighbours as an example, he said
The government rebuilt all the damaged bridges in the past one and half years and maintains an excellent relationship with the rest of the world.
So it is essential for Sri Lanka if we are going to leverage the Indian Ocean take an initiative in giving leadership to creating that order in the Indian Ocean.
That is why the Prime Minister has been quite bold in offering Sri Lankas help to attempt to create an Indian Ocean order that gives freedom of navigation and freedom of overflying.
Exports to GDP of a country like Hong Kong are roughly 250%. In Singapore exports to GDB is 150%.Sri Lanka it was about 35% 10 years ago. Unfortunately it has fallen to under 14% two years ago. When this government came to office what was 34% 10 years ago had fallen to 14 %.
The root cause is that we have ignored our comparative advantage. The governments primary objective now is to figure out how to make that U turn.
We have not been successful in the last two years and exports have kept falling. We need a structural shift in our policy and we have to change our economic game plan, the minister said.
Dr De Silva said Vietnam had US$ 20 billion of FDIs in 2016. Myanmar had US$ 10 billion. But Sri Lanka had less than half a billion dollars in FDIs in 2016. What happen Export Development Board What happen BOI the minister questioned.
There is no way we are going to succeed if we continue to make these marginal differences. It wont happen. We have to change, the minister cautioned.
The challenge the country faces was to convert a buyer driven network to a production driven network, he said.
Scoffing at trade agreement critics Dr De Silva said Singapore has entered into16 trade agreements. The minister questioned whether GSP plus was good or bad The GSP should be used as a stepping stone to carve out, develop and design a free trade agreement with Europe.
He said further steps needed to be taken to convert the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) that the country has with America into a free trade agreement with the US and get access to those markets.
==============================
## Title: Those who cause religious tension will be prosecuted
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Those who cause religious tension will be prosecuted
No individual or organisation causing religious tensions should be allowed to escape prosecution. Sri Lanka cannot be pulled back to the dark days of war when tens of thousands of lives were lost. The economic stagnation and international isolation are things of the past, a statement issued by United National Party (UNP) Chairman Malik Samarawickrama says. The UNP notes with deep concern the recent attempts by subversive elements to sabotage the reconciliation efforts of the national unity government led by President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, the statement says
Since its founding, the UNP has remained a secular political party fostering unity while building a truly Sri Lankan identity, the statement continues.
The UNP welcomes the statement of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the President to use the full force of the law against those causing religious tensions, racial hatred and undermining the efforts at reconciliation since the new government came to power. At the January 2015 presidential election as well as the August 2015 general election, the UNP and its allies received a mandate for their reconciliation efforts. The UNP will not waver in ensuring that ethnic peace, religious harmony and rule of law are maintained, the statement says.
A corner stone of every religion is non-violence and the respect for others. Those who spread hate and instigate violence are only undermining the faiths they claim to protect.
The UNP joins the President and the Prime Minister in urging the law enforcement authorities to bring to justice those responsible for hate crimes.
There is no place for religious intolerance and racial hatred in the 21st century Sri Lanka as it emerges a peaceful, stable and a strong economy and a beacon of hope for democracy.
Political forces relegated to the dustbin of history are attempting to exploit extremism and extremists in the hope of returning to power.
The UNP, with its strong commitment to national unity and harmony, will resist such bankrupt political opportunists and urge the authorities to swiftly bring them to justice. They will not prevail.
The UNP has faith in the vast majority of Sri Lankans to protect the freedoms they enjoy under the new unity government of President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe, the statement stressed.
==============================
## Title: 7 SECRETS TO SUCCESSFUL CONTAINER GARDENING
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
7 SECRETS TO SUCCESSFUL CONTAINER GARDENING
Whether you're growing flowers, veggies or herbs, here are tricks to help your container garden flourish.Gardening is no longer the exclusive pastime of homeowners with large yards. Almost anything can be grown in a container as long as you give your potted plants the same love and care you would a regular garden
Choose your containers wisely
While experienced gardeners might tell you any container will do, some materials are easier to work with than others, especially for beginners. Cheap plastic can deteriorate in the sun and is not meant for longevity, although its light weight is a plus. Terracotta pots are stronger, but dry out rapidly, so they often require more watering. If you opt for glazed ceramic pots (or any other salvaged container, like a teapot, small wheelbarrow or even an old bucket), remember to drill drainage holes in the bottom. It is also recommended going for large containers so you aren't "watering constantly." Finding the right containers for your needs can be tricky, but have fun experimenting!
Sterilize your containers
Whether you decide to use a classic terracotta pot or bust out an old boot or tire as a home for your flower or herb garden, make sure all surfaces are clean before you plant. This is especially important if you're buying secondhand containers that might have housed diseased plants. Use an environmentally friendly all-purpose cleaner to scrub your pots, then rinse and dry before planting.
Plan before you plant
Where you place your containers will depend on the types of flowers or vegetables you're growing. Some plants need full sun, while others prefer a little (or a lot of) shade. The beauty of container gardening is that you can move pots to more favourable conditions if they're not thriving in their original location. Similarly, plan within the container. If you're planting different flowers in one pot, consider how you would plant flowers in a backyard garden: taller ones in back and shorter ones in front. For containers, work from the inside out. Larger, taller plants should go in the middle and trailing flowers should be placed closer to the outside edges. Also make sure to group plants with similar growing conditions.
Fertilize, fertilize, fertilize
To get big and beautiful flowers in a container, you must keep the nutrient level maxed out. If you fertilize every time you water -- what a difference! For vegetables, be sure to use manure tea. It sounds disgusting, but it's natural and won't leave chemicals on your plentiful crops. Manure tea is essentially water extract from manure with soluble nutrients. It builds the organic content of your soil, which improves drainage and helps soil hold nutrients. It gives by far the best results, especially when used with green herbs, since it is loaded with nitrogen.
"Rotate" your crops
Planting different vegetables in the same containers has the same effect as farmers rotating their crops: different plants need and use different nutrients, so this helps keep soil healthy. But make sure to give vegetables room to grow and space them generously. It is also recommended that veggie growers plant crops that they will use and harvest regularly. This will maximize your use of the available space.
Water regularly -- and then water some more
You'll find that you need to water container plants more often than the rest of your garden. Especially during heat waves and in dry climates, this likely means watering daily. Each time you water, keep going until you see water coming out the drainage holes at the bottom of your pot. This is the time to stop, before soil becomes soggy or water is left standing, but it also ensures a generous drink. For those who can't make the commitment to water daily, self-watering containers are a must, as they have a reservoir at the bottom to keep your plants moist for a few days at a time.
Choose the best potting mix
Ideally, everyone could simply shovel soil right from the garden into containers and grow full, healthy plants. Unfortunately, this is not the case: garden soil is usually too heavy and contains too much clay, which will hold moisture in pots, drowning the roots. For containers, opt for something more porous. Garden centres sell packaged potting soil perfect for container gardening.
http://www.canadianliving.com
==============================
## Title: Against Heine
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Against Heine
Along with Goethe, Heinrich Heine (17971856) was the most famous German literary figure of the nineteenth century. He was known not for his novels (he didnt publish any) or his drama (his plays were never much produced) or his thinking (it was deliberately unsystematic) but for his lyric poetry and for the characteristic wit and irony of his reportage and travel writing and polemics. His countrymen could all quote his witticisms (e.g., The more I get to know people, the more I like dogs) and recite his poems (an extraordinary number of them were set to music), and his style and attitudes made him an attractive figure internationally. Although he had some of Norman Mailers pugnacity and political ambition and talent for self-advertisement, and some of Mark Twains quotability, his posthumous reputation probably bears better comparison with a figure like Bob Dylans than with that of any writer. To his many admirers, especially in France, Heines flight in 1831 from German repression to Parisian exile was a moment of iconic significance akin to Dylans switch to electric guitar at the Newport Folk Festival in 1965. Like Dylan, Heine was a Jew who converted to Christianity (for Heine, it was an early and humiliating career exigency), but in the eyes of his readers he remained distinctively a Jew, and the reader of this essay should keep in mind that Karl Krauss attempted demolition of Heines reputation was not simply an assault on a pop hero of Dylanesque stature but a salvo in the cultural wars of anti-Semitism and Zionism that were raging in Germany and Austria at the beginning of the twentieth century.
The non-German-speaking reader may want to know that Heine rhymes with mynah.
Karl Kraus (18741936) was an Austrian satirist and a central figure in fin de sicle Viennas famously rich life of the mind. From 1899 until his death, Kraus edited and published the influential magazine Die Fackel (The Torch); from 1911 onward, he was also the magazines sole author. Although Kraus would probably have hated blogs, Die Fackel was like a blog that pretty much everybody who mattered in the German-speaking world, from Freud to Kafka to Walter Benjamin, found it necessary to read and have an attitude toward. In Krauss many aphorisms, he was no less quotable than HeineTo be sure, a dog is loyal. But why should that make it an example for us Its loyal to man, not to other dogsand at the height of his popularity he drew thousands to his public readings.
The following pages are from Krauss essay/polemic/satire/manifesto Heine and the Consequences, which appeared in Die Fackel in 1910 and which, like much of Krauss best work, has hitherto frightened off English translators. In the footnotes to my translation, I have tried to elucidate his topical and literary references, to offer some shortcuts to deciphering his sentences, and to explain why his work has meant so much to me. For now, let me just make a small plea for patience with Krauss prose. Hes hard to read in German, toodeliberately hard. He was the scourge of throwaway journalism and a stickler for the interpenetration of form and content, and to his followers (he had a cultlike following) his dense and intricately coded style formed an agreeable barrier to entry; it kept the uninitiated out. Kraus himself remarked of the critic and playwright Hermann Bahr, whom hell be attacking here, If he understands one sentence of the essay, Ill retract the entire thing. When I first read Kraus, I was completely baffled by a lot of his sentences. But as I reread him and began to figure out what he was up to, the sentences suddenly popped into clear focus, one after another, until eventually I could understand almost all of them; it was like learning a foreign language.
And Kraus is foreign, more so than any of those contemporaries of his who are better known today, because his work was so particularly tied to his own time and placeto long-forgotten controversies, to rivals now obscure, to newspapers and literary works that only scholars read anymore. And yet, paradoxically, and frustratingly, Kraus has more to say to us in our own media-saturated, technology-crazed, apocalypse-haunted historical moment than any of his more accessible contemporaries now do. He himself was well aware of the paradox: he was a far-seeing prophet whose work was always focused on what was right in front of him. He was, very consciously, speaking to us.
Jonathan Franzen
Two strains of intellectual vulgarity: defenselessness against content and defenselessness against form. The one experiences only the material side of art. It is of German origin. The other experiences even the rawest of materials artistically. It is of Romance origin. To the one, art is an instrument; to the other, life is an ornament. In which hell would the artist prefer to fry Hed surely still rather live among the Germans. For although theyve strapped art into the Procrustean folding bed of their commerce, theyve also made life sober, and this is a blessing: fantasy thrives, and every man can put his own light in the barren window frames. Just spare me the pretty ribbons! Spare me this good taste that over there and down there delights the eye and irritates the imagination. Spare me this melody of life that disturbs my own music, which comes into its own only in the roaring of the German workday. Spare me this universal higher level of refinement from which its so easy to observe that the newspaper seller in Paris has more charm than the Prussian publisher. Believe me, you color-happy people, in cultures where every blockhead has individuality, individuality becomes a thing for blockheads. And spare me this mediocre chicanery in place of ones own stupidity! Spare me the picturesque moil on the rind of an old Gorgonzola in place of the dependable white monotony of cream cheese! Life is hard to digest both here and there. But the Romance diet beautifies the spoilage; you swallow the bait and go belly-up. The German regimen spoils beauty and puts us to the test: How do we re-create it Romance culture makes everyman a poet. Arts a piece of cake there. And Heaven a hell.
Heinrich Heine, however, has brought the Germans tidings of this Heaven, to which their heart is drawn with a longing that has to rhyme someplace and that leads in subterranean passages directly from the countinghouse to the Blue Grotto. - Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Airtel doubles fund for A/L students at Meethotamulla tragedy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Airtel doubles fund for A/L students at Meethotamulla tragedy
As the Sinhala and Tamil New Year dawned, the residents at Meethotamulla, Kolonnawa encountered an unforeseen tragedy with the collapsing of the infamous garbage mound.
During this period, the country stepped forward to provide immediate relief for the victims, while Airtel also raised a fund contributed by its employees. With the Advanced Level exam approaching, Airtel doubled its fund as a means of supporting and empowering the students affected in Meethotamulla in the most meaningful manner.
Commenting on the humanitarian initiative, Chief Executive Officer of Bharti Airtel Lanka Jinesh Hegde said, During a national disaster like this, we at Airtel believe that we are responsible to make a difference. With a perfect understanding about the needs of the affected children, all our employees made a collective effort to not only contribute financial assistance but also to get to the ground level and understand the most crucial need for this community to rebuild their futures. We wanted to reduce their burden of the youth during this difficult time and do something meaningful by empowering them, as they are the future of the country.
==============================
## Title: Amazon to buy Whole Foods for $13.7bn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Amazon to buy Whole Foods for $13.7bn
Online retail giant Amazon is buying Whole Foods in a $13.7bn (10.7bn) deal that marks its biggest push into traditional retailing yet.
Amazon, which has long eyed the grocery business, will buy the upmarket supermarket for $42 a share.
Investors greeted the deal as game-changing for the industry, sending shares of rival grocers plunging.
But Whole Foods, which had been under pressure, climbed.
Founded in 1978 in Texas, Whole Foods was a pioneer of the move towards natural and organic foods.
It has grown to more than 460 stores in the US, Canada and the UK, and employs about 87,000 people.
Amazon founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos said, "Millions of people love Whole Foods Market because they offer the best natural and organic foods, and they make it fun to eat healthy.
"Whole Foods Market has been satisfying, delighting and nourishing customers for nearly four decades - they're doing an amazing job and we want that to continue."
Whole Foods has faced dissatisfaction from investors, amid falling same-store sales and increased competition. Last month, the company named a new chief financial officer and new board members.
In April, activist investor Jana Partners called the firm's shares undervalued, noting "chronic under performance".
The price being paid by Amazon marks a 27% premium to the level Whole Foods' shares closed at on Thursday. The $13.7bn value includes assumption of the grocer's debt.
The takeover deal - the biggest in Amazon's history - is expected to be completed in the second half of the year, pending approval by shareholders and anti-trust regulators.
Whole Foods boss John Mackey said, "This partnership presents an opportunity to maximize value for Whole Foods Market's shareholders, while at the same time extending our mission and bringing the highest quality, experience, convenience and innovation to our customers."
The Whole Foods brand will continue. Mackey is expected to stay on as chief executive.
Whole Foods stock soared 29% on the news. Amazon shares closed up 2.4%.
Neil Saunders, managing director of GlobalData Retail, said the deal should give the grocer financial breathing room, while making it more competitive online and improving its supply chain logistics.
The takeover also makes Amazon an instant player in the grocery industry, where it has operated at the fringes since launching its food delivery service Amazon Fresh in Seattle in 2007.
Whole Foods and Amazon were staying quiet on Friday about how they might introduce technology to stores, merge their supply chains, or cross-sell Amazon products.
Brendan Witcher, principal analyst at Forrester Research in Boston, said any changes are further down the road.
Shares of other supermarket chains took a beating. The industry has already seen significant consolidation, with smaller players wiped out.
Kroger shares fell more than 9 %, Target plunged 5% and Costco Wholesale Corp. dropped about 7%.
Walmart, which announced its own $310m deal to acquire the online clothing company Bonobos, slid 4.7%.
The reaction spread to companies in Europe. Dutch retailer Ahold Delhaize fell nearly 10%.
Mr Saunders said the deal is "potentially terrifying" for other companies.
"Although Amazon has been a looming threat to the grocery industry, the shadow it has cast has been pale and distant," Saunders wrote. BBC News
==============================
## Title: Amir, Fakhar star as Pakistan rout India for Champions Trophy title
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Amir, Fakhar star as Pakistan rout India for Champions Trophy title
London: Mohammad Amir removed all of Indias top three as Pakistan routed their arch-rivals by 180 runs in an astonishing Champions Trophy final at The Oval on Sunday.
Title-holders India, set 339 to win, collapsed to 33 for three and 54 for five against a Pakistan side they had thrashed by 124 runs in their tournament opener at Edgbaston on June 4.
They were eventually dismissed for 158 in reply to Pakistans 338 for four, which featured Fakhar Zamans 114, the left-handed openers maiden one-day international hundred coming in just his fourth match at this level.
Amir, who missed Pakistans eight-wicket semi-final win over England with a back spasm, finished with three wickets for 16 runs in six overs.
But it was fellow paceman Hasan Ali, the player of the tournament having kick-started Pakistans revival in their group-win over South Africa, who ended the match with more than 19 overs to spare when he had tailender Jasprit Bumrah caught by gleeful captain and wicket-keeper Sarfraz Ahmed.
Left-arm fast bowler Amir, whose career was almost ended on the other side of Londons River Thames by a ban and jail term he received for his part in a spot-fixing scam during a 2010 Test against England at Lords, was superb. He dismissed three of the worlds top (ODI) batsmen in Rohit Sharma (nought), India captain Virat Kohli (five) and Shikhar Dhawan (21) in a stunning new-ball spell.
Amir struck just three balls into Indias reply when, after bowling two outswingers to Sharma, he had him lbw with a superb inswinger.
Then one ball after Kohli, the worlds leading ODI batsman, was dropped at slip off Amir, the bowler had him caught at point by Shadab Khan.
The collapse continued when left-handed opener Dhawan was caught behind off Amir by Sarfraz.
India then lost two wickets for no runs in four balls to be 54 for five inside 14 overs.
Leg-spinner Shadab took a wicket with his sixth ball when Yuvraj Singh (22) was lbw, although it needed a Pakistan review of an original not out decision.
Former captain MS Dhoni had rescued India from many a dire position in his long career.
But he could not stop Sundays slide as he holed out off Hasan, with Imad Wasim taking a low catch in the deep.
Pakistan, who had lost all three of their previous matches against India in the knockout stages of International Cricket Council tournaments and started this event the lowest ranked of all the eight teams taking part, were now on the brink of a sensational win.
Hardik Pandya gave the stunned India fans in a capacity crowd something to cheer as he hit three sixes off succesive balls to bring up a dashing fifty.
But he only looked to be delaying the inevitable and a huge mix-up with Jadeja saw the all-rounder, to his evident fury, run out for 76.
Earlier, Fakhar made the most of an early reprieve after Kohli won the toss and sent Pakistan in on a typically good Oval pitch, with the sunny conditions seemingly ideal for batting.
He was caught behind off Bumrah on three but replays showed the paceman had bowled a no-ball.
Fakhar, the man-of-the-match, shared an opening stand of 128 with Azhar Ali (59) and then put on 72 with Babar Azam (46) for the second wicket. Pakistan veteran Mohammad Hafeezs quickfire 57 not out, including three sixes, then took Pakistan well beyond 300. Denied the calming influence of an early wicket, Indias bowlers looked nervous. But the run-out Pakistans openers had pair had threatened arrived when Fakhars failure to respond to Azhars call saw the former ODI captain fall by a distance.
Fakhar then drove left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja for six. The 27-year-old completed a 92-ball hundred including two sixes when he swept star off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, for his 12th four.
He was eventually out when he sliced medium-pacer Pandya to Jadeja, running back from point. AFP
Twitter reaction to Pakistans Champions Trophy triumph
London: How Twitter reacted to Pakistans Champions Trophy triumph over rivals India on Sunday:
The biggest thing on display today is @TheRealPCBs heart. They played with courage and belief. Just an incredible performance by Pakistan.
-- Former Sri Lanka star Kumar Sangakkara @KumarSanga2
Brilliant from Pakistan! Embraced aggression, freedom in play. Youth and experience all stood up on the biggest stage! Great scenes.
-- Former New Zealand star Brendon McCullum @Bazmccullum
Congratulations @TheRealPCB How good have they been to watch .. thoroughly Deserved it !! Saved the best for last too.. #CT17Well done !!
-- Ex-Sri Lanka player Russel Arnold @RusselArnold69
I was hoping a team in green and gold would win. Seems there was a mix up in countries though Well done Pakistan, congrats Mickey.
-- South Africa fast bowler Dale Steyn @DaleSteyn62
Congratulations @TheRealPCB, the team & the whole country for such a great win.#CT17 Boys you made us happy & proud. Up & above 4rm here!
-- Former Pakistan skipper Misbah ul Haq @captainmisbahpk
Congratulations to Pakistan on winning the #ct17 no one gave them a chance, but here they are well deserve Champions.. #PakistanZindabad.
-- West Indies star Daren Sammy @darensammy88
Congrats Pakistan on winning #CT2017 you have to be happy for the people of Pakistan who never get to watch international games at home.
-- Englands Ravi Bopara @ravibopara
Congratulations Pakistan on a really comprehensive victory today. Well played, deserved winners and a great result for Pakistan cricket.
-- Former India opener Virender Sehwag @virendersehwag
In the unfathomable history of Pakistan cricket, this is the most unfathomable of all unfathomable cup runs.
-- Pakistan cricket writer Kamran Abbasi @KamranAbbasi
Wow wow wow unbelievable performance by team green. It feels like dejavu after winning the 1992 WCup. I am over the moon #PakistanZindabad
-- Pakistans highest one-day international wicket-taker Wasim Akram @wasimakramlive
What a story this is. Pakistan were utterly useless a fortnight ago against India. Now theyre irresistible. Its so fantastically unlikely.
-- Cricket writer Lawrence Booth @the_topspin
Inconsistent first class structure .. No home games for 10 yrs .. No expensive Academies .. Now #CHAMPIONS Pakistan ... #CT17
-- Former England captain Michael Vaughan @MichaelVaughan
Congratulations to Team Pakistan on their great performance in winning #CT17 And how wonderful to watch Fakhars raw talent in action.

-- Pakistans 1992 World Cup-winning captain Imran Khan @ImranKhanPTI
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (19-06-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (19-06-2017)]
Dr. Al-haj Badiudin Muhamud
Astute educationist
Late Dr. Badiudin Mahmud, born on June 23, 1904, having had his primary education at St.Thomas College, Matara; Wesley College, Colombo and Zahira College, Colombo, entered Alihar University in india for his higher studies where he obtained a M.A. degree. Whilst in India, he was able to have close relationships with a host of graet personalilites and this helped him a great deal in his later political life.
Dr. Bdiudin Mahmud joined the staff of , Gampola, as an assistant teacher and rose up to be its principal.
His services to Zahira College in general in the educational field was immense.
A person who disliked imperialistic ideas, he took a leading role in the progressive movement and was a founding member of the SLFP, along with S.W.R.D. Bandarnaike.
He was a pioneer of the SLFP when it came to power in 1956 with the blessings of the common man.
Dr. Mahumud formed the Islamic Socialist front to promote progressive ideas amongst Muslims and the way he acted to instigate the leftist ideology amongst them is praiseworthy.
After serving as the Minister of Education from 1960-1965 and 1970-1977 under Prime Minister Bandaranayika in her Cabinet, he passed away on June 16, 1997.
K.A.Aleem,
Teacher,
Zahira College, Gampola.
Rev. Canon Raylin Henry Andradie
Proficient in many a languages
The 6th death anniversary of Rev. Don Raylin Henry Andradie, a distinguished son of Moratuwa, will be remembered as one who gave himself completely to the service of his church relentlessly and devotedly, as an indefatigable servant of the Lord, a faithful priest and a committed pastor.
Rev. Andradie, his full name being Don Raylin Henry Jacob Andradie Warnakula Jayasuriya, prefixed by Arasakulasuriya Arasanailayaitta Adiya, was born in his ancestral home Andradie Niwasa at Lady Evelyn de Soysa Road in Idama, Moratuwa.
He was baptized and confirmed at the Church of Holy Emmanuel, Moratuwa. At Prince of Wales College Moratuwa, he acquainted himself we at studies and was successful in both, the Cambridge Senior and Matriculation examinations.
He was ordained a deacon in 1924 after having successfully completed a course of theological studies at the Divinity School in Colombo and a priest in 1925. In May, 1927, he married Balapuraduge Letitia Charlotte Mendis, a teacher on the staff of Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa. She was, at the time, residing at Mount Pleasant, Moratumulla in Moratuwa. The marriage was solemnised at the Church of Holy Emmanuel, Moratuwa. They were blessed with two children: Christopher and Pauline.
A doughty champion of the Anglo-Catholic cause, he steadfastly held to its traditions wherever he served, right to the end propagating its faith among his flock. His 30-year long ministry extended from Matara through Panadura, Egoda Uyana, Koralawella, Horethuduwa, Dandugama and Kurana, in the Western coastal belt and from Badulla through Kandy to Kurunegala, in the hill country of Sri Lanka.
As an erudite scholar proficient in many a languages; Sinhala, English, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Pali and Sanskrit; his bountiful knowledge was made use of not only as a lecture in Sinhala in the Divinity school in Colombo, but also as a translator of the Holy Scriptures and the Book Common Prayer into Sinhala.
The eighth Bishop of Colombo Bishop Archibald Rollo Graham Campbell, in a tribute to the late Rev. Andradie, at the Diocesan Council Sessions of 1945, said, During the 30 years of his ministry, he labored faithfully for the ministry and cared for the people committed to his charge and all the time, he was labouring to make the treasurers of the Bible and prayer book available to his own people in their own tongue.
At the time, when the Sinhala language was a bugbear to those Divinity students who had been educated in the English medium, it was Rev. Andradie who was able to infuse into them the desire to learn Sinhala.
Rev. S.W. Douglas de Mel, in an appreciation published in the Ceylon Churchman of September, 1954, said, Not until we studied the language (Sinhala) under Rev. Canon Andradie, did we realize its beauty, its rhythm and the effects in emotion it could create.
He was born a teacher of the Sinhala language. His reward for all his efforts is seen perhaps, in the progress made by Tamil students in a language quite foreign to them and the desire he kindled in the hearts of Sinhala students to love and learn their mother tongue better.
While Rev. Andradie was in service at St. Paul's Church in Kandy in 1932, he had the rare privilege of receiving the Duke of Gloucester when the Duke arrived in Ceylon for the presentation of the throne and crown of the last King of Kandy and went for a service in the church.
Among his widely-known publications in Sinhala are the 'St. Peter's Prayer Book' (1939) and 'Sithvyana' (1946), published in commemoration of the centenary of the diocese of Colombo, which are treasure little books widely used even today in most of the Anglican homes, especially Moratuwa. Among his lesser known publications are 'Children's Prayers' (1947) in Sinhala, published in commemoration of the paternal grandparents of the writer. He was the editor of a Sinhala monthly journal 'Dharmadeepthiya,' which went out of publications many years ago.
In 1953, in recognition of the faithful service of Rev. Andradie to God, church and man, he was appointed a Canon of the Cathedral Church of Christ to the seat of St. Lawrence, by Bishop Archibald.
In the latter years of his life, he suffered much due to his ill health, but still carried on, travelling a distance of 20 km from Dangugama to teach students at the Divinity School in Colombo, in addition to performing his own pastoral work. At the time of his death, he had almost completed a commentary of St. Mathew's Gospel in Sinhala.
Exactly 63 years ago, in 1954, Rev. Andradie was called to rest on June 22, in the presence of an unusually large gathering. It was a glowing tribute to the piety, faithfulness and industry of the much-loved priest.
I conclude this appreciation in the words of Bishop Archibald, who commented in his charge to the Diocesan Council 1954 thus, Of Rev. Canon Andradie, it may truly be said that he counted not his life dear unto himself so that he might finish his course with joy and the ministry which he had received of the Lord Jesus. He had his desire. He dies as he himself wished at work, right to end.
Prabath Perera
Asoka Lakshman Thenabadu
Ardent mentor
It is one year since my friend and colleague Asoka Lakshman Thenabadu passed away on June 30, 2016, following a sudden heart attack. It is with a marked sense of sadness and remembrance that these words are penned, eulogizing our friend and colleague.
Asoka was a fellow Thomian as well, and hence, was a friend of mine from our younger days. He attended St. Thomas from the very beginning, ahead of me and others who came to Mt. Lavinia via St. Thomas Prep School in Kollupitiya, or others via St. Thomas, Gurutalawa. In school, he was involved in a multitude of activities and distinguished himself in scouting, earning the Queens Scout badge, the pinnacle of scouting for youngsters in school. He was very active in extra-mural activities for Wood House at STC, and was a debater, representing the house in many other activities as well, ending up as a House Prefect, thence being appointed a school prefect. He was fair in keeping discipline at school, well looked up to by his juniors and earned himself many accolades.
Academically, he excelled and was one of the 28 of a class of, I believe, 32 who earned a record number of passes with Distinction in Pure Math at the O level exam, an accomplishment that Rev. Lucien Fernando, our Math teacher, regarded with pride. He was one of the groups of Thomians admitted to the Colombo Medical Faculty in 1963, having graduated from STC in December, 1962.
A diligent student, Asoka was a fellow resident with me at Bloemfontein, the mens medical hostel, and many were the evenings that a group of us met informally for study discussions, in which he was an active and formal accomplice.
Graduating together in 1968, Asoka served his Internship at the Ratnapura General Hospital with several of us. I recall him playing tennis there. He was liked by both colleagues and staff. During post Internship, he was posted to Colombo South Teaching hospital at Kalubowila. After a stint there, he joined the Army Medical Corps. During this period, he met his bride Manel Wijeweera, LLB., a practicing Lawyer, whom he married on July 7, 1975. In October, 1975, he left Sri Lanka for the UK with his new bride and added a DCH and MRCPCH to his MBBS degree, eventually becoming a Consultant Paediatrician in Epsom, practicing in that speciality for some 35 years in the UK; he also became a successful businessman of sorts, setting up Stat Locums as the founder of an organization that provided physician coverage services to both, practitioners as well as hospitals, starting in the UK and expanding later to the Middle East, New Zealand and even down under, I believe.
Manel and he were blessed with two sons, one of whom, Sam, followed his father into Medicine, becoming a Paediatric Trauma Surgeon in UK, while Chris, following in his mothers footsteps, took to Law, and currently is a Solicitor, also in the UK.
Asoka had multitude of interests; in addition to Stat Locums, he founded a placement company assisting physicians locate work places. He helped visitors to Sri Lanka find and enjoy some of the abundant beauty of Sri Lanka, and explored areas outside the beaten path, such as whale-watching excursions from Mirissa. He lent his expertise to the Historical Society, as well as the Photographic Society in Colombo, and doubtless many others in the UK. His interests were many, and he was well-known to go out of his way to extend help and mentoring.
On retirement, he chose to return to Sri Lanka and live in Colombo to care for Manel, his wife, to whom he remained devoted.
He continued to maintain his Stat Locums office at his spacious Hyde Park flat at Hyde Park residencies deploying a personal assistant. He was fiercely protective of his familys personal life and other than discussing it in generalities, rarely did acquaintances become aware or how he curtailed his activities in Colombo to be available to Manel On a visit to Sri Lanka after a pause of 11 years.
I became aware of much Asokas generous nature when he went out of his way to introduce me to various voluntary societies in Colombo, of which he was a very active member, encouraging me, picking me up and taking me to many of the meetings, and to Sinhalese Sports Club and Royal Colombo Golf Club where he was a frequent visitor in order to make sure that I would not become 'bored,' as he put it, while on an extended visit of several months; for this, I was very grateful.
He also was an active Old Thomian and remained so to the end, keeping up with both fellow schoolmates as well as officers of the OBU; his patronage in these activities was unstinting, though I became aware of how closely he monitored caregivers who were with Manel who was sick whenever he was away from her was always 'on-call.'
On my visit from December, 2014, through to March, 2015, Asoka escorted me to many meetings of societies he belonged to; I also became aware that he was a current officer or past officer in many and actively mentored many of the younger members or officers, giving of his time and advice without reserve.
His passing prematurely at what I consider a prime stage of his life with so much left to give the many to whom he extended a hand is to be mourned.
Some of our group, both from STC or from the Medical College class we belonged to, have passed on and now, Asoka will be one of these ranks, whom we, those remaining, will refer to in the past tense.
I am proud to have been associated with him and am sure his sons and siblings are too.
Esto Perpetua.
Dr. Chris Simithraaratchy,
USA
Pricille Fernando
Gentle soul
June 28 marks the 1st death anniversary of Late Pricille Fernando, a gentle, soft-spoken and sensitive soul whose sudden demise was so difficult to comprehend.
He was a wonderful human being with a passion to serve the needy and the downtrodden.
With a heart of gold, he wouldn't hesitate to go that extra mile to assist anyone in distress.
The word 'no' was non-existent in his vocabulary. Many who were fortunate to cross his path will find the void hard to replace.
His untimely demise has caused great pain to his loved ones and dear friends. Our friendship with Pricille and Monica dates back to 1979, when my spouse Anver and Pricille were inducted on the same day to the prestigious Lions' Club of Moratuwa. When Anver was President of the Club, Pricille was Secretary. Interestingly, both went on to become District Governors and Chairpersons of the Multiple Council of Governors. He used his expertise, with assistance of Lion Lady Sharleene Liyanage, to make the first ever video presentation of District activities at Anver's farewell Convention as District Governor, in 1992 at the BMICH.
A very popular personality, he was loved by many. He took his oaths as District Governor at the International Convention in Honolulu, Hawaii, in 2000. He will be best remembered for donating 30 dialysis machines worth over Rs. 60 million, to hospitals all over the island, including Jaffna, during his tenure as Governor.
An outstanding product of St. Sebastian's College, Moratuwa, this six-footer was Head Prefect, Senor Athletics Captain, champion athlete, and a Sri Lanka schools' basketball player. A multi-talented individual, Pricille was also an award-winning photographer and holder of a Private Pilot's License. He was the first General Manager of Micro Cars Ltd. and was responsible for developing the prototype and registering the Patent documents. He was also Manager of Dairy Development at Nestles.
Pricille was supported by his dynamic partner in service Monicaa former winner of the Lion Lady of the Year Award. In addition to Monica, he left behind his only son Sharon of Steamboat fame, an outstanding Tennis player and Golfer, d.i.l Nishu and two adorable grandchildren Nishinya and Shenuk, much adored by Pricille and his two sisters Yvonne and Anne, about whom he cared very much. Pricille's three brothers Vimal, Sunil and Amila, predeceased him.
It was in the fitness of things that this caring and God-fearing soul breathed his last in the afternoon, resting on his armchair, watching God TV.
May his gentle soul rest in peace! Farina Dole
Don Percy Nanayakkara
Remembering forever our beloved father
Its hard to believe that its now over three years since he passed.
Our precious time with him went by way too fast.
After his death, countless people continuously found the time to say
how much of a great man he was and how he helped them in various ways.
He was clearly loved and idolized
by even more than we realized.As an accomplished scholar, he was dedicated to education;
he applied everything in life with amazing innovation.
When he conversed, he made it easy for all to connect
because he treated everyone with a great deal of respect.
He always gave without an ounce of hesitation.
Many who met him said he was their inspiration. He treated people of all cultures and faiths exactly the same;
and, for all of his contributions, he never once looked for acclaim.
He offered so much talent in over 12 countries,
consisting of a vast assortment of sundries:
educator, writer, teacher, philanthropist, producer, dancer, information technology specialist, just to name a few.
There was absolutely nothing in this world he couldnt achieve or find time to do.
When people shared their problems, he helped them find solutions.
His life consisted of such endless contributions.
He never stopped giving.
That's the way he kept living. We enjoyed spending time with him each and every day;
but, its definitely different now as we miss him in so many ways.
He was our favorite person each day of our lives.
He was the one that every one of us strives or hopes to become one day.
He was perfect to us in every way.
We are grateful for everything hes done; not just for us, but for everyone.We continue to love him to the extreme
and undoubtedly miss the leader of our team.
We also personally know
that our hearts will continue to flow
with the love he gave us for the rest of our lives.
Its in that fond essence that he still survives.We are infinitely grateful to you, thaththa, for every single thing that you have done. Undoubtedly, you have personified the best in us. We eternally love you and are enormously thankful that your legacy of wisdom, integrity, inspiration, and courage will go on foreverfor us and all of whom you've touched.
You were the greatest father anyone could ever have. Death may have taken you away from us, but our lives' hero you'll forever be. We miss you everyday.May he attain Nibbana!
Lovingly remembered and sadly missed by your children.
Venetia Ethel Gamage
Humble matron
Three months ago, our beloved friend, a founding member on NGO Forum On Ageing, passed away after a brief illness. She hailed from a well-known family in Wellawatte and was a well-known social service worker.
She was a science teacher at Devi Balika Vidyalaya and was very popular and loved by all students for her dedication, commitment and kindness. She started the Girl Guides Society in the school.
Venetia was very humble, amiable and kind, always with a smile on her face.
Since the NGO Forum was formed in 1991, she did a great service to the forum in organizing various activities, especially issuing the Senior Citizens Identity Cards on the same day with the help of Elders' Secretariat.
Venetia introduced them to the NFOA and elected me to be the Secretary of the Forum and we were able to do much work towards the welfare of senior citizens. She also initiated 'voice of youth' seminars at the BMICH in 1984 and residential camps for rehabilitation of drug addicts. She also conducted a 10-day carers' course to train youths to look after sick and ageing elders.
She was very concerned and helpful towards the activities of the NFOA and attended all our functions although she was not in good health during the latter stages.
Her husband Nihal, a high ranking Police Officer, was a pillar of strength to all her activities. Their only son Nalin is doing well in Canada.
May your journey in Sansare be short and may you reach the supreme bliss of Nirvana.
Reggie De Soysa,
NFOA
Kalabhushana Premaranjith Thilakaratne
Excellent writer
Premaranjith Thilakaratne passed away at the ripe age of 79 years. He studied at the Sripali College in Horana and later, joined the clerical service. Being an energetic young officer, he passed the limited competitive examination for promotion of lower grade public officers and served as an executive officer in different parts of the island until he was called upon to assume duties as the Deputy Commissioner of Cultural Affairs. He retired from the public service as a class I officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
As a pre-eminent writer and a commissioner of culture and arts, he entered into the theater scene with his play 'Wagurubima.' He wrote and produced 10 plays. His play 'A House Without a Roof' won the first award at the state literary festival of that year. Several plays written by him were dramatized on the stage before a large audience.
He wrote five novels, 10 plays and four books on miscellaneous subjects.
His bilingual knowledge made him an excellent translator and he won the best translation award at the 2004 state literary festival.
He led a devoted Buddhist life until his demise. His beloved wife predeceased him and he leaves behind a son of the father's calibre.
He was an unassuming person and excellent friend who was hardly moved by the vicissitudes he had to face in regard to his former family life.
In all respect, he was a perfect gentleman.
May he attain nibbana.
==============================
## Title: Australian Foreign Minister to visit Sri Lanka to discuss dengue control
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 11:30
Australian Foreign Minister to visit Sri Lanka to discuss dengue control

Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne said that Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop MP will visit Sri Lanka next month to discuss on the possibility of using the bacteria discovered by an Australian to control dengue mosquitoes.
Minister Senaratne said that the study shows successful results and the bacteria can be used in Sri Lanka to control dengue mosquitoes.
The research was done by the Monash University in Australia.
The bacteria can reduce the power of dengue mosquitoes and researches were carried out in Indonesia, Vietnam etc.
Apart from controlling dengue mosquitoes, the bacteria is used in agricultural activities.
Meanwhile the National Coordinator of the National Dengue Control Programme Hasitha Thisera said that if the study works out, the bacteria can be used in all parts of the country to control dengue.
==============================
## Title: Average weekly turnover hits 2-month high
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Average weekly turnover hits 2-month high
The Bourse closed on a positive note as the ASPI increased by 49.87 points (or 0.75%) to close at 6,718.83 points, while the S&P SL20 Index increased by 75.67 points (or 1.97%) to close at 3,916.44 points.
Turnover & marketcapitalization
JKH was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 2.07Bn or 36.05% of total turnover value.
Seylan Bank followed suit, accounting for 10.12% of turnover (value of LKR 0.58Bn) while Hemas Holdings contributed LKR 0.45Bn to account for 7.77% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 5.73Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 3.48Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 1.15Bn (+31.66% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.87Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, increased by 0.75% W-o-W (or LKR 22.09Bn) to LKR 2,973.98Bn cf. LKR 2,951.89Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Diversified Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 47.77% (or LKR 2.74Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by JKH & Hemas Holdings which accounted for 91.74% of the sectors total turnover.
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector meanwhile accounted for 21.66% (or LKR 1.24Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by Seylan Banks, Commercial Bank.
HNB & Commercial Bank (NV) which accounted for 81.51% of the sector turnover.
The Manufacturing Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 9.72% (or LKR 0.56Bn) to the market driven by Tokyo Cement & Teejay Lanka which accounted for 42.64% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Diversified Sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 36.77% (or 50.47Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 2.74Bn. The Banking, Finance & Insurance sector followed suit, adding 19.65% to total turnover volume as 26.96Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR 1.24Bn of total market turnover value. The Manufacturing Sector meanwhile, contributed 19.34Mn shares (or 14.09%), amounting to LKR 0.56Bn.
Top gainers & losers
Citrus Kalpitiya was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 25.71% W-o-W from LKR 3.50 to LKR 4.40.
Morisons (NV) gained 25.00% W-o-W to close at LKR 400.00 while Paragon gained 23.49% W-o-W to close at LKR 73.60. Citrus Hikkaduwa (+20.81% W-o-W) and First Capital (+15.71% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
Blue Diamonds (NV) was the weeks highest price loser, declining 20.00% W-o-W to close at LKR 0.40. Ceylon Printers (-18.99% W-o-W), Brac Lanka Finance (-18.34% W-o-W) & CIFL (-12.50% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net buying position with total net inflows amounting to LKR 0.48Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 0.68Bn (-29.49% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases increased by 24.28% W-o-W to LKR 2.95Bn from last weeks value of LKR 2.37Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 2.47Bn relative to LKR 1.69Bn recorded last week (+46.03% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Expolanka & JKH led foreign purchases while Seylan Bank & Dialog led foreign sales. In terms of value, JKH and Teejay Lanka led foreign purchases while Seylan Bank and Dialog led foreign sales.
Point of view
The ASPI reversed the last three weeks losing streak, as the main share index gained 50 points during the week to push past the key psychological mark of 6700 points.
The YTD gain on the Benchmark price Index by end-week was 8%, highlighting the fact that ~723 points has been added to the Index since late March when the ASPI began to rally strongly after hitting a 12M low of 5974.94 points, accounts to a 12.5% gain in the index to date.
HNIs and Institutional investors continued to drive the market this week with momentum supported by large parcels in JKH (47% of total crossings) and Seylan Bank (22% of total crossings), Hemas Holdings (14% of total crossings).
The activity helped push average turnover value to LKR 1.15bn (~26% higher than the Y-T-D turnover of LKR 0.91Bn & ~32% higher than last weeks average turnover of LKR 0.87Bn).
Foreign inflows from equities meanwhile persisted throughout this week, accounting to LKR 482.21mn (cf. LKR 683.88mn) by Friday.
Foreign inflows to the Bourse in the month of June has thus far recorded a net inflow position of LKR 1.29bn, pushing the Y-T-D net inflow position to LKR 20.10bn.
Markets in the week ahead are likely to retain its current momentum while watching for direction from the policy rate decision on 27th June.
Q117 GDP falls to 3.8% Y-o-Y (cf. 5.1% in Q116)
GDP growth in the 1st quarter of 2017 fell sharply to 3.8% Y-o-Y (5.1% Y-o-Y in Q116 and 4.4% in FY16) as the island-wide drought since 2016 negatively impacted the economic activity, particularly agricultural activity.
Over the quarter, the Industrial sector recorded the highest growth (6.3% Y-o-Y in Q117 cf. 9.1% in Q116) as Construction activity (which accounts for the highest portion of industrial activity) increased a notable 16.1% Y-o-Y over the period.
During the quarter, the Manufacture of textile and wearing apparel segment also recovered relative to its performance in Q116.
Service sector activities which account for ~52% of overall GDP meanwhile, was driven by of the Wholesale and retail trade, Transportation of goods and passengers including warehousing, Financial service activities and Human health, residential care and social work activities.
Growth in the sector however, slowed from 3.7% Y-o-Y in Q116 to 3.5% Y-o-Y in Q117.
Within the Agricultural sector meanwhile, the countrys severe drought conditions pushed activity lower recorded a negative growth of 3.2% Y-o-Y cf. -0.2% Y-o-Y in Q116.
The CBSL projects GDP growth at 5.0% Y-o-Y by year-end amid the unfavorable impact of the adverse weather conditions.
However, the Monetary authority expects growth to rebound to 7.0% Y-o-Y by 2020E with the private sector expected to play a key role in achieving this future growth.
==============================
## Title: Benefits of giving up sugar
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Benefits of giving up sugar
Health bloggers and clean-eating advocates frequently extol the benefits of quitting sugar - but is it actually desirable
Entirely eradicating all sugar from your diet would be extremely difficult. You can ditch fizzy drinks, cakes and stop adding sugar to your tea, but as long as youve still got bread, milk, fruit ready meals, condiments, and a thousand other innocuous-looking foods in your shopping basket, youll still be consuming sugar.
What is certain is that most of us could do with significantly reducing our sugar intake. According to NHS figures, the average Briton gets through 700g - 140 teaspoons-worth - each week, more than three times the recommended amount.
The NHS recommends cutting down on foods and drinks that contain added sugars, and seeking out low-sugar alternatives: water or milk instead of fizzy pop, cream cheese instead of jam or marmalade, porridge instead of corn flakes, and so on.
But what are the actual benefits of limiting the amount of sugar you eat
Youll probably lose weight
Excessive sugar consumption can lead to weight gain. Ditching cakes, sweets and chocolates in favour of healthier fare, and youre likely to see the pounds fall away.
Professor Naveed Satta from the British Heart Foundation Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre at the University of Glasgow says: Sugar per se is not harmful - we need it for the bodys energy needs - but when consumed in excess it will contribute to weight gain.
Your heart will be healthier
Drinking just three cans of fizzy pop each day could triple your chance of developing heart disease, a 2014 study suggested.
Scientists in America found a strong association between the proportion of daily calories from foods laden with added sugars and death rates from cardiovascular disease. Cut out the sugar, and the risk of cardiovascular disease radically diminishes.
No more energy slumps
If youre partial to high-sugar snacks, youre likely to be familiar with the rapid drop-off in energy that follows afterwards. Sugary treats send blood sugar levels soaring - until the inevitable crash that leaves you tired and craving more carbohydrates.
Youll be less at risk of cancer
Sugar does not directly cause cancer. However, Cancer Research UKhighlights an indirect link between cancer risk and sugar: Eating lots of sugar over time can cause you to gain weight, and robust scientific evidence shows that being overweight or obese increases the risk of 13 different types of cancer. In fact, obesity is the single biggest preventable cause of cancer after smoking.
Less risk of tooth decay
Everyone knows sugar is bad for your teeth - and the longer sugary food is in contact with teeth, the more damage it can cause. Conversely, less sugar means less risk of tooth decay.
Your thinking should get clearer
A 2012 UCLA study on rats showed that too much fructose - a simple sugar found in fruits, honey and vegetables - effectively slowed the brain by affecting insulins ability to help brain cells convert sugar into energy for thought.
Dr Sarah Brewer, a medical nutritionist, warned of the damage sweet things can do to your grey matter: Brain cells need glucose to function but too much in a short time will cause a sugar rush and make you feel over-wired.
Your immune system will be stronger
According to Web MD, eating or drinking too much sugar curbs immune system cells that attack bacteria. This effect lasts for at least a few hours after downing a couple of sugary drinks.
-telegraph.co.uk
==============================
## Title: The big issue of obesity
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
The big issue of obesity
More than 2 billion adults and children globally are overweight or obese and suffer health problems because of their weight, a new study reports.
This equates to one-third of the worlds population carrying excess weight, fueled by urbanization, poor diets and reduced physical activity. The United States has the greatest percentage of obese children and young adults, at 13%, while Egypt led in terms of adult obesity, with almost 35%, among the 195 countries and territories included in the study.
While 2.2 billion people were obese or overweight in 2015, more than 710 million of them were classed as obese, with 5% of all children and 12% of adults fitting into this category.
An increasing number globally are dying from health problems linked to being overweight, such as cardiovascular disease, said the study, published Monday in the New England Journal of Medicine.
Almost 40% of the 4 million dying as a result of their higher body mass index were not yet obese, highlighting that deaths are occurring almost as often in those considered overweight as those considered obese.
Body mass index is the ratio between a persons weight and height; a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight, while anything over 30 is obese.
People who shrug off weight gain do so at their own risk -- risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and other life-threatening conditions, said Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, who worked on the study.
Those half-serious New Years resolutions to lose weight should become year-round commitments to lose weight and prevent future weight gain, he said in a statement.
The researchers analyzed data from 68.5 million people between 1980 and 2015 to explore trends as well as figures regarding overweight and obesity rates.
Data were obtained from the most recent Global Burden of Disease study, which explores all major diseases, conditions and injuries globally by age, sex and population.
The data revealed that the number of people affected by obesity has doubled since 1980 in 73 countries, and continued to rise across most other countries included in the analysis.
Obesity levels were higher among women than men across all age groups, which correlates with previous findings on obesity.
-CNN
==============================
## Title: Blue Ashraff Sports Club Addalaichenai victorious
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Blue Ashraff Sports Club Addalaichenai victorious
Blue Ashraff Sports Club, Addalaichenai beat Konawatta New Star Sports Club, Addalaichenai by1:0 in the final and emerged champions of the seven a side I.R.F. Challenge Trophy football tournament which was held at Al-Arham Vidyalaya, Addalaichenai play grounds recently.
Eight prominent sports clubs of the area took part in the tournament.
Addalaichenai Sports Clubs Federation President and Addalaichenai Heroes Sports Club President A.H.Hamza Sanoos, Blue Eleven Sports Club President A.R.Salabdeen, Addalaichenai Arafa Vidyalaya Principal M.A.Anzar, Addalaichenai Al- Arham Vidyalaya Deputy Principal O.L.M.Rizwan, New Star SC Acting President A.M.Akber and Vice-President F.Nahuharparticipated as the guests.
Prizes and trophies for winners were distributed by the guests.
==============================
## Title: Cannabis grower arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Cannabis grower arrested
A cannabis grower in Rathabalagama, Kukulkatuwa in the Thanamalwila Police area was arrested by Hambegamuwa Police on Saturday. About 1,500 three-feet high plants were found at the location.
==============================
## Title: CCTV camera captures three-wheel theft in Kalmunai
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 15:30
CCTV camera captures three-wheel theft in Kalmunai

A CCTV camera captured an unidentified individual stealing a three-wheel parked at the Mohaideen Grand Jummah Mosque in Kalmunai on June 16.
The CCTV camera at a nearby ATM captured the footage.
The owner, Mohamed Silmy of the three-wheeler is said to be living under poverty line and has been funding his household only by taking hires.
The complaint was logged at the Kalmunai Police station.
==============================
## Title: Celtics, 76ers swap top picks
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Celtics, 76ers swap top picks
LOS ANGELES: The Boston Celtics and the Philadelphia 76ers have agreed in principle on a trade that would give the 76ers the top pick in the 2017 NBA entry draft, US media reported Saturday.
Multiple outlets reported the deal and said the 76ers would to use the first overall pick to take University of Washington guard Markelle Fultz at Thursdays draft at Barclays Center arena in New York. Fultz worked out for the 76ers in Philadelphia on Saturday.
The Celtics hold the No. 1 pick and the 76ers have No. 3. The deal is expected to be announced Monday since the league offices are closed on weekends.
The 76ers would have to give up their third pick.
The Celtics would also receive at least one more high pick.
==============================
## Title: Chamod Fernandos penalty helps Isipathana edge out Peterites 22-20
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Chamod Fernandos penalty helps Isipathana edge out Peterites 22-20
Chamod Fernandos five-metre penalty in the closing stages of the game capped off Isipathana College a 22 points (3 tries, 2 conversions, 1 penalty) to 20 (3 tries, 1 conversions, 1 penalty) win over St. Peters College Bambalapitiya in their Milo A Division inter schools knock out rugby semi final match played yesterday at Sugathadasa Stadium in Colombo.
The Winners were leading 19-12 at half time.
Isipathana College open scoring through their number eight Devin Gunaratne, converted by centre Manelka Ruberu went into a 7 nil lead. They further increased their lead to 14 nil with a centre Randy Silvas try with Ruberu making the conversion.
St.Peters cut down the lead to 14-5 with a try by number eight Angelo Mendis with centre Theekshana Dasanayaka missing the conversion.
Pathana went further ahead to 19-5 through winger Ramith Silva scoring a superb try with Ruberu mising the conversion.
Just before half time Pets close down the gap to 19-12 through a try from hooker Julian Charles with Theekshana making the conversion.
At lemons the score red 19 points to 12 in favour of Isipathana.
After the break St.Peters reduced the lead to 19-15 with Theekshana making no mistake with a 35 metre penalty.
Peterites grab the lead to 20-19 through a briliant try scored by centre Theekshana Dasanayaka near the right corner flag. He himself missed the difficult conversion.
Isipathana sealed the match three minutes from the close of play when captain cum full back Chamod Fernando slotted in a simple five metre penalty in the 77th minute of the game to take the final score to Isipathana College 22 points to St. Peters College 20.
Referee: Dinka Peiris
==============================
## Title: Cheese could cure deafness
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Cheese could cure deafness
Cheese just might hold the cure to deafness. Scientists believe that it contains a chemical compound that could prevent and even cure deafness caused by exposure to loud sound, according to the Daily Mail.
A test done on animals reveals D-methionine helps protect damage to nerve cells in the ear. Now, it will soon be tested on 600 human volunteers from the US army. Researchers are also looking to find out if the compound can protect soldiers from permanent hearing damage caused by gunfire noise.
Loud sounds can damage nerve cells in the cochle, a vital part in the inner ear that helps send sound signals to the brain. D-methionine, an amino acid also found in yogurt, can help neutralise damaging chemicals released by the effect of the noise.
Previous research had found that the chemical can reverse hearing loss but only if it is given within seven hours of exposure to loud noise For the trial on humans, some of the recruits will take the compound in a drink and others will take a placebo, the report reveals. All participants will have their hearing tested a few days later. Time will tell if the compound found in cheese is a success on humans.
www.dailymail.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Cine Star conducts health camp for foundation membership
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Cine Star conducts health camp for foundation membership
Cine Star foundation is an organisation dedicated to the Cinema industry and registered as a non-profit organization with the Registrar of Companies. It has over 300 members representing all aspects of the cinema industry.
In conjunction with the 70 year anniversary celebrations of the local cinema industry and the International Vesak Festival, a health camp was conducted for the benefit of the Cine Star foundation membership at the Nawaloka Hospital premises on May 27 from 9.00 am onwards.
Heart centre, Physiotherapy, Physicians, Skin and cosmetic centre, Gynaecologists, ENT consultants were among the many medical units from the Nawalok Hospital who participated in this special camp, going much beyond the basic medical check-ups.
Free breast cancer screening, Eye testing and distribution of free spectacles, ECG and free medicines were also provided. Approximately 125 members benefitted from this camp.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (19-06-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (19-06-2017)]
Why we need Queens lingo
A monthly journal fully dedicated to enhancing the faculty of imagination of the budding writers would revolutionize the thinking pattern of the young generation. The affective domain of the young could be channeled into self-satisfaction and self-fulfillment thus arresting the casual heartlessness of the children in doing harmful pranks on adults and the aged.
Reading is the panacea for all the diseases. There is no elixir such as reading. Childrens capabilities could be diverted to productive channels through reading. A literary journal for the school community would be of immense value in many an aspect. For a kick start we could begin with a monthly literary publication exclusively for the schoolgoers. There would be competitive atmosphere if we could begin at the regional level. Depending on the success the concept could be propagated to the island level.
The writer expects constructive suggestions from both the teaching fraternity and the concerned parties for a further discussion. I earnestly hope that this piece of writing would catch the eye of the president and the minister of education.
Lets guide our prodigies to a brave new world.
Piyadasa Rillagoda
Baddegama
==============================
## Title: CNCI asks, Who needs proposed China SL FTA
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
CNCI asks, Who needs proposed China SL FTA
The proposed China Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement (CSLFTA) has become a widely spoken topic among the business community today.
It seems that they are helpless in he face of Governments recent implication through a letter from the Prime Ministers Office where Cabinet Committee on Economic Management has sought the views of the Department of Commerce on the negative list where they have agreed to reduce it to 10% from the total tariff lines and reach liberalization of 90% within a 20-year period using various options; further the cess will be removed over a period of five years commencing from the fifth year of the CSLFTA coming into force.
Up to now, all governments believed that private sector is the 'engine of growth'.
In fact, during the 30-year civil war almost all the private sector companies carried on their production without major retrenchments.
We have proved our capabilities and resilience during this difficult period. As a result, we could witness success stories of several local industries.
We proudly talk of Sri Lankan heritage, innovativeness, creativity, knowledge and talents of the people as a nation. To get the desired outcome of all such qualities, the private sector needs all the encouragement.
Today, the direction of the Government is not clear and is doubtful. Most of the planned policy matters in the country are not definitely industry friendly.
At a recent news conference organized by the National Council of Sri Lanka (NCSL), Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thero had said that he had been disappointed that the current trade agreements had been stemmed from the corrupted hearts of individuals and some officials with vested interests.
He had further said that the President had not known about the letter discussed above. The President had, however, assured not to sign any harmful agreement.
On the other hand, the business world is also highly complex in the face of competition and other various internal and external factors.
We know that the strength of the state economy is vastly determined by the success of the local industries on earning and saving of foreign exchange, creating employment and contributing to the GDP.
That is why all governments are taking various measures to protect and promote the local industries.
In this scenario, the decisions taken by the Government in developing the local industrial sector should be clear, visionary and beneficial to the country both in the short term and long term.
It is evident that the wrong strategic thinking of our political front had made heavy losses to our country on many occasions.
One good example is where the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation entered into the hedging contracts. When the world prices of oil were speedily going down, we had still to purchase them at very high prices according to the conditions of the contract.
Violating the conditions made us to pay back billions following a verdict by arbitration. All this foreign exchange wasted.
At the very early stages of the Government coming into power, they wanted to enter into the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) with India for which there were protests and criticism at various levels.
Thereafter, it again came under the name of Economic and Technology Cooperation Agreement (ETCA).
At a time some parties of the business community and other professionals had been indicating their objection for ETCA, the government simultaneously came with the proposed China Sri Lanka FTA.
Now the people have started talking of CSLFTA where the gravity will be more than that of the ETCA.
As far as the population of the two countries are concerned, ours is only around 21 million whereas China has a population of more than 1,388 million.
Why is China so interested in penetrating into our small market consisting of 21 million
The import value of goods from China (for 02016) was US$ 4,273.58 million against our export to China for the same year which is US$ 199.15 million, only 4.7% of their exports to our country.
Can we increase our production capacities in many sectors
Can we compete with Chinese products in the face of our high cost of production owing to lack of macroeconomic policies such as interest rates, rupee depreciation, low-scale production, high cost of labour and uneconomical national holidays structure, etc
In this sense, the only safeguard that local industrialists enjoy at the moment is the cess imposed in 1979.
We, as the National Chamber for Industries, are compelled to play a bigger role to safeguard the industries that survived specially during the 'bad times' of this country.
We must emphasize that we are not against the FTA or going global.
What we request is that the Government not reduce the negative list to 10% from the present level by just neglecting the responsible role played by the local industrialists up to now.
All the Chambers have already agreed to maintain the negative list at 30% level.
Also, we urge not to phase out the cess within a period of five years from the fifth year upon implementation of the proposed FTA, which is the only measure available to safeguard the local industries, where approximately 2.06 million workers are engaged in both the public and private sector industries.
The country is evidently not comfortable in taking up this challenge since there is no healthy environment within our country for a massive growth.
It is important to bring the country to an orderly level first where it will be conducive to the local industries, consumers and the socio-environment.
The problem is about the uncertainties of implementation by establishing proper monitoring and detecting systems.
We have enough experience about lackadaisical approaches. Policy formulation is very easy but what is required is the implementation. Even in the current scenario, poor quality merchandise enters into the Sri Lankan market.
Sri Lanka has an emerging SME sector. Everyone talks about SME development, but very few take a genuine effort in developing SMEs.
Sri Lankan SMEs are discouraged by a lot of barriers. They are not financially sound. They need assistance for low interest and collateral free loans against strong business plans.
They need assistance for research and development, assistance for skills development, technology use, insurance cover, etc.
Similarly, they have to be looked after when their businesses are destroyed or damaged by natural disasters.
Subsequent to the recent floods, there were repeated announcements that the business entities and households had been covered by insurance under the National Insurance Trust Fund (NITF).
One of our SME member companies was severely affected by floods in May 2016 and with our advice the owner applied for compensation with all documentary proofs through the grama niladari and the divisional secretary of the area.
He had then been informed that whatever the value of the damage, the compensation would be subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs. 100,000, whereas the proven damage was above Rs. 500,000.
However, he has not received any compensation as at date despite several reminders and personal visits to the NITF.
After a long and undue lapse of more than one year and the people have been hit by another huge flood.
This is the reality prevailing in our country at present.
Sri Lanka is lacking an industrial policy and standard systems that could boost our economy and restrict imports on quality parameters which are essential to overcome dumping of substandard goods and to curtail unethical business practices.
If these policies and sound monitoring systems are neglected, Sri Lanka might become the dumping ground of South Asia.
We are yet to improve our testing and certifications systems and the anti-dumping practices.
It is also pertinent to note that if the negative list in question will be phased out to 10%, the correspondent loss of income on duty and cess against total government income will be billions of rupees per annum.
In that sense, the outcome of this agreement will be for widening the gap between exports and imports and finally it will affect our balance of payments.
If majority of the Sri Lankan industrialists are against the proposed agreement with China, we are worried whom the Government is going to satisfy.
Sri Lanka which has a very low purchasing power prevailing at the moment is not a big marketplace even for China.
The writer is Chairman, Ceylon National Chamber of Industries
==============================
## Title: Coal transport ship payments snare Sri Lanka Shipping Corp. in debt trap
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Coal transport ship payments snare Sri Lanka Shipping Corp. in debt trap
The Sri Lanka Shipping Industry points out that the Sri Lanka Shipping Corporation is falling in to a huge debt trap due to the huge payments that is required to be made for the purchasing of the two ships used to transport coal.
Vessels M V Ceylon Breeze was delivered in January 2016 and M V Ceylon Princes was delivered in June 2016 and today the daily rental and maintenance cost to be paid for both ships account to a staggering US $ 32,000 a source from the shipping community said at the Shipping Council Annual General meeting held last Friday
However the revenue gained or the saving from operating this amount is less than half of the price that has to be paid.
Norochcholai Coal Power Plant commenced operation in 2011 with 300 Mw. As Ceylon Shipping Corporation Ceylon Limited (CSCL) didnt have vessels to transport Coal, a tender was called in 2011 to transport 700,000 Mt Coal and this was awarded to Mercator Singapore for a period of three years from 2011 September till 2014 April.
With the development of the second phase of 300 Mw power plant a tender was called in 2014 for 1.5 million tons of coal. This was awarded to PCL Singapore for a period of three years from 2014 September till 2017 April.
Since another 300 Mw Plant was under construction by 2014 the government ordered two modern bulk vessels considering to develop CSCL as a national carrier than to become a broker on freight.
These two vessels could carry only a maximum 700,000 Mt and also their movements are also restricted from mid-September to end April each year due to tides in the sea.
Due to high purchase price of the two vessels CSCL Cannot make profits and have to depend on the Charter Market during the period from October to April every year. Since the worldwide shipping market is in a bad shape this too is a burden to CSCL as they can earn only around USS 8,000 each from these operations
The two ships take around 34 days to deliver a load of coal to Norochholai and six months of the year the two ship are being rented out on a daily basis to other operators. The income from these rentals amount to only US$ 16,000 (for both) which is far below to meet the cost of payment.
Considering the negative direction the CSCL is heading several world renowned shipping companies have submitted Expression of Interest (EOI) to assist CSCL and develop Joint Venture companies on PPP basis which is also the plan of the government in turning loss making SOEs to profit making SOEs.
Next Transportation of coal is to be commenced by Mid-September and the Contract with PCL was expired on end April.
Up to now no tender have being called while several EOIs submitted by different Shipping Companies too have not being considered. The shipping community urges the authorities to call for a tender soon so that they could get involved in the bidding process and work closely with the CSCL.
==============================
## Title: Cop, monk among 14 arrested for anti- religious violence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Cop, monk among 14 arrested for anti- religious violence
A Police Constable and a Buddhist Monk are among the 14 persons arrested in connection with the recent incidents of violence targeting places of religious worship, business enterprises and houses, Police media spokesman DIG Priyantha Jayakody said yesterday.
There are 11 Sinhalese, a Tamil and a Muslim among the arrested. There is a Buddhist monk and a police officer among the arrested Sinhalese. DIG Jayakody also said.
He was speaking at a media brief held at the Department of Government Information in Narahenpita yesterday.
It is revealed that almost all the arrested Sinhalese have close connection with Bodu Bala Sena organization, DIG Jayakody confirmed.
The CEO of Bodu Bala Sena Dilantha Witanage challenged the police asking how we are to prove that BBS is behind many religious violent acts. Now we have proved it, DIG Jayakody also said.
The arrested police constable is an officer attached to Keselwatta police, Colombo, DIG Jayakody further said. The said officer has been arrested along with three more, including a Buddhist monk and two civilians, who have been the architects behind the petrol bomb attack aimed at the mosque in Panadura last 17 May 2017.
A Cab, two swords, a hockey stick and equipments used to make petrol bombs were taken into custody along with the suspects. DIG Jayakody also said. The arrested police officer had withdrawn himself from police service for a period of time due to his medical conditions and was absorbed back to the service only recently. The Police media spokesman said. The arrested Buddhist monk has close connections to the Bodu Bala Sena organization. DIG Jayakody said. Asked to comment of statements made by various politicians regarding the anti-religious violences, DIG Jayakody said investigations are already in order. DIG Jayakody also said that certain statements which say that Bodu Bala Sena leader Gnanasara thera is under the protection of certain ministers is merely political talk.
When asked about the developments to arresting Gnanasara thera, DIG Jayakody said investigations are underway.
He also said, if any complaints are lodged against posts circulating in social media that instigate ethnic-religious disharmony, a special police unit will investigate on them.
We dont monitor or do surveillance on social media. If and when we receive a complaint regarding anti-social material spread using social media, we will look into those. Recently we received a complaint on a Facebook post written by a Muslim young man insulting Lord Buddha.
The young man was arrested recently. There was another case regarding distribution of lunch packets containing drugs leading to impotence, in the Narammala area. The police are currently investigating on the matter as well. DIG Jayakody explained.
Asked if the military will be deployed to prevent the instigators of religious and ethinc violence, DIG Jayakody said, if the need arises, the relevent authorities will take a decision on it.
******
Incidents of violence targeting places of religious worship and business enterprises during the months of May and June
* May - Arson committed on four business establishments at Nugegoda,Maharagama (main suspect arrested)
* May - Place: Mosque attacked at Panadura Eluwila
* Petrol Bomb thrown into Mosque in Panadura town
* Two business establishments burnt down
* Four arrested in connection with the above incidents
* May - Kurunegala Mallawapitiya Mosque attacked (Two arrested)
* Weeraketiya - pasting posters bearing slogans that trigger communal disharmony (Three arrested)
==============================
## Title: CTC celebrates World Environment Day
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
CTC celebrates World Environment Day
Ceylon Tobacco Company (CTC) has long since established itself as a benchmark for corporate excellence in Sri Lanka, with over 100 years in business.
As a vocal supporter of environmental sustainability and in celebration of World Environment Day 2017, CTC recently hosted a series of educational activities for its employees in order to promote sustainability at an organisational and individual level.
In keeping with this years global theme of Connecting People to Nature, CTC organized a photography competition for employees, with the aim of encouraging them to engage with nature in a personal way and expressing their connection through photography. The enthusiasm from staff was high, with over 160 photos submitted and showcased through an exhibition.
Dimuthu Tharanga, Environmental and Health Services Manager, CTC said, As a responsible organization we value sustainability and care about our natural environment. Our effort through organizing this World Environment Day celebration is to further strengthen our employees commitment toward protecting Mother Earth by establishing positive behavioral change at organizational and individual levels.
As a part of their ongoing activities to reduce their environmental footprint, CTC has implemented a water saving initiative called Every Drop Counts. The initiative has yielded positive results since its inception, with a 30% overall reduction in water consumption.
==============================
## Title: Dengue influx stops patient admission to Sri Jayawardenepura
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 15:30
Dengue influx stops patient admission to Sri Jayawardenepura

The Sri Jayawardenepura Hospital has stopped admitting new patients due to an influx of dengue patients, the Hospital confirmed today.
Director of Sri Jayawardenepura Hospital Dr. N.S.A. Senaratne said temporarily stop admitting new patients.
The wards are full and we have no space for new patients so we have temporarily stopped admitting new patients, the doctor said.
==============================
## Title: Driverless train
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Driverless train
China is going for another worlds first with their new ART train design which mixes bus, tram and train all in one. Except instead of following the usual metal rails, it follows the dotted white lines painted on the road.
ART stands for Autonomous Rail Rapid Transit, and its maker, Chinese rail transit firm CRRC, is calling it a smart bus. The driverless 30-meter long bus is fully electric and can travel over 40km on a full charge. While its guided by the white lines on the pavement, the sensors along its route (combined with sensors on the vehicle itself) help it follow the virtual rails and adapt to its surroundings and unexpected situations in real time.
The first model is able to fit 300 passengers across three carriages (with up to 500 in future configurations), and it runs on rubber tires instead of metal rails. The design is aimed at the communities that cant afford the immensely expensive subway or tram projects. For example, it costs up to $102 million to build a kilometer of a subway track, as compared to about $2 million for a standard length ART bus, according to a report by Chinese state media Xinhua.
A 4 mile (6.5 km) ART line will be built in the Chinese city of Zhuzhou, with operations starting in 2018. Daily Star
==============================
## Title: Eagle-eyed Thomas takes lead with Open record
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Eagle-eyed Thomas takes lead with Open record
ERIN, United States, Saturday  Justin Thomas electrified the US Open with the lowest score to par in tournament history to take a two-shot lead on Saturday.
The 24-year-old world number 13 sank a magnificent eagle three on the par-five 18th hole to crown a sparkling nine-under-par 63 at the Erin Hills course in Wisconsin.
The score was the lowest to par ever set at a US Open, breaking the previous mark of eight-under-par. Thomass incredible round included nine birdies and an eagle, and might have been even better had it not been for two bogeys on the fourth and 10th hole. His eagle on the last came after a superb second shot of 300 yards which left him just six feet from the hole.
He then held his nerve to roll in a putt which enabled him to break free from the top of crowded leaderboard.
Two players, Charley Hoffman and Englands Tommy Fleetwood, were behind him on nine under, while a cluster of four players were three back on eight under. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Economic endeavour : Uncertain road to recovery
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Economic endeavour : Uncertain road to recovery
It is no secret that Sri Lanka is currently navigating choppy economic waters as it shifts strategies in an uncertain moment in the world economy. The move towards private sector-led growth and away from public sector-sponsored development is, according to several economists, necessary given the governments debt situation. But that does not mean that the transition has been seamless or easy. On the contrary, Sri Lanka is going through growing pains as it tries to jumpstart its export industry and attract foreign-direct investment (FDI).
The Rajapaksa regime championed a government-led growth strategy that involved using foreign loans for massive infrastructure projects. This approach, however, delivered fleeting, unsustainable growth and has left the country with a heavy debt burden that, though reportedly under control for 2017 and 2018, appears to get more onerous come 2019.
Governor of the Central Bank Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy, as well as myriad economists, have noted that this strategy is no longer feasible, as the government has effectively drained dry the well of foreign credit.
The current regime, well aware of the countrys debt issue, has put its faith in the tonics of trade and financial liberalization, the hope of more FDI and increased exports, and the proposed privatization of several state assets. It is also championing the use of public-private-partnerships (PPPs) that aim to tap into private sector investment.
Some economists, however, argue that the government is saying one thing while doing another. They pointed out that despite announcing the aforementioned policy adjustments, the government continues the Rajapaksa regimes strategies of issuing sovereign bonds and turning to China for financing.
Despite that the supposedly new growth scheme was inaugurated over two years ago, FDI is still scant and exports continue to underperform. Though troubling trends, experts caution that the current government cannot be held completely accountable for these failures, as both, FDI and exports have lagged for over a decade.
Indeed, exports as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) have been falling for several years and now account for between 16-17% of GDP, according to Coomaraswamy. For comparison, exports accounted for over 70% of Malaysias GDP in 2015. Since the 90s, several regional neighbors, such as Vietnam, Thailand, and Malaysia, have whizzed past Sri Lanka on the export front.
The trend of underperforming exports can be traced back through several successive administrations and is closely linked with insufficient investment in the sector. It is crucial, according to Coomaraswamy, to improve exports, as it will increase the countrys coffers of foreign exchange and help ease the debt burden.
But why exactly is Sri Lanka having so much difficulty bolstering its exports
Trouble in Export Town
Though he disagrees with the narrative that the countrys debt burden is Sri Lankas main economic issue, Executive Director of Verit Research Dr. Nishan de Mel argued that many of the problems plaguing the export sector are due to microeconomic and structural and societal issues.
In his estimation, the government should focus on making it easier to do business in the country and improve its services for exporters by way of disseminating information about trade policies, updating regulations, and making export procedures more inefficient.
The fact that exporters are still not succeeding is not a macroeconomic problem. It is that the business conditions in the country are still functioning as constraints to exporters. It is difficult to get things in and out of ports, contract enforcement is lacking, and the legal system is slow and inefficient. I think Sri Lanka is simply not gearing itself to take these problems on, he said.
In other words, the state must dramatically alter its policies and streamline its procedures in order to act as a nurturing force for exporters.
These problems, along with often unclear and vacillating policy directives, have combined to undermine investor confidence in Sri Lanka, which has in turn hurt both exports and FDI.
We have had lot of ad hoc policy decisions which have affected the business environment over the last few years. Many of these policies last for some time and then disappear. Asking investors to get involved in that sort of uncertain climate is largely untenable, said Professor Sirimal Abeyratne of the University of Colombo.
Another economist who spoke to the
Daily News on condition of anonymity mentioned that the governments strategies to aid exporters are riddled with inconsistencies and often prone to reversal, especially on the tax front.
The administration is looking to the private sector to drive growth, but the private sector is saying that it needs policy clarity and consistency, as well as better policy implementation. The government has been rather weak on clarifying policies and implementing them, the expert said. These persistent issues and lack of focus on and investment in exports have led to Sri Lanka losing market share to emerging manufacturing powers like Vietnam and Bangladesh.
Diversification and Improvements
Along with streamlining its policies, the government should make efforts to encourage the diversification of the countrys exports. Tea, rubber, precious stones, and garments have long been Sri Lankas staple exports, and additional products have been slow in coming.
East and Southeast Asian countries have been increasing the number and variety of their exports since the turn of the century. Between 2000 and 2015, China added 76 products to its export basket that accounted for $245 per capita. Thailand, moreover, added 70 products that were good for $326 per capita. Sri Lanka, conversely, added just five products over the same period that accounted for $7 per capita.
The secrets to China and Thailands respective productivity upsurges were their expanding into the more lucrative fields of electronics and machinery and massively increasing investment in these areas.
The government is in the process of negotiating various free trade agreements (FTAs) with other Asian nations, but it is unclear if these will increase exports if Sri Lanka cannot come up with new products. De Mel pointed out that the island is not producing goods that many neighboring countries want or need.
We think that signing FTAs will boost exports, but it doesnt really matter whether or not you sign a trade agreement if you dont have something to export. Sri Lanka does not have products that are competitive in markets like India, China, and Singapore, three countries with which the government is negotiating FTAs.
The lack of diversity in products is the problem, not the lack of expansion markets, he said.
Though diversification of exports is an easily laudable goal, it is easier said than done and remains largely aspirational at this point.
An easier route to improving export numbers lies in investing in fisheries and agriculture and working to add value to products that are already made or produced in the country.
Despite that around a third of Sri Lankans work in these sectors, they account for astonishingly little economic output. The agricultural sector, for instance, generates only around 8% of GDP.
Agriculture and fisheries have suffered due to consistent decreases in budgetary allocations over the past three decades. There needs to be investment in technology, small industries, and cooperatives to shore up the backbones of local economies, said Dr. Ahilan Kadirgamar.
Multiple experts pointed out that farmers lack of knowledge about rules and regulations, as well as the spoiling of large quantities of agricultural products while they are in transit are issues that need to be solved as soon as possible.
Both, Kadirgamar and de Mel, however, highlighted the importance of engaging small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) in bids to improve exports. It is not, after all, the large tea exporters and garment manufacturers who need help parsing the export process, but smaller-scale businesses.
The SME sector is not exporting very much at all. They are one of the most constrained groups. We have to give them a fairer chance at bidding on government contracts, said de Mel.
He added that the use of e-procurement systems, such as those India has recently started using would help facilitate SME and government communication and cooperation, thereby helping raise the profile and reach of SMEs throughout the island.
The bottom line is that, in many cases, the current policies and laws act as constraints on exporters, especially on small and medium-sized ones. Clear policy adjustments, as well as consistent implementation of any such alterations, are crucial to jumpstarting this portion of the economy.
Rocky Road Ahead
Despite the governments stated desire to improve exports, the global trade market is shrouded in uncertainty. The import numbers of several large regional powers, such as India and China, have steadily declined as percentages of GDP over the past few years. Furthermore, Chinese gross expenditure on imports fell between 2014 and 2015.
Kadirgamar noted that there might not be enough demand in the global economy to foster a massive jump in exports, no matter how diverse they might become.
In Western economies, especially with Brexit and Trump, there is an ongoing protectionist turn, which makes exporting more difficult. Then both India and China have decreased their imports considerably in the last few years. It is very difficult to export if there is not enough global demand, he said.
It is unclear, obviously, how much damage a decrease in global import demand would do to the Sri Lankan economy. The recent restoration of the GSP+ trade concessions do appear to extend a lifeline to exporters, however, as Sri Lanka produces many products, such as foodstuffs, garments, and tea, for which there is significant demand in European markets.
While global demand is an issue, the very growth model that the government is touting might not be ironclad.
The economist who spoke on condition of anonymity noted that the governments stated preference for private sector-led economic growth and increases in exports and FDI are simply the only paths currently available to them.
This strategy is sort of the only thing they can say they are pursuing now, because there really is no space available for the government to take on additional foreign debt over the next two years, quite frankly.
Yet the economist was quick to point out that these strategies will be difficult to fully implement in the coming years due to domestic policy issues and the global trade arena.
Sri Lankas path forward remains murky and strewn with both, local and global uncertainties. It appears as though the government is pursuing one of the only viable paths for economic growth, but it is unclear whether that path will lead to increased national wealth and development.
==============================
## Title: eMarketingEye achieves six wins at Interactive Media awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 16:00
eMarketingEye achieves six wins at Interactive Media awards
After a record-breaking performance at international competitions in 2016, eMarketingEye (www.emarketingeye.com), the award-winning Sri Lankan Digital Marketing Agency and a pioneer in the industry, welcomed the new year with six Best in Class wins at the Interactive Media Awards (IMA) competition held recently.
The haul at the IMA included wins for Aitken Spence Holidays, Jetwing Holidays and Mosvold Sri Lanka ("Travel/Tourism" category), Ayura Studio ("Fashion/Style" category) and Dilmah Food Services ("Food/Beverage" and "Retail" category).
The Interactive Media Awards (IMA) is a competition that aims to increase the standards of excellence on the Internet. It is open to individuals and organizations involved in designing, developing, managing, supporting and promoting websites with nominations being accepted from around the world from web design firms, advertising agencies and corporate marketing departments, as well as individual web designers and graphic artists.
The competitions judges evaluate websites based on five key criteria - Design, Content, Feature Functionality, Usability and Standards Compliance. In order for a website to win a coveted IMA Award, it must excel in each criterion by standing out from the competition and deserve to be a top choice for the target market.
Established in 2007, eMarketingEye has grown to be one of the best in the Asian region over the past ten years, having gained international recognition for its expertise in providing end-to-end online marketing solutions to the travel and hospitality industry.
Commenting on the latest wins of the company, Rajitha Dahanayake, CEO of eMarketingEye, 2016 was a ground-breaking year for eMarketingEye in terms of the number of award wins. It is clear that we have carried forward that winning trend into 2017 as well. While we have always been consistently winning awards for our solutions in the Travel and Hospitality industry, it is encouraging to note that we were able to bag awards in categories such as Fashion, Food & Beverage and Retail. While it highlights the fact that we have got our approach spot on, we can look forward to more wins in diverse industries throughout the year.
eMarketingEye is the only digital marketing agency in Sri Lanka specialising in the travel and hospitality industry. It provides integrated marketing solutions for a diverse range of clients and has garnered an impressive portfolio in this 10-year period.
A majority of eMarketingEyes client list includes leading international travel and hospitality brands such as The Ascott Limited, Berjaya Hotels & Resorts, Inter Continental Hotels Group (IHG), Anantara Hotels, Resorts and Spas, COMO Hotels & Resorts, Starwood Hotels, Oaks Hotels & Resorts, Chatrium Hotels and Residences and The Fullerton Hotel.

==============================
## Title: Environment laws lax on the rich and affluent - Malwatte Chief Prelate
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Environment laws lax on the rich and affluent - Malwatte Chief Prelate
Chief Incumbent of the Malwatte Chapter Most Ven. Thibbotuwawe Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Thera pointed out that illegal forest destruction of wealthy and people, who wield power, to commence mega scale commercial projects, is among the major causes for natural disasters.
"The law of the country must be exercised and applied equally to all and no one is above the law. However, the law of the country is applied more on the helpless poor people than the powerful and wealthy people," the Mahanayake thera said.
Sumangala Thera made these remarks when International Trade State Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe met the Thera at the Malwatta Maha Viharaya on Saturday.
The Thera pointed out that the law of the country should be exercised properly against persons responsible for environment pollution including forest destruction. The Thera added that the Government should draw its attention on upgrade the existing laws of the country so as to meet the present-day requirements.
The Thera noted that the people are not afraid of committing environment pollution since the existing laws of environment pollution are not exercised properly and moreover these laws are outdated.
==============================
## Title: Escapee from police custody apprehended
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Escapee from police custody apprehended
A suspect held in the Minuwangoda Police cell who had escaped from police custody on the pretext of going to the toilet was apprehended by police assisted by residents in Nilapaniyagoda on June 17 morning.
The 22-year-old suspect, a resident of Katuwellegama, Palugahawela, was first arrested by police with several others on June 16 during an anti crime operation.
He had been locked up in the cell pending investigations.
When other suspects in the cell were asleep he had left the cell on the pretext of going to the toilet and escaped by breaking its wall.
An assistant policeman who took over duties on June 17 morning had checked the suspects in the cell and found one of them missing and reported the matter to the authorities. Police had later launched an operation to locate the missing and arrested him with the help of the residents.
An initial investigation revealed that the dilapidated condition of the building was one reason that helped suspects escape from police custody.
Investigation are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Eurozone ministers strike deal to release funds to Greece
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Eurozone ministers strike deal to release funds to Greece
Eurozone ministers have struck a deal to unlock the latest tranche of Greece's bailout cash.
The bailout fund will disburse 8.5bn euros (7.4bn) to Greece, Eurozone ministers said in a statement.
The latest tranche of the international bailout will help avert a fresh debt crisis in July when the next 7bn euro repayment of loans becomes due. The payment is still subject to parliamentary approvals in some countries.
International Monetary Fund (IMF) director Christine Lagarde said she would propose an approval in principle to her executive board.
The IMF wants clarity on longer-term debt relief for Greece once the current funding scheme, worth up to 86bn euros, runs out next year.
Lagarde said the IMF was ready to participate to the third bailout programme for Greece after the meeting of Eurozone finance ministers in Luxembourg which capped months of negotiations.
However, the IMF could join the programme with a financial support "in the range of $2bn" only after a full deal on additional measures of debt relief for Greece, she said.
Time was beginning to press for this payment. Greece has repayments on other loans due next month, which it could not otherwise have made.
The decision by Eurozone finance ministers reflects economic policy actions already taken by Greece and the new commitment by the IMF's managing director Christine Lagarde to recommend that her board contribute financially to this bailout.
An IMF contribution was politically important for Germany, especially to strengthen the perceived credibility of the bailout.
Another laborious step in this very long (I'll resist any Greek clichs at this point) story.
We have got used to delays resulting from Greek politics - a referendum, elections, problems in parliament holding up economic policy reforms that Greece was required to make.
This time it was more about German politics and the insistence on an IMF financial contribution while being reluctant to agree up-front the commitments on debt relief that the IMF thinks essential to make the Greek finances sustainable.
The result is the IMF agreeing in principle to contribute provided the Eurozone do eventually make a commitment on debt.
It's untidy and Christine Lagarde called it second best. And it is not a large contribution that the IMF will make. She suggested it would be about $2bn against a Eurozone commitment to provide more than forty times that amount.
The Eurozone group welcomed the financial and structural reforms enacted by Greece, including income tax and pension reform.
"I am pleased to announce we have achieved an agreement on all elements," Eurogroup head Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.
Germany's parliament will discuss the bailout deal on Friday, finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said.
"Greece has to become competitive to get access to debt markets so it can stand on its own two feet," Schaeuble said.
"For that Greece has to carry out reforms."
Greek finance minister Euclid Tsakalotos said the agreement would allow market access 'in due course'. "There is now light at the end of the tunnel," Tsakalotos said. BBC News
==============================
## Title: Extended suspension for mps misbehaving in parliament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Extended suspension for mps misbehaving in parliament
The provision to impose eight weeks suspension on any member who touches the Mace during the sittings has been included into the new set of Standing Orders of Parliament to be adopted shortly.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya on June 7 tabled in Parliament the final drafts of Standing Orders and Code of Conduct for MPs. Circulating the copies among all Parliamentarians, he requested them to go through the drafts and propose any last minute amendments if necessary.
A round-table discussion has been scheduled on June 22 to allow MPs to express their ideas and views on the two drafts. The Speaker said the new Standing Orders would be adopted during the first Parliamentary sitting week of July.
Several incidents of running away with the Mace were reported in Parliament and the last incident was in October 2015 where MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardena attempted to grab the Mace and run.
The Mace is a holy symbol in Parliament and no member is allowed to touch it, Assistant Secretary-General of Parliament Tikiri Jayathilake said.
The revised Standing Orders have also proposed to set up several new Parliament Committees. The proposed committees include the Liaison Committee, Backbencher Committee, Legislative Standing Committee, and Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The scope of Parliament Privileges Committee will also be expanded to include Ethics.
The Speaker said the revised Standing Orders has made it compulsory for Ministers to be present in Parliament during the Questions for Oral Answers round to reply to matters that come under their purview. The absence of ministers during the question round was a matter frequently raised by the Opposition members.
Stressing the importance of MPs attendance, the Speaker pointed out there are some members in COPE who had not attended even a single COPE meeting.
Deputy Serjeant-at-Arms Narendra Fernando said the suspension period of Parliamentarians who misbehave in the House has been increased as of the revised Standing Orders. Earlier the minimum suspension period was one week and many opined it was of no effect. We have increased it up to two weeks, he said
These views were expressed during a workshop for Parliament correspondents held in Negombo on Saturday.
==============================
## Title: Fight of good against evil
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Fight of good against evil
June 14th and 15th marks the third anniversary of the anti-Muslim violence at Dhurga Town, Aluthgama in 2014, which left four Muslim men dead, over eighty injured, some seriously and massive property damages, to Mosques, Muslim-owned commercial establishments and Muslim private residences. The attacks then were a culmination of a process of anti-Muslim propaganda, carried out by extremist organisations, which sought to instil fear and loathing of the Muslim community among the majority community. To counter the fact that they were unable to whip up generalised communal violence, goon squads, like the brown shirts of the Nazis carried out attacks with absolute impunity. The police were silent onlookers to this tragic drama.
The political fallout of this situation was that the Rajapaksa regime lost any vestiges of support, they had with the Muslim community and in the elections of 2015, the Muslims were the single most monolithic bloc supporting President Maithripala Sirisena and the Yahapalanaya rainbow coalition. Which is why even in the August 2015 general election, the UPFA / SLFP election campaign under Mahinda Rajapaksa, failed to elect a single Muslim MP to Parliament and SLFP Muslim leaders, M.H.M Fowzi, Hizbullah from the East and Faizer Mustapha, had all got to be accommodated on the National List.
The BBS and Gotabhaya
The organisation most often named as responsible for whipping up communal disharmony and hate mongering against religious minorities, is the Bodu Bala Sena (BBS). Its spokesmen deny they engage in violence, though their vitriolic hate speech, which can be construed as instigating violence is in the public domain, easily accessible to the police and the Attorney Generals Department. The politics and tactics of the BBS are worth an analysis. The BBS contested the 2015 General Elections to Parliament and even in their bastion of the Kalutara district, only secured about five hundred votes in the entire district and fared even worse elsewhere. Clearly, they have no electoral appeal among the Sri Lankan public and overestimate their public appeal, at least electorally. It is to the credit of the Sri Lankan voter, that we generally reject extremes and strengthen the more moderate centre.
After the most recent wave of anti-Muslim violence, Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, a contested political heir apparent of elder brother President Mahinda and an aspirant to the SLFP leadership was surprisingly quick to disassociate himself from the anti-Muslim violence. It was surprising because, at the time of his denial, no one had accused him of any involvement. So, one wonders, why he chose to put the hat on. However, in refutation of the denial, Cabinet Minister S.B. Dissanayake was to state that Gotabhaya Rajapaksa formed, bred and maintained the BBS. What is known about the BBS, in the past, is certainly that they had overt state patronage under the Rajapaksa Administration.
From a foreign policy standpoint, the BBS had established links with the 969-anti-Muslim movement in Myanmar and when the BBS chose to have a high profile national convention during the Rajapaksa years, they received the Sugathadasa indoor stadium for their hate festival and invited Ven. Wirathu, the demagogue of Myanmar as the Chief Guest. All this was done with full state patronage, including PSD security and other state courtesies. Such was the Rajapaksa regime.
Reconciliation and the rise of anti-Muslim violence under Yahapalanaya
On the contrary, reconciliation has been a key aspect of the Yahapalanaya Governments agenda. Dealing with the effects and causes of our violent and conflict-ridden past while ensuring non-recurrence and a sustainable and durable peace has been repeatedly a stated objective of both President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe. None doubt their sincerity and it is further reinforced by the rather obvious political dimension, which is that the minorities, both ethnic and religious, look up to, depend on and are a key constituency of the Yahapalanaya Administration. Hence, it is in the Governments own enlightened self-interest to not allow the rise of anti-minority political violence on its watch.
It is only the Joint Opposition (JO) and the Rajapaksa comeback project which stands to gain from a new wave of anti-minority violence. Domestically, hate speech, conspiracy theories and fear mongering within the majority community could radicalise the majority driving them in greater numbers towards the Rajapaksa JO and its agenda of social division and its barely concealed racism, for partisan political gain. It is only the JO which stands to politically gain from the BBS hate mongering.
Furthermore, in the event that minorities are attacked and harassed under the current Yahapalanaya administration, they will lose faith in and grow disillusioned of the current government leaders, resulting in a loss of minority political support for Yahapalanaya. Hardly, what one needs when Provincial Council elections are due later this year. Internationally Sri Lanka is closely watched, because of our past history of decades of conflict and our stated commitment to turn a new leaf and chart a new course. It is certainly not in Sri Lankas best interest internationally, when we seem either unwilling or unable to nip in the bud and nab the purveyors of hate and the perpetrators of anti-minority violence.
A critique of Sri Lankas criminal justice system, in the past, has been our failure to protect our minorities. Whether it has been the perpetrators of the Aluthgama violence, the Trinco five (schoochildren) or the seventeen ACF workers, violence against minorities has not really found judicial redress. During the war years, society perhaps accepted this in the rationale of ancient Roman Senator Cicero, that in the fight of good against evil, the laws are silent. However, post-war, Sri Lanka can and must reform and have a new social compact between her government and her people, that the rights of all citizens, irrespective of their race or religion would be protected and promoted.
==============================
## Title: Finance  Minister meets Indian, Indonesian FMs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Finance  Minister meets Indian, Indonesian FMs
Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera held bilateral discussions with Indian Minister of Finance Arun Jaitley and Indonesian Minister of Finance Sri Mulyani Indrawati on the sidelines of the Board of Governors meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB).
Asian Infrastructure Investment Banks (AIIB) Annual Meeting was held in Jeju Islands, South Korea and Minister Samaraweera took part in the Board of Governors roundtable discussion on Financing Asias Infrastructure Priorities.
The meeting is being held under the theme of Sustainable Infrastructure, seeking strategic directions of the global infrastructure bank and making major decisions on the banks management.
The Jeju meeting sought to set the course for AIIB, a body established in 2014 at the behest of Beijing and considered an alternative to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which are dominated by the USA and the Asian Development Bank controlled by Japan. Beijing-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has committed to prioritize funding for projects that will increase access to clean energy and enhance the efficiency of existing power infrastructure.
==============================
## Title: First innings win for Presidents College
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
First innings win for Presidents College
Presidents College, Kotte B scored a first innings win over Mahanama College, Colombo B Team in their Singer Trophy Sri Lanka Schools U15 Division II Cricket tournament at Presidents College grounds on Monday 05th June 2017.
Presidents College, Kotte  138 all out (Sasitha Hasaranga 61, Vinilka Dulshan 45, Kavindu Tharuk 10, Nihidu Perera 6 for 42, Viduna Devaraj 2 for 29)
Mahanama College, Colombo  124 all out (Thenura Silva 62, Oshan Silva 15, Kalpa Dasun 3 for 33, Nuran Hesara 2 for 30)
Presidents College, Kotte were held to a no decision by Thurstan College, Colombo in their schools under 15 Singer Trophy match played at Presidents College grounds on Friday 09th of June 2017.
Presidents College, Kotte  176 all out (Vikum Kalhara 54, Thasika Nirmal 24, Ravindu Hasaranga 22, Shimas Nizam 4 for 62, Sonal Paranawithana 3 for 28)
Thurstan College, Colombo  137/9 (Shimas Nizam 30, Kaveen Hettiarachchi 28, Ravindu Perera 26, Pahan Brito 4 for 43, Thasika Nirmal 3 for 38)
==============================
## Title: Five Judge bench to hear Geetha's appeal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Five Judge bench to hear Geetha's appeal
The Chief Justice has nominated a fuller bench comprising five judges of the Supreme Court to hear an appeal filed by Galle district parliamentarian Geetha Kumarasinghe.
A five-judge-Bench headed by Chief Justice Priyasath Dep will hear this appeal in due course.
Several respondents, the residents of Galle district who were original petitioners of Geetha Kumarasinghes dual citizenship case had filed motions in the Supreme Court seeking a fuller Bench to hear the appeal. They had also requested an inquiry into the conduct and manner on which the Supreme Court appeal was handled by court officials. Delivering its judgement on the writ petition filed by five residents of Galle district, the Court of Appeal on March 3 held that in terms of Article 91(1) (d) (xiii) of the constitution, Geetha Kumarasinghe is not qualified to be elected as a Member of Parliament since she holds dual citizenship in Switzerland and Sri Lanka.
Subsequently, MP Geetha Kumarasinghe filed an Appeal in the Supreme Court challenging the Court of Appeal judgment.
On May 15, a divided three-judge-Supreme Court bench had granted special leave to appeal with the petition filed by Mrs. Kumarasinghe.
The Supreme Court also issued an Interim Order until the final determination of the petition, staying the operation of judgement made by the Court of Appeal which declared that Geetha Kumarasinghe was disqualified to be a Member of Parliament and thus not entitled to hold this office.
Through an appeal petition, Galle District UPFA MP Geetha Kumarasinghe sought an order to set aside the judgment dated May 3, 2017 by the Court of Appeal.
In this petition, Geetha Kumarasinghe had cited N.W.E. Buwaneka of Beddegama, J.K. Amarawardhana of Yatalamatta, A.C. Gunasekara of Unawatuna, J.K. Wijesinghe of Ambalangoda and H.L.Prasanna Deepthilal of Galle, Controller General of Immigration and Emigration, the Secretary General of Parliament and several others as respondents.
Presidents Counsel Romesh de Silva is appearing for MP Geetha Kumarasinghe. Presidents Counsel J. C. Weliamuna with Chandaka Jayasundara PC and counsel Asela Rekawa are appearing on behalf of the respondents. Senior Deputy Solicitor General Janak de Silva is Appearing for the Secretary General of Parliament and Controller of Immigration and Emigration in this appeal.
==============================
## Title: Five police officers sentenced for assaulting suspect
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Five police officers sentenced for assaulting suspect
Former OIC of the Panadura Police Instant Striking Police Force and four other Police Officers were sentenced to seven and half years of rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs. 2,500 each by Kandy High Court Judge Kusala Weerawardena presiding at the Panadura Provincial High Court on June 16.
They were found guilty of two indictments under the Torture and Cruelty Act No. 22 of 1994.
The judge also ordered each accused to pay Rs 50,000 to the disabled complainant totaling Rs two and half lakh in default of the payment of compensation and was sentenced to six months imprisonment
The third accused, police driver R. M. Sanjeewa Bandara, was acquitted of all the charges against him.
The accused in the 16-year-old case are Sub Inspector Palagasenaarchchige Asoka Kodituwakku Officer-in-Charge and Sub Inspectors S. A. Dhammika Luxman, D. M. Dharmasena Dissanayaka, Sanath Nandena Wijesekera, and Sergeant Konaragama Rangith Saman Kumara, who were attached to the Panadura Police Instant Striking Force Unit in the year 2000. The policemen was accused of assembling unlawfully and torturing and assaulting D. A. Nimal Silva Gunaratne of Kalamulla, Kalutara between June and July, 2000 detaining him at the Panadura Police Instant Striking Police Force Unit at Wekkaboda, Panadura. The assaulted was detained at the police station to get more information about firearms that he allegedly possessed.
Deputy Solicitor General Dilepa Peeris representing the Attorney General prosecuted the accused and submitted his written submissions regarding the prosecution stating that the accused police officers were served at the Panadura Police Instant Striking Police Force in the year 2000.
ASP Ranmal Kodituwakku was heading the Unit at the time.
The Police unit including the accused Police Officers with ASP Kodituwakku had conducted a raid at Kalutara, Kalamulla and arrested Nimal Silva Gunaratne with a firearm.
He was brought to the Panadura Police and subjected to inhuman treatment detaining him for several days.
The suspect lost vision of one of his eyes as a result of an injury caused by the accused. Consequently, he was admitted to the Colombo Eye Hospital. The prosecution led evidence of several witnesses including the policemen.
==============================
## Title: Five traders arrested for selling spoilt garlic
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Five traders arrested for selling spoilt garlic
Four wholesale traders and one retail trader who kept 478kg of flood spoiltgarlic unfit for human consumption for sale at the Girandurukotte Sathipla were arrested by PHIs attached to the Girandurukotte MOH office during an inspection held on June 16. They were released on a bond until they are produced before the Mahiyangana Magistrate on June 22.
==============================
## Title: Five-wicket Cremer sparks Zimbabwe win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Five-wicket Cremer sparks Zimbabwe win
EDINBURGH, Saturday  Zimbabwe downed Scotland by six wickets on Saturday to level their two-match ODI series, avenging their 26-run defeat 48 hours earlier.
Captain Graeme Cremer claimed 5-29 as Scotland were bowled out for just 169 with Kyle Coetzer (61) and Calum MacLeod (58) making the bulk of the runs for the home side who slipped from 135 for two.
Zimbabwe were always ahead of the rate and an unbroken partnership of 72 between Sikandar Raza (58 not out) and Ryan Burl (30no) carried them comfortably to their target. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Follow your heart
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Follow your heart
Consultant Cardiologist Dr Mervyn Fernando (MBBS, DCH, MD) attached to the Colombo North Teaching Hospital (Ragama) speaks about hypertension. It is one of the commonest Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in Sri Lanka.
What is Hypertension
Hypertension or High Blood Pressure is one of the commonest lifestyle diseases today. Every third person suffers from it. High blood pressure could be identified when your blood pressure goes higher than it usually should be. If hypertension cannot be lowered, you might pay a heavy price for damage to eyes, brain, heart, blood vessels and kidneys.
Hypertension is defined as a repeatedly elevated blood pressure, exceeding 140 over 90 mmHg. This is a systolic pressure above 140 with a diastolic pressure above 90.
There are two types of hypertension. The primary or essential hypertension does not have identifiable causes. The secondary hypertension is caused by kidney malfunction, adrenal gland over-activity, tumours and several other medical conditions.
Three out of 10 people are suffering from hypertension worldwide. About 1.8 billion people are suffering from the disease globally. About 50 percent of them are totally unaware of their condition. Half of the people, though aware of the condition, do not take their medication properly.
How do people develop hypertension
There is no known cause for the high blood pressure. The basic reason for high blood pressure is atherosclerosis. There are multiple factors responsible which lead to atherosclerosis resulting in hypertension. It includes stress, sedentary lifestyle, faulty food habits and lack of exercise. Several factors beyond your control increase the risk for high BP. These include your age, sex, race or ethnicity.
When is the right time for getting examined for hypertension
Everyone is likely to develop hypertension with the advancement of age. After 50, everyone should have periodic checks whether others in the family had the disease or not. Diet is another factor that contributes to hypertension. Diabetics and cholesterol patients who also suffer from hypertension are at a greater risk.
What are the negative impacts of hypertension
A. Heart attack or stroke. High blood pressure can cause hardening and thickening of the arteries (atherosclerosis), which can lead to a heart attack, stroke or other complications.
Then it is the aneurysm. Increased blood pressure can cause your blood vessels to weaken and bulge, forming an aneurysm. If an aneurysm ruptures, it can be life-threatening.
Heart failure is another negative impact. To pump blood against the higher pressure in your vessels, your heart muscle thickens. Eventually, the thickened muscle may have a hard time pumping enough blood to meet your bodys needs, which can lead to a heart failure.
Organ malfunction also matters. Weakened and narrowed blood vessels in your kidneys. This can prevent these organs from functioning normally.
Vision loss is another factor. Thickened, narrowed or torn blood vessels in the eyes can result in vision loss.
Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of disorders of your bodys metabolism, including increased waist circumference, high triglycerides, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) or good, cholesterol, high blood pressure and high insulin levels.
The trouble with memory or understanding, uncontrolled high blood pressure may affect your ability to think, remember and learn. The trouble with memory or understanding concepts is more common in people with high blood pressure.
How can we prevent hypertension
Some of the lifestyle changes to thwart hypertension or high blood pressure are:
1. Sleep for seven hours.
People who sleep five hours or less a night may be at higher risk of developing high blood pressure. Over time, lack of sleep could hurt your bodys ability to regulate stress hormones, leading to high blood pressure.
2. Eat less salt.
Salt makes your body retain water. If you eat too much, the extra water stored in your body raises your blood pressure. This can be a particular problem if you have high BP already. If you are overweight, a high intake of salt increases your risk of cardiovascular disease.
3. Exercise at least150 minutes a week.
For adults, at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes a week of vigorous aerobic activity. You can also do a combination of the two. Exercise is your drug-free treatment for hypertension. Regular physical activity makes your heart stronger. A stronger heart can pump more blood with less effort. But to maintain a healthy BP, you need to keep exercising regularly. It takes about one to three months for exercise to have an impact on your blood pressure.
4. Eat more fruits and veggies.
Research proves that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables combined with low-fat dairy foods significantly lowers blood pressure, especially in patients with hypertension. They also contain potassium which helps balance out the negative effects of salt. This directly lowers the blood pressure.
5. Lose weight.
If youre overweight, losing even 2-3 kg can lower your blood pressure. To lose weight, you need to eat fewer calories than you burn. But dont go on a crash diet, do it slow and steady.
6. Work closely with your healthcare team.
Remember, the healthier the steps you take, the better it is for your blood pressure and your health. Add others until they are all a part of your life.
Lifestyle modification is indicated for all patients with hypertension, regardless of drug therapy. It may reduce or even abolish the need for anti-hypertensive drugs.
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take and the time of the day you take them. It is important that you take your blood pressure medicines every day.
In todays scenario, where everyone is working towards achieving a target to climb up the corporate ladder, strict lifestyle modifications, at the same time sticking to medication regimen can go a long way in reducing the menacing effects of hypertension.
==============================
## Title: Ford spurs England to Test series triumph over Pumas
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Ford spurs England to Test series triumph over Pumas
SANTA FE, Argentina,| Saturday  Fly-half George Ford starred as England defeated Argentina 35-25 in a Santa Fe thriller Saturday to clinch a 2-0 victory in the two-Test series.
The tourists, level at 25-25 with 16 minutes left, finished stronger as substitute prop Will Collier barged over for a try that Ford converted.
Ford sealed success for an English side lacking 30 of their best players, primarily due to British and Irish Lions call-ups, with a drop goal six minutes from time.
The playmaker excelled in both Tests, scoring 23 points in the first last weekend and 15 in the second.
Argentina were left to rue three missed shots at goal in Santa Fe from usually ultra-accurate fly-half Nicolas Sanchez.
It was the 20th victory in 21 Tests for England, with all but one achieved since wily Australian Eddie Jones succeeded Stuart Lancaster as coach.
Lancaster was dumped after hosts England made a first-round exit from the 2015 Rugby World Cup, finishing third in the group of death behind Australia and Wales.
England scored first when Charlie Ewels took a pass from fellow lock Joe Launchbury to power over the line and Ford converted.
It took Argentina only three minutes to level as a cross-field move ended with full-back Joaquin Tuculet bursting between two opponents to score and Sanchez converted.
Ford and Sanchez exchanged penalties, before another successful kick at goal by the Argentine playmaker gave the hosts a 13-10 lead midway through the opening half.
The first Sanchez penalty was initially ruled wide by the assistant referees only for the decision to be reversed after the television match official watched replays of the kick.
A dominant Argentina were well worth their lead, but found themselves five points behind following a three-minute purple patch from the tourists.
Ford levelled via a penalty on 29 minutes at a near-full 33,000-seat Estadio Brigadier Estanislao Lopez.
The highlight of the opening half followed soon after as England full-back Mike Brown leapt to intercept a Sanchez cross-kick and raced away to send centre Piers Francis over.
Ford saw his conversion fly right and wide, his first miss of the match and only the second of the series.
England had two let-offs early in the second half as Sanchez fluffed a penalty and Jonny May dodged a yellow card for a late, high tackle on rival winger Ramiro Moyano.
The first score of the half came on 52 minutes when a Francis grubber kick was blocked and flanker Pablo Matera kicked the ball, then caught it and dived over.
Sanchez fluffed the conversion attempt -- his third consecutive miss of the match.
A seesaw struggle took two more turns around the hour as scrum-half Danny Care finished off a Brown break after a midfield turnover and Ford converted for a seven-point advantage.
The lead lasted just three minutes until centre Jeronimo de la Fuente broke clear and sold a dummy before sending winger Emiliano Boffelli in for a try Sanchez converted.
With 20 minutes left it was 25-25, and a thriller was unfolding to match the first Test, won 38-34 by England in western city San Juan.
England moved ahead for the fifth time in the Test after 65 minutes when Collier scored off a driving maul and Ford added the extra points.
A Ford drop goal stretched the lead to 10 points with six minutes remaining.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: France polls: Macron's party wins clear parliamentary majority
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 09:45
France polls: Macron's party wins clear parliamentary majority

French President Emmanuel Macron's party has won a clear parliamentary majority, results show, weeks after his own presidential victory.
With nearly all votes counted, his La Rpublique en Marche, alongside its MoDem allies, won more than 300 seats in the 577-seat National Assembly.
The winning margin is lower than some expected, with turnout down from 2012.
The party was formed just over a year ago, and half of its candidates have little or no political experience.
The result has swept aside all of the mainstream parties and gives the 39-year-old president a strong mandate in parliament to pursue his pro-EU, business-friendly reform plans.
The second round of the parliamentary election was marked by weak voter turnout, estimated to be a record low of about 42%, down sharply on five years ago.
Correspondents say opponents of Macron may simply have not bothered to turn out.
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe acknowledged the low turnout, promising his party would act for France as a whole.
What do the results show
The comfortable majority of La Rpublique en Marche (Republic on the Move or LREM) and MoDem - surpassing the 289-seat threshold required to control the National Assembly - will be a big blow to traditional parties on both the left and right.
The conservative Republicans and their allies could form a large opposition block, with 125-131 seats. But this figure is down from 200 seats in the last parliament.
The Socialists, who were in power for the past five years, alongside their partners, looked set to get only 41-49 seats - their lowest tally ever.
Socialist leader Jean-Claude Cambadlis announced his retirement from post, and urged the left "to change everything, its form and its substance, its ideas and its organisation".
The far-right National Front (FN) party won eight seats, but it had set its sights on 15.
FN leader Marine Le Pen, 48, has won a seat in parliament for the first time, representing Henin-Beaumont, a depressed former mining town in the north. But two of her top aides, including her deputy leader, were eliminated.
Le Pen said President Macron may have got a large parliamentary majority, but "he must know that his ideas are not of the majority in the country and that the French will not support a project that weakens our nation".
It has all happened so quickly that the country feels slightly dazed.
People are looking at their new leader, and many more than voted for him are honestly impressed by his calibre. But many are also wondering: where do we go from here
There is an unknown aspect to the coming mandate that sets it apart from all that went before.
President Macron's party didn't exist until he dreamed it up, and half of the new parliamentarians will need lessons (literally) in how to do their jobs.
And never before - at least not since Charles de Gaulle in 1958 - has a head of state had such a powerful majority, made up of men and women who depend on him so personally for their new careers.
What happened in some of the key races
Based on provisional results:
National Front MP Gilbert Collard narrowly beat ex-bullfighter LREM candidate Marie Sara, with just 50.16% of the vote
FN deputy leader Florian Philippot lost his seat in the 6th district of Moselle to LREM's Christophe Arend
Ex-Education Minister Najat Vallaud-Belkacem was turfed out of her Rhne seat by Bruno Bonnell from LREM
Far-left ex-presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mlenchon announced his victory in Marseille over LREM first-timer, Corinne Versini
Manuel Valls, the unpopular Socialist ex-prime minister rejected as a candidate by both LREM and the Socialists, won a tight race for his Essonne seat, but his far-left opponent Farida Amrani is contesting the results
Leading centre-right figure Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet conceded to LREM novice Gilles Le Gendre
What are President Macron's reforms
The new French President needed a majority to push through the changes that he promised in his campaign, which include:
Budget savings of 60bn (51bn; $65bn) in the next five years
Cutting the number of public servants by 120,000
Reforming the labour market and generous state pension schemes, bringing them into line with private schemes
The interim LREM leader, Catherine Barbaroux, said the party could now start work towards changing France:
"Far from postures, our members of parliament, through their multiple experiences, will vote for laws to unlock our economy, free up our energies, create new solidarities and protect the French," she said.
The LREM win is big enough to give the new president a good chance of weathering the inexperience and diversity of his new political army, and to push forward with bold and controversial labour reforms, says the BBC's Lucy Williamson in Paris.
Macron's economic plans
Who are the LREM candidates
At least half of LREM candidates are unknown,drawn from a range of backgrounds. They include a retired bullfighter, a Rwandan refugee and a mathematician.
Macron sought gender equality in candidate selection, which resulted in a 50:50 male to female ratio.
==============================
## Title: French Spiderman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
French Spiderman
French urban climber Alain Robert has scaled a 29-story hotel in Barcelona with his bare hands and in just 20 minutes.
Footage released Tuesday showed 54-year-old Robert, who is known as the French Spiderman, climbing the 114 meters (374 feet) of the Melia Barcelona Sky hotel without a safety harness. Robert claimed to have reached the top of the glass-and-steel skyscraper in 20 minutes last Monday, according to his YouTube channel.
He was questioned by police on reaching the top, but was released without charge.The free climber has scaled the worlds tallest structures, almost always without ropes or harnesses and often without permission. He also gives motivational speeches. Deccan Chronicle
==============================
## Title: Gammanpila in a twist
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Gammanpila in a twist
Pivithuru Hela Urumaya leader and Joint Opposition front liner Udaya Gammanpila has this tendency of shooting himself in the foot often times and disporting himself as a laughing stock before the public. On many an occasion has the diminutive Colombo district parliamentarian made comments or remarks that had become the subject of ridicule if not hilarious. He is also given to defend the indefensible which has raised questions about his status as a member of the legal profession. But the MP carries on regardless, perhaps with a view to being in the glare of publicity. The other day Gammanpila took to task Foreign Minister Ravi Karunanayake for suggesting that the security forces should be deployed to clear garbage in the Colombo city if the responsible authorities fail in the task. The Minister of course was referring to the blame game now on between Western Province Chief Minister Isura Devapriya and Megapolis Minister Champika Ranawaka in the matter of garbage clearance.
Gammanpila, taking high moral ground stated that the government ought to be a shame to deploy the security forces, read war heroes, for such a menial task as clearing garbage. One would have thought enlisting the services of the armed forces to keep the city clean by clearing it of garbage heaps could not be any worse than deploying the self same members of the forces to sell vegetables at street corners or what is more engaged as kennel keepers at the home of a once powerful Minister and Rajapaksa sibling.
The Pivithuru Hela Urumaya leader hardly misses an opportunity in coming to the defence of the armed forces (even when some its members have fallen foul of the law and even committed criminal acts). However this love for the armed forces by the MP appears selective and reserved only when an alleged slight to the forces is inflicted by the Yahapalanaya government. Pray, where was Udaya Gammanpila when the war winning army commander was unceremoniously dragged away, made to stand trial before a kangaroo court and thrown behind bars like a common criminal Where was he when a group of army personnel who formed the security detail of the self same army commander was made to kneel on the road opposite a five star hotel where the latter was billeted after his defeat at the 2010 Presidential election Why was not Gammanpila objecting when his boss Mahinda Rajapaksa, not only made a mass murderer responsible for the killing of hundreds of armed forces personnel and ordering the massacre of 400 policemen in cold blood, a government minister but also an office bearer of the SLFP
It is time that the likes of Gammanpila desist from using the security forces as a convenient tool to further their political project of bring the Rajapaksas back to the seats of power. The security forces, as is all too well known, are deployed at times of crisis in any country and it is not infra dig for members of the armed service to supervise the clearance of garbage in the city, which, if allowed to remain unattended could lead the outbreak of epidemics. The President has already declared garbage clearance as an Essential Service and the forces can be called in at any time to give effect to the Presidential decree. Gammanpila would have witnessed how the security forces performed the massive task of clearing the mountains of debris left in the wake of the recent floods and came to the rescue of civilians and also digging out dead bodies from the sites of devastation, with a member of the air force even sacrificing his life during a mercy mission in the flood hit areas. There was no sign of Gammanpila or anyone of the vociferous members of the Joint Opposition at the scenes of the flood devastation in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy.
Be that as it may, the authorities should seriously get about the business of garbage clearance which has taken a backseat, somewhat, with all the attention focused on the flood havoc. Deploying the security forces to rid the city of garbage is not a long term solution. Garbage keeps accumulating each day and the forces cannot be expected to perform round the clock to clear garbage. Immediate steps should be taken towards garbage treatment by setting up recycling plants as a permanent solution to the garbage problem. Not just in the Colombo city, the problem posed by garbage is acute even in other areas as seen in the public demonstrations in the recent days, some of them even led by the Catholic clergy in areas such as Ja-ela and Bopitiya. Naturally the people in these areas resent garbage being dumped in their backyards and their wrath is obviously directed at the government which was demonstrated the other day by a spat between a government minister and journalists over the garbage issue. However until such time a permanent solution is arrived at, locations needed to be found for garbage disposal despite public objections.
==============================
## Title: The gift of blood is the gift of life!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
The gift of blood is the gift of life!
Wednesday was World Blood Donor Day (WBDD). Every year on June 14, countries around the world celebrate the occasion. The event, established in 2004, serves to raise awareness of the need for safe blood and blood products and to thank donors for their voluntary life-saving gifts of blood.
This years campaign will focus on blood donation in emergencies. In crisis or emergency situation, the natural human response is What can I do How can I help The slogan for the 2017 campaign is: What can you do, with the secondary message: Give blood. Give now. Give often.
Wider activities
Blood is the lifeline of every animal living on the earth. Today, the world is facing deficiency of blood stock and that is causing threat to life. The only way one can see for health care is through blood transfusion. The increasing need for blood globally requires everyone to contribute by donating blood and motivating others for the cause.
The first World Blood Donor Day was observed in 2004, which was followed by its designation as an annual global event by the fifty-eighth World Health Assembly in 2005.
The date is also the birthday of Karl Landsteiner (18681943), an Austrian biologist and physician, considered to be the founder of modern blood transfusion. Landsteiner discovered the ABO blood groups in 1901, developed the modern system of classification of blood groups, and identified, in 1937, together with Alexander S. Wiener, the Rhesus factor, thus enabling physicians to transfuse blood without endangering a patients life.
World Blood Donor Day provides a springboard for blood safety programs and campaigns throughout the year, as well as wider activities to strengthen blood transfusion services. It is designed to complement rather than replace the national blood donor days or weeks that are organised in a number of countries. Some are held at the same time as World Blood Donor Day while others take place at different times of the year.
Transfusion of blood and blood products helps save millions of lives every year. It can help patients suffering from life-threatening conditions live longer and with higher quality of life, and supports complex medical and surgical procedures. It also has an essential, life-saving role in maternal and perinatal care. Access to safe and sufficient blood and blood products can help reduce rates of death and disability due to severe bleeding during delivery and after childbirth.
Remarkable success
Three years ago Sri Lanka was the host country for the global event of World Blood Donor Day. The day also coincides with Poson Poya month, an annual religious holiday that marks the arrival of Buddhism in Sri Lanka and is a time for generosity and celebration.
Sri Lanka has already established a tradition of encouraging people to give blood every month when the moon is full. Social groups organise blood donation sessions on this day on their own premises  often in temples, schools or universities. Some 85 per cent of all donations are collected at these mobile sessions.
In just 12 years, Sri Lanka has achieved remarkable success in reaching a self-sufficient blood supply. Yet sadly in many countries, there is not an adequate supply of safe blood, and blood services face the challenge of making sufficient blood available, while also ensuring its quality and safety.
An adequate supply can only be assured through regular donations by voluntary unpaid blood donors. The WHOs goal is for all countries to obtain all their blood supplies from voluntary unpaid donors by 2020. In 2014, 60 countries have their national blood supplies based on 99-100 percent voluntary unpaid blood donations, with 73 countries still largely dependent on family and paid donors.
Giving blood is the simplest way to do good. Becoming a blood donor doesnt take very much time and energy, but it does allow us to give the greatest gift of all  saving someones life. Each day, tens of thousands of patients at hospitals around the world need blood from donors. Anyone  people we know, our friends, loved ones  can find themselves needing help due to an accident or illness. Our own lives could someday depend on donated blood. Blood cannot be produced industrially  the only source is a voluntary donor. By giving blood, we can be sure that our medical facilities have the supplies needed to save the lives of all who need blood, as no one can be certain they wont be involved in an accident or other misfortune.
A special present
Donor blood is used for difficult operations and complicated births, and in treating patients suffering from cancer, liver disease, haemorrhage, severe injury, anaemia, leukaemia, burns and many other diseases and conditions. Donor blood also makes it possible to carry out many planned surgeries that would not otherwise be possible due to excessive blood loss.
Volunteer blood donors give the greatest gift of all to patients in need at area hospitals  the gift of life! Without their blood donation, patients needing life-saving surgeries would not survive, people fighting cancer and blood ailments would not have platelets and burn victims would not have plasma to heal their wounds.
In most countries, blood donations are voluntary and not compensated. The donors intentions must be without selfish motives and come out of a sincere desire to help others. Giving blood gives that priceless feeling of having really helped others.
That is a special present that could come only from you. You may not have given this much thought. But the greatest gift you can give another human is, literally, life. Donating blood even once can help save the lives of three people -- whether they are newborns needing heart surgery, adults badly injured in car crashes or people of any age suffering from cancer. For you, it's just a few moments out of your day but for patients in need, it may save their life.
Don't worry about donating blood, it is a completely safe procedure! Everything is cleaned and sterilised and there are plenty of trained medical professionals on hand to carry this out. They will only take about one pint of blood which your body can replace in a flash. One of the main components of your blood is plasma. This provides proteins, nutrients and a clotting agent that is necessary to stop bleeding and provides a world of nutrients. So rest assured - nothing is ever wasted. It also helps people in their fight against cancer
Platelets are tiny cells that can help people undergoing cancer treatment regain their strength, fight infections and make a quick and smooth recovery. Give them a helping hand.
==============================
## Title: Government will formulate policies, reforms to improve investor climate: Samaraweera
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 13:00
Government will formulate policies, reforms to improve investor climate: Samaraweera

Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera said that the government will formulate a new trade and investment policy, tax reforms and implement various other measures to improve investor climate.
He said this while addressing the opening session of the Board of Governors meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in Jeju Island, South Korea, held on June 16, 17.
He said, developing physical infrastructure must be done along with administrative and legal frameworks to ensure required policy or regulatory support to streamline and boost public and private investments.
Speaking on the future goals he said that the government plans to make Sri Lanka an export driven economic and financial hub of the Indian Ocean.
In order to achieve this goal the government has set out a high-level reform agenda in several key sectors of the economy, facilitating and empowering the private sector as the principle engine of growth, the Minister said.
He also said that Sri Lankas economy growth is driven by large infrastructure projects.
Furthermore the Minister said that climate resilient concepts will be in-cooperated into all future infrastructure development projects.
Minister Samaraweera also held bilateral meetings with South Korean Deputy Prime Minister Kim Dong-yeon and South Korean Minister for Strategy and Finance ArunJaitley, the Finance Minister of India and Finance Minister of Indonesia Sri MulyaniIndrawatia alongside the AIIB Conference.
Meeting ArunJaitley, Finance Minister of India.

Meeting Kim Dong-yeon, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Strategy & Finance of Republic of Korea.

Photograph with the President of ROK, the Deputy Prime Minister of ROK and Finance Ministers.
==============================
## Title: This government will protect Muslims: Rajitha Senaratne
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 15:30
This government will protect Muslims: Rajitha Senaratne

No matter who acts against Muslims, this government will protect Muslims and punish who harass them, Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne said.
The Minister said this while addressing a Ramadan Festival held in Colombo recently.
According to Minister Senaratne, the national unity built by him at Beruwala was destroyed by some miserable persons.
`The houses and shops were rebuilt but we could not mend hearts. I simply do not know how many have become fundamentalists from that incident. We will not allow such incidents to take place in the future', he said.
` We should respect our own religion as well as other religions. Muslims may have problems. But I faced more serious problems because I stood for Muslims', he said.
==============================
## Title: Hayleys helps Charles Education Centre in A'pura
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Hayleys helps Charles Education Centre in A'pura
Extending a helping hand to communities in the Anuradhapura, UK-based charity, the Charles Education Centre, opened the Mahawilachichiya Education Centre for Children with a view to providing underprivileged communities in the region with access to high-quality educational facilities.
The new facility, which was completed with assistance from the Hayleys Group, will now be open to the schools growing student population with a particular emphasis on IT and languages, as a foundation for significantly improved career opportunities and upward mobility in rural Sri Lanka.
Hayleys Group Chairman/CEO Mohan Pandithage and Lovina Charles, Founder of the Charles Education Center ceremonially opening the new school building 
"Our experience in establishing the Charles Education Centre has been a very personal one that first started when our daughter, Marissa, made her first journey to Sri Lanka and witnessed first-hand the desperate need of local communities for even the most basic educational facilities," Charles Education Centre founder, Lovina Charles said.
Having first established the Mahawilachichiya Education Centre for Children, it has been a truly heart-warming experience to see the passion for learning and self-empowerment begin to take root in children and adults from these communities and we in that regard express our sincere gratitude to the Hayleys Group for the valuable support in moving this important initiative forward, in order to enrich the lives of so many in the process.
In keeping with the holistic Hayleys approach towards responsible corporate citizenship, the group also donated further resources towards the establishment of Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) centre of excellence in the village of Mahawilachchiya with a view to providing vital, high-quality employment opportunities to a new generation of young students in the community.
Hayleys Chairman/CEO Mohan Pandithage said, "The lack of quality educational services and facilities remain one of our countrys greatest limiting factors to future growth. In order to support true broad-based growth and prosperity it is imperative that initiatives like the Charles Education Centre are supported and emulated in underprivileged communities across the island. By empowering future generations we will enable new growth paradigms in Sri Lanka."
Given that a majority of parents in the region are predominantly farmers, Hayleys also took the bold step to establish its pioneering moringa out grower model into the community under the Jeewadhara programme.
Initiated in Sri Lankas Northern Province through a highly successful network of 100,000 out growers, the Mahawilachchiya moringa project is anticipated to drastically enhance farmer incomes and livelihoods while creating a sustainable supply of pods and leaves for domestic consumption and value added exports.

==============================
## Title: How to be yourself
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
How to be yourself
1. Redefine yourself:
Your primary goal should be to know, understand and accept yourself. Take out time to contemplate on your lifes choices. Try to think about what kind of things you would or wouldnt like to do, and act accordingly; finding out through trial and error helps more than you know. Work on accepting mistakes and choices youve made; theyre done and in the past, so there is no use crying over spilled milk.
2. Bid farewell to other perceptions
Its impossible to be yourself when youre caught up in wondering Do they like me Does she think Im fat Do they think Im smart To be yourself, youve got to let go of these concerns and just let your behavior flow. What you think and know of yourself is important not what others think of you. Dont wear different masks to please different people you will ultimately lose yourself. Be you, be authentic without being rude and self-indulgent.
3. Simply BE Honest and Open:
Were all imperfect, evolving, learning human beings. If there are aspects of yourself you are uncomfortable with and you feel that you have to hide those parts of you, physically or emotionally  then you have to come to terms with that and learn to convert your so-called flaws into positive quirks.
Be honest with yourself, but dont beat yourself up; apply this philosophy to others, as well.
There is a difference between being critical and being honest; learn to watch the way you say things to yourself and others when being honest.
4. Calm down and laugh a bit:
Stop worrying about the worst, especially in social situations. So what if you fall flat on your face Or have candy stuck on your hair Learn to laugh at yourself both when it happens and afterwards. Turn it into a fun story that you can share with friends and family. It makes you feel more at ease with yourself.
5. Develop your authentic self:
Develop and express your authenticity. Whether its your sense of style, or even your manner of speaking, if your preferred way of doing something strays from the rest of the crowd, then be proud of it.
Follow your own style. The common thing a lot of people do is copy others actions because it seems like the better route to fit in, but really it's the best way to lose yourself in the crowd.
6. Acceptance is Key
Accept that sometimes you are really fun to be with and sometimes you just might want to be left alone.
Its OK. Accept what your heart tells and do that. People might raise eyebrows, but as long as you can say Hey, thats just me being ME (without being obnoxious) and leave it at that, people will ultimately respect you for it, and youll respect yourself.
7.Begin to Believe in You:
When we constantly try to be like someone else, how can we be happy Be yourself and show the world youre proud of the way you a deserve to be your own best friend.
So start trying to figure out how you can do that.
If you had to spend the day with yourself, which version of YOU would you spend it with Work on this best version. Believe in this YOU and use that as your starting point. Lovingly accept yourself as you are now.
==============================
## Title: How the fairytale unravelled...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
How the fairytale unravelled...
The shock revelations are made a book about her battles with depression, life with Charles and his lover Camilla. Princess Diana was so desperately unhappy in the few weeks after her fairy tale wedding she tried to slash her wrists, secret tapes have revealed.
The Princess of Wales is quoted as saying: I was so depressed, and I was trying to cut my wrists with razor blades. The shock revelations are made a book about her battles with depression, life with Charles and his lover Camilla .
The suicide tapes - are believed to have recorded in 1991 with the help of a friend - and have remained secret for 20 years. But they are now being used in a republished version of Andrew Mortons book: Diana- Her True Story.
Diana tells how life became a misery after life in Balmoral, saying: I got terribly, terribly thin. People started commenting: Your bones are showing. By October (1981) I was in a very bad way.
I was so depressed, and I was trying to cut my wrists with razor blades. It rained and rained and rained.
I came down early (to London) to seek treatment, not because I hated Balmoral, but because I was in such a bad way.
I was so depressed, and I was trying to cut my wrists with razor blades.
In the original book Morton had revealed the suicide attempts - but had quoted friends. Now the new edition reveals that it was Diana who had spoken candidly about how quickly the marriage had fallen apart. She also reveals how she kept looking for her love rival...even as she walked down the aisle at her wedding. As I walked up the aisle, I was looking for Camilla. I knew she was in there
I had a very bad fit of bulimia the night before. I ate everything I could possibly find which amused my sister (Jane) because she was staying at Clarence House with me.
On the day, there was great anticipation. Happiness because the crowds buoyed you up  but I dont think I was happy.
I just absolutely thought I was the luckiest girl in the world. He was going to look after me. Well, was I wrong on that assumption! So walking back down the aisle, I spotted Camilla  pale grey, veiled pillbox hat, saw it all, her son Tom standing on a chair. To this day, you know  vivid memory.
On her honeymoon she reveals she suffered appalling dreams, adding: At night, I dreamt of Camilla the whole time.
I was obsessed by Camilla totally. I didnt trust (Charles)  thought every five minutes he was ringing her up, asking how to handle his marriage. -Mirror.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Huge Portugal forest fires kill, injure scores
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Huge Portugal forest fires kill, injure scores
PORTUGAL: Raging forest fires in central Portugal have killed at least 60 people, most of whom burnt to death in their cars, and injured scores of others, the government said Sunday.
Nearly 600 firefighters and 160 vehicles were dispatched late Saturday to tackle the blaze, which broke out in the afternoon in the municipality of Pedrogao Grande, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) from Coimbra, before spreading fast across several fronts.
Unfortunately this seems to be the greatest tragedy we have seen in recent years in terms of forest fires, a visibly moved Prime Minister Antonio Costa said.
The number of fatalities could still rise, he said at the Civil Protection headquarters near Lisbon.
The priority now is to save those people who could still be in danger. Portugal was sweltering under a severe heatwave Saturday, with temperatures exceeding 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) in several regions.
Some 60 forest fires broke out across the country during the night, with around 1,700 firefighters battling to put them out.
Secretary of State for the Interior Jorge Gomes said 60 people burned to death, mostly trapped in their cars engulfed by flames in the Leiria region. At least 59 were injured.
The flames spread with great violence, moving out on four fronts, Gomes said. It is difficult to say if they were fleeing the flames or were taken by surprise.
Dry thunderstorms could have been the cause of the fatal blaze, according to the prime minister.
A number of villages were affected by the main fire and evacuation procedures had been put in place for some of them, Costa added. Officials were not immediately able to comment on the extent of the damage.
Spain dispatched two water-bombing planes on Sunday morning to aid the Portuguese fire service on the ground, Costa said.
He added a period of national mourning would be announced shortly.
My thoughts are with the victims in Portugal, EU commission head Jean-Claude Juncker tweeted. I commend the bravery of the firefighters. EU civil protection mechanism activated & will help. President Marcelo Rebelo went to the Leiria region to meet families of the victims, sharing their pain in the name of all the Portuguese people, he said.
Firefighters did all they could when faced with the blaze, he added. Dozens of people who fled their homes were taken in by residents of the nearby municipality of Ansiao.
There are people who arrived saying they didnt want to die in their homes, which were surrounded by flames, Ansiao resident Ricardo Tristao told reporters.
Portugal was hit by a series of fires last year which devastated more than 100,000 hectares (1,000 square kilometres) of the mainland.
Fires on the tourist island of Madeira in August killed three people, while over the course of 2016 around 40 homes were destroyed and 5,400 hectares of land burned. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Ideal Finance to tie up with Indias  Mahindra Finance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Ideal Finance to tie up with Indias  Mahindra Finance
Indias Mahindra Finance a part of the USD 17.8 billion Mahindra Group is looking at tying up with Ideal Finance Ltd, a part of Ideal Motors.
Chairman, Ideal Motors Ltd, Nalin Welgama told Daily News Business that the main aim is to strengthen Ideal Insurance and provide a even better service to Sri Lankans. We will also be able to make use of the large financial base of Mahindra Finance and offer it to Sri Lankans, he said.
A registered finance company and having started in 2012 the company has an asset base of 2.3 billion rupees with 9 branches island-wide.With over 1,000 branches across India, Mahindra Finance is ranked fifth in Financial Services Sector in India.
He said that the two companies have also planned to commence the manufacture of Sri Lankas first Made in Sri Lanka Car (Mahindra KUV 100 spots utility vehicle) in Sri Lanka by then end of this year. Some of the funding for this project too would come from this tie up. We hope to commence operations by August this year and hope to roll out the first car by 2018 end.
Welgama said that they will initially invest around US$ 20 million for logistics and a further US$ 40 million for components.
We will also offer attractive leasing packages for this new Made in Sri Lanka Car through Ideal Finance, he said.
Welgama recalled that since Sri Lanka is one of the top three overseas markets from 90 countries for Mahindra group its chairman Anand Mahindra is keen to assist Sri Lankan operations.
==============================
## Title: IIT in partnership with Robert Gordon University  holds Big Data Analytics open forum
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
IIT in partnership with Robert Gordon University  holds Big Data Analytics open forum
The Informatics Institute of Technology (IIT), the pioneer in providing globally renowned IT and Business higher education in Sri Lanka, recently held the Big Data Analytics Open Forum at The Mirage, Colombo.
The event was attended by IT and corporate professionals who represented several renowned multinational and local blue-chip companies.
The Open Forum discussed the uses of Big Data, Business Analytics and Business Intelligence tools to empower organizations to achieve success.
The event was addressed by CEO of IIT - Dr. Sampath Kannangara, Professor Nirmalie Wiratunge - Professor Intelligent Systems Research for Robert Gordon University, UK, Cassim Farook  Senior Lecturer /Course Leader at IIT and Alroy Mascranghe Senior Lecturer and Course Coordinator at IIT.
Dr. Nirmalie Wiratunga from the School of Computing Science and Digital Media at the Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, Scotland addressing the Forum said that Big Data is a popular topic which has gained much attention and is of strategic importance to Robert Gordon University and Scotland.
Speaking at the forum, CEO of IIT, Dr. Sampath Kannangara said, "IIT is a pioneer in providing internationally renowned undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Over the years we focused on producing all-round graduates that are able to empower their respective organizations. IIT graduates are in high demand in the Government and Corporate sectors mainly due to our focus on catering to the industry needs. The postgraduate degree programmes offered at IIT will enhance knowledge and provide the students with the necessary skill sets that is required to excel in their chosen career. The specialized masters programmes offered at IIT in collaboration with globally renowned universities will definitely give our graduates a competitive edge.
What is Business Analytics Everyone is talking about it these days. It is simply turning data into insight. If you have heard of Netflix, they have a lot of subscribers as well as data.
Another heavily used example in business analytics is on pampers and beer. A famous supermarket wanted to get an idea of the products customer like to buy together when they shop at the grocery store and they found a very unusual pairing which was pampers and beer. They put these products next to each other and even gave a promotion on these two products together and the sales increased by a vast amount, Alroy Mascrenghe speaking on the topic of Business Analytics said.
Cassim Farook  Senior lecturer at IIT stated that Big Data Analytics is targeted towards a tech savvy, R&D and research oriented architects, solution designers, implementers and engineers.
He added that the MSc Big Data Analytics offered at IIT will provide students following the programme an in-depth knowledge on technologies and tools that will give rise to efficient Big Data Analytics solutions.
IIT is currently offering MSc Big Data Analytics and MSc Business Analytics postgraduate degree programmes from Robert Gordon University.
More information could be obtained from www.iit.ac.lk

==============================
## Title: Indian arrested for smuggling in sea cucumbers to Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 15:15
Indian arrested for smuggling in sea cucumbers to Sri Lanka

An Indian national was arrested for smuggling around 600 kilograms of sea cucumber into Sri Lanka, Tamil Nadu Marine Police said.
Acting on a tip-off, the Marine Police recovered the sea cucumbers, buried off the Thiruvadanai coast in Rameshwaram district this morning.
Sea cucumber, which plays an important role to maintain the marine ecological system, is classified as endangered species and harvesting them is banned under the Wildlife Protection Act.
==============================
## Title: Kalutara District cricket tourney
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Kalutara District cricket tourney
Kalutara District six-a-side cricket tournament, jointly organized by the Community Police Unit of the Moronthuduwa Police Station with former cricket stars club, Kalutara, will be held at the Moronthuduwa Dhammananda MV playground on 2nd April from 8.00 am onwards for the whole day. Cash prizes of Rs 25,000 with a cup for championship, Rs 15,000 plus a cup for runner up and Best Batsman and Best bowler will receive cups, organizers told Daily News.
==============================
## Title: Kiwis beat USA twice to open 35th Americas Cup
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Kiwis beat USA twice to open 35th Americas Cup
HAMILTON, Bermuda,| Saturday  Peter Burling and Emirates Team New Zealand, out to expunge the bitter memory of 2013, handed defenders Oracle Team USA two defeats Saturday to open the 35th Americas Cup.
Burling, the Kiwis 26-year-old helmsman, said theres plenty to improve on, but he praised his crews poise in twice holding off the challenge of experienced skipper Jimmy Spithill, who is trying to bring the Auld Mug to America for a third straight time.
I think its no secret that to win the Americas Cup you have to -- in our case -- win eight races, said Burling, whose Kiwis went into the first-to-seven points series one-down on the Americans thanks to Oracles bonus point for topping the qualifying round-robin.
Were really happy to get two races on the board early, but were under no illusion ... its going to get a lot harder than that -- and it was relatively hard today, Burling said.
Spithill did New Zealand a giant favor when he was seconds early across the startline in the first race.
Forced to drop back two boat lengths, the Americans couldnt recover as the Kiwi catamaran displayed impressive speed foiling in the light winds on Bermudas Great Sound.
We had a little issue on board at the first start. We actually thought we were coming back where we wanted to and as it turns out its something were going to have to go back and look at, Spithill said. We basically just handed that one to them.
A late mistake saw New Zealand plunge off their foils and slow dramatically, but even that wasnt enough of a window for Spithill and New Zealand won by 30 seconds. It wasnt exactly our best maneuver, Burling said. I think the really pleasing thing out of it is ... we still managed to get the job done no worries. I was really happy with the way the guys kept their composure today.
Its been no secret the winds were really tricky out there for breeze shifts. In lighter air the boats are really hard to handle and if you make a small mistake it ends up being a really costly one.
Burling, the 26-year-old whose pre-start prowess was called into question during challenger qualifying, won the start of the second race and New Zealand steadily built their lead -- but there was to be late drama again.
The USA, down by 1:34 rounding mark four, were able to capitalize on a wind shift on the fifth leg to close within three seconds as they approached the fifth mark.
Team New Zealand held their nerve to round the mark in front and Oracle produced a sloppy jibe that saw them come off their foils, their bows ploughing into the water as New Zealand powered to a win by 1:28.
It was obviously a tough day, Spithill said. Clearly we werent sailing at our best, but we also had our opportunities.
But these guys (New Zealand) at the end of the day made fewer mistakes, Spithill added. The good news is, were only one back.
That one-point advantage certainly wont give Burling and New Zealand any sense of complacency.
Four years ago in San Francisco, a New Zealand team helmed by Dean Barker were 8-1 up and within one race win of victory when Team USA roared back for a 9-8 triumph in one of sports greatest comebacks. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Lankas Blue Mountain Achilleion voted among top 3 apartments in Asia Pacific
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lankas Blue Mountain Achilleion voted among top 3 apartments in Asia Pacific
Sri Lanka took pride of place at the Asia Pacific Property Awards 2016-2017, held recently in Bangkok, Thailand, as its leading real estate major, The Blue Mountain Groups most iconic real estate development to-date, Achilleion, was recently recognized as one of the top three apartments in the Asia-Pacific region.
The first 7-Star Apartment in Sri Lanka, Achilleion is drawing international attention to its ambitious scope.
Sri Lankas Achilleion shared the limelight with other top developments - the Bulgari Hotel and Residences in Shanghai, and HBS Towers in Mumbai. A large number of senior delegates representing leading property development companies in the region gather from across 25 countries at every Asia Pacific Property Awards Summit, to celebrate the best residential and commercial property projects.
This global recognition catapults Blue Mountains Achilleion into the big league, to compete against global real estate titans for the title of Best Apartment in the World at the World Property Awards 2016-2017, in November, later this year.
HBS Towers, MumbaiAchilleion Apartments, Sri Lanka

==============================
## Title: Lankas shipping, freight market corrupt to its core - Sean Van Dort
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lankas shipping, freight market corrupt to its core - Sean Van Dort
Sri Lankas shipping and freight market is all corrupt to its core, said Sean Van Dort, Sri Lanka Shippers Council Immediate Past Chairman.
Managing Directors to Shipping executives were robbing from their own companies by way of kickbacks, he said speaking at the Post Business Session of the 47th Annual General Meeting of Sri Lanka Shippers Council held in Colombo last week.
Its seems only a handful of service providers really go out to canvas business on service and quality in its deliveries. We were also promised a single window to carry out day to day work for the last 25 odd years, but seems like its gone through the back. All the discussions are mere talk shops, he said adding that the government needs to expedite the process to make it a reality, as it will bring down transaction cost, give competitive advantages and speed to promote their products.
He further noted that the council was involved with the Sri Lanka customs in establishing the Export facilitation centre and agreed to pay more charges to the government for the sake of speed and time.
However, Im aware that until recently, there was a great pressure from the Ministry of Finance to the Customs to provide a negative report so that this centre could be scrapped and some vested interest could benefit from such a operation.
Given the changes that have now taken place all seems good, he said.
Commenting on e-documentation initiative, he stressed that the commitment of government is required to make it possible by the end of this year.
To this end, draconian laws of the Customs ordinance, the Ports Authority Act must be looked at strongly with willingness to change.
Moreover, Van Dort also claimed that Sri Lanka may be one of the only countries who implements tariffs on its exports.
Sri Lankas struggling tea industry is charged by the authorities Rs. 4 per Kg and Rs.10 per Kg on bulk shipment as CESS.
He urged the government to look into this and bring about a solution to such actions.

==============================
## Title: Lanka jumps 17 notches in Global Peace Index
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lanka jumps 17 notches in Global Peace Index
Sri Lanka has made significant improvement in the Global Peace Index (GIP) 2017, jumping 17 notches to be ranked as the 80th in a list of 163 countries.
According to the GPI report, Sri Lankas improvement of 0.116 has resulted in the largest jump in the ranking in 2017.
The GPI report says Sri Lanka, Pakistan and India, have made the most improvement in terms of overall score. Sri Lanka coming second in the South Asian Regional ranking, has scored an overall score of 2.019.
The GPI report has noted that The ongoing consolidation of power undertaken by Sri Lankas government led by the President Maithripala Sirisena, has allowed it to undertake structural political reforms for improved governance, which are reflected in improved performance in the indicators measuring political instability, likelihood of violent demonstrations and political terror.
Sri Lanka benefited primarily from improvements in the Societal Safety and Security as well as Militarisation domains, GPI report has noted.
In particular, financial contributions to UN peacekeeping missions improved sharply, and there were also visible gains in reducing political terror, likelihood of violent demonstrations, and to a lesser extent, political instability and the impact of Terrorism. the GPI report noted.
The report credits the present Yahapalana government stating that a strengthening of political stability following the end of a decades-long civil war in 2009 and efforts by the ruling coalition composed of the United National Party (UNP) and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) to address long-standing concerns among the electorate about the political and human rights landscape. However, the GPI report warns that tensions between the Tamil minority and the Sinhalese majority remain latent, and could hinder attempts to achieve national reconciliation.
On the downside, the number of homicides per 100,000 people rose modestly although it is still at a relatively low level, while the number of armed services personnel per 100,000 people has risen sharply to one of the highest levels in the world.
According to the 2017 Global Peace Index, the world became more peaceful in the last year, however, over the last decade it has become significantly less peaceful.
In South Asia, Bhutan has been identified as the most peaceful country, followed by Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Bhutan ranks 13th, Bangladesh 84th, India 137th, Pakistan 152 nd and Afghanistan 162nd.
Iceland has retained its place as the most peaceful country in the world since 2008, followed by New Zealand, Portugal, Austria and Denmark while war-ravaged Syria and Afghanistan remained at the bottom of the rankings.
==============================
## Title: Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Bill in Parliament tomorrow
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Bill in Parliament tomorrow
The government will present the Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Bill in Parliament tomorrow for the first reading.
The Bill is to make the necessary legal amendments to hold the long overdue Local Government Elections under the new electoral system. It will amend the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262) and provide an identification for each ward by giving a name and a number among other requirements.
The Bill is to be presented to the House by Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faiszer Musthapha.
Any party who wish to file litigation on the legislation is required to do so within seven days of the presentation of the Bill.
==============================
## Title: Lorry topples killing two, injuring one
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lorry topples killing two, injuring one
Two persons died and another was injured and admitted to the Kantale Hospital when a lorry transporting a stock of timber toppled near the Suriyapura police station in Kantale on June 16 afternoon.
The lorry was transporting timber from Mawarella to distribute among furniture shops in Verugal, Serunuwara when the accident occurred. The deceased were identified as the lorry driver Adam Lebbe Mohammadu Mansoor (51) of Kaththankudy and his assistant Nallathamby Selwarajah (43).
The injured admitted to the Kantale hospital was identified as Gopalasingham Jayakumara (43).
Suriyappura Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Lyceum win by nine wickets
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Lyceum win by nine wickets
Lyceum International College Nugegoda beat Sri Palee College Horana by nine wickets in their inter-school under 15 division two tournament cricket match played at Dehiwala.
Batting first Sri Palee were shot out for 70 runs with Dimuth Dissanayake claiming 3 for 10 and in reply Lyceum Scored 194 runs with Yasiru de Silva scoring 80 runs. In their second essay Sri Palee made 135 runs with Yasiru de Silva bagging 5 for 19 runs and set to make 12 runs for an outright victory Lyceum scored 12 for 1.
Sri Palee  70 in 21 overs  (Dinuka Wanniarachchi 26, Lakindu Sachin 2/22, Dimuth Dissanayake 3/10, Yasiru de Silva 2/19 and 135  Lahiru Vithana 24, Avindu Dulanjana 22, Yasiru de Silva 5/19, Senidu Bandara 3/40, Dimuth Dissanayake 2/31).
Lyceum International Nugegoda 194 Yasiru de Silva 80 and 12 for one.
==============================
## Title: Magical Okra!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Magical Okra!
Okra (botanical name  Abelmoschus Esculantus) which is simply known as Bandakka and it has many fans in our island largely depending on the way it is cooked. If you fall in love with it, you fall in love for life! Garden Talk speaks to Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture Ratmalana, District Agricultural Instructor K.N.K Jayathilake on this vegetable which is valued for its health benefits.
This vegetable can be grown anywhere in Sri Lanka except for Up Country Wet Zone on a commercial scale and in home gardens. In the Dry Zone, Okra or Bandakka can be grown on a mass commercial scale. The pods of the plant are used for consumption. Because of its high nutritional value there is a big demand for Okra (Bandakka) with proteins and Vitamins. Iodine deficiency is the commonest cause thyroid disorders, and eating Bandakka can help the situation. It is highly advisable to include Bandakka in your lunch menu, explained Jayathilake
There are many varieties of Bandakka such as MI5, MI7 and Haritha which are department recommendations. There is the local variety which is called Athdala Bandakka. There is also another variety that has purple pods and the rest of the varieties have green pods.
When growing Bandakka on a commercial scale is it advisable to plant/ cultivate in early September  October (Maha season) and April  May (Yala Season). In home gardens it can be grown throughout the year.
Urban gardens
In urban home gardens it can be grown in polythene bags or in containers and pots. It can be grown in a hole in home gardens if there is room. If there is no room then it can be grown in Polythene bags or pots, pointed out Jayathilake
However since the roots system grows, it is advisable to use a Polythene bag a foot high and a foot wide.
The polythene bags should contain organic manure and top soil and a good drainage system. Then the seeds can be planted. When growing in a hole in a garden, that too should contain organic manure and top soil, said Jayathilake
When growing commercially it can be directly grown in the field. When planting this crop the spacing must be 90cm- 100cm.
In one hole you must plant around three to four seeds. The hole must be one foot high and one foot wide, and organic manure must be put into the hole which will ensure good growth. These plants are not grown in the nursery. In order to grow this crop there needs to be a good drainage system. The soil also has to be very fertile. When cultivating on a commercial scale, the plant when grown, needs an added chemical fertilizer and it needs to be irrigated. In home gardens if the crop is not that good, then of course you can administer chemical fertilizer.
After planting, in a week you can see growth, and flowers appear in around a month and then the pods. Until 100 days we can reap the harvest. That is why it is ideal for the home garden. The Bandakka plants in your home garden will provide you with pods needed for your daily consumption, informed Jayathilake.
Weed controlling
Another important step is to remove the weeds. Weed controlling is very important.
The Bandakka plant is affected by Virus diseases. That is the biggest problem in Low Country Wet Zone. If we spot a plant affected by the Virus disease we need to get rid of it since the virus spreads. We can identify the disease by the yellow patches  Yellow Mosaic Virus. Also the virus can be transferred by the White Fly. The pods and leaves get deformed because of the virus. In order to prevent this we must use healthy seeds, and if we spot this disease we must get rid of it fast. Even weeds can cause disease. These viruses in the weeds can be transferred by insects. Insects can create a lot of problems for the Bandakka plant, summed up Jayathilake.
Nutrients in a 100g of Bandakka
Energy .. 35.0 Calory
Protein  1.9g
Thiamine . 70 milligram
Niacin. 0.6 milligram
Fat .. 0.2g
Carbohydrate . 6.4g
==============================
## Title: Man arrested with heroin in Borella
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 12:45
Man arrested with heroin in Borella

The Colombo Crime Division (CCD) arrested a person for possession of heroin in Borella today.
Police said he had 530g of heroin worth Rs. 5.4 million with him during the arrest.
Borella Police is investigating.
==============================
## Title: Managing the salesmans productivity and efficiency
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Managing the salesmans productivity and efficiency
The modern way of viewing sales is not the volume and value, but the sales efficiency. Customers will be looking for the value creation by the sales person.
Managing the salesman as a productive, efficient sales generator is the responsibility of thesales manager. The sales manager needs to manage the sales enablers effectively. Sales versus sales enablers (also referred to as the key performance indicators) are extremely critical for successful performance and to monitor control, manage and stimulate the salesforce.
In any business model whose primary value offering is providing products and/or services to customers, there is one universal truth: no matter how great your project or service is, your business will certainly fail if you have an inefficient sales process.
Motivation as a tool for improving productivity
Improving the efficiency of your sales team starts with motivation. It will be illustrated in detail as a function of sales management, but in a nutshell, the best way of motivating the salesforce is creating a competitive culture with compensation and rewards systems in place.
Most organisations use sales automation systems which integrate the daily performance of each person and it is upto date and transparent reporting.
It also lets everyone in the company feel more connected with the sales teams and to our sales process since we are able to display sales figures, sales trends and competition in real time on a large central display in our office.
Sales efficiency is the way of managing time (time management) in a competitive business environment where time is money, meaning managing time efficiency results in cost efficiency. Moreover, we will discuss how the salesman becomes a cost saving instrument and contributes towards the profitability of the organisation.
Sales efficiency refers to the speed at which each task is performed in the sales process. To increase sales, companies need to investigate their sales process to detect the weaknesses that can be treated with sales effectiveness software or by reorganising and strengthening existing processes.
For example, sellers spend too much time on administrative tasks. Efficiency is measured by input versus output concept. The input is the salesman point of view; likewise output is the volume.
On the contrary, what is the sales manager's role in this context Take a stick and be a principal behind the salesman or lead the salesman from the front towards efficiency
Instead of adding sales resources, many companies can begin to see if they are utilising the resources that they already have. For startup companies that have resources at their disposal or more established companies wanting to try a more customizable and flexible approach to deal with changing market conditions,the efficiency of sales growth has become more important.
Sales productivity measure
Sales productivity is a measurement of the amount of money that you make from the efforts of each salesperson. Conversely, effort refers to the selling time per salesperson and also the average sales per day.
Likewise, the sales value per person can be measured continuously but the sales manager needs to monitor based on a set benchmark.
Firstly, what is sales productivity and why should you worry The revenue productivity and the cost, effort and time, usingminimsl resources - this means to maximise the sales results.
In the 20/60/20 rule usually, about 20% of the sales, is done by top performers who meet or exceed the sales targets. Therefore, a large part of the sales team leaves room for improvement and opportunities to improve productivity.
In many cases, the productivity of optimised sales, you only need to eliminate the rationalisation and unnecessary work and rework of workflow.
The sales manager needs to make sure that there is accurate benchmarking by analysing the external factors, sales trends, and competitor activities which impact theorganisation's strategies. Sales forecasting is different from monthly sales benchmarking and productivity measure, which we will be discussing in the future. For example, if Salesman A is at 90 % in comparison to salesman B who is at 85% achievement in sales volumes, is Salesman A more productive than Salesman BIs this conclusion correct It is necessary to argue on the efficiency for the correct conclusion.
Sales productivity means greater sales volume, lower payroll expenses and more efficient time management. Measuring the salesforce size for a particular business strategy is a technique. Under territory management methods, the factors to consider the salesforce size decisions will be discussed.
But the inefficiency of the incorrect decision on salesforce size will lead into many financial and business losses. Most of the time the assumptions and calculations can be accurate but the mistakes done by the sales manager is that the efficiency and the effectiveness of the individual deployed for the territoryare not measured.
In performance delivery, quicker conversions of prospects into sales closures, upselling, cross-selling and repeat purchase ratio will vary from person to person. When there are slower performers, the annual effectiveness of the territory will be low. This is one crucial area where the profitability of the organisation is affected.
Higher payroll expenses will not give equal return to the organisation. As discussed earlier, Pareto spoke about this situation with 80/20 principle where the responsibility of the sales manager is to manage this efficiency at the ground level.
Training as a tool for improving productivity
Also, the way to improve the productivity of your salespeople is to train them properly, reinforce the training and observe them carefully in the field.
Training is not a magic stick to improving the sales productivity but sharing the knowledge and knowhow of the sales team will enable the sales efforts by the sales team and the techniques of sales efforts will generate effective sales.
Great training is useless without reinforcement and the sales manager must train salespersons to practice, rehearse and then make sure they are actually doing it in the real world. It takes time and effort but that is what the sales manager gets paid for.
Effective time management is all about prioritising the efforts versus the time and effort deployed. It is an important sales management function to manage the sales people or productive mechanism which produces the quality output. Later, in sales training and coaching, we will be discussing the techniques to improve productivity through training and measurement for performance.
Personality traits of the sales team
It is vital understanding, knowing and working with the personality style of each team member. This has to be a conscious effort by the sales manager and the strengths and weaknesses of weak salesperson should be clearly understoodby the sales manager and the areas for improvements as well.
One of the key characteristics of a great team is being able to leverage their strengths. Salespeople may be task-oriented or people-oriented or reserved introvert versus outgoing extrovert; sales individuals need to be understood and managed and led them accordingly.
Also, each personality has natural strengths and great teams or leaders know who is good at what and how to leverage the strengths to maximise the productivity and efficiency.
Some of the strengths that can be identified within the salesmen are:
l Planning the sales function and strategizing the approach
l Being innovative and having the ability to solve customer problems
l Persuasion of customers by presenting and handling objections
l Extraordinary relationship building and maintenance
The sales manager should use the team and individuals accordingly and expect the output of weak areas of an individual will lead to inefficiency; also infective management will leadto demotivation and as a result, the salesman will leave the manager, but not the organisation most of the time.
Those that have the strength of sales planning and structuring the approach would be specialists to put in place the best sales process for selling and delivering the right solutions.
Some of the sales approaches, such as problemsolving and sales consultation are strengths that the sales team should develop.
Those salesmen that have the strength of problem solving and innovation can craft the best solution for the customer. The salesmen that have the strength of presenting and persuasion can leverage their ability to be over the competition by delivering and convincing the customer of value offering better than the competition. And those that have great relationship skills and the ability to build trust, can win the customer and create the lifetime value of the customer (LTV).
Each personality style makes decisions differently, communicates according to their style, and is motivated when their strengths are leveraged by their peers and superiors. When a team knows each individual members personality, they know how to effectively communicate and work to maximise team performance.
Sales labour productivity
The basic measure of salesforce productivity with the labour productivity equation: total output versus total input. For example, if a company generated Rs. 100,000 worth of goods or services (output) utilising 1,000 labour hours (input).
To calculate the company's labour productivity, you would divide 100,000 by 1,000, which equals 100. This can be measured salesman-wise and drive the labour productivity of each salesperson.
Also, it could be measured as for the sales team month on month and drive the labour productivity month on month. But this will depend on the industry, type of products and services, business environment and the market conditions.
Cost efficiency
Measuring the cost incurred at acquisition of customers is another measure of sales productivity and if the sales manager sees from this measurement that he spent an excessive amount of money in gaining certain kinds of customers, it means that it is a losing deal. The recommendation in this situation is to focus on a different market.
The sales manager may determine the cost by adding up how much he spent in acquiring a customer. If he finds that he spent Rs. 1,000 to acquire sales worth just Rs. 2,000, he might determine that such a sale will not be profitable in the long run, even for a startup business.
Efficiency in revenueto cost
Another way of measuring the sales productivity of your team is to measure all costs incurred as a percentage of the total revenue generated by the same sales team during the same period.
In this context, add up all costs, including salaries, benefits, commissions, and perks. To understand the total cost and calculate the revenue brought in by the salesforce,divide the revenue by the sales costs which will be equal to the ratio of revenue to cost.
If two organisations or two sales teams maintain 30% versus 50% efficiency in revenue to cost, the team maintains that 30% has a higher efficiency compared to the 50% team.
This ratio gives a pretty good idea of the team's sales productivity. After analysing the big picture, the sales manager can calculate each salespersons revenue and expenses to find out which salesperson is the most profitable.
Not only are these measures helpful in guiding your future plans and strategies, but they also give you concrete numbers on which to set the benchmark. When you have measurable goals to give to your sales teams and individual salespersons, you are much more likely to improve your success.
Concrete, measurable goals give your team something to work towards and you can celebrate their success as they improve their performance.
Increasing salesmansproductivity and efficiency
Driving revenue and improving customer engagement are the two most common challenges faced by businesses using salesforces today.
To overcome these challenges, companies must focus firstly on the employee engagement. Sales management need to focus on providing sales teams with the solutions they need which will be as effective as possible.
So the question is why is this still a problem after so much investment in sales effectiveness One of the main reasons is poor engagement. Poor engagement with salespeople and in turn poor engagement with the customers.
The lack of employee engagement impacts client engagement, creating a poor experience for clients which impacts revenue.
The recommended solution is that salespeople need to do their day job and sell, therefore they are unlikely to commit significant time to explain their challenges on an individual basis.
The sales manager firstly and foremost needs to understand the real needs of the salespeople without disrupting their day-to-day activities so that management can truly understand the current situation.
Engaging and collaborating directly with sales teams is the quickest way to get to the core of their issues. By developing solutions based on reality, not managements perception of their reality, we can truly develop processes and solutions that provide a significant benefit to sales representativess in align with managements business outcomes.
The writer is a professional trainer, senior lecturer, Sales and Marketing consultant and Head - Sales Channels Training and Development, Bharti Airtel Lanka Ltd.
==============================
## Title: My way or the highway
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
My way or the highway
Members of three constituent parties of the TNA, namely the TELO, PLOTE and EPRLF have decided to sit independently in Parliament and the Northern and Eastern Provincial Council if the No-Confidence Motion (NCM) against Chief Minister C. V. Wigneswaran is moved, internal party sources said. The two factions failed to reach a compromise despite repeated talks held yesterday.
The crisis comes in the wake of the ITAK, the main constituent partys insistence on permitting two ministers to continue to work pending a fresh investigation.
A team led by the Leaders of TELO, PLOTE and EPRLF met with Chief Minister Wigneswaran on Saturday. After this meeting Wigneswaran has sent a reply to Opposition Leader R Sampanthan over the latters request not to take action against the two NPC ministers on whom there is no finding of guilt by the board of inquiry.
In his reply, Wigneswaran has stated that his position on Provincial Health Minister Dr. P Sathyalingm and Civil Transport and Fisheries Minister B.Denishwaran could be reconsidered, if Sampanthan could make an assurance that they (Denishwaran and Sathyalingm) would not influence the fresh investigations to be held over the allegations. However, it was learnt that Opposition Leader Sampanthan yesterday sent another letter to Wigneswaran informing that he could not and have no right to make such an assurance on behalf of two Provincial Ministers who are under Wigneswaran.
In the meantime, the two camps of the TNA convened separate meetings yesterday. The Provincial Council members who support the Chief Minister were to meet him yesterday evening, while the members of ITAK, the remaining constituent Party of the TNA, were to meet with their Leader MP Mavai Senathirajah in the afternoon.
MP Senathirajah also met with religious leaders in Jaffna yesterday to educate them on the latest political developments in the NPC.
==============================
## Title: Navy arrest two while smuggling 2,089 Indian star tortoises in seas off Kalpitiya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Navy arrest two while smuggling 2,089 Indian star tortoises in seas off Kalpitiya
The Navy arrested two persons, smuggling 2089 live Indian star tortoises, a rare and protected variety of tortoise, in the seas off Kalpitiya on Saturday evening.
Following intelligence information, a group of naval personnel attached to the Northwestern Naval Command apprehended 2 suspects while smuggling 2,089 live star tortoises in a dinghy, in the sea area in between Ippantivu and Sinna Arichchal, Kalpitiya on Saturday evening. The suspects were smuggling these rare species of tortoises by illegal means from India a spokesman for the Navy said.
"The apprehended suspects, star tortoises, dinghy and other items were brought to the naval base SLNS Vijaya in Kalpitiya and subsequently handed over to the Sinnapadu Custom Office for legal action," he added.
Navy believes the cute and minuscule Indian star tortoises; one of the most prized products in the international pet market was to be transported to another country via Sri Lanka. Also it is the first occasion the Navy has seized such a large number of star tortoise.
The Indian star tortoises have become the target of illegal traders as it has lucrative overseas markets particularly in America, some European countries, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and China, according to international news reports.
In some overseas exotic pet markets the Indian Star species could sell for price as high as US$1,000 each.
For centuries, in rural parts of India, star tortoises have been traditionally kept as pets in many homes, their owners believing that they bring good luck and fortune. The star tortoise is also regarded as a spiritual symbol in some religious sects.
==============================
## Title: No plans to change school uniform - President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
No plans to change school uniform - President
President Maithripala Sirisena says the government has not taken any decision to make any changes to the school uniform.
He was participating in the annual prize giving ceremony of the Sri Chandrananda Buddhist College, Asgiriya.
The education system centered on the Pirivena and temples nourished the then Sri Lankan society with human values and rich moral habits, the President said. He said all the religious leaders should commit themselves to build a society which closely associates with religious places.
President Sirisena said the social media websites and Facebook are degenerating moral values of the children in todays society. He said the discipline of the children should be built along with their education. The President said various attempts are being made through the internet and some media institutions to spread disharmony among communities and to instigate unrest.
When he asked Archbishop of Colombo Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith regarding a statement made by a person during an interview with a private news channel that 166 Catholic churches were attacked during the past few months, the Archbishop said such incidents were not reported, the President said.
The President said he vehemently reject such statements made by some persons misleading society.
He presented certificates and awards for the students who performed outstandingly at the school.
The Maha Sangha including Mahanayaka Thera of the Asgiriya Chapter Ven. Warakagoda Sri Gnanarathana, Anu Nayaka of Malwathu Chapter Ven. Niyangoda Vijithasiri Thera, Principal of the School Ven. Dr. Godagama Mangala Thera, Ministers Lakshman Kiriella, S. B. Dissanayake, Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe and many others participated.
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Obituaries
DR. GUNAPALA - ABEY KUMARADASA. Beloved husband of Gabriella Soteck Gunapala, loving father of Madara, father-in-law of Gamini Malwanegedara, loving brother of late Seetha, late Ananda, Madara (Bishops College) & Daya Karunarathne, precious grandfather of Isuri & Hiruni. Cortege leaves residence at 2.00 p.m. for cremation at General Cemetery Kurunegala on Monday 19th June.074817
PARAMANATHAN - ALOMA (Ex. Bank of Ceylon). Beloved wife of B.E. Paramanathan (Param) (Ex Insurance Corporation /Janashakthi Insurance & Vanik Insurance Brokers), expired. Remains lie at A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour. Cortege leaves the parlour at 4.30 p.m. on Monday 19th June for cremation at the General Cemetery, Borella at 5.00 p.m. 69, Nelumpura Road, Nelumpura, Ratmalana.074815

==============================
## Title: Over 2,000 dog heads found in garbage dump
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Over 2,000 dog heads found in garbage dump
Over 2,000 severed heads of dogs were found in a garbage dump in the Dambahawatta, Aralaganwila area in Dibulagala.
Residents in the area said an unknown group came in vehicles at night had dumped the dog skulls. They are suspicious that a gang involved in meat selling are dumping the skulls after they get the flesh killing dogs. There were some skulls of goats among the lot.
Recently, the residents had staged a protest blocking the main road leading to Maduruoya from Polonnaruwa to make the authorities aware of the incident.
==============================
## Title: Pendulum Express  Lines launches services to Colombo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Pendulum Express  Lines launches services to Colombo
Hong Kong registered Pendulum Express Lines (PEL) launched its services (PIX) to Colombo, Sri Lanka recently. The Pakistan India Express service (PIX) would have a rotation from Singapore - Port Klang - Colombo - Karachi - Mundra - Port Klang and would service its clients initially through slot arrangements with another main liner.
PEL commenced business in 2001 offering various feeder services as a vessel operator and has over 10 weekly scheduled feeder services in the region currently.
PEL is recognized as an emerging player in the feeder business and has extensive growth plans to be positioned as one of the most desired feeder carriers in the market in the coming years.
With regional offices in Singapore, Thailand, Cambodia, China and agency representation all over Asia, PEL would be introducing a new weekly service with effect from July 2017.
The new service would be North Asia  India Subcontinent Service (NISC) together with partners HMM, CMA, KMTC and SCI.
Each partner including Pendulum will contribute one vessel while HMM will contribute two vessels. The tentative rotation would be Xingang (Tianjin) / Qingdao / Ningbo / Singapore / Port Klang / NhavaSheva / Mundra / Hazira / Colombo / Port Klang / Singapore / Xingang.
MAC Equity Maritime Service Limited was appointed as the general shipping agent providing full-fledged agency services together with all customary ancillary and incidental services to the principal.
MAC Equity Maritime Services Limited is a majority owned subsidiary of MAC Holdings Private Limited.
==============================
## Title: People silent during Rapaksa regime, now engage in glib talk: Gayantha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
People silent during Rapaksa regime, now engage in glib talk: Gayantha
It is strange to see people who kept silent during an era when 62 percent of government, spending was shared among members of the Rajapaksa family now engaging in glib talk abut the division of ministry subjects under the present government, Lands and Parliamentary Reforms Minister Gayantha Karunatilleke said.
He was addressing a press conference held at Sirikotha UNP headquarters at Ethul Kotte yesterday.
Minister Karunatilleke said Central Bank reports testified that various sectors of the economy had achieved considerable progress and victories since the present government assumed office.
A large number of job avenues had opened up in the public and private sectors last year amounting to almost 117,000. This is proved by the new EPF and ETF accounts opened last year. Similarly, several new foreign emloyment avenues had opened up last year
A total of nearly 150,000 to 160,000 employment avenues had been created last year, the minister said.
Direct foreign investment had also increased last year. According to Central Bank reports, last years direct foreign investment had topped Rs. 2.8 billion, he said.The government had succeeded in regaining the GSP plus concession for Sri Lanka from the European Union. The country was able to gain the relief due to the good governance policies adopted by President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, the minister said.
The GSP plus facility would enable the country to increase its exports and investments, he said.
He said the government had spent nearly 5 percent of GDP towards the development of infrastructure facilities last year. Work was started on the Matara-Beliatte rail road, Kadawatha-Kerawalapitiya Expressway and the Colombo-Kandy Expressway, he said.
Road projects valued at nearly Rs. 17 billion were started last year. Apart from them, 170 km of dilapidated roadways were renovated. Export earnings had increased by almost 12 percent in 2016, he said.
==============================
## Title: Permits to be cancelled of buses making ad-hoc stops
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Permits to be cancelled of buses making ad-hoc stops
The National Transport Commission (NTC) has been directed to cancel the permits of Inter-Provincial Service Buses which stop over at every turn to enable passengers to embark and disembark without restricting them to authorised bus halts only.
This will take effect from July 1, Transport and Civil Aviation Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva said.
This decision had been taken in deference to public complaints received by the commission and to prevent the inconvenience caused to commuters themselves, he said.
Minister de Silva said he had also directed commission Chairman M. A. P. Hemachandra to deploy teams of its own inspectors to inspect inter-provincial service buses to observe those making stop overs at unauthorised places to pick up passengers or make them disembark and take steps to instal CCTV cameras in such places for constant observation.
The Minister said he had also directed the commission Chairman to desist from renewing the permits of buses involved in such unlawful practices when removals are made annually.
==============================
## Title: Phone call on train claims 17-year-old's life
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Phone call on train claims 17-year-old's life
A youth travelling on the foot board of the Colombo  Talaimannar express train engaged in an animated conversation on his mobile phone on June 17 died on the spot after falling off his perch as the train neared the Ganegoda railway station in Mirigama.
He was identified as H. M. Kasun Lakmal Herath (17) of Konewegama Yahapauwa, a labourer at a construction site at Yakkala. He had boarded the train from the Ragama station enroute to Mahawa from where he had planned to go home on leave.
Although he was seated in the train with two other colleagues he had got up from his seat and gone to the foot board to answer a call on his mobile phone when he met with this tragedy.
Other passengers who saw a man falling from the train had alerted the guard by pulling the emergency chain. The guards had picked the body after halting the train and handed it over to the Mirigama station on the way. On the orders of the Veyangoda inquire into sudden deaths Chandrasiri Marasinghe the body was sent to the Wathupitiwala hospital for a post-mortem examination and report. Pallewela police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: PM distribut school equipment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
PM distribut school equipment
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe attended a ceremony held at the flood affected Deniyaya Pallegama Maha Vidyalaya on June 17 to mark the distribution of a stock of school equipment among its students by the Colombo Royal College. Minister Sagala Ratnayake looks on.
==============================
## Title: Portrait of innocence
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Portrait of innocence
Innocence seems to be her hallmark and according to seasoned journalist Arthur U Amarasena, this is the first thought that hit him when he lay eyes on a photograph of her for the first time in the early 1960s. After tying the knot in 1964 Sriyani Amarasena nee Weerakoon and Arthur have come a long way, passing the silver jubilee of their marriage. He credits their long time alliance to it being based on unwavering trust and understanding. Sriyani has turned to directing now and is heavily involved in writing scripts for her productions. Starting off her stint with Dath Kekulu Pala she has directed a series of teledramas shot in Sri Lanka as well as abroad. This includes Sakura Mal, the first teledrama to be shot in Japan. She has directed a few movies too: Dese Mal Pipila, Kulagaya and Tharanaya.
Characters similar to her
Sriyani shares similar traits to her characters in films like Kalyani Ganga and Raththaran Amma. Both characters embody characteristics found in villagers. Kalyani lives near the sea but embodies an innocent nature. Her role in Raththaran Amma is somewhat different but still has a calm attitude.
Sarojini in Viraga is quite unlike her though. Sriyani did not accept all the roles that were offered to her. Though she did not choose innocent characters along she got some good offers to act as innocent and romantic characters in quality productions at that time. She also took a liking to give life to such roles. She was not a mischievous person in any way so she did not get offers to do such roles.
Favourite character
I love watching her play Sundari in Desa Nisa. It is one of Dr Lester James Peries films she has taken part in. It is a blind character. I think she played the role well. That film brought her immense popularity.
First meeting
It was an odd meeting! I was working in Davasa when its editor D B Dhanapala came up with the idea of launching a marriage proposal corner in the newspaper. Since it was a new concept he wanted the youth in the staff to give details about ourselves to publish in the newspaper so that the readers will get an idea of how to apply.
There were about 15 of us youngsters in the staff and we all applied by stating our details and preferences. I got about 360 letters. I began looking through the letters and came across one which interested me. Sriyanis mother had sent the letter and had also included one of her photographs. She has stated that Sriyani is into arts too. I was also quite taken by her picture.I told my friend Augustus Vinayagaratna about this letter and he suggested that we play a visit. We visited her home in Battaramulla disguised as two other people. I introduced myself as Silva and Augustus became Perera. We also lied about our professions and other details but coming back Augustus told me not to let go of this opportunity as the lass seemed nice and was very pretty.I sent a letter relating my true details to them. Then I notified my father. Sriyanis parents also sent their consent. We were in a two year relationship before we got married on November 11, 1964. She was acting in Dayananda Gunawardanes stage drama Naribena those days.
I related this story to Dhanapala and he was amazed. He called me a lucky man and said that they have hit the jackpot from their first attempt to get couples hitched.
She is the one
I guess it goes with the term it was written in the stars. Through our two year association I realized that she was not a mischief maker. Our ideas also matched. We were both also into writing. Whenever she takes up the pen I do not disturb her and vice versa. This understanding between us was the foundation of our marriage.
The wife and mother
Though Sriyani went back to acting after our son was born, she always kept tabs on our two children and me. She was her parents only child so we lived together with them. This made things easier in bringing up our children. Our daughter, Inoka Nilmini, and our son, Sampath Chandana, were born about one and a half years apart. Since her parents took over matters of bringing up our children Sriyani and I were able to travel abroad a lot.
We have passed our 50th wedding anniversary. Throughout these years of togetherness Sriyani and I have shared a good understanding about each other. We come from the same field so we were familiar with the nature of each others careers. Though Sriyani is mostly known as an actress she is also a good writer. She has written a few novels and she writes her own scripts for her productions.
Acting post marriage
Many actors and actresses marriages are on the rock these days. This did not happen to us because we have a good understanding about each other. Since I was involved in cinema related magazines I knew about the actors and actresses whereabouts. I also had a lot of faith in her that she would not do anything to tarnish her name in the field. Anyway I told her that I have no problems with her continuing to act as long as she chose good roles and her mother too stated that they only allow her to act in quality productions.
Sriyani has acted in a short film called Wings Over Ceylon produced to promote the Sri Lankan Air Force. Dr Lester James Peries has seen her and had expressed his desire to get her for one of his films. Dr Tissa Abeysekara visited me to seek my help to find her. I simply brought out her photograph from my drawer and asked if it was she they were looking for.
Tissa was astounded. Then I told him that she is the one I am going to marry. However Sriyani could not act in that particular film because our daughter was born soon after we got married. She got the opportunity to act again in Golu Hadawatha along with our daughter who was three years old by then. After our son was born I gave her permission to get back into acting.
Best gift
The best gift that Sriyani has given me is our two children. They are like our two eyes. Inoka was employed in Air Lanka as an airhostess before she quit her job to look after her daughter, Manasha. Sampath is employed as a tea taster. Both took career paths that are different from ours.
Title for Sriyanis biography
It is difficult to take on a mammoth task like writing Sriyanis biography. Maybe something like A Life Story of an Actress will do for the title. I have chronicled details about the history of our cinema starting off from it rooting from Tamil films. The book titled Sinhale Maha Cinema Vanshaya comes in several volumes. The first is already out and the second is in print. I am currently writing the third volume.
One change in lif
I would have liked to have more grandchildren.
Most memorable moments
We wanted to travel to Denmark from Germany once. A friend dropped us at a railway station and told us to get off the train once it stops and get on the other train which will be on the next track. We were carrying the huge reels of Tharanaya then.
The train stopped in a very remote area. We got off but there were no other trains in sight. We tried asking for directions but could not find anyone speaking English. After a while we saw a German lady looking at us. We gave her a Ceylon Tea bag and spoke to her. She finally told us how to get to the harbour. Once in the harbour we encountered a problem because we did not have visas. My friend had told us that will not be an issue. We explained our purpose to the officers there and since the authorities were not in sight they let us go. In France too we encountered a similar experience because though the French knew English they do not like to speak any other language except French.
==============================
## Title: President visits IDH Hospital
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
President visits IDH Hospital
President Maithripala Sirisena made an observation tour of the IDH Hospital in Angoda, which hit capacity recently owing to the influx of dengue patients.
The President during the visit stated that the government will take immediate action to complete the requirements of the hospital and increase its capacity.
The recent congestion at the hospital has been brought under control after some patients were transferred to hospitals in Thalangama, Vethara and Piliyandela, which were equipped with the required facilities.
The President directed the officials to ensure the service of the specialist doctors to the patients sent to other hospitals.
President Sirisena also observed the ward complex of the hospital and inquired into the patients needs
Health Minister Rajitha Senarathne and Hospital Director Dimuthu Rathnayake joined the President in the observation visit.
==============================
## Title: Private hospitals ordered to reduce blood test fee
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Private hospitals ordered to reduce blood test fee
Health Minister Dr.Rajitha Senaratne ordered private hospital authorities to reduce the charges for the blood tests carried out to diagnose dengue from today (Monday), Health Ministry spokesman said.
According to the spokesman, from today the private hospitals can only charge Rs. 250 for Full blood Count (FBC) and Rs. 1,000 for Dengue Antigen Test. Earlier the Dengue Antigen Test cost a patient Rs. 3000. From today the private hospitals should issue the lab reports within half an hour. The Minister took steps under the Private Hospital Regulatory Programme considering the increasing number of dengue patients in the country.
The new charges imposed by the Health Ministry for the blood tests carried out in private hospitals will be valid until further notice. Minister Dr. Senaratne requested doctors not to prescribe various pain killers for fever patients and an investigation will be carried out on such incidents reported from the IDH, he said.
Patients who received treatment from IDH had made complaints to the Minister, the spokesman said.
Meanwhile, the National Coordinator of the National Dengue Control Programme Dr. Hasitha Thisera said that only paracetamol should be given to all fever patients and no other medication . Medical treatment should be sought from a qualified doctor or a hospital for fever without delay. Most of the patients who died due to taking various pain killers for dengue were youths, he added.
==============================
## Title: Queen of arts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Queen of arts
At one point in The Value of Virginia Woolf, Madelyn Detloff talks about variations in categories of identity. She gives examples of relatively new ones (such as intersex, queer, or transsexual) and points out that the arrival or departure of viable statuses is not in itself a new phenomenon. It was simply not possible to identify as an American, for example, before the seventeenth century. This must have been hard. Even more unexpectedly, she continues: Nor is it possible today to identify as the King of France, although the category certainly existed in the seventeenth century. I dont know how many people are (or were) personally affected by this cancellation of potential. But there is at least one king of France who has been alive and well for some time. Bertrand Russell brought him into legitimate existence as a logical problem of reference, with the announcement, in an article of 1905, that The present King of France is bald. Thus exposed in a wigless twentieth-century world, this French monarch has nonetheless continued to enjoy a high level of recognition in the pages of philosophy journals and student essays ever since.
Virginia Woolf was attuned to the shifting ambiguities of identity and identification. In A Room of Ones Own, she speculates about a day to come, a century into the future, when people might well exclaim in surprise at the sight of a woman. Even the most commonplace, common-sense categories, in other words, may disappear or be superseded by other modes of existence or classification. Post-American, for instance; or, at the opposite, King-of-France-end of the spectrum, a new kind of uniqueness may emerge from a category currently without any occupant. In the same essay, Woolf invents a fictional non-fictional sister of Shakespeare  who didnt exist in reality, but might have, and if so would not, Woolf insists, have survived in the real time of early modern London.
A successful sixteenth-century Judith Shakespeare would be a contradiction in historical possibility, and Woolf does not try to imagine her. Instead, she gives a brief but detailed and poignant story to show how the life of a gifted young woman born into the same world as Will would have run an entirely different course from his, even after a childhood in which reading and thinking were not out of reach. Not only would she not have been able to get involved in theatrical productions in the same way as a male counterpart, but being a woman she would have come up against every form of sexual discrimination and harassment (as they werent yet called in the early twentieth century, let alone in the sixteenth). But she would also have experienced such external barriers as a conflict within her own mind, so that, all told, To have lived a free life in London in the sixteenth century would have meant for a woman who was poet and playwright a nervous stress and dilemma which might well have killed her.
Judiths real-life brother, meanwhile, was not constrained in these ways, and Woolf is rapturous in her description of his unbounded capacities: his poetry flows from him free and unimpeded. If ever a human being got his work expressed completely, it was Shakespeare. If ever a mind was incandescent, unimpeded, I thought, turning again to the bookcase, it was Shakespeares mind. Yet the great mans existence comes over as somehow less interesting than the womans. The sisters story has tensions and tragedies, a miniature blighted Bildungsroman that takes its thwarted heroine from a home where she reads in the apple loft to all the dramatic risks of the big city. Shakespeare, back in the bookcase, just got his work expressed completely  job done.
Shakespeare is today, as he was for Woolf, the peerless figurehead of English literature. And as Woolf was already able to report, the prospects for gifted sisters have improved, with women writing about modern lives like their own; the creation of Judith is itself a symptom of that continuing change. In the later part of the twentieth century a further movement began. A multiplicity of causes converged to make womens writing a primary focus of literary-critical attention, not least on school and college syllabuses. Woolf acquired a prime position, becoming something like a queen in the widening world of women and literature. There had been a more doubtful period when her writings were sometimes disparaged or downgraded, and her Bloomsbury associations might detract from her status as a thinker. But by the time she came out of copyright for the first time in 1992, she was all set for the long canonical haul: ripe for instant endowment with the footnotes of scholarly and studently editions. She could be called on at any time and in most contexts for a challenging, memorable quotation  not just about women or literature, but about any topic of current or universal interest, from war to love to money to colonialism to class. Alongside Shakespeare, Woolf is a literary celebrity, to be found in every corner of cultural consciousness and public or private space: from mugs to T-shirts to films and plays. On the purely textual front, as with him, there is a steady output of Woolf books and articles. No other non-male writer has received anything like this degree of recognition and attention. It is not clear whether this is more of a consummation or an irony, but without a doubt Woolf has herself become Shakespeares sister.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Railway drivers, guards to strike tomorrow
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 10:45
Railway drivers, guards to strike tomorrow

Railway drivers and guards will launch a strike tomorrow from midnight.
Railway Drivers Union Secretary Indika Dodangoda said they are protesting against authorities for failing to provide solutions for recruitments, promotions, salary anomalies and several other demands.
He added that authorities were informed about the strike in writing.
==============================
## Title: Ranil Ganewattes funeral today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Ranil Ganewattes funeral today
Not just the Sri Lankan basketball fraternity, but the sporting community as a whole mourn the untimely demise of Rienzy Ranil Ganewatte of Hayleys Group who died during Fridays Mercantile Services Basketball League tournament match against Airport & Aviation at the Henry Pedris courts, Colombo.
The 39-year-old 6.5 centre player was overjoyed as he scored an early basket, but little he knew as he collapsed near half court line on his way back to back court, that he will never wake up again. It was not just a shock to spectators, but for all who knew Ranil, as it is hard to believe such a graceful giant will fall to a sudden eternal sleep. According to the postmortem sudden block of blood supply to Ranils brain caused by two narrowed veins of his heart is the reason for his death.
Born in 23/04/1978, Ranil was educated in D.S. Senanayake College, Colombo 7. He joined the school basketball team as an under-13 lad and earned a prominent place in his team due to his height. Since then Ranil played for the school team at all levels from U-13 to U-19 winning many accolades to his Alma Mater.
He represented Sri Lanka Schools team in 1996 and 1997 rendering a great service as the centre. Ranils younger brother Oshan also played basketball at D.S.
After leaving the school Ranil joined the Colombo Bulls basketball club and continued his club basketball career. Ranil donned the National jersey representing Sri Lanka Basketball team in 2001. He has also been an essential player in the Western Province basketball team for several years.
Ranil gained employment with the Metropolitan Group and also played for the Mercantile Services tournament for several years before joining the Hayleys Group. He completed an almost 12-year career at the Mercantile Basketball scene. He was working in the capacity of Manager - Sales and Marketing at a Hayleys subsidiary, Advantis Freigh Pvt. Ltd.until his untimely demise.
Ranil was a true sportsman with a lot of good qualities who is well known for his meritorious work among the friends. He was a gentle giant with a big heart and a great friend to all. Ranil leaves his wife Thanuja and only son.
His remains lie at residence, 573/1/A, 10th Mile Post Avenue, Malabe. Cortege leaves residence at 4.00pm for cremation today (June 19), at 5.00pm at the Thalahena Cemetery.
==============================
## Title: For richer or paw-er!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
For richer or paw-er!
Like many a bride, she wore white... but then, it would have been difficult for her to appear in any other colour.
Here, posing as proudly as any pair of newlyweds, are Kaya and Hades, the German shepherd dogs. Kaya is the smiley looking white shepherd, with her paws placed firmly on her companion, a black sable.
The inseparable couple live in New Zealand with their owners Ashleigh Macpherson, who keeps Kaya, and her brother, who looks after Hades. The two-year-old dogs have become popular on the picture sharing site Instagram since Miss Macpherson started posting images of them in various poses.
Although they havent really got married  sorry to spoil that romantic dream for the dog lovers among you  their similarity to a happy couple was pointed out by their fans after these pictures appeared online.
And it seems to be a case of opposites attracting, according to Miss Macpherson, who says they have completely different personalities.
Kaya is independent, loyal and loving, shell do everything to try to please me, she said. Hades is quite dependent, extremely cuddly  he just loves everyone and will try to get everyones attention.
Talking about the dogs unique relationship, she added: When they are separated and reunited again, they cant help but cry, whine, lick, tails wagging... Its almost like they are asking, Where have you been  On Instagram she writes: These two just love each other! They do everything together and hate being apart.
So even if its not a wedding, lets hope that they both live yappily ever after!
www.dailymail.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Rigondeaux beats Flores in controversial first round KO
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Rigondeaux beats Flores in controversial first round KO
LAS VEGAS, Sunday  Two-time Olympic gold medalist Guillermo Rigondeaux defeated Moises Flores with a controversial fight-ending punch at the close of the first round Saturday to retain his WBA junior featherweight title in Las Vegas.
The victory was controversial as television replays showed Rigondeaux landed a left hand after the round-ending bell had rang. He also landed three punches while holding Flores head from behind just before the knockout.
The fight was on the undercard of the Sergey Kovalev-Andre Ward world title light heavyweight bout at the Mandalay Bay hotel and casino.
Rigondeaux improved to 18-0 with 12 knockouts, while Flores, of Mexico, dropped to 25-1, with 17 KOs.
The Cuban-born Rigondeaux was announced the winner, but after the fight Nevada Athletic Commission executive director Bob Bennett told broadcaster HBO that they might have to review the decision.
We will take a look at it. If the punch landed after the bell it is a disqualification, Bennett said. We want the right fighter to win. Anything is possible. We could take a look at it and do the right thing. Flores stayed down for several minutes and had to be helped back to his corner where he sat during a lengthy review that eventually resulted in Rigondeaux being crowned the winner.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Sangakkara 73 as Surrey thrash Worcs to reach Lords final
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Sangakkara 73 as Surrey thrash Worcs to reach Lords final
LONDON, Saturday: Jason Roy scored 92 and Gareth Batty took five wickets as Surrey cruised into a third successive One-Day Cup final after a one-sided semi-final against Worcestershire at New Road.
England one-day opener Roy returned to form after his midweek Champions Trophy semi-final exclusion with a superb knock as Surrey piled up 363-7. The hosts fell well short and were dismissed for 210, losing by 153 runs.
Surrey, runners-up in 2015 and 2016, will face Nottinghamshire on 1 July.
It would have taken a lot to live up to the drama of Friday night when Notts successfully chased an English 50-over record target of 371 to beat Essex in a thrilling first semi-final at Chelmsford. But, in their 25th semi-final since one-day cricket began in 1963, Worcestershire wilted disappointingly in the blistering sun. Having won the toss and elected to bat, Surrey made an explosive start, their openers putting on 114 inside 14 overs before Worcestershire's move to slow things down finally brought its reward.
Moeen Ali made the breakthrough by bowling Mark Stoneman for 41, and the England off-spinner proved his side's most economical bowler, going for 55 runs off his 10 overs.
Daryl Mitchell's medium pacers also had a comparatively becalming effect, capped by the eventual wicket of Roy, while Brett D'Oliveira's seven overs of spin cost 39.
Pacemen John Hastings, Joe Leach and Ed Barnard all proved expensive, however, as Roy and Stoneman, then Kumar Sangakkara (73) and Foakes (86), cashed in.
Needing their largest score in a knockout trophy game, Worcestershire's hopes largely rested with Moeen. But just when he appeared to be winning his private duel with Jade Dernbach after five fours and two sixes, he went for one big shot too many against the former England one-day international and holed out to deep mid-off for 36.
From 42-3, despite D'Oliveira's 53 and a belligerent late 55 from Ross Whiteley, there was no coming back from that as Surrey captain Batty brought himself on against his former club to claim 5-40, his best List A figures for Surrey.
Surrey's meeting with Nottinghamshire at Lord's on 1 July will be their 13th one-day final, of which their last victory was in the CB40 against Somerset in 2011. From that team, only skipper Batty and Jade Dernbach remain in contention.
Notts will be making only their sixth visit to the home of cricket. They lost their first two and have won their past three - most recently when they beat Glamorgan to win the YB40 in 2013.
That's cricket. We got beaten by a very good Surrey side. As a side we are going to take knockbacks and this is one of them, but hopefully we draw a line under it and move on, said Worcestershire captain Joe Leach. It's pretty raw at the moment. It obviously hurts a lot, having topped the group and played the way we did. But they came out and played well and Jason Roy came out and did what he didn't do in the Champions Trophy.
We set the tone brilliantly with the bat. Having Jason Roy back is wonderful. We welcome him with open arms every time we have him. He is a wonderful player.
He hit the ball so beautifully. It was a pleasure to watch. Kumar and Foakesy were magnificent as well, said Surrey captain Gareth Batty.
English county scores on Saturday:
ONE DAY CUP
Semi-final
+At New Road: Surrey 363-7 (J Roy 92, B Foakes 86, K Sangakkara 73) v Worcestershire 210 (R Whiteley 55, B D'Oliveira 53, G Batty 5-40)
Surrey beat Worcestershire by 153 runs
+At Chelmsford: Essex 370-5 (A Cook 133, R ten Doeschate 102 no) v Nottinghamshire 373-5 (S Patel 122 no, S Mullaney 111, B Taylor 62)
Nottinghamshire beat Essex by 5 wkts
 AFP
==============================
## Title: Schoolgirl injected vaccine by two unknown motorcyclists
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Schoolgirl injected vaccine by two unknown motorcyclists
A 10-year-old schoolgirl returning home after attending a nearby tuition class in Peramaduwa on June 17 had a nasty experience when two men on a motorcycle stopped by her side and fled the scene after administering a vaccine to her right arm with a syringe. The girl who informed her parents about it after reaching her house was admitted to the Kantale hospital for a medical examination. She was later transferred to the Trincomalee General Hospital. Agbopura police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Several Police Superintendents transferred
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 14:45
Several Police Superintendents transferred

The Sri Lanka Police said in a statement today that several Superintendents of Police were transferred with the recommendation of the National Police Commission to meet urgent requirements.
The transfers are as follows:
Assistant SP A. R.P.J. de Alwis  Tangalle CID to Colombo CID
Assistant SP M.A.A.S. Jayalath  Colombo CID to Tangalle CID
Assistant SP P.T. Sisira  Batticaloa Division to Galle Division
Assistant SP S.R.H. Gamage  Galle Division to Batticaloa Division
Assistant SP P.G.R.C.A. Gamalath  Pollonnaruwa Division to Matara Division
==============================
## Title: SHOW OF SUPPORT FOR WIGNESWARAN
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
SHOW OF SUPPORT FOR WIGNESWARAN
Thousands of people gather opposite C.V. Wigneswaran's home in Jaffna in a show of support and solidarity for the embattled Chief Minister of northern province.(Left) The Chief Minister addressing the gathering. Pictures by Jaffna Group Correspondent.
==============================
## Title: Spanish bullfighter gored to death in French ring
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Spanish bullfighter gored to death in French ring
SPAIN, Saturday - A Spanish bullfighter died on Saturday after he tripped in the ring and was gored in the chest by the bull in southwestern France, according to media reports.
Ivan Fandino, 36, was rushed to hospital, but later died from his injuries, Spanish news agency EFE reported, citing sources close to the Basque matadors entourage.
Fandino stumbled after tripping on a cape used in a turn to engage and distract the specially-bred fighting bull, and the animal then pierced the matadors side with one of his horns, EFE said.
He is the second Spanish bullfighter to die in the ring in the past year. Victor Barrio was killed after being gored by a bull in front of spectators last July, the first time since the early 1990s a professional matador had died in the ring in Spain.
Every year several people die in Spanish summer festivals involving bulls running through towns or being chased in the countryside, which often attract tourists.
 Agencies
==============================
## Title: Speaker laments poor attention paid to COPE, COPA revelations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Speaker laments poor attention paid to COPE, COPA revelations
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya regretted the lack of public spotlight on the misappropriation and waste of money revealed in the recent COPE and COPA reports.
The Speaker made this comment addressing a workshop for Parliament correspondents held in Negombo on Saturday.
Parliamentary watchdog committees such as the COPE and COPA have played an unprecedented role in the current Parliament. Yet, I regret that we have failed to make proper use of those Committees. The two committees in their reports highlighted the degree of misappropriation and waste of public funds, but so far no institution has dared to give out that information in any of their reports, the Speaker said.
The Speaker, urging the media to highlight the revelations in the reports, said he was trying to get them debated in Parliament.
We have offered the Chairmanship of those Committees to the Opposition members. The Chairmanship of Committee on Public Accounts (COPA) was initially offered to UPFA MP Bandula Gunawardena, but as he declined, we chose Deputy Minister Lasantha Alagiyawanna. He too works in very impartial manner. I urge the media to give publicity and encourage them, he said.
The Speaker pointed out the Clean Hands committee report he published when he was the Public Administration and Home Affairs Minister in 2008 was swept under the carpet without giving it any publicity. This report compiled by several senior public officials revealed that the waste and corruption account for 40 percent of the public money being utilized for all the projects. I was astonished by some of the revelations made in this report, he added.
Speaker Jayasuriya also expressed his disappointment over the lack of attention to certain reports of the Auditor General especially with regard to Local Government bodies and Provincial Councils. Those highlighted the blatant misuse of money, but there is hardly any follow up action. As the years pass by, the content in the reports too gets buried, he regretted.
However, the Speaker was optimistic that the Right to Information legislation would create a new era where the corruption and waste come into public spotlight as never before. The Speaker also expressed his determination to open up all the Committee deliberations including that of COPE and COPA to the media in the near future.
==============================
## Title: Special sitting to mark ParliamentS 70TH anniversary
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Special sitting to mark ParliamentS 70TH anniversary
A special Parliament session would be conducted on October 3 to mark the 70th anniversary of Parliament, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said.
He said all Speakers from SAARC countries would be invited for this ceremonial sitting.
The Speaker made this observation addressing a workshop for Parliament correspondents held in Negombo on Saturday.
He further said several veteran politicians would also be among the invitees at the event. We were able to continue Parliament democracy for 70 long years amidst difficulties. In 1960s there had been two failed military coups, and in 1971 and 1989 the youth unrest created turbulence in the country. Then the country suffered immensely due to the war fought against terrorism. Amidst all these, we were able to continue Parliament democracy, which was a real achievement, he recalled.
The Speaker pointed out as Sri Lankan Parliament celebrates 70 years, it has earned the admiration of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) for its work to uphold democracy.
Over the past 2-3 months, about 50-60 young parliamentarians elsewhere in the world visited our Parliament for training sessions. Despite the fact that we have less women representation, many women Parliamentarians in SAARC countries, Asia and Latin America also came here on study tours. The Sectoral Oversight Committees that we set up recently are a concept in the US and EU and not much seen in South Asian countries. Going a further step ahead we shared their Chairmanship equally between the Government and Opposition. This is real power sharing, he added.
Promoting the concept of parliamentary diplomacy, the Sri Lankan parliament has started relations with about 40-50 countries enabling training and exchange programmes, the Speaker said. About 100 MPs have already visited China for study tours. These were not from public money, but with the funds granted by various countries and organizations. The USAID is supporting a lot for training programmes of MPs. We entered into an agreement with the US Government to strengthen democracy and received a large sum of money for the purpose. In the same way India, EU, Germany and the UK are also supporting various projects, the Speaker explained.
The Speaker also said a fully fledged media center would be set up in Parliament with the USAID funding. He also requested the Governments support for the endeavour.
==============================
## Title: St. Johns College wins 8th Japan Experience Program for Overseas Children
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
St. Johns College wins 8th Japan Experience Program for Overseas Children
The St. Johns College Japanese language team won the 8th Japan Experience Programme for Overseas Children (Hakuho Scheme for a Global Childrens Japanese Language Network) which was held in Japan.
They were the only school team from Sri Lanka who participated in this programme this year. This programme motivates and enables Japanese language-learning techniques for overseas countries. Fourteen countries participated for this event including India, Australia and Russia.
St. Johns College team consisted of students Senan Sewmin, Isuru Lakshitha, Chamindu Sathsara, Vimukthi Muthunayeka, led by their Japanese Language Teacher-in-Charge Heshandrika Perera.
Old Boys Association Of St. Johns College, Nugegoda, donated their special contribution with well wishes to the St. Johns College team.
==============================
## Title: Sunshine Packaging Lanka to wind up
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Sunshine Packaging Lanka to wind up
The Board of Directors of Sunshine Packaging Lanka Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of Sunshine Holdings PLC, is considering the cessation of manufacturing operations. The company is continuing to evaluate restructuring options and the deployment of its assets.
==============================
## Title: Super Orchid SC, Sinna Palamunai cricket champs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Super Orchid SC, Sinna Palamunai cricket champs
Super Orchid Sports Club, Sinna Palamunai beat Eleven Star Sports Club,Thampaddai in the final to emerge champions and bagged the Youung Star mega Night Trophy -2017 in the limited over flood-lit cricket match conducted by Alayadivembu Young Star Sports Club at the Public Play grounds, Alayadivembu recently.
Almost 64 teams took part in the tournament.
Sinna Palamunai, Super Orchid Sports Club won the toss and elected to batfirst and scored 59/3 in their allocated 5 overs. In reply Thampaddai Eleven Star Sports Club team were 45/6 in 5 overs.
Digamadulla District Parliamentarian Kavinthiran Kodeeswaran participated as the chief guest at the award ceremony. Winners were awarded Rs.30,000.00 cash prize and a Trophy by the chief guest and the runner up Eleven Star SC was awarded.
==============================
## Title: Supun Silva wins cycle race
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Supun Silva wins cycle race
W Tharanga Supun Silva, of Nugagoda, Waskaduwa, Kalutara was placed first at the annual (under 40) marathon race, organized by Aadi Suhada Ekamuthu Suba Sadaka Kreeda Sanvidanaya at Nugagoda, Waskaduwa, Kalutara and conducted with the patronage of business community of residents of Nugagoda recently.
Second place was won by E A Heshan Hasaranga and L G Dasun Malindu won the third place.
More than 25 competitors, all from the Nugagoda Grama Niladhari Division participated int his annual marathon race.
==============================
## Title: Swim Week Colombo unveils new position as Green Conscious and Earth Sensitive
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Swim Week Colombo unveils new position as Green Conscious and Earth Sensitive
Swim Week Colombo 2018, presented by OLU Tropical Water, will showcase the latest swimwear collections of eleven progressive Sri Lankan designers and three international designers.
Swim Week Colombo is the foremost platform for swimwear designers in Sri Lanka as well as the region and brings together some of the leading minds in the fine art of swimwear the world over. Swim Week Colombo 2018 will take place from June 27 to July 2 with runway shows taking place on June 30 and July 1.
Sri Lanka is renowned globally for its world-class swimwear manufacturing capabilities, which has engineered and produced swimwear for some of the worlds finest swimwear brands. This existing knowledge and expertise, along with Sri Lankas strategic position as an island with world-famous beaches and holiday attractions, lends itself the potential to become a global swimwear hub.
Ajai V. Singh speaking at the launch. At left is Shalindra Fernando
"Swim Week Colombo is a strategic fashion development project which aims to showcase Sri Lanka as an expert is swimwear, resort and active wear. This year we are adopting a positioning which is close to our heart and creates an ecosystem based on Green Consciousness, " says Ajai Vir Singh, Founder of Swim Week Colombo.
Swim Week Colombo is strongly attempting to take the position of the world's first eco-ethical fashion week, and branding has been developed as Swim Week Colombo, Green Conscious and Earth Sensitive.In order to qualify this, three pillars of impact have been detailed; impact on garment, impact on supply chain and impact on the environment.
This season, each participating designer needs to implement any one or more of the above impacts to participate. So every collection is in some way contributing to being Green Conscious and Earth Sensitive.
The Title Partner of Swim Week Colombo, OLU Tropical Water, is recognized as a premier Sri Lankan brand of natural mineral water with the potential to be recognized globally as an international brand.
OLU Tropical Water is proud to be the Title Partner of Swim Week Colombo once again as principal partner. Swim Week Colombo has established itself as a key event in the Asian Fashion calendar and this years theme of 'Green Conscious and Earth Sensitive' is very close to the heart of OLU as a brand as we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, says Shalindra Fernando, Chief Executive Officer, OLU Tropical Water.
"Swim Week Colombo is a technical collaboration with state-of-the-art swimwear manufacturer, Linea Aqua. Through this partnership, Swim Week Colombo hopes realize its vision to position Sri Lanka as a hub for swimwear design and manufacturing amongst the global creative class,  says,CEO of Linea Aqua, Muditha Ferdinando. Hosted by Hilton Colombo, General Manager, Manesh Fernando, said Its been a great partnership that has benefitted all of us throughout the years, which has placed Sri Lanka on the global map as being a must visit destination not only for sun, sea, culture and adventure, but for fashion too.
Nations Trust Bank American Express returns once more as the Official Fashion Card of Swim Week Colombo.
Swim week Colombo 2018 will feature the following segments:
Art Connect
Art Connect will return and feature five of Sri Lankas most acclaimed artists. The artists selected for the exhibition are Mahen Perera, Bandu Manamperi, Vajira Gunawardena, Chathurika Jayani, and Ajith Susantha.
Fashion and Food
Swim Week Colombo will see leading restaurants in Colombo offer limited edition menus to provide an unparalleled gastronomical experience exclusively during the fashion weeky.
Rare at Uga Residence will host the launch of Swim Week. 'We love fashion' will be held at The Love Bar at Flamingo House while 'Meet at the Lab' will be held at The Hilton Lobby bar. Caf Franais by Pourcel, will be the venue of the after party.
Fashion Films
This segment, taking place on the June 30 and July 1, aims to encourage the active collaboration of the two creative streams of fashion and film, producing interesting and innovative interpretations. Last seasons winner Youre My Favorite returns for another season along with Jason of Ifilms, along with new directors Kavindu, Ihshan Iqbal and Reza Akram.
Trend Swim Seminar
Trend Swim is a panel discussion, on important and trending news on the industry, which will take place on July 1 at the Hilton Blue. Last years edition of Trend Swim was praised for the valuable insight brought by the panel discussions and this years edition is expected to be just as acclaimed.

==============================
## Title: Three raids net 449 kilograms of Kerala cannabis in North
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Three raids net 449 kilograms of Kerala cannabis in North
The police have taken 449 kilograms of Kerala cannabis into custody following three raids conducted in the Northern Province.
Puthukudiirippu Police have taken 60 kilograms of the Kerala cannabis concealed in 27 bags into custody following a raid conducted on a tip-off at the Devapuram area on Thursday. Three suspects along with a cab and a motorcycle, used for transporting the contraband have also been taken into custody by police.
Meanwhile, a Special Police Unit of the Mannar Division has taken 141 kilograms of Kerala cannabis together with a suspect into custody following a raid conducted at the coastal area of Marichchakatti on a tip-off on Friday.
Officers of the Poonereyn Police Station have taken 248 kilograms of cannabis into custody on a raid conducted at the Sangupitti bridge area on Saturday around 2.15 a.m on A 32 road. After conducting further investigations into this raid, the police could take 13 kilograms of cannabis into custody along with a suspect yesterday.
==============================
## Title: Today is Dudley Senanayakes 106th birth anniversary : Iconic statesman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Today is Dudley Senanayakes 106th birth anniversary : Iconic statesman
Today, with the return to democracy, we think of the greatest liberal democrat of this country, the late Dudley Senanayake. As the anniversary of his birth dawns, it is inevitable that the thoughts of those of us who knew him well should linger on all that he was and did during his lifetime. Famed throughout our country and beyond our shores, as one who was far above the usual norm of politicians, a statesman who thought of the generations to come, and not of the next election.
All throughout his life, he abhorred violence, lies and deceit. His schooling at S. Thomas College, Mt Lavinia, discipline instilled at home and school, his university life at Cambridge, combined with his skills as a sportsman had ingrained in him a respect for law and order, justice, freedom and fairplay. Other qualities which shone right through his life were his total loyalty to his party at all times, whether in or out of politics. He was a deeply thoughtful, reflective, contemplative person of unchallenged integrity. His entire life was devoted to fighting for freedom and justice with vigour and determination. The way that people switch parties today at the drop of a hat would have shocked and displeased him.
Leading by example - motto
As Prime Minister, he bore the mantle at the pinnacle of power with patience, fortitude and grace. Leading by example was his motto. All his life, Dudley worked hard to achieve ethnic amity, never thinking of his fellowmen in terms of labels and categories.
Todays society epitomises the dishonest, self-seeking, snatch and grab winner takes it all mentality, which seems to deprive the country of all ethical values. It is filled with divisive labels which seemed to be designed to wound others.
The dialogue today has been replaced by name-calling that is little related to truth. Loose talk and malice in the arena of politics, reduces different issues to slogans and stops us regarding others as worthwhile individuals. Dudley Senanayake always held firm to the belief, that all ethnic groups had similar hopes and dreams. He would have been appalled at the recent attacks on Muslims and their places of worship.
He knew that labels and categories often hide the truth, injure, wound, create fear and manipulate people. He did not believe in the loose talk that so many politicians indulge in today.
Words that make us suspicious of other races can create enemies and adversaries. That is why he refrained from such talk all his life. The great statesman that he was, he knew that any label or category that diminishes the worth of another diminishes the worth of those who use such terms. He was steadfast in his belief that each one should be honoured, according to their own worth, not categorised, penalised or suspected, because of their race, creed or class.
He never clung to power, would have hit out strongly, against those defeated at the pinnacle of power, which still hankers after the grandeur of that position. Their selective amnesia about their record of unprecedented, corruption, abuse of power and extravagance with state funds would have shocked him beyond words. His thinking right throughout was that of a liberal democrat, and the freedom of the individual, to follow whatever path he believed in.
A reluctant politician
Dudley was known as a reluctant politician, who walked the straight path, never deviated from this route and never used power to inflict pain on anyone.
His wit and humour were unsurpassed in parliament although his fellow MPs at the time were some of our political giants. They were in a class by themselves as speakers, most of them educated at British universities. Their standards, values and principles were different to what one sees today. The speeches in parliament in that era were outstanding. The use of language was like music to ones ears, unlike the speech and behaviour one sees in that most august assembly today.
Even in that era of political giants, Dudley was the colossus of his time from every aspect.
He had simple tastes. He loved music, reading, photography, driving his little Triumph Herald around, even when he was Prime Minister and relaxing with his miniature dachshund at home. His love for food is legendary. He filled a room with his presence, his laughter, geniality and charisma. The added natural charm made him the most loved politician of our time. He loved the good things of life and never made a secret of it.
To me, the most important things about him, which I believe all leaders should possess are his unchallenged integrity and his loyalty to his party, through bad times and good. These qualities are possessed by the present UNP leader too. No allegations of dishonesty ever slurred his name.
His funeral remains today unprecedented in the vast numbers who mourned his loss. Never in the history of our nation, have we seen such a mass of humanity, gathered for a single purpose. It was a crowd that rose above political affiliations. One and all, the people of Sri Lanka, seemed aware that they had lost a national treasure, and that our weeping nation would never be the same again. He lived all his life in his fathers house, never built mansions or purchased any abroad.
I am proud that the UNP leader today also still lives in the house, built for him by his parents, and has not amassed wealth. Integrity is the greatest possession one can have and lives on after death. Dudley Senanayake lives on in the hearts and minds of people because of this and his loyalty to his party. He was alert to the mistakes and consequences of history, believed in a world dedicated to freedom and peaceful co-existence, his life was a mission of goodwill.
He was an unstoppable, immovable pillar of democracy.
==============================
## Title: Two die, 16 injured in three wheeler, van collision
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Two die, 16 injured in three wheeler, van collision
Two persons died and 16 others were injured and admitted to the Anuradhapura, Medawachchiya and Vavuniya hospitals following a three wheeler-van collision near the Punewa Maha Vidyalaya on the Jaffna-Kandy A9 road on June 15. The deceased were the driver of the three wheeler and a bhikku named Ven. Sunanda Thera.
The two of them succumbed to their injuries on admission to hospital.
The other 16 injured were travelling in the van after attending a wedding. Medawachchiya police said the van driver who was among the injured would be produced in court.
==============================
## Title: Two nabbed for possession of a police uniform
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 13:00
Two nabbed for possession of a police uniform

Mulleriyawa Police arrested two suspects for possession of a police uniform and a handcuff set which belongs to the Prison Department today.
The raid was conducted according to a tip off received by the Mulleriyawa Police.
Suspects were arrested while they were travelling in a three-wheeler in Angoda.
The suspects were identified as residents of Mulleriyawa of age 34 and 40.
During the investigations, Police found a forged number plate of a vehicle, forged Insurance document and a revenue license of a vehicle and two Police belts.
The suspects will be produced before the Kaduwela Magistrate Court today.
Mulleriyawa Police is conducting further investigations.
==============================
## Title: Two underworld kingpins give slip to Indian authorities
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Two underworld kingpins give slip to Indian authorities
It has been reported that two underworld kingpins known as Angoda Lokka and Ladiya, have fled from the custody of Indian authorities.
These two are wanted in the killing of another gangster Aruna Udayashantha alias Samayan in February this year.
Angoda Lokka and Ladiya had been taken into custody by Indian Emigration and Immigration authorities when trying to flee to another country using two fake passports from India, a few weeks ago.
According to sources they have fled after being bailed out from an Indian court.
The International Police Unit of the CID was working on bringing the two suspects to Sri Lanka when they escaped allegedly killing another underworld kingpin called Aruna Udayashantha alias Samayan after shooting a prison bus in February this year.
However the Police Media spokesman said that the police have not received information regarding the issue.
==============================
## Title: Two Voice of Asia Network directors summoned to court
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Two Voice of Asia Network directors summoned to court
The Colombo Fort Magistrate's Court has issued summons on two directors attached to the Voice of Asia Network to appear in court on June 30.
This is for allegedly cheating a Singaporean national for US$100,000 after dishonestly inducing to deliver a television broadcast transmitter.
Colombo Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne made this order pursuant to a private plaint filed by Jaswinder Singh Bajaj, a Singaporean national engaging in business activities in Sri Lanka.
Accordingly, two accused Roshantha Kariyapperuma and Ajaz Shafeek, the directors of Voice of Asia Network were noticed to appear in courts on June 30.
In his petition, the complainant, a director of Alliance Media Private Ltd informed court that his company had entered into an agreement with Voice of Asia Network to manage the broadcasting affairs of Vettry and Varnam TV channel. Bajaj said he had been informed by the Voice of Asia Network that it is required to install a broadcast transmitter with 5KW output in the Gammaduwa transmission tower to expand broadcast range of Varnam TV in the Eastern Province.
Bajaj said following a request of Voice of Asia Network, he had remitted US$100,000 to a foreign bank account belonging to accused to install a broadcast transmitter with 5KW output to upgrade the broadcast system.
The complainant said it was revealed through sources relating to Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka that the accused party had installed a broadcast transmitter with 1KW output instead of 5KW, after breaching the agreement entered into between Voice of Asia Network and Alliance Media Private Ltd. The Magistrate maintained that documents submitted before court proved that the complainant had made payments to the accused for this purpose and they have induced the complainant to install a broadcast transmitter.
"If is clear that the alleged offence can be considered as a civil offence since both parties had entered into an agreement, it must be emphasized that there is a criminal liability as well", the Magistrate observed.
The Magistrate said there is sufficient material to prove that the accused have committed several offences under the Penal Code for cheating and thereby decided to issue summons on them.
Accordingly, the Magistrate issued summons on two accused to appear in Courts in terms of section 139(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code.
President's Counsel Rienzie Arsekularatne with counsel Udara Muhamdiramge under instructions of Premium Legal Consultants appeared for Bajaj.
==============================
## Title: Unimo Enterprises unveils Bezza, Peroduas first EEV Sedan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Unimo Enterprises unveils Bezza, Peroduas first EEV Sedan
Unimo Enterprises, a fully-owned subsidiary of United Motors Lanka PLC and the authorized distributor for Perodua vehicles in Sri Lanka unveiled the latest addition to its family of technologically advanced, user-optimized and luxurious range of vehicles.
The Bezza from Perodua is the brands first Energy Efficient Sedan (EEV) and is the ideal sedan for the modern discerning vehicle enthusiast.
The launch took place at the Kings Court, Cinnamon Lakeside under the patronage of the Malaysian High Commissioner in Sri Lanka, Wan Zaidi Wan Abdullah, President and CEO of Perodua Datuk (Dr) Aminar Rashid Salleh and Executive Director of Perodua Takamasa Kurinami.
Speaking at the launch Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of United Motors Group Chanaka Yatawara said, Unimo has a longstanding relationship of almost two decades of representing Perodua in Sri Lanka. Throughout these years we have introduced highly successful models such as the Kelisa, Viva and Axia to local vehicle enthusiasts who have come to trust Unimo Enterprises Ltd for the product quality and levels of service on offer through an island-wide branch network and service dealers. The Bezza is not just the first EEV Sedan from Perodua but also the first compact sedan that promises to be different from any other sedan you have driven before.
The keys to the first fleet of vehicles were presented to proud owner Mahesh Mallawarachchi Associates by distinguished guests Datuk (Dr) Aminar Rashid Salleh accompanied by Takamasa Kurinami, Chanaka Yatawara, and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of Unimo Enterprises Ltd Mahesh Gunathilaka.
The Bezza which when spelt with one z means different in Malaysian is a true indicator of the evolving vehicle market globally. Trends from across the world suggest a paradigm shift to lower engine capacity, energy-efficient yet high performance vehicles.
The 1000cc Bezza has won many accolades including the Malaysian Car of the Year in 2016, Asean NCAP Grand Prix Award in 2016, and the Carsifu Editors Choice Award for the Best Family Ride of the Year in 2016.
Vignettes at the event. Pictures by Gayan PushpikaThe Bezza unveiled 





==============================
## Title: USS Lake Erie rescue team leaves
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
USS Lake Erie rescue team leaves
A ceremony to bid farewell to the crew of USS Lake Erie, which provided relief assistance to the people affected by the recent weather disaster, was held at the Colombo Harbour complex last Friday.
The ceremony was held with the patronage of Foreign Minister Ravi Karunanayake, Ambassador of the United States of America to Sri Lanka Atul Keshap and Navy Commander Vice Admiral Ravindra Wijegunawardena.
300 US soldiers arrived in the country by this vessel to provide relief assistance to the people affected by the recent inclement weather in the country. Captain of USS Erie Darren McPherson welcomed the Sri Lankan guests including Foreign Minister Ravi Karunanayake. Later Captain McPherson gave a presentation about their operations in the country.
Foreign Minister Ravi Karunanayake said the assistance extended by the United States of America to help the weather affected people could not be forgotten.
He said that the cooperation extended by powerful nations including the United States to Sri Lanka in this hour of need is extremely admirable.
The minister also pointed out that such a huge assistance was given to Sri Lanka as the International community has placed such a reliance on President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
American Ambassador in Sri Lanka Atul Keshap thanked the solders of Vessel US Erie for their commitment during the stay in Sri Lanka.
The US rescue team engaged in various activities in several areas in the Southern Province during the last two weeks to bring the devastated lives of the people to normalcy. Among such operations are cleaning of damaged schools, purifying contaminated drinking water wells and repairing irrigation tank bunds. USAID spent nearly Rs.350 million to provide relief to the affected.
Funds granted by USAID have been used to provide water filters, emergency kits, house repairing kits and essential health services to prevent various infectious diseases that could spread after floods.
==============================
## Title: Vinuk pilots Royal to victory
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Vinuk pilots Royal to victory
A briliant 112 runs by Vinuk Muthumala helped Royal College Colombo to defeat Central College Maharagama by 134 runs on first innings in their inter school under 15 division three tournament cricket match conducted by Sri Lanka schools cricket Association and worked off at Royal college grounds Colombo.
Batting first visitors scored 103 runs with Deven Fernando claiming 3 for 10 runs and in reply Royalists declared at 237 for 4. Oshan Hulangamuwa too collected an unbeaten 51 runs and in their second essay at stumps Maharagama Centralians were 110 for 8 with Avishka Nirmala scoring 44 runs and Dan Yabesh bagging 3 for 12.
Maharagama Central  103 in 38 overs  (Anushka Kumara 26, Devan Fernando 3/10, Akila Fernando 3/22 and 110/8  Avishka Nirmala 44, Dan Yabesh 3/12).
Royal College  237/4 in 32 overs  (Vinuk Muthumala 112, Yuveen Devanarayana 29, Oshan Hulangamuwa 51 n/o, Nuwantha Pamudetha 2/75, Avishka Nirmala 2/80).
==============================
## Title: Wanted: The Real You
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Wanted: The Real You
It was going to be the biggest presentation of my life  my first appearance at the SAARC writer's summit held in Delhi early this year  and I had already thrown out seven drafts. Searching for a new direction, I asked my friends for suggestions. The most important thing, the first one said, is to be yourself. The next six people I asked gave me the same tip.
Prince charming
I wasn't surprised. Be Yourself is a slogan that screams at us on the covers of self-help books and Facebook wall posts. It is one of the most common themes (behind Expand your horizons, and just ahead of Never give up) in university convocation speeches. It's the one secret guaranteed to bring us success in life, love, and career. I certainly had no idea that being your authentic self could get you as rich as I have become, Oprah Winfrey said a few years ago.  If Id known that, Id have tried it a lot earlier.
Easier said than done. How can you find your authentic self Especially when the real you is the person you are when nobody is watching. But when other people enter the picture, things change. Its how a rough-around-the-edges guy becomes prince charming to get a girl. Its how a shy student with no prior interest in sports starts playing cricket to fit in. Its how a fun loving person acts serious around serious people so as not to offend anyone or get embarrassed.
Its why some people like to keep friend groups separate because they use a different identity with each group.
There are benefits to altering yourself of course,(such as fitting in nearly anywhere), but the consequence is that every time you do it, the real you is hidden, and with enough repetition, you can lose yourself in a pile of masks. It will never feel quite right either, because the real you is the only version that feels completely natural.
So, what does it mean to be real Being yourself or being authentic means erasing the gap between what you firmly believe inside and what you reveal to the outside world. As Brene Brown, a research professor at the University of Houston, defines it, authenticity is the choice to let our true selves be seen.
To be yourself, say the experts, dont worry about yourself. Its only when you analyze how you come across to others and what others are thinking about you that behavior modification seems appealing.
Habitual masks
When you look at others with yourself in mind, its like using them as a mirror  you try to see yourself through their eyes and adjust the image accordingly.
The best thing to do then is to drop the masks we wear when we are around people. Merry Lin, the author of the Fully Lived Life says dropping the habitual masks she puts on to please and impress others was pivotal to transforming and healing her life. Faking your way through life is believing that if you let people know the real you, they won't like you, writes Lin. Maybe it seems that nothing you ever do is ever enough. The tapes that play in your head say that if people really knew what was going on inside you, they would lose respect for you.
Maybe you keep trying to pretend to make others happy, and you are exhausted, physically, emotionally and spiritually. I would never discover my true identity ... unless I began identifying and laying down my masks, and so I began a process of stripping down the defenses I had built up over the years."
Obviously, there are times when it is adaptive to protect your true self or your thoughts and feelings. Some people and situations are unsafe and it is wise to hold back.
That said, if you identify yourself as frequently donning masks in "unsafe" situations (where you fear criticism, belittling, anger, etc.), it may be worth looking at how to reduce your exposure to these people and/or situations.
According to Susan Biali, in 'Psychology Today', as you become more aware of the circumstances in which you don a certain mask, don't be frustrated if you can't change your behavior right away.
You have likely been doing this for years, perhaps even your entire life. Be patient and gentle with yourself. The first step in change is simply to watch out for and notice when you engage in a behavior that you want to change.
Negative result
Notice what event or person triggered the donning of a mask. How did it feel when you were wearing it How did you feel afterwards Did it achieve anything Was there a negative result What would you like to do differently the next time you're in that situation, in order to be more authentic
Awareness is everything, says Biali. Don't put pressure on yourself to change overnight, and be compassionate with yourself.
Trust that if you set the goal of being more real, via the dropping of your habitual masks, you will be able to do this with time. And it will feel so good!
Too short Too weird Too quiet Not true. There is only one word that can really define you  the real you. You are awesome! If you don't trust me, trust Mark Twain. As Twain said, you simply have to be yourself because everyone else is taken.
==============================
## Title: Waters Edge begins extensive banquet expansion
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
Waters Edge begins extensive banquet expansion
Waters Edge is today a firm favourite among those who wish to tie the knot in style overlooking the scenic waters of the Diyawanna or for corporates who need the perfect venue for their next company gathering.
The versatility of the hotel is such that banquet options are multiple from individual meeting rooms to some of the biggest banquet halls in the country and even the option of large outdoor spaces.
Adding to an already extensive banquet offering, Waters Edge has commenced an extensive expansion project of the four-floor banquet facility.
Led by the ideas and efforts of Minister of Megapolis and Western Development Patali Champika Ranawaka, Chairman of Waters Edge Chamath De Silva and General Manager Rohan Fernandopulle, the groundbreaking ceremony was also attended by officials from the Urban Development Authority and Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation.
Speaking at the ceremony Chairman of Waters Edge Chamath De Silva said, The expansion of the banquets facilities at Waters Edge is two-fold. On one hand, we will expand our space offering on each of the four floors. On the other hand, we are also concentrating heavily on ensuring that service delivery at banquets is enhanced as well.
The new expansion project once completed will make the banquet facility the largest in the country that will house one of the largest banquet halls.
It will also include two guest lifts and two service lifts. This will enable service delivery to take place in a more streamlined manner.
Also speaking at the ceremony, General Manager Rohan Fernandopulle noted, Our ultimate goal is to improve facilities for banquet guests and be known for outstanding service delivery in all areas of our operations. We also want to ensure our guests that the hotels operations will continue as usual despite the expansion project. This project is also envisioned to make operations smoother for our events and logistics partners who have come to trust us for all their events as well as for our staff who will be able to serve you better.
Through this expansion, Waters Edge members can also enjoy added benefits to the members area such as luxury sauna, dedicated rooms for aerobics and zumba and so much more.

==============================
## Title: When Interesting isnt interesting
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
When Interesting isnt interesting
Part of trying to write involves putting pressure on the terms that come up, again and again, unwilled and unwanted, in your writingthose greatly elastic words that band together a wide variety of complex ideas, and, though not altogether useless in themselves, rarely attain specificity or precision. In spoken language, it is hard to escape the word incredible. It comes in three flavors: strong (cannot be believed), weak (hard to believe), and weakest (like, really good); the latter is, of course, the most prevalent. Only occasionally does this weakness matter muchI enjoyed for instance, when BBC attack-dog Jeremy Paxman tore into Prime Minister David Camerons description of the Imperial War Museum as incredible; the whole point of the place is its awful credibility.)
Another such word is particular; it is an irony in the quest for precision that we so often fall on the word particular, especially in academic prose. Particularly and in particular appear everywhere in specialist writing, the trace of the authors desire to go beyond the superficial and into the specificits a hope that often leads to misuse. Such words, in their overabundance, act as placeholders: tics in spontaneous communication that tumble out of our mouths or our fingers, and which require rethinking and refining.
It has been in the pursuit of particularity that I have falling into thinking about another of these overly common words: interesting. Interesting is a word I am constantly excising from my prose. A swift tap of Command + F usually illuminates a constellation of its occurrences in any given first draft; Interesting that . . . , It is interesting to observe . . . , An interesting fact . . . . What do I think this judgment is adding to anything If we really believe that something is interesting, then surely its interestingness should be self-evident. Must it really be flagged up, in a flagrantly unsophisticated way I wouldnt write that I merely liked something, nor that a thing holds intellectual appeal to me, at least not without validating that statement. Yet, interesting often sneaks by without making a case for itself. And once you start seeing it in your own work, you notice it everywhere. Interesting, despite its insufficiency as an autonomous unit, has a tenacious hold on writing and on everyday speech.
Its frequency in part relates to the fact that we expect it to pull a huge amount of weight. The Oxford English Dictionary places it in Frequency Band 7, reserved for the substance of ordinary, everyday speech and writing; it joins words like man, woman, large, good, right, which puts it in the top 2% of common words. Given that its usage is often so banal, it seems fitting that its etymology is equally nondescript: from the Latin interesse, to be between. Between what Interesting doesnt usually tell us, and its dictionary definitions are so broad as to border on vagueness: That concerns, touches, affects, or is of importance; Adapted to excite interest; having the qualities which rouse curiosity, engage attention, or appeal to the emotions; of interest.
Article continues after advertisement
Were unhelpfully dumped at the door of the definition of the noun interest, which carries us through: objective concern; investment; a right to something; spiritual privileges; participation in doing something; a stake or share or claim; affect and affection; benefit or profit or advantage (in your best interest); the fact or quality of mattering or being of importance. That last one seems to contain them all, and is the ruling principle of interesting as a verbal tic: This thing matters! But interest creates a field of significance so wide that it is hard to know what it means to matter.
- Literary Hub
==============================
## Title: Wigneswaran concedes: Reneges on one-month suspension of ministers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 16:30
Wigneswaran concedes: Reneges on one-month suspension of ministers

Northern Provincial Council (NPC) Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran today conceded to the wishes of TNA Leader, R. Sampanthan and stated that the two Ministers;Balasubramaniam Deniswaran and Dr. Pathmanathan Sathiyalingam who were to be subjected to a fresh probe, need not go on leave until the inquiry is complete. 
There was no punitive action taken against the two Ministers concerned. They are entitled to draw their salary and use their vehicles etc. It is in order to give protection to the Witnesses that it was said that they should take leave while the Inquiring Committee sat, wrote Wigneswaran to Sampanthan.
There are new charges too against them. I understand your inability to give guarantees with regard to the conduct of the two Ministers. But I am glad you have undertaken to advise them that they should not impede an independent legal inquiry. It is to ensure the independent legal inquiry and to commit the two Ministers that I designed the formula of taking leave for one month, he further added.
The CM who then agreed to take Sampanthans word that he advised the two ministers not to interfere in any inquiry added that, The two Religious Dignitaries have insisted that the two Ministers must co-operate by not interfering with the course of justice.
Today, prominent religious leaders such as Srila Sri Somasundra Thesika Gnana Sambanda Paramachchariyar Swamy Peedathipathy of the Hindu Nallai Aatheenam and Catholic Bishop of Jaffna, Rev. Justin Bernard Gnanapragasam visited Wigneswaran to sort out the issue in an amicable manner.
Furthermore, Selvam Adaikalanathan, Dharmalingam Sidharthan and Suresh Premachandran, wrote the CM, had undertaken last night in the best interests of the Tamils to speak to the Hon' Ministers, to make sure they will not interfere with the course of justice nor interfere with nor threaten witnesses nor tamper with evidence etc. In the light of these undertakings, I will not insist on the conditions relating to leave, concluded Wigneswaran.
A corruption probe on all four ministers of the NPC initiated last year had cleared the two ministers Deniswaran and Sathiyalingam while finding the other two; Thambyrajah Gurukularajah and Ponnuthurai Ayngaranesan guilty of corruption. Wigenswaran thereafter had insisted that the former two ministers that a new committee would be appointed to investigate the exonerated ministers further. Until such time, he had asked the two ministers to go on compulsory leave.

==============================
## Title: WPC to open additional special wards for dengue patients
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, June 19, 2017 - 01:00
WPC to open additional special wards for dengue patients
The Western Provincial Council Health Ministry is to open special wards at the Piliyandala, Thalangama, and Wethara Hospital in Polgasowita to accommodate the increasing number of dengue patients in the Western Province, a Ministry spokesman said.
He said the step was taken as the Gothatuwa Infectious Diseases Hospital (IDH) earmarked for 500 dengue patients had almost doubled that number of indoor patients.
The Colombo South Hospital at Kalubowila and the Homagama hospital have a large number of dengue patients and therefore, the Provincial Health Ministry decided to open new wards by deploying teams of specialists and other health staff, he said.
He said President Maithripala Sirisena, who visited the IDH on an inspection tour, directed relevant authorities to supply all resources needed to cope with the emergency expeditiously.
He said 14,188 dengue patients were reported from the Colombo district with Homagama accounting for a major share of it.
So far 17 patients had died of dengue in Homagama, he said.
==============================