## Title: SLMCs minimum standards draft ready
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
SLMCs minimum standards draft ready
The Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) has completed drafting the minimum standards for medical education on Friday (07), Dr. Upul Gunasekara said.
Dr. Gunasekara, a member of the SLMC, told the Daily News that in accordance with the Medical Ordinance, the SLMC is to send the standards to all medical faculty boards for observations and recommendations.
There are eight State medical faculties and the Kotelawala Defence Universitys medical faculty. Once we receive their observations and recommendations, we will call for another emergency council meeting to finalize and forward the minimum standards for medical education to the Ministry of Health, Dr. Gunasekara said.
Dr. Gunasekara also noted that the SLMC had sent the minimal standards in 2004, 2006 and 2009, which were rejected in Parliament.
Then we adopted these standards as a regulation of the Medical Council. During the following six to seven years, we used it to evaluate all medical faculties in Sri Lanka, Dr. Gunasekara explained.
When the issue regarding the minimum standards for medical education in Sri Lanka came up again, we appointed a committee including medical educationists, educationists, deans, SLMC members and experts in the legal field to look into it, Dr. Gunasekara also said.
The finalized minimum standards in medical education come as a result of the diligence of the committee, Dr. Gunasekara said.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankas oldest cricketer Bertie Wijesinha dies at 96
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lankas oldest cricketer Bertie Wijesinha dies at 96
Sri Lankas oldest living cricketer Bertie Wijesinha breathed his last yesterday. He was 96.
Bertie Wijesinha was a household name in Sri Lanka whether it was as a cricketer, coach, writer or commentator, he was versatile in every field.
Wijesinha celebrated his 68th wedding anniversary with wife Dorothy on March 30 and a few days later he was admitted to Sri Jayawardenepura Hospital for pneumonia where he passed away.
In recent years Wijesinhas health had been deteriorating and he died of old age.
He donated one of his kidneys to one of his two daughters who later died. He also has two sons.
Wijesinghe played for S. Thomas College Mt Lavinia from 1936-1939 and in that period distinguished himself as an outstanding all-round cricketer. Later he moved to SSC to display his skills and then represented his country from the late forties.
His desire to write something about the game saw him take up the post of Sports Editor of the Daily News from 1953-1972 and branch into the field of cricket commentating where he formed a unique combination with another SSC stalwart Lucien de Zoysa providing ball-by-ball cricket commentaries on radio in an era where television was not even hear of. Their vivid descriptions of play enabled listeners to imagine they were actually at the match.
Wijesinghe was a knowledgeable coach from whom many cricketers who went onto wear the national cap benefitted.
Leading the tributes to this great cricketer was former Sri Lanka captain Michael Tissera, a former Thomian cricketer like Wijesinha who benefitted immensely by his coaching. Bertie was a very fine all-rounder technically he was very good. All his life he coached with the goodness of his heart, said Tissera.
Bertie and Derrick (FC de Saram) used to come and coach us when we were playing for Ceylon. He was a competent coach who knew the finer aspects of batting and bowling.
The Wettimuny brothers Sunil, Mithra and Sidath who all played for the country were coached by Wijesinghe.
Whatever skills we learnt from cricket we owe it to him. He was a fabulous coach, the best in the business. His knowledge and the way he transferred that knowledge to us was fantastic, said Sidath Wettimuny the youngest of the trio.
It was my father who built the first indoor cricket nets in Sri Lanka at the Health Department. He handed it over to Bertie and told him you can use it for your coaching but you must also coach my sons. Thats how we came to be coached by him, said Sidath. I came under Berties coaching at the age of 12, but Sunil my elder brother was coached after school.
Bertie lived a full life and was one of the greatest cricketers produced by SSC and one of the best coaches the country has produced.
Former Sri Lanka and SSC captain Anura Tennekoon described Wijesinghe as a gentle person who in his own way taught the fundamentals of the game properly.
He helped me to brush up my technique from school to club level. He was very good at putting the basics right of a cricketer whether it be batting or bowling, that was his main strength, said Tennekoon.
Another Thomian cricketing stalwart Geoff Wijesinghe, a former editor of the Daily News and Sunday Observer said that Wijesinha was a perfect gentleman, a strict disciplinarian as a coach and a fine friend.I had the privilege of having Bertie as my coach at S. Thomas, as my team mate at SSC and a lifelong friend, said Wijesinghe.
My youngest son Suresh also had the privilege of being coached by Bertie, before he (Bertie) went over to Trinity. When my son scored 40 for S. Thomas against Trinity Bertie came over to the Thomian dressing room and complimented him on his batting, he said.
Bertie was a Thomian staunch and true who always rallied around the college flag.
Wijesinhas remains lie at 15A, School Lane, Gangodawila, Nugegoda (opposite Sri Jayawardenapura University). His funeral takes place on Wednesday at the General Cemetary, Borella.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka seeks more Palk Bay patrolling
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka seeks more Palk Bay patrolling
Sri Lanka on Friday asked India to increase the patrol of the Palk Bay to prevent Tamil Nadu fishermen from trespassing into Sri Lankan waters, even as it expressed positive signs on the likely release of detained Indian trawlers, the Hindu reported.
The meeting was very useful. We are happy that India is really committed to its assurance of phasing out bottom trawlers and has taken constructive steps. We are very hopeful of finding a permanent solution together, a senior officer from the Sri Lankan delegation told The Hindu after official teams from the countries met here as part of an initiative to jointly address the Palk Bay fisheries conflict, involving fishermen of Tamil Nadu and northern Sri Lanka.
Fridays meeting was the second of the ongoing discussions between senior officials from both sides, an initiative running parallel to the ministerial level bilateral talks.
- The Hindu
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka U19 tour to Australia : Australia 309/6; Sri Lanka 149/9
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka U19 tour to Australia : Australia 309/6; Sri Lanka 149/9
Australia were in command of the first under 19 youth test against Sri Lanka played at Kingston Oval, Hobart yesterday.
Sri Lanka U19s won the toss and elected to field and saw Australia rattle up an impressive 309-6 declared with Jack Edwards scoring 106 off 186 balls with 8 fours and 3 sixes. Jonathan Merlo scored an unbeaten 100 off 133 balls with 11 fours and 2 sixes. Edwards and Merlo were involved in a 182 runs stand for the fifth wicket. Nipun Ransika took 3 wickets for 46 runs.
In Sri Lankas reply they were reduced to 149 for 9 wickets by the close of the second day. Vishwa Chathuranga top scored with 39 while Zak Evans took 3 wickets.
Only 36 overs were played yesterday due to rain. The match will be continued today.
Scores:
Australia U19s: 309/6 decl in 79.3 overs (Jack Edwards 106, Jonathan Merlo 100 n.o., Jason Sangha 41, Ryan Kackney 17, Nipun Ransika 3/46, Jehan Daniel 1/34, Thisaru Rashmika 1/37)
Sri Lanka U19s: 149/9 (38/1 o/n) in 44 overs (Vishwa Chathuranga 39,Krishan Arachchige 22, Jehan Daniel 17, Nipuna Sumanasinghe 16, Lasith Croospulle 14, Zak Evans 3/57, Will Sutherland 2/20, Lloyd Pope 2/21)-YK
==============================
## Title: Stand Against Suffering: An Unprecedented Call to Action by Buddhist Teachers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Stand Against Suffering: An Unprecedented Call to Action by Buddhist Teachers
Thirteen leading Buddhist teachers, joined by more than 100 additional signatories, call on Buddhists and all people of faith to take a stand against policies of the new administration that will create suffering for the most vulnerable in society. As published in the May 2017 Lions Roar magazine.
As long as a society protects the vulnerable among them, they can be expected to prosper and not decline.
The Buddha, in the Mahaparinirvana Sutta
Buddhism does not align itself with any party or ideology. But when great suffering is at stake, Buddhists must take a stand against it, with loving-kindness, wisdom, calm minds, and courage.
Committed to compassion, we follow the example of the bodhisattva Kwan Yin, she who hears the cries of the world. Like her, we listen to the cries of suffering people and do everything in our power to help and protect them.
In this time of crisis, we hear the cries of millions who will suffer from regressive policies of the new U.S. administration targeting our most vulnerable communities. We hear the cries of a nation whose democracy and social fabric are at risk. We join in solidarity with many others who are also hearing these cries, knowing that together we can be a remarkable force for transformation and liberation.
Religious leaders and practitioners have always played a vital role in movements for justice and social progress, contributing their wisdom, love, courage, and commitment to others. People of all faiths are needed on the front lines now, resisting policies that will cause harm and offering a new and positive vision for our country.
We believe that Buddhist teachers and practitioners should be among them, locking arms with all people of goodwill to protect the vulnerable, counter systemic violence and oppression, and work for a more just and caring society. Buddhism is respected around the world as a religion of compassion and peace. We are wanted and needed in this movement, and we have much to contribute.
Buddhism in the United States brings together people of many different backgrounds, interests, and views. Some Buddhists emphasize meditation practice, while others focus on study, community, or faith. Some are politically liberal and others conservative. Some prefer to keep their Buddhist practice separate from political and social issues, while others are deeply engaged. Facing the reality of this suffering, we remember that peacefulness does not mean passiveness and nonattachment does not mean nonengagement.
Yet one thing binds us together: our commitment to ease the suffering of all beings. The dharma is not an excuse to turn away from the suffering of the world, nor is it a sedative to get us comfortably through painful times. It is a powerful teaching that frees and strengthens us to work diligently for the liberation of beings from suffering.
What is happening now strikes at the heart of this, our central commitment as Buddhists. It transcends our differences and calls us to action. If the policies of the new administration prevail, millions of people in vulnerable and less privileged communities will suffer. Hopes will be dashed. Undoubtedly, lives will be lost. International conflict will intensify and environmental destruction will worsen.
Facing the reality of this suffering, we remember that peacefulness does not mean passiveness and nonattachment does not mean nonengagement.
Today, we ask ourselves: What does it mean to be Kwan Yin in the modern world What does it mean to be a bodhisattva-citizen, someone who is willing to engage with society to help protect and awaken others Examining our deepest values as Buddhists, we discern through wisdom the most skillful ways to live and uphold them.
The wisdom teaching of inter-dependence is the bodhisattva-citizens guide to the web of causes and conditions that create suffering. While Buddhism has traditionally emphasized the personal causes of suffering, today we also discern how the three poisons of greed, aggression, and indifference operate through political, economic, and social systems to cause suffering on a vast scale.
While continuing to work with ego and the three poisons in our personal practice, the insight of interdependence calls us to address the societal causes of suffering as well. As we resist the heightened threat of many of the new administrations policies, we also recognize that underrepresented and oppressed communities in the United States have long suffered from systemic greed, aggression, aversion, and indifference. While some argue that the principle of nonduality suggests that Buddhists should not engage in or take sides on political or social issues, we believe the opposite is true. It is because we and others are not separate that we must act. The wisdom of interdependence deepens and inspires our compassion. Understanding that none of us is separate, we know that the suffering of others is our suffering. While some argue that the principle of nonduality suggests that Buddhists should not engage in or take sides on political or social issues, we believe the opposite is true. It is because we and others are not separate that we must act.
Whatever our political perspective, now is the season to stand up for what matters. To stand against hate. To stand for respect. To stand for protection of the vulnerable. To care for the earth.
We can see clearly the work ahead of us. It is the work of love and wisdom in the face of racism, gender- and sexual orientation-based violence, xenophobia, economic injustice, war, and environmental degradation. We have to work together to shift the tide toward what will benefit our children, the natural world, and the future.
As Buddhists, we know that real change begins with ourselves. We must explore and expose our own privilege and areas of ignorance, and address racism, misogyny, class prejudice, and more in our communities. We can set an example for the broader society by creating safe, respectful, and inclusive sanghas. Lions Roar
==============================
## Title: Sweden's truck attack probe deepens
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Sweden's truck attack probe deepens
SWEDEN: Thousands of people gathered in central Stockholm on Sunday for a Lovefest vigil against terrorism, as police pursue their investigation into this week's deadly truck attack.
Shocked by Friday's attack that left four dead and 15 injured -- for which a 39-year-old Uzbek man is in custody -- Stockholmers mobilised on Facebook, organising a vigil for 2:00 pm at the Sergels Torg plaza near where the truck rammed into shoppers.
Sweden has been trying to get back on its feet this weekend after what authorities termed a terror attack, the motive for which was still unknown.
The method however was similar to previous attacks using vehicles in Nice, Berlin and London, all of them claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group.
There has been no immediate claim of responsibility for the Stockholm attack -- the third in Europe in two weeks, coming on the heels of the car and knife assault outside London's parliament and the Saint Petersburg metro bombing.
The truck that was driven into the front of a department store
Police have not named the suspected driver of the truck, whom they arrested on Friday evening, but authorities said he was known to Sweden's intelligence service for undisclosed reasons.
The man is suspected of speeding a stolen beer truck several hundred metres down the bustling pedestrian street Drottninggatan in the heart of Stockholm.
The vehicle mowed down shoppers before slamming into the facade of the busy Ahlens department store.
There is nothing to indicate that we've got the wrong man. On the contrary, the suspicions have strengthened, Swedish police chief Dan Eliasson said Saturday.
He said police found a suspect device in the cab of the truck.
A technical examination is ongoing, we can't go into what it is right now... whether it's a bomb or a flammable device. The attack deeply shocked the usually tranquil Scandinavian nation, which prides itself on its openness and tolerance.
All day Saturday, crowds milled behind the security fences blocking off the scene of the attack, laying flowers on the ground or poking them into the fence.
Several police cars parked near the scene were also covered in flowers by Swedes, who widely praised the emergency crews' speedy response to the attack.
Maybe something good will come of this, Inger Morstedt, 75, told AFP, expressing hope that her fellow Swedes would become even more open and welcoming. In some ways it's unreal, said 40-year-old Johan.
I've come here to honour the victims and the society in which we live. Flags flew at half-mast at public buildings across Stockholm on Saturday.
Prime Minister Stefan Lofven, who beefed up border controls on Friday after the attack, announced a national minute of silence to be held in honour of the victims on Monday at noon.
Today, all of Sweden is in mourning, but we're going to get through this together, he told reporters on Saturday after laying a bouquet outside the Ahlens department store.
King Carl XVI Gustaf, who returned to Stockholm on Saturday after cutting short a visit to Brazil, also addressed the nation outside the palace.
The consideration people are showing each other shows the strength of our society, he said.
There are so many of us who want to help, many more than those who want to hurt us. Friday's attack was the second terror attack in Stockholm.
In December 2010, a suicide bomber blew himself up, also on the Drottninggatan street, lightly injuring several passersby. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Toilet attendant found dead
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Toilet attendant found dead
The toilet attendant of the Hatton Bus stand S. Ganeshan had been killed by an unidentified gang on April 8.
His body was found in the passenger terminal of the bus stand with serious injuries to his face, Hatton Police said.
A resident of Hatton had been arrested in this connection. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Tougher TU action if GMOA demands are not met
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Tougher TU action if GMOA demands are not met
The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) has rejected proposals forwarded by the government to resolve the SAITM issue, GMOA Secretary Dr. Navin De Zoysa said.According to Dr. Zoysa, the final solution for the SAITM issue should be based on the proposals handed over to the President by the GMOA, Deans of all State Medical Faculties of Sri Lanka and the Faculty of Medicine Teachers Associations (FMTAs). If not, tougher trade union action will be taken by the GMOA along with the coalition of trade unions, he said.
The proposals are, the Higher Education Minister to inform the Judiciary that the SAITM has not obtained the Compliance Certificate from the SLMC which is compulsory to become a degree awarding institution, stopping recruiting more students to SAITM, stopping the offering of degrees by the SAITM, gazetting the minimum standard for medical education in Sri Lanka, appointing a committee by the President to solve the issue of the SAITM students and the solution be accepted by the SLMC. The set of proposals ensure the standard of medical education and protect patients right to life, Dr. Zoysa said.
Meanwhile, the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) sources said the Council has prepared the Minimum Standard for Medical Education of Sri Lanka that includes private medical colleges.
==============================
## Title: Towards a promising economy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Towards a promising economy
While much has and continues to be made of Sri Lankas economic growing pains, Central Bank Governor Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy, argued last Friday at the YMCA Forum that the country is now in the midst of the most favorable set of economic circumstances it has encountered in 50-60 years.
Coomaraswamy delivered a lecture entitled The Economic Challenges of the Country that was more an explanation of a series of best-case scenarios for economic growth. The solutions, he reasoned, lie in broad macroeconomic adjustments and increased exports and foreign-direct investment.
In order to show how advantageous the current moment is, Coomarawamy reviewed the developmental and economic obstacles Sri Lanka has faced since the late 1950s.
If you look back, there was a dramatic decline in the countrys trade in the late 1950s. From the late 1950s to early 1980s, the prices of tea, rubber, and coconut declined on a continuous basis, he said.
During this period, the population increased rapidly, and the combination of a stagnating economy and a surging population combined to slow development.
A section of participants at the YMCA Forum
Furthermore, the 1960s and 1970s saw the country adopt inward-looking economic policies. For a country of 14-15 million, relying on the domestic economy is unsustainable and not properly suited for promoting sustained development. These policies did not yield good outcomes.
After the economy was liberalized between 1977-1978, the war broke out, and until 2009, the prospects for development were dim.
Though the nation has had a tortured recent economic history, Coomarswamy noted that the aforementioned issues are now no more.
Today, no such restraints are compromising the country. We are located in Asia, the most dynamic region in world, and we occupy a strategic location within the region, he said.
But how should the government orient the countrys economic policies in order to take advantage of these opportunities
His answer was that the government is in the process of putting in place a private sector-based growth model. The Governor was quick to point out, however, that he is not ideologically opposed to an approach featuring public-based investment. But the government, in his estimation, does not have the fiscal capacity to drive development processes at this time.
The states inability to foster growth through public spending is due to the previous governments economic model, which relied heavily on public investment in infrastructure financed by foreign commercial borrowing.
The recent construction and transportation development depended on government spending, but this has now run out of steam due to the fiscal deficit and public debt. We have basically maxed out on our credit card, he said.
According to Coomaraswamy, the private sector will now have to take the reins of the economy, and it must feature increased exports and foreign direct investment (FDI). He noted that, without a large jump in exports, it would be impossible for Sri Lanka to maintain a rate of 6-7 percent growth per annum over a decade, a benchmark which many other Asian countries have achieved. Our exports, as percentage of GDP, are between 16-17 percent. For countries like Malaysia and Thailand, the numbers are closer to 60-70 percent. We are way behind. Unless we increase exports, we will not get out of our debt problem, and we will not achieve sustained 6-7 percent growth, he said.
Coomaraswamy did not delve as deeply into the need for FDI, but noted that it has played a key role in fostering development in countries throughout the world.
Macroeconomic Adjustments
Though the government cannot directly drive economic growth and development as it did between 2010 and 2014, it still has a central role to play in creating an advantageous environment for private sector players.
Coomaraswamy noted that the state is busy making three large-scale macroecnomic adjustments, the first of which is the inauguration of a fiscal sustainability project that manages the budget deficit. Ever since 1978, a main source of economic instability has been the budget deficit. This pumps excess demand into the economy, which brings about high inflation. High inflation brings with it high nominal interest rates, so the cost of capital is high.
For the past forty years, the Sri Lankan economic situation has featured a high budget deficit, high inflation, high interest rates, and an overvalued exchange rate.
These features are diametrically opposed to those of economically successful countries in South and Southeast Asia, Coomaraswamy said.Of utmost importance, then, is to contain the budget deficit. The Governor noted that the government is conducting fiscal consolidation and revenue enhancement projects in order to drive the budget deficit down to 3.5 percent of GDP. Right now, the number is closer to 4.6 percent, but decreasing this would remove a source of economic instability.
The second piece of macroeconomic policy undertaken by the government is to set an inflation target of 4-6 percent. Coomaraswamy noted that interest rates recently shot up by 25 basis points because inflation was up around 8.1 percent.
The economy was not overheating, but we thought the Central Bank should send a signal that it would not tolerate inflation outside the 4-6 percent range. With this inflation target, there would be little wage pressure, and businesses could take advantage of a stable environment knowing that the Central Bank would take action when necessary, he noted.
The third piece of policy is to let the exchange rate fall to its natural level. He noted that the government has usually aimed to keep the exchange rate at an artificially high level. But this policy is extremely expensive, and the government has often had to spend massive amounts of its reserves to keep the rate high.
You cannot defend the exchange rate, but we keep doing it. In 2015, this government spent $2 billion to defend the rate, and then had to depreciate it anyway. Successive governments have done this, and it does not make sense to me. There is no choice but to devalue the currency, hesaid.
He added that the best method of keeping pressure off of the exchange rate is to increase foreign exchange earnings through exports.
These macroeconomic adjustments should, in Coomaraswamys view, lead businesses to formulate robust growth plans.
Investment Climate and Trade Agreements
The government is also working to make it easier to conduct business in the country. Sri Lanka currently ranks 110th globally on the World Banks ease of doing business index, and Coomarswamy noted that the government has formed task forces focused on decreasing the difficulty of investing in the country.
If you now have to take six steps to acquire a construction permit, we are trying to reduce that number to four or three steps. The process of improving the investment climate will go through deregulation and technological upgrades, he said.
He also shared that the Board of Investment (BOI) has focused on six sectors wherein the country has competitive advantages. It is working to attract key companies to come and invest in these sectors, but he did not divulge the identities of these six.
He did, however, give examples of countries that have done well after massive investments from large multinational corporations. He noted how Samsung invested in Vietnam and at one point accounted for 40 percent of the countrys exports.
Vietnam and Sri Lanka had similar export numbers in 1995, but today Vietnams exports are around $166 billion. They have left us far behind.
If you target the right sector and get global players to invest, you can transform your export economy, he said.
He added that customs is being overhauled and will soon conduct its operations online. The government is also working on anti-dumping legislation that will make it illegal for countrys to dump imports into the economy.
We are also working on a trade adjustment package to foster trade liberalization and assist our own companies and workers to get training so that they can be more competitive, he said.
Finally, perhaps the most important plan that Coomaraswamy shared is the formulation of trade agreements with regional economic powers.
In particular, the government is looking to make important trade deals with China, India, Pakistan, and Singapore. He also noted that the country should receive GSP+ status in May. If Sri Lanka is able to lock up these deals by the end of the year, it would have preferential access to combined markets of over 3 billion people.
The country already has a bilateral trade agreement with India, which it hopes to widen, and if it secures a similar deal with China, it would be the second country to have preferential access to both of these markets.
The government is trying to leverage the nexus between trade and investment to promote economic growth and development. These deals are potentially transformative, but we must improve education and training so that the labour force has the skillset to take advantage of the opportunities that are likely to come, he said.
Coomaraswamy also touched on the Hambantota issue, saying that it was important to look at the lease agreement in a holistic way. Though the ports lease would bring more business, the Governor was more excited about the lease payment.
The $1.1 billion that will come as the payment would be tremendously helpful in terms of meeting our foreign debt obligations. This is a non-debt creating inflow, he said.
Furthermore, he noted that the people of Monragala and Uva would benefit from Chinas plans to develop the area. He claimed that China is planning to invest about $5 billion in and around Hambantota, and this would create jobs and raise the average wage to around $500 a month, or Rs. 75,000.
Here is an opportunity to help the people of this area, he said.
Coomaraswamy touched on the master plan for Trincomalee, where Japan, India, and Singapore are expected to help with investment. He also briefly reviewed other development projects, such as the Megapolis and the rehabilitation of Palali airport and Kankesanthurai port, but noted that it will take between 18 months and two years before the country starts to see the results of these projects.
Over the next 18 months, however, the private sector will be the main economic driver, he said.
Though he is optimistic about the current moment, he did note that these policies and goals are easier formulated than achieved.
In my view the plans are good. The real challenge will be execution. We have three priorities: execution, execution, and execution. Even if we do half of what I talked about, the country will be transformed. We need to come together to seize the opportunity, he said.
==============================
## Title: Train crashes into railway quarters in Vavuniya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 14:30
Train crashes into railway quarters in Vavuniya

A train carrying fuel has derailed and crashed in to the Railway Officials quarters today in Vavuniya.
The train was derailed due to the uncontrollable speed it has traveled while changing lines. 
Railway tracks and the building were damaged by the incident.
No injuries were reported.
(Pictures courtesy ofK.Vasantharupan)
==============================
## Title: Trump unleashes dogs of war
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Trump unleashes dogs of war
So the brash, big-mouth tycoon in the White House with an outsized ego has finally unleashed the dogs of war in Syria. Invoking God and the suffering of little babies, the supposed US Commander-in-Chief Donald Trump ordered the bombing of Syria with cruise missiles launched from warships in the Mediterranean.
A Syrian airbase was destroyed, along with several casualties, and civilians reportedly among the dead.
This was while Trump was digesting a dinner of steak and carrots in his Florida beach resort on Thursday night.
Trump has styled himself as a hard-nosed and unpredictable American president.
The bitter irony here is that everything Trump is doing in his latest act of illegal war is actually so predictable.
The US political establishment  driven as it always is by the imperative need of waging wars to shore up its crumby capitalist economy  has been baying for all-out deployment in Syria for the past six years.
Since Washington instigated its criminal regime-change operation against the sovereign government of Syria in March 2011, the hawkish establishment was never quite satisfied with the strategy of using proxy terror groups to do the dirty work. Direct military intervention to topple the Syrian state has always been on the cards as the preferred method.
Surprise election
The Deep State establishment  or the War Party comprising both Republicans and Democrats in hock to the military-intelligence apparatus  thought they would get their way with the election of warmonger Hillary Clinton last November. Alas, the surprise election of Trump to the presidency temporarily upset their militarist agenda.
But the advent of Trump to the White House was only a hitch for the powers-that-be. The relentless Deep State-driven media witch-hunt against Trump over ridiculous allegations of being a Russian puppet has evidently prevailed.
Trump, the self-declared outsider has been forced to prove that he is an insider, an obedient poodle to the American war Rottweiler  if he wants to stay in office and see out the next four years without being impeached.
In order to survive the pressure over Russian stooge allegations, Trump is throwing some meat to the US War Party by giving them their long-sought-after direct military intervention in Syria.
Trumps order to blast Syria with 59 cruise missiles is a brazen act of war that makes a mockery of international law. Russia and some other independent nations have denounced the US act of aggression against a sovereign state.
The fact that Russian forces were stationed at the targeted airbase at Shayrat  but were reportedly unscathed  is a shocking sign of how reckless the latest American military action is. If Russian personnel had been killed, then that would potentially be cause for a full-scale war between two nuclear powers.
Mary Ellen OConnell, a US-based law scholar at University of Notre Dame, Indiana, was quoted by the Guardian saying there was zero legal basis for Trumps missile attack. She said it was an unfounded act of aggression.
Even some members of the US Congress have questioned Trumps unilateral action as being unconstitutional since he did not receive authorization from Congress, as required by American law.
But these are piffling, academic concerns when it comes to how the US always behaves. International law is only a selective rhetorical device for a rogue state that considers itself above the law.
As Russian military spokesman Igor Konashenkov remarked , the US has been waging wars regardless of international law for decades based on concocted pretexts, as in Serbia (1999), Afghanistan (2001), Iraq (2003), Libya (2011), and now Syria.
Trump has finally bought into the US war agenda in Syria  despite mouthing off against such an intervention as far back as 2013  in order to keep his seat in the Oval Office. The intense media pressure from the witch-hunt over Russia has seen to that, in part.
The next prop in the whole despicable drama was Trumps gullibility over the latest false flag involving chemical weapons in Syria earlier this week.
Anyone with a bit of wit can see that the CIA-trained and Turkish, Saudi-supplied terrorist proxies carried out the massacre of civilians from their own toxic arsenal. The CIA-trained bandits tried the same deadly stunt back in August 2013 when they gassed hundreds of children near Damascus and videoed the horror for Western media dissemination.
Syrian war
The same profane ploy was used again this week in the town of Khan Sheikhoun, in Syrias northern Idlib province.
The truth is simple: the Syrian army does not have chemical weapons, after they were destroyed as part of a Russian-brokered decommissioning deal back in 2013. The only party to have access to such weapons are the Western, Turkish and Saudi-backed terror groups.
Like the propaganda service they are, the Western mainstream media then dutifully blasted the news that the Syrian air force dropped chemical weapons on Khan Sheikhoun  willingly and unquestioningly using the images and video supplied by activists affiliated with the jihadist terror groups.
When US ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley stood up in front of the Security Council holding photographs of dying children  purportedly from poisonous gas  she was role-playing for the false flag.
As with the general Western media response, Haleys display had the unmistakable air of choreography. It was 2003 all over again, when then Secretary of State Colin Powell lied to the Security Council about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, while brandishing dud vials of lethal chemicals.
It is not clear whether Trump or his ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley are merely gullible or something more sinister, such as willing accomplices in a charade.
But the upshot is this: Trump is acting like an obedient poodle going along with the Machiavellian American power system. Invoking God and suffering babies is just a shallow moral cover for his complicity in another US criminal act  in a countless list of such crimes down through history.
Doing business
There is something fitting about Trumps background as a real estate billionaire. That business is all about shafting people, cheating to stay ahead, or selling overinflated assets.
Trump himself is one such overinflated asset. All his past talk about America first, forgotten workers, draining the swamp and lashing out against his predecessor Barack Obama over reckless wars in the Middle East  is all just cheap hokum.
To save his political skin and no doubt lucrative future business opportunities for his dynasty, Trump has donned the cap of Commander-in-Chief and is groveling before the American war machine.
He is handing over an official license for war in Syria that the American Deep State has been craving for years.
It is a measure of how crazed and obscene the American political system is. The message is: no matter which way the electorate votes, the warmongers in the Pentagon and their corporate masters get the result they want. Which is war. Even if that risks a world war with Russia.
Thats how American capitalism works. And Trump is nothing but a poodle willing to jump through the hoops, roll over and lick the boots of the criminal masters.
(The views expressed in this article are solely those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of Information Clearing House)
- Information Clearing House
==============================
## Title: Two Mahasonas nabbed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Two Mahasonas nabbed
Two members of a movement known as Mahasona Balakaya were nabbed by the Ambalantota police. They were pasting posters in the Ambalantota town when they were arrested.
Consumers were warned in the posters to avoid buying anything from a certain sector of shops. The Ambalantota police said the suspects are residents of Ridiyagama, Ambalantota.
They had revealed on interrogation that they received the posters from Kandy.
==============================
## Title: Two die, two injured in trishaw-lorry collision
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Two die, two injured in trishaw-lorry collision
Two persons died and two others were injured and admitted to the Wathupitiwala hospital when a three-wheeler and a lorry collided head-on at Kongasdeniya, Pasyala on the Colombo-Kandy Road around 2.45 am yesterday.
The deceased were identified as Viharagedara Isuru Indika, 27, a three-wheeler driver of Keralapitiya and E.A. Malsha Maduwanthie, 27, of Hospital Road, Pubudugama, Angoda. They died on admission to hospital. The injured receiving hospital treatment are Neranjala Warakapola and W. M. Mayuri Lakmini Neranjala. They were later transferred in a serious condition to the Colombo National Hospital.
All of them were in the three wheeler. The lorry had been transporting a consignment of glass from Colombo to Kandy. The lorry driver was taken into custody by Nittambuwa Police.
The inquest and the postmortem examination into the two deaths were due to be held at the Wathupitiwala hospital yesterday.
==============================
## Title: An unshakable bond
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
An unshakable bond
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe begins a week-long visit to Japan today, marking yet another milestone in the history of close ties between the two countries. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe will hold a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe followed by several other engagements. The Government of Japan has announced that they are looking forward to the visit which they believe will serve to further strengthen the friendly relations between Japan and Sri Lanka.
This is indeed a landmark visit, even within the context of already exceptionally good relations between Japan and Sri Lanka. This is the Premiers second official visit to Japan having first visited it in October 2015. President Maithripala Sirisena visited Japan last year. The Japanese Prime Minister visited Sri Lanka in 2014. Japan is indeed one of Sri Lankas closest friends on the world stage. A civilization inspired by Buddhism forms the very bedrock of history in both countries. There is ample evidence that the two countries have enjoyed religious and trade ties for centuries.
But the one event in living memory that cemented a special place in Japanese hearts for Sri Lanka and Sri Lankans was the San Francisco Peace Conference in 1951. The Allied Powers were in no mood to forgive Japan following the end of the Second World War and there were calls to punish Japan, which had already suffered two devastating nuclear attacks. A Berlin-style break-up of Japan among the victors was on the table.
Finance Minister J.R. Jayewardene, who would later become President, was the leader of the delegation from Ceylon (as Sri Lanka was then known). He stunned everyone by reciting this stanza from the Buddha Dhamma: Hatred ceases not by hatred, but by love alone. He argued that Japan should be allowed to go on as an independent and free nation without undue interference from other powers. His was a stirring speech that ultimately resulted in the Allied Powers taking their hands off Japan.
It is the message of the Buddha, the Great Teacher, the Founder of Buddhism which spread a wave of humanism through South Asia, Burma, Laos, Cambodia, Siam, Indonesia and Ceylon and also northwards through the Himalayas into Tibet, China and finally Japan, which bound us together for hundreds of years with a common culture and heritage. This common culture still exists. I gathered the impression that the common people of Japan are still influenced by the shadow of that Great Teacher of peace, and wish to follow it. We must give them that opportunity, Jayewardene said.
Although a few countries opposed giving complete freedom to Japan, Jayewardenes viewpoint prevailed. The Government and the people of Japan have never forgotten that it was Sri Lanka which stood by it at this crucial juncture. Indeed, Sri Lanka could take some credit for Japans post-war social and economic success  Japan would still be at the mercy of more powerful countries if Sri Lanka did not intervene in 1951. Remarkably, Sri Lanka did not even have formal diplomatic ties with Japan at that time  these were established only in April 1952.
Ever since, the ties between the two countries have gone from strength to strength, regardless of who was in power at either end. Japan is the leading provider of development assistance to Sri Lanka and is also a major investor. Unlike many other countries, Japan gives many outright grants (approx 207 billion yen by 2015) and any loans have only a minimal interest with a very generous grace period. Over the years, Japan has funded many massive development projects here.
Sri Lankans have an affinity for Japanese goods  Japanese car brands still lead the market, despite the high duty structure. In electronic too, most Lankans prefer Japanese brands. However, this means that the balance of trade is in favour of Japan (Sri Lanka imported 144 billion yen worth Japanese goods in 2015 and exported goods worth only 32 billion yen, including tea, textile shrimp, fish and rubber products). Sri Lankan exporters should work hard to enhance their penetration of Japan through diversification.
Both Governments should strive to enhance people-to-people contact. More than 13,000 Sri Lankans live in Japan. The Government is hoping to attract at least 100,000 tourists from Japan a year to Sri Lanka but additional flights are needed to cater to the demand for seats. Only SriLankan now flies to Tokyo Narita direct. The authorities should explore the possibility of getting Japan Airlines to fly to Colombo either from Tokyo Narita or Tokyo Haneda.
Sri Lankans fell in love with Japanese culture by watching Oshin, originally broadcast around 30 years ago. Now people of all ages are keen to learn the Japanese language and other aspects of culture such as Origami and Ikebana. There is a good following for the Japanese channels broadcast on IPTV and satellite. All these have led to the creation of an unshakable bond between the two countries that will be reinforced by the Premiers visit, a bond that will stand the test of time and history.
==============================
## Title: Well-lit walkway
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Well-lit walkway
Ranil Wickremesinghe - A Political Biography, authored by Dinesh Weerakkody,a business personality, was launched at the BMICH on April 4, under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena. Key dignitaries such as clergy and parliamentarians graced the occasion. Dr Sashi Tharoor, an eminent Indian diplomat who is currently serving as Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha from Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala since 2009, delivered the keynote speech on Sri Lankas role of the balancing act between India and China.
Reproduced below is his speech in full.
It is presumptuous for a second-term MP to congratulate a fourth-term PM, but I am emboldened by Ranil Wickremesinghes own graciousness and generosity to me.
At one level, it can be claimed that nothing could be easier than speaking about IndiaSri Lanka relations. After all, Sri Lanka is Indias closest neighbour, and the relationship between our two countries is more than 2500 years old. Indeed, both sides have built, and built upon, a long legacy of intellectual, cultural, religious and linguistic exchange. Lanka features centrally in our sacred epic the Ramayana and, for that reason, is probably the one foreign country that has always had a place in our popular imagination. Then there are the old Sinhalese legends of Sri Lankas links to Orissa in India, which are of course manifest in the striking similarities of the Kandyan and Odissi dance forms. Add to this the fact that a significant Tamil minority on the island enjoys ties of kinship and cultural affiliation with Indias southern state of Tamil Nadu, and the historical bonds only grow stronger. In more recent years, our relationship has been marked by frequent and close contact at the highest political level, growing trade and investment, cooperation in the fields of education, culture and defence, frequent cricket matches, as well as a broad understanding on major issues of international interest.
And then theres of course tea. [Story of Robert Fortune  Assam  Meril Fernando -- sapling theft in 1860  so SLs tea story began when Sri Lanka did to India what India had been unable to do to China! But of course it was, as usual, a British planter who was to blame.] Today you export twice as much as we do, largely because we drink 90% of what we grow. But an addiction to tea unites us. And now we can learn better marketing from you (Dilmah).
Peace and stability in Sri Lanka
Dr. Shashi Tharoor
As an Indian I can tell you that we value all this greatly, not least because Sri Lanka has lessons from which we too in India can learn. It is now, for instance, economically South Asias most successful state in GDP terms, with a per capita income that is double Indias and property values in Colombo that outstrip Mumbais. The end of the conflict with the LTTE has brought about a greater possibility for peace and stability in Sri Lanka and presented the island an opportunity to heal wounds, make a new beginning and to build a better future for its people, opening up also greater options for us to cooperate bilaterally and areas of engagement. The conclusion of the armed conflict saw the emergence of a major humanitarian challenge, for instance, with nearly 300,000 Tamil civilians housed in camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs). India is working actively in assisting in the four Rs of relief, rehabilitation, resettlement and reconciliation in Northern and Eastern Sri Lanka, from financial contribution and hospital services to providing seven Indian demining teams to help expedite resettlement.
Take, for instance, the housing project for 50,000 IDPs that is underway with Indian support valued at $270 million; add the railway plans to which we have committed Lines of Credit of $1.1 billion to reconnect the North of the island to the South. India has also openly expressed the need for national reconciliation through a political settlement of ethnic issues at the highest levels and our consistent position is in favour of a negotiated political settlement, which is acceptable to all communities and is consistent with democracy, pluralism and respect for human rightsa stand that is in keeping with the values enshrined in our own Constitution framed by Indias founding fathers who too, in their time, had to grappled with blood, violence, and mass displacement.
In other words, India has remained engaged with Sri Lanka to return displaced people to their homes to resume their lives which had so cruelly been interrupted by conflict. This is not a case of New Delhi interfering gratuitously in the internal affairs of its southern neighbour. India cannot help but be involved, both because it is Sri Lankas closest neighbour geographically and because its own Tamil populationsome 70 million people in the politically important southern state of Tamil Naduremains greatly concerned about the well-being of their ethnic cousins across the Palk Straits. Our mutual engagement is in the fraternal spirit that characterizes our friendship and history and in light of the values our nations celebrate and aspire to always uphold and reinforce.
Yet, of course, much remains to be done. On the one hand, we are eager to work with Sri Lanka on an assortment of development infrastructure projects, including power sector cooperation (such as the LNG plant in Sampur), infrastructure (of which, in addition to the railways, the Kankesanthurai harbour in an example, besides roads, airports, and more), health (the Dickoya, Vavuniya hospitals among others), livelihood projects, education, irrigation, and so on. Many of these projects are in fact underway outside of the North and East, and overall development commitments made by India add up to $2.6 billion, of which nearly half a billion constitute outright grants. For we are not merely keen on mending the damage of the past; we are committed to your future. Indian and Sri Lankan cooperation in areas such as science and technology, agriculture, water harvesting technology, and even space technology would help us better negotiate the challenges of an evolving world.
Ancient Maritime Silk Road
On the other hand, however, there have been concerns. Some wonder whether Chinas interest in the Indian Ocean region undermines our own historical links and cultural networks built over generations and centuries. Chinas new Maritime Silk Road is also, of course, anchored in history: the ancient Maritime Silk Road of the 15th century started from Southeast China and traversed the South China Sea, through the Straits of Malacca, to Sri Lanka and India, crossing the Arabian Sea to reach the Gulf countries and East Africa. Its revival now, however, is a facet of contemporary Chinese foreign policy. President Xi Jinping addressed the Indonesian Parliament and called for the re-establishment of the old sea networks and Prime Minister Li Keqiang repeated this call at the APEC and East Asian summits.
India regards this with interest but it must be proactive too, not least because of those existing links to which I alluded earlier. But it would also be worth remembering that the Silk Roads, even in their earlier avatar, caused serious geopolitical concerns. The celebrated Admiral Zheng He, in the fifteenth century, erected a stone tablet  translated into Chinese, Persian, and Tamil  near the Sri Lankan coastal town of Galle, with an inscription appealing to the Hindu gods to bless his efforts to build a peaceful world based on trade and commerce.
In reality, though, Zhengs expeditions involved the use of military force in present-day Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and India to install friendly rulers and control strategic choke points across the Indian Ocean. He intervened in the dynastic politics of Sri Lanka and Indonesia, abducting and executing local rulers in Kandy and elsewhere. He even seized the relic of the tooth of Buddha, a symbol of Sri Lankan political and cultural sovereignty.
The countries along Zhengs route therefore recall his adventures not just as initiatives to promote trade and establish commercial links, but also as direct military intervention in their affairs, under the pretext of ushering in a harmonious world order under Chinas emperor. Those who seek to revive historical links might also wish to remember historical iniquities.
In this sense there are many advantages India has in its relationship with Sri Lanka which have happier historical precedents. Cultural cooperation, for example, remains a very important aspect of bilateral engagement. The Jaffna Cultural Centre in Colombo, supported by India, actively promotes Indian culture and many are the Sri Lankan students graduating from universities in India. India is committed to the restoration of important icons of the cultural heritage of Sri Lanka that are located in its heartland, and looking beyond the limits of frontier too in some cases. We have participated in the setting up of the International Buddhist Museum in Kandy, following the setting up of a similar institution at Dalada Maligawa, and the restoration of the Thirukeeteswaram Temple in Mannar.
The Kapilavastu Relics were brought to Sri Lanka in 2012 by the Indian government. A visa-issuing consulate was opened in Jaffna recently to promote people-to-people contact and visits between the two countries and especially their Tamil areas, followed by a consulate in Habantota and the office of the Assistant High Commissioner in Kandy. India also supplies the largest number of tourists into Sri Lanka, and I am delighted to hear how well your tourism industry is doing here. Tourism is very much the way to go forward: $1000 invested in the tourism industry employs 8 times as many people as the same $1000 invested in manufacturing. Sri Lanka is ahead of India in recognizing the importance of this.
Commercial relations are in good shape too and are expanding rapidly. Trade between India and Sri Lanka grew fast after the coming into force of the IndiaSri Lanka Free Trade Agreement seventeen years ago, making Sri Lanka Indias largest trade partner in the SAARC. India in turn is Sri Lankas largest trade partner globally, and Sri Lankas weight in Indian imports has increased consistently each year. In 2014 bilateral trade touched $4.6 billion, which was a 23% jump from figures in 2013, and India exports $4000 worth of goods to Sri Lanka every year now. In addition, more Indian goods are transshipped through Colombo than through Indian ports; indeed, some 80% of Indias container traffic is shipped through Colombo. This too reinvigorates Indian thinking towards Sri Lanka.
About a decade ago, our countries completed negotiations on a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, but political hesitations in Colombo have delayed its finalization and signature. But that has not stopped many prominent Indian brand names having obtained FDI approvals of over $500 million, and headway is being made on economic and technological cooperation. Indian investments in Sri Lanka are today valued at $1 billion, with another $1 billion in the pipeline.
Foreign policy priorities
One concern that many Indian private sector firms have expressed to me, however, is the extraordinarily stringency of your Environmental Impact Assessment regulations as applied to Indian firms. Kirloskar, for instance, has been waiting three years for environmental clearance of an irrigation project; some of the Indian executives say, with feeling, that Chinese companies never seem to face as many environmental hurdles as Indian companies do. I am sure that Sri Lanka, as good cricketers and hosts, will want to ensure a level playing field for all sides.
It would be facile to pretend that there are no other irritants at all in this relationship. We all know that there are some in India who would still rather have preferred that I were not here.
The actor Rajanikanth cancelled a visit to Sri Lanka just last week. The issue of the Sri Lankan Tamils is both an emotional and a political subject in our country, erupting periodically in the hothouse politics of Tamil Nadu. Though I speak in a purely personal capacity, I am confident that we all seek a political consensus to give the Tamil people of Sri Lanka an honoured place in their own country  and so defuse the situation in Tamil Nadu too.
As a Member of Parliament representing a coastal constituency, another issue, given the proximity of the territorial waters of both our countries, especially in the Palk Straits and the Gulf of Mannar, that I should highlight relates to incidents of the straying of fishermen across territorial waters and some cases of poaching, often resulting in their interception by the other countrys coast guard and subsequent incarceration, to a chorus of protests by agitated families and their political representatives.
But India has never shirked from making known its legitimate concerns, and our engagement on these issues have been received in a very constructive spirit by the leaders of Sri Lanka. In 2015, Prime Minister Modi embarked on a tour of the Indian Ocean that was noteworthy for where he went and where he didnt. Speaking at the time, he stressed that his visit to the three Indian Ocean Island countries reflects our foreign policy priorities in Indias immediate and extended neighbourhood, underlining his determination to intensify engagement. It has to be admitted that New York has featured more frequently on Indian prime ministerial itineraries in the past than Sri Lanka. But this is now changing.
The message of the visit was clear: India is waking up to the importance and potential of its own position in the middle of the Indian Ocean. Former U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, contesting proprietary notions in New Delhi about the Indian Ocean, once trenchantly remarked that it was a mere whimsy of nomenclature that the ocean had been named Indian; it could just as well have been called the Madagascar Sea. Moynihan loved being provocative, of course, but in our obsession with its troubled land borders with Pakistan and China, India had indeed overlooked its maritime interests, often acting as if the ocean was an accident of geography rather than a vital strategic setting. In recent years, under Mr. Modis immediate predecessor, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, in whose Council of Ministers I served, this began to change. Mr. Modi has now set the seal on a dramatic reorientation of Indian strategic thinking, creating new alliances and reinforcing old ties.
Similarly, repeated affirmations of friendship with Sri Lanka followed a period under President Rajapaksa when Colombo seemed, from Indias perspective, to be distinctly warmer to China and Pakistan. This friendship between our countries is only natural, after all, given that Sri Lanka is inescapably important for India; domestic matters here involving the Tamil minority inevitably spill across the straits to Tamil Nadu, and Sri Lankan leaders have all understood the importance of assuring India that it security is at no risk from the south, and that its soft underbelly would not be exposed to exploitation by strategic rivals.
Super power
India has also been an animating spirit behind efforts to revive the Indian Ocean Rim Association, which brings together 20 countries straddling three continents thousands of miles apart, united solely by their sharing of a common body of water. The association unites Australia and Iran, Singapore and India, Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates and some dozen other states large and small  unlikely partners brought together by the fact that the Indian Ocean washes their shores. The Indian Ocean serves as both a sea separating them and a bridge linking them together. Sri Lankas support to and presence in this project is integral.
Chinas ambitions in the South China Sea have extended well into the Indian Ocean, and the prospect of an emerging superpower casting its shadow has roused anxiety in a number of littoral states, which look to India as an alternative security provider. So far India  which has long been known for being better at projecting soft power in the region than exercising hard power  has not always been found up to the task, leading some observers to suggest that we are gradually being strangled by a Chinese string of pearls around our oceanic neck.
New Delhi is conscious of the danger of being outrun in its own neighbourhood -- though as our neck is thick enough I am not too worried -- and Prime Minister Modis trip to the Indian Ocean littoral was evidence that its awakening is being translated into action. The brotherhood of man is a tired clich; the neighborhood of an ocean is a refreshing new idea. And what we offer is not the roar of a super power, but certainly something better than being one among several jewels  pearls or otherwise -- in another countrys geopolitical calculations.
On the whole, however, the picture one can paint of IndiaSri Lanka relations is a highly positive one. I witnessed at first hand the welcoming atmosphere in Colombo when the International Indian Film Awards (IIFA) took place here in July 2010, shortly after the end of the civil war.
As I observed on that occasion, India and Sri Lanka need to look to the future, to a future in which our geographical proximity becomes a reason for closeness rather than controversy, where the past reminds us not of recent pain but of ancient commonalities, where religion and culture bring us together in a celebration of our common heritage. In our shared epic, the Ramayana, Lord Rama came to Lanka to reclaim Sita and left; the Indian emperor Ashokas envoys brought Buddhism to Lanka and stayed. These ancient links unify us in spirit, in the spirit of the timeless tides that wash our shores and that have tied us together for millennia.
The way forward is clear, and well lit. We just need to walk that way, hand in hand.
==============================
## Title: Woman kills two daughters, commits suicide
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Woman kills two daughters, commits suicide
A mother of three named Nadeeka Maduranthi Gunasekara (30) of Viharapalugama, Anuradhapura had committed suicide by hanging from a beam in her home after killing her two daughters by pushing them into a nearby well.
Her eldest child Kavish Ashmitha Weerawije was inside the house unaware of the ordeal. He had alerted neighbours after seeing the mother hanging from the beam. Anuradhapura police said Nadeeka, whose husband is a naval officer attached to the Diyatalawa Camp, had a secret love affair.
A third party had come to know about her love affair and she was suspected to have ended her life through sheer shame thinking that her husband may come to know about her affair through the third party. The bodies of the two daughters Ruwani Nuwangalee (4), and Bigunya Heshani (1 1/2) were fished out of the well in the presence of Anuradhapura Acting Magistrate Akashi Nadee Kurera and Anuradhapura Hospital JMD Dr. H.M. Karunatilleke. The Acting Magistrate who held the inquiry ordered the JMD to hold an autopsy and submit a report.
==============================
## Title: World Health Day marked at Arcade
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
World Health Day marked at Arcade
The World Health Day was marked with a ceremony held at Arcade Independence Square in Colombo recently.
Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne, WHO Representative to Sri Lanka Dr. Jacob Kumaresan and many others participated, health ministry sources said.
This years world Health Day theme was `Depression - Lets Talk.
Yoga workouts, music and drama programmes, art exhibitions, games and many other activities took place on the day.
Earlier WHO announced that around 800,000 Sri Lankans suffer from depression. Director of Mental Health and Consultant Community Physician Dr. Chithramalee de Silva said about 10 percent of Sri Lankans suffer from mental health problems and about two percent suffer from major psychiatric disorders.
Nearly 3,000 Sri Lankans commit suicide every year. About 40 percent men and 2.4 percent women above age 15 consume alcohol, she said.
==============================
## Title: Bak Maha Ulela in Galle
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Bak Maha Ulela in Galle
A Bak Maha Ulela jointly organised by the Dilena Tharu Sports Club, Siyadahara Friendship Circle and the Ekamuthu Welfare Society will be held near the Mahamudalindarama Viharaya in Galle on April 16 and 17 at 7 am.
The |Chandima Weerakkdoy Foundation sponsors the event. Highlights of the festival will include a bicycle race of 120km.
==============================
## Title: Fear psychosis reigned during previous regime, no more
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Fear psychosis reigned during previous regime, no more
Fear psychosis reigned during the previous regime that prompted Geneva to impose certain restrictions on our country, is no more, Housing and Constructions Minister Sajith Premadasa said.
He was addressing the gathering at the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ethrajagama Housing Scheme at Pahala Mattala in Hambantota.
The minister said that that fear was no more with yahapalanaya regime. Now we are a country of rulers who have a soft corner in their hearts for the leaders of all countries. Now we have been given two years to correct our shortcomings, he said.Minister Sajith said the opposition is spreading false rumours against the government and the country to mislead the people. He said such propaganda would fail after two years when the country achieve a tremendous success in all spheres including its economy.
The stalwarts of the previous regime set up mega projects such as the Hambantota seaport and airport, but they were unable to shelter the less fortunate masses in the district, the minister said.
==============================
## Title: Journalism, best weapon to bring in development
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Journalism, best weapon to bring in development
Journalism is the best weapon to bring in development in the country when it is used in the right path, Ampara District Government Agent Thusitha P. Wanighesinghe, said.
He was speaking at the Annual General Meeting of Ampara District Journalists Forum held on April 8 at the Paradise Reception Hall, Sainthamaruthu.
He said journalists have to work hard to bring national reconciliation in the country and also to develop the country. The road map of the country is decided by the journalists, he said.
Journalism helps develop great personalities and mutual understanding. Journalists have to fulfill a difficult task he said,.
He thanked the organisers for conducting a felicitation ceremony and launching the website. Thusitha P. Vanighasinghe graced the occasion as its Chief Guest, while Provincial Education Director M.T.A.Nizam, and Sainthamaruthu Divisional Secretary I.M. Haneefa were present as the special guest and the guest of honour respectively.
==============================
## Title: Past regimes dubious records soon to be revealed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Past regimes dubious records soon to be revealed
All details of murders, corruption, and malpractices of the previous regime will be revealed to the public in a few months, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.
Minister Dr. Senaratne said once the details were revealed, the Joint Opposition will breathe its last.
He expressed these views after opening the new Dialysis Unit of Kebithigollewa Base Hospital on Saturday.
Minister Dr. Senaratne said the people will not take part in the Joint Oppositions (JO) May Day rally as predicted by the JO.
He added that the proposals on the SAITM which had been approved by the President will be jointly implemented by the Higher Education Ministry and the Health Ministry.
==============================
## Title: Tobacco cultivation down by 300 hectares
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Tobacco cultivation down by 300 hectares
Tobacco cultivation in Sri Lanka have gone down by 300 hectares since the Government had taken a decision to discourage the cultivation, Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.
Ministerial statics show that 2,500 hectares of tobacco cultivation was in Sri Lanka earlier and now it has decreased by 300 hectares, the minister said. He was addressing a meeting of the Inter Country Consultation on Alternative Livelihoods for Tobacco Farmers and Workers held in Colombo recently.
The Minister said a survey will be conducted to find ways to promote soya, banana, and pepper cultivation among farmers to encourage them to get away from tobacco cultivation.
Around 25,000 Sri Lankans die from smoking and of them, five percent die from passive smoking. Introducing alternative crops for tobacco farmers in accordance with the WHO instructions would save them, he said.
==============================
## Title: Ampara ready for New Year
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Ampara ready for New Year
People in the Ampara district are getting ready to celebrate Tamil and Sinhala New Year on a grand scale. The towns have turned into a hive of activity. The Sinhalese and Tamils in the districts are shopping and are busy purchasing their requirements.
Shops and Textiles in Ampara, Dehiyatakandy, Akkaraipattu, Kalmunai, Sainthamaruthu, Pottuvil, and Sammanthurai are open till late night for the convenience of the people as they have to fulfil their religious obligations during the early part of the day at temples.
Pavement hawkers from other districts and are selling goods at cheap rates. Both sides of the main roads are illuminated with bulbs by pavement hawkers to attract the crowd.
Traders inform that they have a full stock of food and consumer items in addition to the textiles without any restriction to people.
People have appealed to traders that the food items and other consumer articles should be sold at reasonable rates. The Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) Ampara district investigating officers should make sudden surprise check on the sale of articles to the people, residents said.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (10-04-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (10-04-2017)]
M.P. Perera
Admirable individual
This is a token of appreciation from us railwaymen who lived and worked contemporaneously with M.P. Perera, our trade testing officer in the railway central workshop, who passed away recently.
He hailed from a family having a social conscience form the time of his forefathers, an ancestral family in Wadduwa, being ever prepared to lend a helping hand to the needy. M.P. Perera in turn carried the torch of benevolence until his demise which famed him in and around Wadduwa town limits.
How he distinguished himself in his workplace too, is quite in tune with his customary way that is traditional and unimpeachable.
He endeared to the heats and minds of his colleague through his character viz sincerity, not budging to pressure from any quarter in his official capacity up until his retirement. Over a span of two decades. The admirable manner he conducted himself discharging his duties upholding highest standards being ever mindful of the responsibility cast on him to select the suitable cadres, to man onerous positions for the proper running of railway, are legion.
In the supply chain of skilled cadres to maintain smooth running of railway, the position be held was pivotal.
The man of the street may not know what destruction would be caused should an inept hand examining rolling stock wheels, after each run, leave any flaw undetected. Once an applicant appeared before him for trade testing through the ministry list, he was tested and found wanting. A rumbustious politico wielding enormous influence within the government, intervening on applicant's behalf, rang up M.P. Perera and insisted on him to give the fellow a second test. For this, his response was an emphatic no. Such was the mettle he is made up with. In ordinary life, he was very sociable and likes his parties but only with those not infringing his official rules. None dared to put the hard word to him since it ran the risk of losing his valuable friendship as well.
Ratmalana Railway workshops with a heavy concentration of workers where Silvas and Pereras abound whether each one deserves the title Mr. Or not, singling him out and by indemnifying or being addressed by the above adorable name in itself speaks volumes of the man.
In today's context, whereat established procedures in government institutions being irreversibly eroded by the day for expediency, it is our fervent hope that the standards of M.P. Perera and his like set be guiding light for all his successors. That way, not only we could bestow him to lasting respect but also instill its benevolent effect on the department as a whole. May he attain blissful Nibbana!
S. Udasiri
Manel (nee Kuruppu) Samaraweera
True friend
It is with heart-felt deepest sympathies that I got to know about the passing of my dear friend, Manel Kuruppu (the name itself depicts that she was a blossom; sweet, smart, and extremely generous).
I recall her as a very active participant of my school house, Sapphire, in every way possible with great dignity. I clearly remember how she volunteered to cater delicious meals for all who participated in the sportsmeets from Sapphire House during my tenor as the house captain. She was a true friend who contributed to our house with great devotion, spending countless hours to promote the true spirit of sports among the participants from 1957 - 1958.
My house Vice Captain Sangamitta Moonasinghe, Manel, and I were so close and cherished the memories as leaders of Ferguson High School. We worked so hard as a trio for the upliftment of House Sapphire during the two-year period. I heard that Sangamitta passed away a few years ago in London too.
A couple of years ago, I met Manel at the Telecommunication Dpt. Head Office and had the chance to talk to her for few minutes after a lapse of many lost years. Unfortunately, that was the last time I saw her, as I came to Australia for a long holiday.
While condoling her demise, I deeply want to wish her the supreme bliss of Nibbana and see an end to this long samsara.
We will ever miss you, sweet princess!
Please accept our deepest sympathies, Nelum, Mallika, and other family members.
Chitrangani Anula Welikanne
Sapphire House Captain (1957 - 1958)
Ferguson High School,
Ratnapura.
Together with,
Somalatha Welikanne, Padmini Welikanne, Nalini Welikanne, and Irene Wijesundara.
Prof. Valentine Joseph
Adept mathematician
It was one morning in July 1956. King George Hall of the University of Ceylon was filled with a new batch of students eagerly awaiting the arrival of a wizard of Mathematics on the stage for the first lecture.
A new chapter in the lives of the physical science and engineering students was about to commence. The expectations were high in the young minds filled with dreams of becoming academics and professionals. This was the only science faculty in the only university of the island at the time.
Sharp at eight oclock, a young man dressed in a shirt, looking worn out, and a trouser showing lack of care, appeared on the stage and announced with a sharp voice I am Valentine Joseph! A negative response from the audience was a loud noise. But there was no stopping and the young man continued in the same tone Imagine three rods placed in outer space at right angles to one another and that is going to be our frame of reference. By now the response from the audience was total silence and he continued his presentation with absolute lucid explanations based on his frame of reference.
Students gradually got adjusted to his ways of aloofness. When they noticed that he was using an old push bicycle as his mode of transport, they began to see more of his unusual ways combined with his ability, particularly, when he used innovative approaches in solving mathematical problems. If there was a problem for which there were two possible solutions, he was able to guide the students to find even six possible solutions. From his innovations, lessons could be learnt, which could be used throughout ones life. Within a short time, the students could fathom his academic strength, resulting in a high level of admiration for him.
It became known that when Valentine went abroad for his doctorate, he had to return empty-handed due mainly to the inability of the supervisors to agree with his concepts. This was not at all a surprise for the student community. During the latter stages of his carrier, as Prof.Valentine Joseph, his brilliance was noticed even among an array of all-time academic greats Eliezer, Mailvaganam, Amarasekara, Appapillai, Dahanayaka, Siriwardana, C.L. de Silva, and many more who were all from that 1956 era.
In 1995, when Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Science invited Prof. Joseph to deliver an oration on his pet subject 'Theory of Relativity' we had the opportunity of interacting with him and realizing that towards the latter part of his life, he had developed a cheerful disposition and a very friendly attitude towards his students. It was noteworthy that he had written out the speech in his own handwriting and distributed the copies. As one who had the privilege of discussing his interests leisurely at his residence, this writer was amazed by his deep knowledge of all religious philosophies including the doctrine of the Buddha.
Prof. Josephs passing away on March 16 was a major loss to the entire nation and in particular, to the academic community. Deepest condolences are offered to his wife, Antonia, children, Arulesh, Umesh, and all members of the family. May he attain his final liberation!
Das Miriyagalla
R. Kandiah
Kind-hearted philanthropist
It is a year since we lost our beloved Appa. His absence is felt even today as he was always a guiding light to our family, in-laws, and friends. He passed away aged 85 at his Colombo residence due to a medical negligence at a leading private hospital in Colombo. It was heart-wrenching for his loved ones to see him suffering during his last days.
A kind-hearted man, he never said no to anyone who approached him for help, advise, or recommendation. His timely help benefitted many people who are now holding responsible positions in private and government sectors and business here and abroad. He was a selfless man who motivated people around him to reach for the stars and helped them to achieve the same in every possible way.
Moreover, he never let any friend, relative, or needy leave his residence without a meal, and at times, with some cash. He believed that the left hand should not know what the right hand is giving, especially to a needy person. A true perfectionist'Didn't see,' 'Can't be done,' and 'Don't know'three phrases which he hated most in any language.
A brilliant student at school, he excelled in English and Mathematics. Even at 80 years, he voraciously read newspapers and magazines without spectacles and had the urge to learn more about new developments and discoveries. His memory was extraordinaryhe remembered every verse of Thirukkural (classic Tamil literature), which he learnt in year four at school and would quote at the right moment.
A visit to a tea estate during his school holidays etched into his memory, and he decided to become a successful tea businessman and to own a tea estate, which he did later in his life, owning three tea estates in the 80's and 90's in high, medium, and low-grown regions. The last estate he owned was in the Uva medium-region, which is today, one of the top-selling marks in that region. He was an encyclopaedia on tea industry in Sri Lanka and his knowledge of global tea trend was exemplary.
In 1981, he single-handedly set up a tea export firm, Eastern Produce Exports, which during the mid 80's, became one of the largest exporters of Pure Ceylon tea in retail packs to Egypt, providing employment to more than 125 workers every day of the week at three different locations. A widely-travelled businessman, he had tea business interests in Kolkata and Cochin, India. His success story will be insipid without our Amma, who took care of us, our education, and the home-front so Appa could concentrate fully on the business.
Being a family man, he loved to entertain his children, grand children, and family members at his residence with variety of food on the table. Albeit, a non-smoker and teetotaller, he had a mini bar at home exclusively for his friends and foreign clients.
Appa is no more, but his memory lingers in every nook and corner of the house and will be cherished by his loved ones forever!
Om shanthi!
L.P.Kandiah
Nesta Perera
Honourable friend
It is one year since Nesta Perera entered eternal glory to be with her marker. February 28, 2017 was her first death anniversary. She was my good friend Sumithra's mother-in-Law. She stayed with her youngest daughter, Carmin (A Medical doctor), in Negombo until her demise. She was a charming and exuberant host; she had more than the average share of a women's courage and steadfastnessnothing would tire her out.
She always had a pleasant and friendly disposition that was a better means to allay problems than a nice hunk of serious money. Aunty and uncle were always very hospitable hosts, not only providing the needs and wants of guests, but also performing too, singing and playing the piano. That way, the hospitality they offered was tremendous. I would say those were wonderful days with regular parties. Crowds at home after all, is a lot of funthey give you a heart full of joy. Life is about being happy, being who you are.
What I admired most about her was the casualness with which she went about her daily chores, the purposeful nonchalance as it were, with which she engaged in anything she did. It's not an absence of concern, but a calm, level-headed assuredness and trust in the method which are keys to accomplishment. She was also plain and open, free from ambiguity and pretense, and her spirit breathed the language of independence, tempered with kindness. That was one great gift she also bestowed upon her children.
She was educated only up-to grade 8. Though she had a tremendous capacity for studies, her mother didn't let her. Traditionally, girls those days were restricted to their homes, so in the face of her elder's opposition, she ended her schooling. She was just 13 years old.
After giving-up schooling, she was to stay and attend to home chores. Her departure from education and closure to the outside world may have caused her to be dejected, bored, and restless. It would have been a conflict between duty and desire, but after a time, as she says, she got psychologically adjusted, falling in line with her new role. You may not always have a comfortable life, and you will not always be able to solve all your problems at once, but the important thing is to have courage, and hope can take on a life of its own.
She had nine children whom she loved dearly and cared for with her life. Love for a child is when his or her happiness is more important than your own. Some very beautiful children they were, helping each other, lending things to each other, guiding and chaperoning younger ones, even acting like governesses and nannies. Aunty let them have total freedom to be themselves, that's what real love amounts toletting a child be what he or she really is. Motherhood, it is said, is a great honour and privilege, yet it is also synonymous with servanthood. Everyday women are called upon to selflessly meet the needs of their families. Whether they are awake at night nursing a sick child, or spending all her time preparing them for school or preparing meals. Mums continuously put others before themselves.
She loved us too, her sons-in-law. Always a very pleasant, cheerful, and delightful friend; I know her well enough to say that doubt didn't enter her instincts, ever. How else could she have achieved such enormous a workload single-handed. She infused her life with action. Didn't wait for it to happen. Made her own future, not by passively waiting for that to fall from the sky, but by doing what could be done herself.
Everyone's lives have illogical patterns. Hers sometimes could have been disorganized, even reckless, but she didn't do anything crooked. But I know whatever she did, she did with enthusiasm and interest. Sometimes, it is said, you're only given a little spark of madness; you mustn't lose it. There is a saying that goes like imperfection is beauty, madness is genius, and it's better to be absolutely ridiculous than be absolutely boring.'
I consider it inappropriate to write about aunty without mentioning uncle. There is an old-fashioned notion of what qualities are most important in a mate. It is proper to remember always that today is just today, that is all that it is, and realize that in this moment, I am fine and everything is okay. More importantly, you even realize that those insignificant things that you have done are appropriate for that occasion, and so, you are at ease.
I would say they were a happy family; to have a happy family you have to a happy marriage. Uncle loved aunty immensely, and thought a whale of a lot about Aunty's cooking. He must have been happy being married to a good cook, though that didn't mean that he was in the kitchen, helping in the cooking all the time. Uncle went fishing almost every-day. He was an angler, and had a fixed routine in angling (angling needs a great deal of attention), the art of fishing with the hook, line, and rod. Their Home stood by the roadside, opposite the Negomho lagoon; it had a fascinating aspect about it. The landscape was breathtaking, and to a fisherman, the ideal locale. Uncle was used to fishing with a small crowd every day. It is said that God never did make a more calm, quite, and innocent recreation than angling. It was for him, a way to relax after a hard day's work (at the time, he was in the civil service. A highly placed senior official of the Treasury) He knew everything about fishing. He himself grew up in a fishing village in Kalutara. He was to the fisher-folk, an advisor, mentor, and friend; he counseled them.
A compulsive preoccupation for them, their only idea being catching fish, any fish, even one fish, would have satisfied their ego, so they waited even till late for his arrivalarrival by train from office. Negombo is a world famous fishery town. People there eat a Jot of seafood. They'd go fishing, catch, and eat fisha ritualistic and obsessive past-time. On saturday mornings, customarily, all males make it their business to go fishing. The ladies would then clean the fish and fry them. Evenings would be spent in merriment, sharing cooked fish in the sweetness of friendship and laughter, invariably with booze, famously toddy and or arrack.
Nobody I knew tried to resist the temptation. Everyone liked aunty. She talked with everyone she met. and with everyone, she was able to smile. Her indefeasible duty was to be of good cheer. She had an inner urge to be of assistance to those in needto soothe and placate those in distress.
She was liberal in giving and sharing, giving assistance and relief in whatever way she could with no wish of anything in return. As if obligated, she tried always to ease and relieve the pain of others. Poor relations sort support from her when in difficulty, and she didn't let them down. Nesta lived to be 98, and she knew that people liked her. She never had enemies, and led a tranquil and steady life. She went to church often. She was a choir-singer and was in the public eye, always regarded with honour and esteem.
May her soul rest in peace and rise in glory.
Prabath Perera
Tributeto Jeramias Dias
Bliss supreme to thee, Jeramias Dias,
The noble founder of Visakha Vidyalaya,
On this anniversary day of your demise,
Visakhians join together
to commemorate your scared name!
The great philanthropist of this modern era,
The devout Buddha Upasika
in the real sense,
The priceless gem among womankind,
Jeramias Dias, thou art a model
of edifying virtues!
It is a deep debt of gratitude indeed,
The Visakhians of all times owe you,
For the invaluable service you rendered,
In the cause of Buddhist education
and culture.
The venerated mother of Visakhians,
Your faithful and grateful daughters,
Have repaid your services of love
and integrity,
By being custodians of moral
and spiritual treasures,
Jeramias Dias, your exemplary
life of plan living and high thinking,
Is a beacon light to guide the Visakhians,
On the straight path of virtue and wisdom,
To reach the goal of Pannaya Parisujjathi
In deference to your expectations,
high and noble,
Your faithful daughters of Visakha Vidyalaya,
Leave no stone unturned
in their untiring efforts,
And rewarding results are gained
in the fields of science, arts,
and mathematics.
Jeramias Dias, magnanimous
lady of far-sighted vision,
Your dreams come true every year,
When your daughters shine
in all walks of life,
As eminent luminaries
of outstanding brilliance.
By the merit that the Visakhians acquire,
In the Buddha pooja, Dhamma desana,
all-night pirith, and alms-giving,
May you be blessed as you journey through Sansara,
Until your final path is donethis
attainment of supreme bliss of nirvana.
- Jayasumana Robertson
==============================
## Title: Army holds Sooriya Mangallya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Army holds Sooriya Mangallya
The Sooriya Mangallya, the annual auspicious event of traditional New Year games and other associated fun-making events, was held at the Colombo Malay cricket club on April 7.
Army Commander Lieutenant General Crishanthe De Silva graced the occasion as its Chief Guest together with Army Seva Vanitha Unit President Nayana De Silva, and a host of other senior officers, including the Deputy Chief of Staff and Senior Officers.
The Chief Guest was welcomed by Senior Officers before hoisting of the national flag and the Army flag by the Army Commander and the Deputy Chief of Staff.
A 2-minute silence by all attendees recalled the memory of fallen War Heroes before the traditional oil lamp lighting got underway with the participation of the Chief Guest and a representative gathering of all wings in the Army.
The chain of collective events began to get off the ground soon after separate organisers gathered at specific places to flag off each event.
A cross-country marathon run that took place early in the morning was competed by hundreds of all ranks serving the Army Headquarters before the main ceremony got off the ground after the Chief Guests arrival.
Traditional and merry-making games and collective competitions dominated the days agenda.
The model, Gemi Gedara in the premises with its elegantly-clad occupants symbolised the rites and rituals, associated with the tea table, filled with traditional sweetmeats and attracted spectators as the surroundings in the Gemi Gedara were coloured by typical villagers and beautiful damsels, dressed in New Year clothes. A few features, presented by wheelchair-riding disabled War Heroes and other physically handicapped War Heroes were among the days highlights.
Officers, several ASVU executive members, other rankers, invitees and members of the civil staff witnessed the sequence of events with joy.
A mini music entertainment by Army Ranaviru Real Star participants added musicality to the flow of the event. The Army Commander presented the prizes to the winners.
==============================
## Title: Asalanka double takes St. Johns Panadura to final
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Asalanka double takes St. Johns Panadura to final
St. Johns College Panadura entered the final of the Singer Trophy Under 19 division two 2-day inter schools cricket tournament when they scored a first innings win over Rahula College Matara in the semi-final played at Mahinda Rajapaksha International Cricket stadium Sooriyawewa yesterday.
Rahula batting first were bowled out 150 with Thanuja Akalanka taking 5 wickets for 37 runs.
St. Johns Panadura scored 169 runs for 5 wickets with Akalanka top scoring with 85 and Sithum Pramodya an unbeaten 45.
Scores:
Rahula: 150 in 61.5 overs (Piruna Hewa Maddumage 39, Bhagya Himath 34, Thanuja Akalanka 5/37)
St. Johns: 169/5 (79/1 o/n) in 78.2 overs (Sithum Pramod 85, Thanuj Akalanka 45, Pasan Samaratunge 2/26)- YK
==============================
## Title: Auspicious time foe new year - 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Auspicious time foe new year - 2017
==============================
## Title: Barcelona fall to shock Malaga defeat
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Barcelona fall to shock Malaga defeat
MADRID, Saturday - Neymar was sent off as Barcelona suffered a shock 2-0 defeat at Malaga on Saturday that scuppered their hopes of going top of La Liga and handed control of the title race to leaders to Real Madrid.
Zinedine Zidane's Real were held to a 1-1 draw with Atletico Madrid in the capital derby earlier in the day, giving Barcelona the chance to go top on goal difference, but Luis Enriques side squandered the opportunity and now sit three points behind Los Blancos, who have played a game less.
Former Barcelona striker Sandro Ramirez opened the scoring for Malaga with a breakaway goal in the 32nd minute before Jony added a 90th-minute second for the hosts.
Neymar was shown his second yellow card and dismissed midway through the second half.
Luis Enrique was angry with several of referee Gil Manzanos decisions, including the award of a free kick rather than a penalty after Charles fouled Sergi Roberto in the box.
It's curious that a team like us that doesn't usually kick people gets so many yellow cards in such an incomprehensible manner, he said.
There was some very ugly tackles from behind from their team which didnt see them get booked and others committed by us which were given yellows.
The rules are there to be interpreted, but equally for everyone. I dont understand how the foul on Sergi Roberto was given outside the area, but we are used to it.
After the Madrid derby ended in a draw a victory at La Rosaleda would have sent Barcelona level with Madrid on 72 points.
Barcelona started well but Juankars long ball caught the visitors off guard and Sandro beat Jeremy Mathieu for pace before finishing past Marc-Andre ter Stegen with aplomb.
Neymar was booked in the first half for tying his laces in front of a Malaga player trying to take a free kick and received his marching orders for a late tackle on Diego Llorente in the 65th minute.
Adalberto Penaranda put the ball in the net for Malaga but his effort was incorrectly ruled out for offside. Malaga grabbed a second at the death, however, with the excellent Pablo Fornals unselfishly teeing up Jony. Earlier on Saturday, Madrid handed their arch-rivals the chance to depose them at the top of the table, as Antoine Griezmann grabbed an 85th-minute equaliser for Atletico.
Pepe opened the scoring for Real with a looping header in the 52nd minute and it looked like the hosts would earn victory, until the Frenchman intervened late on, reaching Angel Correas through ball and slotting home.
Madrid coach Zidane put the dropped points down to a lapse in concentration.
It was a great performance (from Real), but we just lost concentration for five minutes, he said.
I cant say that Atletico played well. We didnt get the second goal and we suffered.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Bertie Wijesinha cricketer nonpareil
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Bertie Wijesinha cricketer nonpareil
Bertie Wijesinha and cricket are synonymous. There is hardly a role in cricket this octogenarian has not fulfilled. Wijesinha was the oldest living Sri Lankan cricketer at 96 until his demise yesterday. C Ievers Gunasekara who passed away at the age of 90 in 2010 and Wijesinha were of the same age with Wijesinha being older by just two months. Wijesinha was born on May 24, 1920.
Whenever these so-called Big Matches are played between two time-honoured schools Royal and S. Thomas, the name of Wijesinha is bound to surface for the impact he made as a schoolboy at S. Thomas between 1936 and 1939. In those four years he distinguished himself as an all-rounder par excellence and it was due to the lack of international competition during the forties and fifties that cricketers of his calibre failed to get the due recognition and failed to be ranked with some of the worlds best all-rounders of that period like Keith Miller and Vinoo Mankad.
Playing in his first Royal-Thomian encounter at the age of 15 in 1936 is a memory which Wijesinha cherishes very much even today. We live on those memories. I remember I happened to go in when 6 wickets were down for 65 and Norman Siebel was batting at the other end. When I got out at 57 we had passed the 200-run mark. Siebel went onto score 151 not out, Wijesinha said in an interview.
That innings set off my career. From there onwards I never had to look back. I went on getting better and better because the love for the game was always there. It had not so much to do well but to be a part of the team was the greatest joy we had. It gave me a lot of satisfaction and to perform well was a bonus, he said.
The following year (1937), Wijesinha scored yet another fifty (55) and then proceeded to bowl the Thomians to a three-wicket win taking a match bag of seven wickets, baffling the Royal batting with his right-arm medium-pace and spin. Royal hit back in 1938 to avenge that defeat thrashing S Thomas by an innings. Wijesinhas contribution was 0 and 22 with the bat and two wickets. In his final year (1939) as captain, the Thomians defeated a strong Royal team comprising CI Gunasekara, the Kretser brothers EF and RL and Edward Kelaart by five wickets. Wijesinha signed off in style hitting twin fifties (63 and 70) and capturing four wickets in the match. Wijesinhas other contemporaries at Royal were Lucien de Zoysa, Pat McCarthy and Sathi Coomaraswamy.
While at school Wijesinha also played cricket for SSC. One of the matches which stand out in his memory is against Tamil Union in the forties. SSC had lost six wickets and I joined CI Gunasekara and we carried the total to 212. I happened to get a 100 and we managed to get 300 in the end. We won that game and it is one innings that stands out.
Looking back over the years Wijesinha said the game gave him a great deal of pleasure. It was an honour in those days to play for the country. We had no monetary inducements and we found it very difficult to combine work and play.
My first international match was against West Indies in 1948 and I was teaching at S. Thomas. When I asked for permission to leave for the match from the warden of the school he said, oh yes, Bertie you can go but you must teach two periods before you go. I was living in Mt. Lavinia and after teaching two periods I had to rush with my clothes and bag to the main road to catch a bus to go to Bambalapitiya and from there another bus to go to Borella. Then walk from Borella junction to the P Sara Oval (Colombo Oval then). We thought nothing of it in those days, occasionally we got a lift from somebody but it was part and parcel of the days work, said Wijesinha.
Another incident Wijesinha recalled was when he was employed as Sports Editor of the The Daily News at Lake House. We played in an era for the love of the game. We went through a lot of hardships. Being a newspaperman I had unusual hours of work. I used to play in matches and go back and complete the sports pages.
After playing in an international match I had to return to Lake House and look after the work there and sometimes I didnt finish till 10 pm. I had to go back the next day and play cricket. We had no transport in those days and we travelled on bicycle or public transport. Even to go for cricket practices I had to take an hour off from work, go for practice and come back and continue the work. It was generally a hard life.
Wijesinha had a desire to not only play the game but also to write about it. So when the post of Sports Editor fell vacant in 1953 he applied for it and got the job. He held it till 1972 and quit when the establishment was taken over by the government.
I had a desire to write something about the game which seemed to have been neglected in those days. There were no essays on cricket only the scores and description of play. I felt there was something lacking there which I would like to rectify and when I got the opportunity I seized upon it. The response was very good I never had any feedback so I gather what I wrote was acceptable.
Wijesinha also coached his alma mater from 1946-1953 and Trinity College from 1971 to 1976 before migrating to England where he spent ten years doing a clerical job at NAAFI (Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes). Along with one of his contemporaries Lucien de Zoysa, they formed a unique partnership providing ball-by-ball cricket commentaries on radio for 30 years on the Royal-Thomian and international cricket matches played by Sri Lanka.
Reflecting on the game then and now Wijesinha said the game had improved in leaps and bounds and it was more professional today. We played as amateurs entirely for the love of the game. Now it has become professional and so the standard naturally has improved.
We had an international match once in two years or when a team was passing through. Players like FC de Saram, Sargo Jayawickrama, M Sathasivam, CI Gunasekara, Sathi Coomaraswamy didnt get the opportunities that the present day cricketers enjoy. If the opportunities were given at the time our cricket would have improved naturally because we were willing to learn. Whatever standards we achieved we were always willing to learn and improve on it so we used to read a lot, said Wijesinha.
We just went and practiced there was no coach or support teams. When we stepped onto the field we try to remember what we had read about them, their strong points and so on. The only way of information about the opposition was by reading about them. I would stress that during our time we did a lot of reading. We read everything about cricket that was available and newspaper cuttings of articles written by international writers.
We sometimes went into a match without having met many of the players in the team. There were times the captain didnt know the names of some of the players. It was ridiculous the captain hadnt met some of the players till he got onto the field of play. Once you got onto the field we got to know each other.
If there is one form of cricket that Wijesinha detested it was the limited-over and Twenty20.
I dont like limited-over cricket in whatever form. It is a travesty of the game. Twenty20 is a mockery of the game. It is the greatest tragedy that has happened to cricket. Of course there is a lot of money in it thats why they are all playing, Wijesinha said.
Limited-over and T20 cricket has made bowlers to become more defensive, they are bowling not to get wickets but to stop getting hit and therefore the standard drops whereas in a normal game you try all your tricks to get wickets.
I hate to mention names but see what has happened to Ajantha Mendis. Hes been found out and he is not as effective as he has been because he has been exposed to the limited-over and T20 games. He has to bowl defensively whereas in a normal game he bowls to attack.
People might say that I am old fashioned then I would say the difference between listening to classical music and to a baila. I am old fashioned listening to good classical music and not liking the baila that doesnt make me old fashioned, does it Its a matter of taste, Wijesinha once said.
==============================
## Title: Cab crashes into parked lorry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Cab crashes into parked lorry
A double cab plying along the Colombo-Puttalam road crashed into a lorry parked at Mudithagama, Nochchiyagama on April 7.
The impact had pushed the lorry to a distance of 20-metres and crashed against a high voltage electricity pylon breaking it into two. The accident resulted in interrupting the electricity supply in the area around 11.30 p.m.
The van driver, Gihan Weeratunge (36), a resident of the Anuradhapura Stage 2 area, sustained minor injuries and was admitted to the Nochchiyagama Hospital, Nochchiyagama police said.
The lorry transporting a refrigerator to Vavuniya had been parked by the wayside, while its driver had gone to a nearby hotel when the accident occurred.
Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Chelsea in champion form at Bournemouth
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Chelsea in champion form at Bournemouth
LONDON, Saturday - Chelsea had the look of champions again as they maintained their comfortable seven-point advantage at the top of the Premier League with a 3-1 victory at Bournemouth on Saturday -- but Tottenham Hotspur will not give up the chase.
After Son Heung-min had scored twice in Spurs 4-0 thrashing of Watford at White Hart Lane to cut Chelsea's lead temporarily to four points, Antonio Conte's men responded emphatically in the late game at Dean Court to move on to 75 points.
Chelsea were aided by Adam Smith's own goal before the outstanding Eden Hazard slid home a second and Marcos Alonso curled home a stunning freekick. Josh King scored his 13th league goal of the season in response.
The pack chasing Chelsea, headed by Spurs, all won earlier. Fourth-placed Manchester City beat relegation-threatened Hull City 3-1 with Sergio Aguero among the scorers at The Etihad Stadium.
Liverpool, who are third but have played more games than their rivals, left it late as substitutes Philippe Coutinho and Roberto Firmino earned a precious 2-1 victory at Stoke City.
At the bottom West Ham United eased their relegation fears when they ended a five-match losing streak with a 1-0 victory over third-from-bottom Swansea City at London Stadium.
Second-from-bottom Middlesbrough's hopes of beating the drop are slipping away though after they could only draw 0-0 at home to Burnley -- stretching their winless run to 14 league games.
Elsewhere, Southampton won 1-0 at West Bromwich Albion.
In a potentially tricky visit to the sun-drenched south coast, Chelsea started in dominant fashion and led when Diego Costa's effort deflected in off the unlucky Smith.
There was no luck about their second goal, however, with Hazard, one of the Premier League's outstanding attacking players, collecting N'Golo Kante's pass with a superb touch before searing past Artur Boruc and finishing from an angle.
The in-from King pulled a goal back for the hosts but the visitors had too much quality and sealed the win when the often unheralded Alonso curled home a breathtaking free kick to cap an impressive personal performance.
When you have this type of opponent [Tottenham] who is in good form and wants to catch you, it is important to have a good answer. This is a good answer, Conte told the BBC.
There are seven games to go and in England it is not easy, there is a lot of pressure. It's normal to have a good pressure [after Spurs won].
Tottenham chalked up a sixth successive victory, Dele Alli scoring a superb goal -- his 16th of the season in the league -- and Eric Dier doubling the lead before Son's brace.
Spurs will be hoping Manchester United, Chelsea's next opponents, can do them a favour by beating the Blues. - Agencies
==============================
## Title: Chinese workers demand protection after thief slashes colleague
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Chinese workers demand protection after thief slashes colleague
The management of the China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation engaged in the extension of the Matara  Beliatta railway had asked for police protection after one of their staffers was slashed by a thief on Saturday.
Gu Feng, CMCs Manager HSE Development of the Sri Lanka Railway project said the company was extremely concerned about the safety of the 2,300 employees working day and night to complete the project which is already behind schedule.
Out of the 2,300 employees, 380 are Chinese. He said employees attached to the railway project had been attacked by villagers and members of organized gangs before. He also stated that there are organized gangs who are said to demand fuel and other material from those engaged in the project and assault those who do not comply. He added that the private security firms are unable to deal with organized crime.
The incident occurred at about 4 am on Saturday when 31-year-old Zhang Fei, head of the survey team was suddenly woken up due to a sound and had seen a stranger in his room. As there was hi-tech survey equipment valued at over Rs. 3.5 million in his room, he had immediately grappled with the intruder. On hearing the commotion in the room, his co-workers had broken down the door and come to his assistance by which time the assailant had slashed Fei in an attempt to get away. The assailant, a member of a three-member gang, had entered Feis room through a window.
Zhang Fei who was admitted to the emergency ward of the District General Hospital, Matara has been working on the Matara  Beliatta Railway extension project since its inception in 2013.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (10-04-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (10-04-2017)]
Thyroxine for life
When I asked the panel of doctors, chaired by Dr. Amal Harsha De Silva, Deputy Director General for Health Services, at the Medicare exhibition held recently at the BMICH, inter alia, whether there is any permanent cure for hyper-thyroidism, the learned doctor/pediatrician Prof Sanath Lamabadusuriya said in response that it is Thyroxine for life and that there is no permanent cure as such and also mentioned that the drug prescribed for this hormone deficiency is very cheap. He also went on to say that all the babies, about 360,000 born annually (if I remember right) will have to undergo the relevant test for thyroid issues in the near future.
Maybe, that is true for Allopathy about the non-availability of a permanent cure but I am writing this letter to know whether there is any permanent cure in Homeopathy or Ayurveda or any other native medical practice.
Mohamed Zahran
Colombo
==============================
## Title: Coconut cultivation in Hambantota encouraged
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Coconut cultivation in Hambantota encouraged
The Coconut Development Board has initiated several programmes to develop coconut cultivation in the Hambantota district.
Under the programmes, Rs. 25 is granted for a coconut tree planted in dolomite mixed soil, board sources said.
Rs. 8,000 and water will be provided for an acre of coconut cultivation and Rs. 3,500 will be granted to construct a cattle shed on a coconut cultivated land.
King coconut saplings will be provided for two acres, the sources said.
Three to 15 king coconut saplings will be provided for the lands less than a quarter of acre.
Domestic coconut cultivation will be provided with saplings for two acres, they said.
Thirty kg of carbonic manure will be provided for one plant, the sources said.
==============================
## Title: Colombo FC wins City League Presidents Cup
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Colombo FC wins City League Presidents Cup
Colombo FC won the City League Presidents Cup when they beat Java Lane by 4-3 on a penalty shootout after scores were equalized 1-1 in the finals at City League Football complex on Saturday.
In the semi finals, Java Lane beat Moragasmulla SC 2-0 and Colombo FC beat Renown SC 2-1.
Both teams produced an aggressive playing style but Naveen Jude scored the first goal for Java Lane in the eighth minute to take the lead at half time 1-0. In the second half Colombo FC scored a scintillating goal through Zarwan Johar when Dilan Kaushalya passed the ball from right corner in the 53rd minute to equalize the score.
Malaka Perera, Lakmal Perera and Mohamed Aleem were successful in scoring a goal each for Java Lane in the penalty shootout. Afis Olayemi, M. Yapo and Ahamed Shazny scored to make it 3-3. In the 6th penalty kick Java Lanes Revin Kumar failed to score a goal while Zarwan Johar netted the ball and secured the City League President Cup for Colombo FC. Two yellow cards were issued to Ahamed Shazny and Afis Olayemi of Colombo FC and one to Java Lanes Fahim Nizamdeen.
The Best Goal-Keeper award was won by Dhammika Senarath of Java Lane while Zarwan Johar won the Best Player of the Final award.
The champions were rewarded with a glittering City League President Cup and Rs. 150,000 cash prize and the runner-up team with a trophy and Rs. 100,000.
==============================
## Title: Cricket, The New Battleground For Protests
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Shows
## Date: Friday, April 7, 2017 - 11:30
Cricket, The New Battleground For Protests

==============================
## Title: A day in the life on fearless mountain
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
A day in the life on fearless mountain
Ajahn Pasanno appears out of the woods, walks up a few steps and plunks himself down in a comfortable wicker chair on the front porch of Abhayagiri "Fearless Mountain" Monastery in Redwood Valley.
The day is coming to a close and the peace and the quiet of the place is what is noticeable. The only noise is the distant sound of a lawnmower, which almost seems to come from some other world, a world different from this one. Ajahn, means teacher and is used in place of a first name for the abbot of the monastery. Pasanno means "one having faith and joy," the name his teacher bestowed on him when he was still a novice.
It is difficult to imagine Ajahn as a young man in a secular sense, now that he is of middle age, with a shaved head and clothed in a simple mustard-colored robe. It seems he was always this person he is now. But Ajahn's journey began in the 1970s as a young man when he left his home in Manitoba, Canada after finishing his university studies to travel the far reaches of the world. He rambled through Europe, Afghanistan and India, not seeking to become a Buddhist monk but visiting various holy places along the way.
It wasn't until he arrived in the north of Thailand that he began to feel a sense of belonging. In order to learn more about Buddhism, he attended some classes at a monastery called Wat Nong Bah north of Chiang Mai. "I was just passing through, but the Thai society seemed to have a whole different value system. I felt at home," he said.
After a month-long stay, the Abbot of the monastery suggested the young man consider ordination with an initial goal of remaining three or four months. Although he was not yet sure what he was getting into, he was willing to give it a try. He took on the robes of a forest dwelling monk thinking it would be only for a short time that was the beginning of the life he still lives now, more than 30 years later.
"You are not required to make a life-long commitment," Ajahn says, "It just happened."
The monk says he didn't have any intuition that he would lead a monastic life.
"When I began it was to learn how to meditate." But, he says, "at one point, it didn't seem possible to go back."
Thus the young monk began a practice where monks wear plain robes and shave their heads in an effort to let go of their own personal preferences.
"Doing this, is about simplification," Ajahn says. "We renounce the world because of the peace that comes from it. The quality of peace we can access and dwell in is deeply satisfying.
"I encourage people that peace and well-being are a possibility for your life - to explore that for your life. I encourage people to use the tools of a virtuous life."
An Abhayagiri pamphlet lists the "The Eight Precepts" for leading such a life: 1. Harmlessness: not intentionally taking the life of any living creature. 2. Trustworthiness: not taking anything which is not given. 3. Celibacy: refraining from any sexual activity. 4. Right Speech: avoiding false, abusive or malicious speech. 5. Sobriety: not taking any intoxicating drink or drugs. 6. Renunciation: not eating after mid-day. 7. Restraint: Not seeking entertainment, playing radios or musical instruments. Dressing in a modest, unadorned way that does not attract attention. 8. Alertness: refraining from over-indulgence in sleep.
Choosing to live amidst the beauty that surrounds Fearless Mountain may not seem to be renouncing the world at all, but Ajahn Pasanno says, "we even try to renounce the beauty. Most people try to get more of everything. Then when they get more they feel a loss when they lose it and don't have it anymore. Then they lament the separation.
"A monk gets to the place of stillness. It is not rejecting anything - it's another aspect of life that most people don't pay attention to."
There are eight monks who live at Abhayagiri, plus one novice and one postulate in training, all living on 250 acres of almost untouched forest land, originally a gift from the late abbot of the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas in Ukiah - Master Hsuan Hua. Master Hua dreamed of bringing the Northern and Southern Traditions of Buddhism together again where they could relate in an atmosphere of mutual respect and harmony.
The monastery was founded by two teachers, Ajahn Sumedho, and Ajahn Amaro after they developed a devoted following in Northern California in the1980s. The original Abhayagiri was in ancient Sri Lanka at Anuradhapura and although it follows the Theravada branch of Buddhism, the monastery was known for accepting both teachers and practitioners from many different Buddhist traditions.
"The monastery currently has more people who want to come here and be monks than the facility can handle," Ajahn says.
A monk named Sudanto, meaning "one who trains himself well" calls Abhayagiri, "a zone of peace people can use as a community resource." He explains the monastery's connection with the community as, "an interrelationship that keeps us (the monks) relevant, as a peaceful presence - people with deep knowledge and experience of the Buddhist teachings of peace and wholeness."
The day on Fearless Mountain begins at 4 a.m. Then from 5-6 a.m. they begin their spiritual practice with meditation and chanting. These reflections set a tone of the mind during the day. 6:30-7 a.m. there are some general chores, cleaning up and a light breakfast. At 7:30 a.m. the monks meet to delegate chores - maintenance, cooking, office tasks and the job of maintaining the miles of trails which circle through the forests. After chores, the monks have their main meal from 10:30-11 a.m.
When it comes to food, the forest dwelling monks are alms mendicants. Not allowed to plant or pick their own food, they rely on gifts. The monks can be seen on Fridays walking through the center of town collecting gifts of food.
"This creates interdependence with the lay community. We don't want to be completely cut off,"Ajahn said.
He explains this synergistic relationship. "People from the community come to the monastery to gain more simplicity, more well being. We give the opportunity for people to have the way of living, which is more peaceful, more fulfilling. Sharing our life is sort of the by-product. If one's goal is to teach, it can be distorted. Refocus on the quality of our lives and that becomes an example to others."
Ajahn is suddenly explaining some of the core elements of a monastic life. "The more the I' can get out of the way, the more peaceful things become. The monks spend the remainder of the daylight hours in their cabins where they do various forms of meditation - both traditional sitting, and walking. Ajahn explains: "Outside each cabin is a level 50-foot path where the monks develop sustaining attention on the walking - recognition of words and mental states. "
At 5:30 in the afternoon the community gathers once again for tea. This is the time for guidance by the teacher. Help also comes from the community at large - mental support from other monks. Even monks learn from each other's foibles. Asked if monks maintain personality traits like senses of humor, Ajahn says that even ascetic monks remain individuals and some are known for their enlightened sense of humor.
At 6:30 p.m. there is a reading where monks can ask questions, then from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m., evening chanting and meditation.
Many questions, of course, will arise even in those experiencing blissful states of mind. Ajahn explains, "of course there is a longing to repeat that experience. We don't want to be dependent on anything. The enlightened are not dependent on anything for their happiness. Although,"he is quick to add, "there is a quality of compassion. But we strive for separation from attachments that create entanglements. We are conditioned to think we need certain things for our well-being."
Too much eating or sleeping creates complications in life. Ajahn laughs as he mentions just how much of everything people seem to need to be happy. And then, he asks, are they ever really happy
As the sun is ready to drop behind the mountains to the west, Ajahn Pasanno is eager to show a "walking meditation."
High up on the mountainside at the end of a path curving between the manzanita trees, is a small cabin where the monk spends most of his time in meditation.
Beside the cabin is a 50-foot dirt path where he thoughtfully, mindfully walks with his eyes sometimes closed, sometimes open.
- The Ukiah Daily Journal
==============================
## Title: Death of army corporal : Investigations launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Death of army corporal : Investigations launched
Kekirawa Police have launched investigations into the death of an Army corporal who is said to have committed suicide by hanging himself while on duty at a residence of a Major General at Kandana recently. This follows a complaint made to Kekirawa Police by the corporals parents that they entertained suspicions about the real cause of death.
The corporals father had stated in their complaint that an army team arrived at their house in Kekirawa on April 6 and informed that their son had been admitted to Ragama Hospital following a motor accident. The team took him and two others with them to visit the son in the hospital. But without going to the hospital, they were taken to an army camp at Ragama and told that the son had committed suicide. The Major General thereafter advised them to take the body home without creating an incident.
D.S.K. Seneviratne, a brother of the deceased, alleged that when they went to Kandana Police station to lodge a complaint about the indignity faced by them at the Ragama hospital, an officer connected him to the phone to a person identified as a coroner and the person at the other end threatened to file legal action against them for disrespecting court orders. So they brought the body to Kekirawa without lodging any complaint.
The mother of the deceased said her son had no personal problems to end his life this way.
Kekiriawa Police has provided security to the house where the corporals body is kept and re-started investigations to the death after reporting the matter to court.
Following a magisterial inquiry at the house on April 8 night, the corporals body was taken to the Anuradhaprua hospital, family members said.
==============================
## Title: Dengue under control in Trincomalee district
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 12:00
Dengue under control in Trincomalee district

Regional Health Services Director P. Kayalvizhi said today that the spread of Dengue in Trincomalee district is now under control.
He said this at a conference held at the Medical Officers of Health (MOH) office in Trincomalee.
The total number of individuals affected by the decrease in Trincomalee district was 3,438 and 15 have died, the Health Services Director said.
==============================
## Title: Divisional Secretaries to receive new official buildings: Vajira
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Divisional Secretaries to receive new official buildings: Vajira
Home Affairs Minister Vajira Abeywardena said his ministry had introduced a programme to construct official buildings for the Divisional Secretaries.
He was addressing a meeting of government servants on April 8 at the Panadura Division Secretariat after laying the foundation stone to a three-storey building to house the office of the Secretariat. The construction will cost the government Rs. 11,100 lakh.
He said the aim of the project is to decentralise officials duties to provide a better service to the public on the instructions of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
The Grama Rajya Concept mooted by the Prime Minister would be an excellent programme. It would add colours to the development programmes. The public could take part in this programme after its new rules and regulations are made known to the public soon, he said.
The Government is to spend billions to construct the new buildings and renovate the existing ones, he said.
The minister said the country will not be divided or sold its parts to a foreign country. The Constitution has no clause that empowers someone to sell the country, he said. He said opponents of the government spread rumours that the LG election will be postponed. Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa had not taken steps to demarcate respective wards that resulted in the delay, the minister said.
The present Government has to correct it first to hold the LG elections.
He requested the public to cooperate with the Yahapalana Government to get their fair shares.
All election promises would be fulfilled before the next general election. So Refrain from going after rumour mongers who opposed every good work of the Government, he said.
The Minister said Panadura Urban Council Former Chairman and Panadura Electorate UNP Chief Organiser paid a glowing tribute to the Government for launching a range of development programmes in the electorate.
Skills Development and Vocational Training Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe, and Panadura Urban Council Former Chairman Nandena Gunatilleke participated.
==============================
## Title: Doctor couple released on Police bail
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Doctor couple released on Police bail
A doctor couple that tried to climb on to the water tower at the Colombo National Hospital on April 8 night was apprehended by Police and later released on Police bail. Investigations revealed that the couple included a 33-year-old male doctor and a 29-year-old female doctor attached to the Colombo National Hospital who are due to be married.
Maradana Police are trying to ascertain the motive behind their attempt to climb the water tower.
==============================
## Title: Each citizen in debt of Rs. 400a,000: Sajith
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Each citizen in debt of Rs. 400a,000: Sajith
Each citizen of the country is indebted to the tune of Rs. 400,000 Housing and Constructions Minister Sajith Premadasa said.
He was addressing a meeting after opening the Sirijayagama housing project at Tissapura in Tissamaharama. The minister said the Hambantota district houses 190,000 families and of them, 180,000 have no proper shelters.
He said he was not against setting up of the Hambantota harbour, but what is worrying is the non-arrival of ships at the port. The minister said a burning issue of the people in the district has been the lack of housing, but the previous regime was unable to fulfil that need.
With the Presidential Task Force, we are now implementing programmes to eradicate alcoholism and popularise home gardening, make aware of food security, environment conservation, and preventive measures of kidney diseases, the minister said.
He said 604 people will be granted Visiri housing loans and 287 will be awarded Silpa Saviya benefits. In the Tissamaharama DS area, 300 will be provided with health and sanitary care facilities.Minister Sajith said four Congress members of the United Nations toured Hambantota a couple of months ago, and they pledged support for housing projects that the minister implements.
==============================
## Title: Egypt declares state of emergency after deadly church attacks
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 12:30
Egypt declares state of emergency after deadly church attacks

Egypt's President Abdul Fattah al-Sisi has announced a three-month state of emergency after attacks on two Coptic churches that left at least 44 dead.
The measure allows authorities to make arrests without warrants and search people's homes. It needs to be approved by parliament before it is implemented.
So-called Islamic State (IS) said it was behind the blasts in Tanta and Alexandria on Palm Sunday.
The group has targeted Copts in Egypt recently and warns of more attacks.
Sisi made a defiant speech at the presidential palace after a meeting of the national defence council to discuss the explosions.
He warned that the war against the jihadists would be "long and painful", and said that the state of emergency would come into force after all "legal and constitution steps" were taken. The majority in parliament backs Sisi.
The president had earlier ordered the deployment of the military across the country to protect "vital and important infrastructure".
The attacks coincided with one of the holiest days in the Christian calendar, marking the triumphal entry of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem.
IS said that two suicide bombers carried out the blasts. One targeted St George's Coptic Church in the northern city of Tanta, where 27 people were killed, the health ministry said.
Hours later, police stopped the bomber from entering the St Mark's Coptic Church in Alexandria, also in the north. He detonated his explosives outside, leaving 17 dead, including several police officers.
Copts in Egypt: Recent developments
December 2016:25 people diedwhen a bomb exploded at the Coptic cathedral in Cairo during a service. IS said it was behind the attack
February 2016:A court sentencedthree Christian teenagersto five years in prison for insulting Islam. They had appeared in a video, apparently mocking Muslim prayers, but claimed they had been mocking IS following a number of beheadings
April 2013:Two people were killedoutside St Mark's cathedral in Cairo when people mourning the death of four Coptic Christians killed in religious violence clashed with local residents
The blasts came weeks before an expected visit by Pope Francis intended to show support for the country's Christians, who make up about 10% of Egypt's population and have long complained of being vulnerable and marginalised.
This sense of precariousness has only increased in recent years, with the rise of violent jihadism in parts of Egypt, the BBC's Arab affairs editor Sebastian Usher says.
The community's trust in the state's ability and willingness to protect them will now be even more deeply shaken after the attacks, our correspondent adds.
The move by Sisi is likely to raise concerns among human rights activists, observers say. The president, a former army chief, has been criticised by local and international groups for severe restrictions on civil and political rights in Egypt.
Human Rights Watch saystens of thousands of people have been arrested in a crackdown on dissent, and that security forces have committed flagrant abuses, including torture, enforced disappearances and likely extrajudicial executions.
The Coptic Orthodox Church is the main Christian Church in Egypt. While most Copts live in Egypt, the Church has about a million members outside the country.
Copts believe that their Church dates back to around 50 AD, when the Apostle Mark is said to have visited Egypt. Mark is regarded as the first Pope of Alexandria - the head of their church.
This makes it one of the earliest Christian groups outside the Holy Land.
The Church separated from other Christian denominations at the Council of Chalcedon (451 AD) in a dispute over the human and divine nature of Jesus Christ.
The early Church suffered persecution under the Roman Empire, and there were intermittent persecutions after Egypt became a Muslim country. Many believe that continues to this day.
==============================
## Title: Establishment of the teaching
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Establishment of the teaching
The significance of Bak poya is historical, since it marks Buddhas second visit to Sri Lanka. This is noteworthy, as Bak is a month of national importance as well.
According to Mahavamsa, Buddha could foresee an imminent war between two Naga Kings Culodara and Mahodara, uncle and nephew, over a jewel-studded throne that made Him think of visiting Lanka for the second time. Professor Wilhelm Geiger explains the conflict in the translation of Mahavamsa: That same Naga Mahodara was then a King, gifted with miraculous power in a Naga Kingdom in the ocean, that covered half a thousand Yojanas. His younger sister had been given (in marriage) to the Naga-King on the Kannavaddhamana mountain; her son was Culodara. His mothers father had given to his mother a splendid throne of jewels, then the Naga had died and therefore this war of nephew with uncle was threatening and also the Nagas of the mountains were armed with miraculous power.
Mahavamsa also records that the Buddha was accompanied by a deity to Sri Lanka.
The deva named Samiddhisumana took a rajayatana-tree standing in Jetavana, his own fair habitation and holding it like a parasol over the conqueror, he with the Teachers leave, attended him to that spot where he had formerly dwelt. That very deva had been, in his latest birth, a man in Nagadipa.
On the spot where thereafter the rajayatana-tree stood, he saw paccekabuddhas taking their meal. And at the sight his heart was glad and he offered branches to cleanse the alms-bowl.
Therefore he was reborn in that tree in the pleasant Jetavans garden, and it (the tree) stood afterwards outside at the side of the gate-rampart. The God of all gods saw (in this) an advantage for that deva and for the sake of the good which should spring (therefrom) for our land, he brought him hither (to Lanka) together with his tree.
Mahavamsa then relates how Buddha settled the dispute and the next development of events.
Hovering there in mid-air above battlefield the Master, who drives away (spiritual) darkness, called forth dread darkness over the Nagas. Then comforting those who were distressed by terror he once again spread light abroad.
When they saw the Blessed One they joyfully did reverence to the Masters feet. Then preached the Vanquisher to them the doctrine that begets concord and both (Nagas) gladly gave up the throne to the Sage.
When the Master, having alighted on the earth, had taken his place on a seat there and had been refreshed with celestial food and drink by the Naga-Kings, he the Lord, established in the (three) refuges and in the moral precepts eighty kotis of snake-spirits, dwellers in the ocean and on the mainland.
The Naga-King Maniakkhika of Kalyani mothers brother to the Naga Mahodara, who had come thither to take part in the battle and who, aforetime, at the Buddhas first coming, having heard the true doctrine preached, had become established in the refuges and the moral duties, prayed now to the Tathagata: Great is the compassion that thou hast shown us here, O Master!
Hadst thou not appeared we had all been consumed to ashes. May thy compassion yet light also especially on me, O thou who art rich in loving-kindness, in that thou shalt come again hither to my dwelling country, O thou peerless one.
When the Buddha had consented by his silence to come thither, he planted the rajayatana-tree on that very spot as a sacred memorial and the Lord of the Worlds gave over the rajayatana-tree and the precious throne-seat to the Naga-Kings to do homage thereto. In remembrance that I have used these do homage to them, ye Naga-Kings!
Buddhas calling forth dread darkness over the Nagas should not be misunderstood. The Buddha holds fame for being the Greatest Compassionate on earth. The concept bears a symbolic meaning; Buddha preached the dark side of the world, and the Naga tribes were scared just to hear and visualise them. That paved the way for them to a comfort later on.
Buddhas visits to Sri Lanka are believed to be false and legendary in certain sects.
One reason is that it is not contained in Thripitaka, the official document of Buddhas life. Thripitaka contains more of philosophically important factors, rather than history. Buddha had been to Sri Lanka thrice: first visit to Mahiyangana, second to Jaffna, then called as Nagadipa, and third to Kelaniya.
The common question is that if Buddha had already been to Sri Lanka, not only once, but thrice, why did Arahant Mahinda visit Sri Lanka once again. Arahant Mahinda, of course, had a mission to fulfil: to establish the Upasampada Bhikku order.
The suitable time was not ripe for Buddha to consider establishing the serious Bhikku order.
==============================
## Title: Exciting finishes on opening day
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Exciting finishes on opening day
The opening day of the Super provincial limited overs cricket tournament produced some nail-biting finishes in both matches played at the CCC and NCC grounds respectively.
At CCC grounds in-form batsman Sadeera Samarawickramas fine century (109) for Galle proved insufficient as Kandy chased down their total of 347-7 to win by one wicket with three balls to spare.
At the NCC grounds the contest between Dambulla and Colombo ended in a tie. Lahiru Milantha scored 106 and Hiran Cooray 94 for Dambulla to total 289-6 in 50 overs. Colombo buoyed by a fluent century from skipper Dinesh Chandimal (116 n.o.) and supported by Malindau Hasaranga who scored 84 finished on 289-7 when the overs ran out.
Results:
* At CCC: Kandy beat Galle by one wicket.
Galle 347/7 in 50 overs (Sadeera Samarawickrama 109, Upul Tharanga 54, Dhananjaya de Silva 40, Dasun Shanaka 40, Lahiru Madusanka 3/61, Lahiru Gamage 2/77)
Kandy 349-9 in 49.3 overs (Hashan Dumindu 76, Charith Asalanka 51, Lahiru Madusanka 49 n.o., Chamara Kapugedara 44, Akila Dhananjaya 2/57, Chaturanga de Silva 2/64, Dhananjaya de Silva 2/14)
* At NCC: Dambulla and Colombo match tied.
Dambulla 289-6 in 50 overs (Lahiru Milantha 106, Harsha Cooray 94, Kusal Mendis 36, Vishwa Fernando 2/48, Thisara Perera 2/63)
Colombo 289-7 in 50 overs (Dinesh Chandimal 116 n.o., Malindu Hasaranga 84, Shehan Jayasuriya 47, Dilruwan Perera 2/36, Asitha Fernando 2/59)
==============================
## Title: Exorcist dies during ritual
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Exorcist dies during ritual
A Kattadiya (Exorcist) died while performing an exorcism on an allegedly possessed girl on Saturday in the Anuradhapura area.The exorcist, a father of two from Saliyapura, Anuradhapura had fallen unconscious during the exorcism performed on Saturday night and had been pronounced dead upon admittance to the hospital.
The parents of the young girl had sought the exorcists help to cure their daughters long-standing mental illness which they attributed to the work of evil spirits.
Giving evidence during the postmortem, a person who attended the ritual said that although the Kattadiya had tried to speak to the mentally-ill girl, she kept crying without uttering a word during the ritual.
Even after performing several religious rituals, the Kattadiya could not obtain any response or reaction from the girl, he added.
Then the Kattadiya had kept his right hand on the girls head and while chanting bent towards her at which point he had collapsed unconscious.
Following the autopsy, the Coroner has found that the death of the Kattadiya was due to a heart attack.
==============================
## Title: Expenditure at a price
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Expenditure at a price
This is not the first time I discuss this theme in a newspaper article. But it is a subject that needs to be highlighted again and again due to its wide ranging social and economic implications. The issue has become even more relevant today due to the present fiscal crisis in the country, though policy makers do not readily recognize the connection between the two.
What is rationalization of public spending In simple language, it is an attempt to allocate public finances on a rational basis in order to achieve priority national goals, both short term and long term. When public finances are extremely limited, due to whatever the circumstances, this becomes even a necessity.
As is well known, both domestic and international debts accumulated over time exert enormous pressure on public finances and therefore, public funds cannot be allocated in a haphazard manner for diverse sectors, no matter how important all these sectors might be. Often due to lack of rigorous policy analysis, very important areas like health, education and other social infrastructures remain grossly underfunded. What we observe over the years is that the available funds are not allocated rationally on a priority basis. To understand this, you only have to study several government budgets over the last several years. Since such an exercise is beyond the scope of the present article, I wish to offer some general observations here on the broad parameters that should guide the allocation of public finances at the present time.
National wealth
In the present liberal economic environment, the government controls only a small part of the GNP. In other words, private hands, both individuals and corporates, control much of the national wealth. The multitude of decisions they make on a daily basis with respect to private expenditure determine where the private funds controlled by them go. Look at the construction boom that we have witnessed over the last several decades despite the three decades long war. These are hotels, luxury housing complexes, commercial buildings, multi-story houses, few international schools, etc. How many public parks, children's playgrounds, low income housing projects, mass transit projects, railway stations and public bus stations, schools, etc. these entrepreneurs have built even in and around Colombo, let alone in the rest of the country. It is obvious that the private sector people know where their money (often borrowed from banks ) should go. In other words, those who control public funds should also know where such funds need to be invested.
Wealth creation is not the only important function in a modern society. Extraction and investment of a major part of the social surplus for collective purposes are equally important and this is a key function of the State. The state is supposed to do so in a good governance framework because this is the only way to ensure that it is done in a socially and morally responsible way.
Political leaders
We have seen over the years how dictatorial regimes in many countries around the world including our own abused public funds for nefarious purposes with little consideration given to their larger social purpose. Here we are not talking about rational allocation of public funds but almost total lack of sanity and social responsibility with respect to the use of funds belonging to the wider public. Though such corruption can vary in magnitude, it seems near impossible to totally eliminate misuse of public funds by politicians and public officials as we hear even from countries like France and the United Kingdom. This is also true in this country today though the innocent people did everything they could to elect a government committed to good governance.
So, let me return to the main theme again. The key question we need to find an answer to is whether we have a government that allocates public funds rationally Given the widely known definition of politics, namely, it is the art of the possible, many people leave some space for political leaders to use their discretionary power. But, we need various checks and balances to ensure that they do not deviate too much from the overall guidelines that we agree on through policy debates and public discussions.
These guidelines deal with the nature and rates of taxation applicable to income earners and corporates, priorities for social investments, sectoral distribution of resources, etc.
These guidelines are developed and accepted on the basis of the experience in other countries, our own values and circumstances. Let me in the remainder of this article, discuss the last three points in brief.
The most successful countries in the rest of the world with respect to development, peace and social justice appear to be the ones that have followed a social democratic or social market model of development. Notable examples are in the Nordic world and a few others in Asia and elsewhere. In these countries, governments control a large share of the national wealth derived from direct taxes, maintain a high level of social sector investment, ensure a low level of income inequality and keep the defense expenditures to a minimum.
The biggest beneficiaries of a such a scheme of things are the lower income groups including vulnerable segments of society. So, the latter do not have to beg on the streets, sleep on the pavements, knock on your front door to ask for food or break into houses to rob from the rich. Higher level of social expenditure ensures that different groups in society have equality of opportunity, have access to quality education and other services and witness the value of social solidarity so that they do not perceive the members of other communities as enemies but as fellow citizens with whom they have a great deal in common.
Political and bureaucratic hierarchy
It is no wonder that almost all these countries have very low levels violence, social unrest, crime and, a result, a very low level of defense expenditure and the funds so saved are allocated to socially more useful purposes. But, sadly, despite the end of the war about eight years ago, we still have to maintain a very high level of defense expenditure, due to a perceived threat to national security from within and this is naturally done at the cost of social sectors.
Low levels of social expenditure in turn result in all kinds of deprivation, leading to persisting inter-community competition and conflict. Moreover, despite the fiscal crisis, wasteful public expenditure is maintained at a high level largely due to a misplaced idea of a pecking order of the political and bureaucratic hierarchy as is evident from the silly arguments they make to justify the type of cars public figures are entitled to. Ironically, this is determined by the type of cars produced in Germany and this is done in a country where there is not much an industrial sector to talk about.
==============================
## Title: Expressways earn Rs. 24m within 24 hours
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Expressways earn Rs. 24m within 24 hours
The Southern and the Katunayake Expressways had earned a record income of Rs. 24 million during the 24 hours from the Friday midnight to Saturday midnight, authorities said,
Around 95,000 vehicles used the two ways with people returning to villages for the weekend and the Avurudu season.
Around 65,000 vehicles had used the Southern Expressway, while around 35,000 vehicles had used the Katunayake Expressway, the authorities said.
==============================
## Title: Farmers will get drought compensation before New Year: President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Farmers will get drought compensation before New Year: President
The Government has allocated Rs. 7,000 million to pay compensation to farmers who lost their paddy harvest during the prolonged drought.The money will be credited to their bank accounts before the dawn of the Sinhala and Tamil New Year, President Maithripala Sirisena said.
The President was addressing the gathering at the Aluth Sahal Mangalaya held at the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi in Anuradhapura on April 8 to mark the offering of the first share of rice from the Maha harvest to the Bodhi.
The President said the compensation payment to the farmers is a pioneering programme initiated by the Government, which was unprecedented in the countrys history.
No previous government has surpassed the present when taken into account its tremendous service rendered to uplift agriculture and strengthen the farmer economy, the President said.
President Maithripala said the Government had started and accelerated work on the Moragahakanda Reservoir Project to wipe the tears of the people in the Raja Rata. Steps have been taken to start rehabilitation work on another 1,000 tanks to cater to farmers irrigation needs.
The President paid homage to the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi and offered the first pot of toxin free rice to the Maha Sangha. He later distributed paddy seeds native to each provinces to the farmers.
Agriculture Minister Duminda Dissanayake presented the first copy of the Aluth Sahal Mangalyaya commemorative publication to the President.
The Maha Sangha led by the Atamasthanadhipathi Ven. Pallegama Siriniwasa Nayaka Thera, Ruwanweli Seya Viharadhipathi Ven. Pallegama Hemaratane Nayaka Thera, Ministers Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe and Chandrani Bandara, NCP Governor P.B. Dissanayake, and Tissa Karaliyadda were present.
The Aluth Sahal Mangalayaya was organised by the Agriculture Ministry and the Agrarian Services Department under the guidance of Atamasthanadhipathi Ven. Pallegama Siriniwasa Nayake Thera.
==============================
## Title: Four intoxicated schoolchildren found lying near cemetery
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Four intoxicated schoolchildren found lying near cemetery
Four schoolchildren were found lying in an intoxicated condition near the Kataragama cemetery by residents recently.
The Kataragama police on a tip off had admitted them to the Kataragama District Hospital. The children had told the police that three of them were studying in a leading school in Tissamaharama, while other was studying in a school in Mahsenpura. All of them are grade 10 students.
They had bought liquor from Tissamaharama and consumed them at a friends house at Kataragama to celebrate their term vacation.
On their way back, they had fallen asleep near the cemetery, police said.
==============================
## Title: Gajaman Nona seeks care
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Gajaman Nona seeks care
The Gajaman Nona statue at Nonagama remains exposed to a state of dilapidation.
Gajaman Nona (1746-1815) was a poetess of exceptional beauty. She was named Dona Isabella Cornelia Perumal and received baptism at the Bambalapitiya, Milagiriya Church.
The Ambalantota DS area boasts many other historical places named after the legendary poetess.
==============================
## Title: Gateway, Kandy runners-up of under 17 Football tourney
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Gateway, Kandy runners-up of under 17 Football tourney
Gateway International College,Kandy who were Soccer Champs of Central Province became Runners-up at the All Island international Schools under 17 Football tournament organized by the British School of Colombo recently at the Moragasmulla Football Federation Grounds.
To achieve this feat they beatColombo International School,Col.
By 2 goals to Nil, beat Lyseum Int.School,Ratnapura by 2 goals to one, beat Lyseum int. School,Wattala by 3 goals to Nil.
In the Semi finals again they beat Lyseum Int.School, Wattala by 1 goal to Nil. In the finals they only lost to Overseas School,Colombo by 7 goals to two and emerged Runners-up in the tournament. The team was coached by Veteran Soccer Coach Sanjeewa Perera, Sports Officer attached to the Ministry of sports and the team was captained by Ameen Kazni.
==============================
## Title: Generosity, the first step of a long journey
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Generosity, the first step of a long journey
Dana is a Sanskrit and Pali word that connotes the virtue of generosity, charity or giving of alms in Indian philosophies. The practice of dana is universally recognized as one of the most basic human virtues, a quality that testifies to the depth of one's humanity and one's capacity for self-transcendence. In the teaching of the Buddha, too, the practice of giving claims a place of special eminence, one which singles it out as being in a sense the foundation and seed of spiritual development.
Dana, or generosity, is one of the 'perfections' (parami) that all sincere Buddhists seek to cultivate. It is also one of the foundations on which the continuity of the Buddha's teachings has depended down the centuries.
The Buddha explains that there are many benefits of dana, both in this world and beyond. The most iconic future benefit that can be realized from dana in Buddhism involves the Buddhist concept of Karma. Buddhists believe that what is given is not lost, but is actually returned to the giver in the form of karmic rewards, most notably, wealth and happiness.
The karmic rewards of dana are considered to be a more preliminary reason for the practice, but nonetheless its benefits shouldnt be overlooked. While gaining wealth doesnt sound stereotypically Buddhist, wealth does indeed have its uses in Buddhism.
The Buddha himself describes numerous benefits from having wealth, and Buddhism itself grew to global prominence thanks largely to the patronage of numerous wealthy benefactors such as Anathapindika, King Bimbisara, and Emperor Ashoka. Such patronage is even more important when you consider the fact that the Buddhist clergy relies solely on the gifts of others to sustain themselves.
Benefits
Buddhism is known for its emphasis on letting go of desire and craving, so obviously there is more to dana in Buddhism than just karmic rewards. Whats most important when dana in Buddhism is the intention, and although it is still technically good to give with the intention of gaining worldly karmic rewards, it is not ideal.
More important than the karmic benefits of dana are the benefits dana has on the mind. In order to further ones spiritual practice in Buddhism it is necessary to train the mind to abandon numerous obstructions, or fetters.
Example
Explaining dana, Buddha once said: The recipient of the dana is like the land; the donor the farmer, the offerings are the seeds sown. The benefits accrued later throughout samsara are the fruits that are borne from the plants.
Let us elaborate its meaning.
* In agriculture, the type of soil whether good or bad, determines the yield. Similarly, the integrity and nobility of the recipient determine the nature of beneficial results.
* Just as vitality of the seeds sown determined the growth and productivity of the plants; the purity of offerings, gifts, whether they are procured through right livelihood or not, and the quantity, determine the nature of beneficial results.
* Just as farmers will reap harvest in conformity with their skill in farming and efforts, so also donors will enjoy results depending on their level of intelligence, appreciative joy and their sincere effort in offering Dana.
* Farmers have to prepare to till and plough their fields properly, before sowing the seeds to ensure a good yield. Likewise, donors must have pubba-cetana before giving Dana. Result will depend on the intensity of their pub- cetana. It is this cetana that produces beneficial results here and in the next existences, not the material things that are offered. This mental attitude which is projected onto the offertories determines the good results in future existences.
* Farmers need to weed and water their fields; only then the plants will flourish. In the same way donors need to recall their charity and feel satisfaction for the meritorious deed. This apara-cetana of the donor determined the nature of beneficial results.
* If farmer, through folly, destroy their sprouts and seedlings they cannot enjoy the product of their labor. Similarly, if donors feel that they shouldn't have done the almsgiving and regret for it afterwards, then they fail to enjoy good results due to their feeble apara- cetana.
* Even though the land and seeds are all in good condition, the sowing should be done in the right season, the right time so as to get a healthy crop. In the same way one should give alms to the needy, at the suitable time and place. Such charity brings about the best results.
There is a valuable lesson we can learn from this simple example. Therefore, in offering dana, the correct choice of recipient, the appropriateness of the time and place are very important.
The Dana must be done with a blissful mind. Moreover, one should not practice Dana with a view to getting worldly wealth because such a wish is associated with greed and craving.
First component
However, dana does not appear in its own right among the factors of the Noble Eightfold Path, nor does it appear among the other necessities of enlightenment (bodhipakkhiya dhamma). Buddhist scholars believe that it is because the practice of dana does not by its own nature contribute directly to the realization of the Four Noble Truths. Of course, although it does act as the first component of the process of attaining nibbana, it serves as a basis for preparation and support for the endeavor to free the mind from the defilements.
Intention
Dana can include offering material help to people in want or giving spiritual guidance to those who seek it and loving kindness to all who need it. However, one's intention for dana is important as what is given.
What is right or wrong intention Venerable K. Sri Dhammananda Maha Thera in his book What Buddhists Believe, says, When offering dana, a person should not perform charity as an act of his body alone, but with his heart and mind as well. There must be joy in every act of dana. A distinction can be made between dana as a normal act of generosity and dana. In the normal act of generosity, a person gives out of compassion and kindness when he realizes that someone else is in need of help, and he is in the position to offer the help. When a person performs dana, he gives as a means of cultivating charity as a virtue and of reducing his own selfishness and craving.
He exercises wisdom when he recalls that dana is a very important quality to be practiced by every Buddhist, and is the first perfection (paramita) practiced by the Buddha in many of his previous births in search for Enlightenment.
There are many things which a person can give. He can give material things: food for the hungry, and money and clothes to the poor. He can also give his knowledge, skill, time, energy or effort to projects that can benefit others. He can provide a sympathetic ear and good counsel to a friend in trouble. He can restrain himself from killing other beings, and by so doing perform a gift of life to the helpless beings which would have otherwise been killed. He can also give a part of his body for the sake of others, such as donating his blood, eyes, kidney, etc.
But the greatest testimony to the Buddha's great compassion is his priceless gift to humanity -the Dhamma which can liberate all beings from suffering. To the Buddhist, the highest gift of all is the gift of Dhamma. This gift has great powers to change a life.
Valuable practice
Giving dana serves as a way to eliminate ones greed and ill-will. By giving away what is valuable, you reduce attachment by letting them go. By using your possessions or time to benefit another, you develop altruism towards others. Dana helps to rid your mind of the defilements by conditioning the mind to let go of attachments and extinguish ill-will.
However, dana alone cannot eliminate all of the fetters of the mind and therefore cannot alone lead to enlightenment. Regardless, it is still an extremely valuable practice to help you progress.
==============================
## Title: Habza House  overall champions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Habza House  overall champions
Habza House emerged overall champions in the annual Inter-House Sports Meet - 2017 of Oluvil Al-Madeena Vidyalaya under the organization and directions of its Principal K.L.Ameer which took place at school grounds recently.
Eastern Province Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Services, Probation Child Care and Rural Electrification Minister A.L.M.Nazeer was the chief guest at the sports meet.
Eastern Provincial Councilor A.L.Thavam, Akkaraipattu Educational Zone Director Education Director A.M.Rahmathullah, Addalaichenai Divisional Education Officer M.A.C.Gassaly and Co-ordinator to the Eastern Provincial Health Minister A.M.Amanullah were present as guests at prize giving ceremony and distributed prizes and certificates to the winners.
House Positions
1st place: Habza House (Blue) 225 points.
2nd place: Zainab House (Yellow) 222 points.
3rd place: Ayesha House (Green) 118 points.
==============================
## Title: Hamilton hits back with Chinese win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Hamilton hits back with Chinese win
Shanghai: Lewis Hamilton powered to victory in a chaotic Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai on Sunday, taking swift revenge for his defeat by Sebastian Vettel in the Formula One season-opener.
The Briton, who started on pole, steered his Mercedes to his fifth Chinese Grand Prix win, beating Vettels Ferrari by just over six seconds with Red Bulls Max Verstappen finishing third after an early safety car drama.
Get in there, Lewis! Hamiltons engineer said over team radio after the triple world champion took the chequered flag in China for the third time in the last four years.
Thats a great race, mate. An absolute masterclass.
Hamilton replied: Weve worked really hard for this, weve got to keep pushing.
After being stung by Vettel in Melbourne two weeks ago, Hamilton predicted a fierce battle for the Formula One title this year.
In the last 20-odd laps we were just pounding around as fast as we can, exchanging lap times, he said after his 54th victory in F1.
Thats what racing is all about. Ferrari have done a fantastic job -- its very, very close, Hamilton added, referring to the difference in performance between the sports top two teams.
There were times Sebastian put laps in and it was hard to even match the time. In the last 12 laps or so it was very, very hard to get to where he was. But then there were other times in the race where I was quicker.
Vettel recovered from a poor start from row one. But after being stuck behind Ferrari team-mate Kimi Raikkonen early on, the German began to show the pace that swept him to victory in Melbourne two weeks ago.
First Vettel blew past Raikkonen before going wheel-to-wheel with Red Bulls Daniel Ricciardo at turn seven, producing puffs of blue smoke as the cars touched tyres.
Verstappen loomed ahead but the young Dutchman, who produced an astonishing first lap after starting from 16th on the grid, suffered a lock-up going into the hairpin -- allowing Vettel, rather anti-climactically, to take second place.
AFP
==============================
## Title: Handed over the first copy of Danaya Nirvanavabodhaya Pinisada
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Handed over the first copy of Danaya Nirvanavabodhaya Pinisada
The Dhamma book Danaya Nirvanavabodhaya Pinisada written by most Ven. Pandit Magure Sumedha Thera, the incumbent of Mathugama Bopitiya Siri Indrasabha Temple was launched at Dayawansa Jayakody and Company Book Shop recently. Dayawansa Jayakody handed over the first copy of Danaya Nirvanavabodhaya Pinisada to the Venerable Thera.
==============================
## Title: Inter-school festival of Debating 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Inter-school festival of Debating 2017
Saiva Mangayar Kalaham Hindu Ladies College was awarded the winner of Vivaadh Viza 2017, the 14th Inter-school festival of Debating. It was recently organized by the Tamil Literary Association of St. Peter's College, Colombo 4. Twelve Tamil medium schools in the Colombo district participated in this debate competition.
The final debate, under the topic "Role of media in Unity of Sri Lanka," was held at the St Peter's College auditorium.
Former Professor of University of Colombo S. Santhirasekaram and St. Peter's College Rector Rev. Fr. Trevor Martin presided and handed over awards. The final debate was between Colombo Royal College and Wellawatha Saiva Mangayar Kalaham Hindu Ladies College.
==============================
## Title: Kyrgios beats Querrey to seal Davis Cup tie
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Kyrgios beats Querrey to seal Davis Cup tie
BRISBANE AFP April9, 2017 :Nick Kyrgios sent Australia into the Davis Cup semi-finals when he beat American Sam Querrey in the first of the reverse singles in Brisbane on Sunday.
Kyrgios's 7-6 (7/4), 6-3, 6-4 win gave the Australians an unassailable 3-1 lead over the US.
Kyrgios and Jordan Thompson put Australia in the box seat when they won the opening singles on Friday.
The Americans hit back in the doubles on Saturday but Kyrgios, who has been in superb form this week, was too good for Querrey and wrapped up the match in two hours, five minutes.
The manner of the victory will go a long way to winning over an Australian sporting public who have grown tired of the world number 16's on-court behaviour.
His past was all but forgotten by the packed crowd at Pat Rafter Arena, who chanted his name as he ran to captain Lleyton Hewitt and carried him around the court in delight.
Australia will now play either Belgium away or Italy at home in September's semi-finals.
Belgium lead Italy 2-1 in their quarter-final in Charleroi.
==============================
## Title: LAC staff congratulates BASL President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
LAC staff congratulates BASL President
Udaya Rohan de Silva, Senior Practitioner and Commissioner, LAC, was elected the 24th President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka. U.R. De Silva was called to the Bar in 1983. He has previously served as BASL Treasurer in 2001 and as Secretary in 2008.
As the Chairman of the Standing Committee of Law Week of the Bar Association for several years and as an active Commissioner of the Legal Aid Commission, he organized Legal Awareness Programmes and free Legal Aid Clinics with members of the Bar for the needy in the country. He was also nominated to the committee tasked with amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.
He was appointed the LAC Commissioner in 2012. Legal Aid Commission Chairman and the Staff wish him the best.
==============================
## Title: Laws to be brought to insure laborers in companies with more than 10 workers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 13:00
Laws to be brought to insure laborers in companies with more than 10 workers
Labour and trade Union Relations Minister W.D.J.Seneviratne hands over a school bag to a child of a late labour during the ceremony.
Labour and Trade Union Relations Minister W.D.J.Seneviratne said that Laws will bring in soon to make compulsory for all private companies with more than 10 workers to have life insurance for the workers.
He said this while addressing the 19th anniversary of Sharam Vasana fund celebrated in Colombo recently.
Minister Seneviratne said that at the moment the maximum compensation paid for a dead worker is only Rs. 550,000 which is not adequate at all.
Laws will be brought in soon to make it double (Rs. 1.1 million) without burdening the employer.
It will be done through a life insurance policy.
Minister Seneviratne pointed out thatarrangements will be made soon to amend all compensations pay for the labourers who die during their duties.
There are a lot of accidents which have taken place in work places and several labourers have died by these accidents the Minister said.
 He said that labour Officials should act similar with officials who conduct Bribery Investigations.
Prompt legal action should be taken against all private companies which do not pay relevant compensation for the families of dead employees and offer other benefits to them, he added.
Children of late labourers offer merits to their late fathers. 
==============================
## Title: LB Finance Sainthamaruthu branch relocates
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
LB Finance Sainthamaruthu branch relocates
LB Finance recently relocated its Sainthamaruthu branch to a new location as MPCS Building, Main street, Sainthamaruthu, recently.
It was graced by LB Finance Deputy General Manager Marlon Perera. Customers in surrounding areas could now experience a wide range of benefits with more convenience.
At LB Finance, we ensure our customers get the best service in town with our innovative financial solutions and speedy service with the financial facilities such as leasing, gold loans, mortgage loans, factoring, housing loans and margin trading and investment opportunities such as fixed deposits and savings accounts with enormous financial returns. Customers can now enjoy hazel-free leasing service to facilitate their financial needs, Marlon Perera said.
Established in 1971, LB Finance PLC, through the years, has built a reputation as one of Sri Lankas most trusted financial organizations. With the total deposit base of over Rs. 53 billion, LB Finance remains as one of the largest non-banking deposit mobilizers in the industry. LB Finance PLCs long term rating of A-(lka) outlook stable was affirmed by Fitch Ratings Lanka Ltd during their annual ratings review of NBFIs on August 2, 2016.
==============================
## Title: Lomachenko taunts Sosa en route to 9th rd TKO
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Lomachenko taunts Sosa en route to 9th rd TKO
WASHINGTON April9, 2017:Vasyl Lomachenko easily retained his WBO junior lightweight title on Saturday, with a dominating boxing display over Jason Sosa, whose corner pulled the plug at the end of the ninth round.
The 29-year-old Ukrainian cemented his status as one of the best pound-for-pound fighters in the world with a ninth round TKO in just his ninth pro fight.
I came into the ring to do my job. I think I did my job really well, said Lomachenko. Lomachenko used his speed, skill and power to improve to 8-1 by outclassing American Sosa who wouldn't quit despite taking a beating from the opening round.
In the fifth round, Lomachenko mocked Sosa by pretending to hold out a cape as if he was a matador toying with an angry bull in the ring. Sosa's trainer stopped the fight after the ninth round, first removing his boxer's mouthpiece in the corner then motioning to the referee.
Sosa was not supposed to be in this fight, coming in as a 25-1 underdog, and it showed. He was a willing participant but was Lomachenko's third choice after the others declined.
But he did manage to bait Sosa into this one and no amount of banderillas or mounted picadors could save Sosa from the inevitable.
Lomachenko's inability to get anyone to fight him in the 130-pound division has him seriously considering moving up in class to 135.
I am going to call Top Rank (promoter) Monday and see if I can fight any of the 130 pound champions. If we can't get anybody we can move to 135, he said Saturday. Lomachenko turned pro after a superb amateur career that saw him record 396 wins and just one loss. He won back-to-back Olympic gold medals (in different weight classes) for Ukraine in 2008 and 2012, as well as a pair of amateur world titles.
A brilliant boxer who is above average in every category including power, speed, defence, technique, ring intelligence, the quick start to his pro career has been historic.
He won a featherweight world title in his third fight to tie the boxing record for fewest bouts needed to win a world title, and set a boxing record by becoming a two-weight titleholder in his seventh fight.
Lomachenko landed 275 punches compared to just 68 for Sosa.
After a tentative opening round, Lomachenko stepped up his offence at the end of the second by landing a flurry of punches. -AFP
==============================
## Title: Middlesbrough miss chance to boost survival hopes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Middlesbrough miss chance to boost survival hopes
LONDON, Saturday - Middlesbrough missed an opportunity to boost their flagging Premier League survival hopes as they were held to a goalless draw at home to Burnley at the Riverside Stadium on Saturday.
The result against the mid-table Lancashire side, who have not won away from home all season, meant Boro were unable to take full advantage of defeats for relegation rivals Hull City and Swansea and remain next to bottom, six points from safety with seven games remaining.
In terms of effort, commitment, energy...I think we deserved the three points and deserved a goal and we live to fight another day, said Middlesbrough manager Steve Agnew, who conceded that the result was a missed opportunity.
Of course it is but I thought it was a game we could have won and should have won. But we are six off it with a game extra to play and all to play for. I'm still positive, he added.
Burnley were content to sit deep and wait for their opponents, in more desperate need of points, to over-commit to attack, yet it was the visitors who had the better early chances. Ireland international Robbie Brady clipped the crossbar with a curling free kick in the 14th minute and then George Boyd wasted a good chance when he was found inside the box by Matthew Lowton but hurriedly shot over the bar.
Middlesbrough were compact and tidy in midfield but struggled to create real openings in the first half. Forward Rudy Gestede glanced a header well wide in the 28th minute and four minutes before the break Stewart Downing drove the ball across the face of the goal but no team mate was able to finish.
Boro manager Agnew brought on Spanish forward Alvaro Negredo in a bid to increase their physical presence in attack and it did not take long for him to make an impact.
The former Sevilla striker produced an acrobatic volley in the 67th minute as he met a Downing cross and his fierce shot was superbly saved by Burnleys England international keeper Tom Heaton.
==============================
## Title: National Law Week draws large crowds
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
National Law Week draws large crowds
Legal aid clinic
The Legal Aid Commission in collaboration with the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) and the Ministry of Justice organized the National Law Week Programme 2017 under the theme Justice for you from February 27 to March 5.
This is a significant annual event organised by the BASL with projects, workshops and activities focusing on initiating dialogue in the legal arena and educating the public, law students, legal and other professionals on laws applicable to them. The LAC organized 20 programs parallel to the Law Week to raise legal awareness for different target groups in the country.
The LAC organized a Legal Aid exhibition stall at Hulfstdorp on March 3 and 4 to provide free legal advice to the public and also displayed LAC banners, cutouts and posters with publications. LAC also distributed its publications on a discounted price for the people who visited the stall. The LAC Lawyers also participated as resource persons at the awareness programmes organized by the Regional Bars in Maravila, Badulla, Kurunagala, Rathnapura, Balapitiya, and Jaffna. The LAC provided legal assistance for litigants without considering the income limit during the Law Week.
Government Institutions including Attorney Generals Department, Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment, the National Child Protection Authority, Department of Prisons, Department of Immigration and Emigration, Bribery Commission, Department of Probation and Child Care Services, Department of Legal Draftsmen, Sri Lanka Custom, Department of Labour, Department of Pensions, the Employees Provident Fund, Debt Conciliation Board, and Inland Revenue Department also conducted exhibition stalls at the programme. The BASL conducted a legal aid clinic with the participation of the private Bar.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Justice Minister Dr. Wijedasa Rajapakse, Chief Justice Priyasath Dep, Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya, and other invitees participated.
==============================
## Title: NCC Cricket Acadamy win by 38 runs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
NCC Cricket Acadamy win by 38 runs
The Inaugural under 15  Battle Of Centurion Cricket Encounter between NCC Cricket Acadamy Team and MCA Cricket Acadamy Team hosted by NCC Cricket Acadamy was played at NCC grounds on Saturday.
NCC Cricket Acadamy beat MCA Cricket Acadamy by 38 runs and won the Battle Of Centurion Inaugural Trophy. Pradyun Saikia of British School of Colombo scored 76 runs while Lisuka Kalugalage of CMS scored 56 runs and Viranga Bulathsinhala of Carey College took 5 for 27 runs and Vishwa Jayasinghe of D. S. Senanayake took 4 for 47 for NCC while Bawantha Jayasinghe of Thurstan College scored 33 and took 4 for 26 for MCA are the main highlights of the match. Pradyun Saikia of NCC won the Player Of The Match Award. Sri Lankan opener Niroshan Dickwella was the Chief Guest at The match.
NCC Cricket Acadamy  155 for 8 in 57.3 overs.
Pradyun Saikia 76, Lisuka Kalugalage 56  Bawantha Jayasinghe 4 for 26
MCA Cricket Acadamy  117 alll out in 34.5 overs
Bawantha Jayasinghe 33
Viranga Bulathsinhala 5 for 27 and Vishwa Jayasinghe 4 for 47
==============================
## Title: Neville Fernando hospital to operate under PPP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Neville Fernando hospital to operate under PPP
Higher Education and Highways Minister Lakshman Kiriella said yesterday that the Neville Fernando Teaching Hospital (NFTH) will be running under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP). Discussions are underway at the moment with the Ministry of Health in this regard and the taking over is in short order, Minister Kiriella told the Daily News.
Dr. Neville Fernando has agreed to hand over the hospital to the State and it will be running under a Public-Private Partnership, Minister Kiriella said. When asked to comment on the GMOAs dissatisfaction over the SAITM issue, Minister Kiriella said: we are not worried about the GMOAs stance. This is the government position. The SAITM medical college will be there, but the NFTH will be taken over by the State. Speaking of the minimum standards for medical education, Minister Kiriella said the responsibility of drafting them is in the hands of the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) and not the government. The SLMC is to draft the minimum standards. For the last five years, we have been telling them to draft the minimum standards, but they have not done so. Once they do, we will discuss with them about the document and come to an agreement, the minister said.
==============================
## Title: Newcastle miss chance to go back top
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Newcastle miss chance to go back top
LONDON, Saturday - Newcastle United missed the chance to return to the top of the Championship after they were beaten 2-1 by play-off hopefuls Sheffield Wednesday on Saturday.
Newcastle's defeat means leaders Brighton & Hove Albion, who had beaten Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on Friday, remain two points clear at the top of England's second-tier league with five games remaining.
Both the top two, though, remain overwhelming favourites for automatic promotion to the Premier League.
Rafael Benitez's Newcastle almost opened the scoring in stunning fashion when Jonjo Shelvey hit the bar from the halfway line at the end of a breathless first half.
Against the run of play, Tom Lees then opened the scoring for Wednesday with a powerful header after the break before Steven Fletcher doubled the lead with an outstanding header.
Shelvey did pull a goal back in the 88th minute, taking advantage after Aleksandar Mitrovic's effort was spilled by Keiren Westwood but Wednesday held on.
Newcastle have 84 points, two fewer than Brighton, while Wednesday climb back into the play-off places in sixth place with 69 points. Huddersfield Town, in third with 74 points, lost 2-0 to Nottingham Forest while fourth-placed Reading, a point behind, conceded six first-half goals in a crushing 7-1 defeat at Norwich City. Leeds United, in fifth with 72 points, eased past Preston North End 3-0.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Number of nurses should increase to 50,000: Health Minister
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 11:45
Number of nurses should increase to 50,000: Health Minister

Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne said that it is more suitable if the approved number of nurses in Sri Lanka can be increased up to 50,000 considering the current requirement.
According to Minister Senaratne at the momemnt only 31,354 nurses are in the service and there is a shortage of 6521 nurses. A total of 6817 nurses are now being trained at all Nurses training Schools located countrywide.
He was addressing the gathering after handing over appointment letters to 1300 new nurses during a ceremony held at Temple Tress in Colombo recently.
 Minister Senaratne pointed out that a total of 11,933 nurses who are in the service at the moment have been allocated for Provincial Council Hospitals.
Nurses' transfers in 2013 / 2014 cannot be given due to the shortage of nurses.
A new Nursing Faculty to be built at a cost of Rs. 12,500 million and the constructions to be commenced in May.
Overtime payment for the increased salaries of nurses to be paid from January 1, 2016 and because of this decision the nurses will receive a huge salary in April enabling them to celebrate the new year Festival in a grand scale.
Rs. 5.5 Billion to be spent on this payment, he said.
Nurses, Health Ministry officials and many others were present at the occasion. 
==============================
## Title: obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
obituaries
DE SILVA - W. PIYASOMA (PIYA), Rtd. Chief Superintendent - Ports Authority (BQ). Beloved husband of Mallika, loving father of Chaminda (Dubai) and Ayomi, father-in-law of Sachira and Charinda (Asst. Manager - SAGT), precious grandfather of Pasan, Isuri & Vidun, expired. Cremation on Monday 10th April at 5.00 p.m. Negombo Cemetery. Cortege leaves residence at 4.00 p.m. Vidyala Mawatha, Thimbirigaskatuwa, Negombo.046376
DE SILVA - W. PIYASOMA, Sri Lanka Ports Authority, retired Staff Officers Association Regrets to inform the Demise of Mr. W. Piyasoma De Silva (retired Chief Superintendent - Operation) Sri Lanka Ports Authority. Funeral on 10th Monday April 2017 at 5.00 p.m. at Maiyokkahena Public Cemetery. All members are requested to attend the funeral.046378
FERNANDO - KUMARAGE WATTAGE ERAJ JAYANATH (K.E.J. FERNANDO), Retired Building Inspector at Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency and retired Chief Quantity Serveyor at Kumathi Engineering Services (Pvt) Ltd, called to eternal rest with Jesus on 08th April 2017, dearly beloved husband of Shirani, son of late Owen and Wimala Fernando, loving brother of Dayangani, Saroja and late Dasal, brother-in-law of Bandu, Gayangani, Viraj, Eraj, Prishani, Rita, Rohini and Ayuru, loving uncle of Sanjeewa, Ruweka, Kaumadi, Rebecca, Nathali, Dinethri, Gayathra, Ishara and Ranshala. Cortege leaves residence No. 67/3, Sri Medhananda Mawatha, Lakshapathiya, Moratuwa on Monday 10th April 2017 at 4.00 p.m. for burial at St. Matthias Church, Lakshapathiya.046371
KANDANARACHCHI - MICHEAL. Beloved husband of Princy, loving father of Madhavi (Hiranya), Kaushali and Durga, father-in-law of Brian, Nigel and Manjula, grandfather of Reyshmi, Janana and Kiara, expired. Remains lie at A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour. Cortege leaves the parlour on Monday 10th April at 2.30 p.m. for burial at St. John Dal Bastoni Church, Pelawatte.046372
KANKANAMGE - PEARL R. of No. 151/15, Nugahena Mawatha, Kadawatha Road, Ganemulla (formerly employed at Presidential Secretariat) expired. Beloved husband of R.K.A. Dharmalatha, affectionate father of Surangaq, Kawmini, Dilanka, father-in-law of Dilpa and Sanjeewa. Funeral will be held on Monday the 10th April at 5.00 p.m. at Batuwatta Crematorium. Bereaved wife, sons and daughter.046379
KURALAKULASINGHAM - PAKI. At rest with Jesus. Sister of Chandra, Dr. Rajah (USA), Rani Ahmed (UK) and the late Richard, Bo, Nimal and Karuni Kuralakulasingham. Funeral service at Barney Raymond Funeral Parlour on Tuesday 11th April at 3.00 p.m. followed by burial in the Christian Section of the General Cemetery, Kanatte Borella at 4.00 p.m.046374
SENEVIRATNE - DAISY. Beloved wife of late Peter Seneviratne, loving mother of Shiranee, late Riddley (Roy), Suranjith, mother-in-law of Chrisantha Rodrigo, late Rosemarie, Dayani, loving grandmother of Ishani, Rukshana, Gayani, Nilakshini, Rukmal, Charith, Chainumi, daughter of late Mr & Mrs Benjamin Perera of Mutwal, sister of late Clarinda, Rita, Victor, Olga, Hector and of Nihal and Mallika, expired. Cortege leaves residence at 4.00 p.m. on Monday 10.04.2017 for service at burial grounds of St. Josephs Church, Kaluwarippuwa. Shanthi, Katana.046369
SENEVIRATNE - SITA, Called to the Arms of Jesus, most beloved wife of Dominic (Shaw Wallace, Tobacco, Hentleys, JEDB, NWSDB & Tristar), precious Amma of Dilantha & Christine, Shalini & Suran and Roshal and late Ruwani, Cherished grandmother of Dhanuksha and Shevanka, loved sister of late Dr. Ana Wickremasinghe. Cortege leaves residence No. 12, Madangahawatte Lane, Wellawatte, Colombo 6 on Monday 10th April at 4.00 p.m. for burial at General Cemetery, Kanatte (Roman Catholic Section).046373
WIJESINHA - BERTIE (R.B). Beloved husband of Dorothy, much loved father of late Maya Pelpola and of Nedra, Rohan and Dameshk, father-in-law of Ananda Wijeratne and Sharika Jayewardene, adored grandfather of Charith, late Nishan and of Acushla and Ranoukh, expired. Cortege leaves residence No. 15A, School Lane, Gangodawila, Nugegoda, on Wednesday 12th April at 3.30 p.m. for cremation at General Cemetery, Kanatte at 4.00 p.m.046381
WIJESINGHE - PADMA INDRANI, former Janets MC. Beloved wife of late Acick, loving father of Roshan, Sheran and Shereen, mother-in-law of Hemanthi, Nirmala and Lahiru, expired. Cortege leaves residence for Cremation at 3.00 p.m. Kohuwala Cemetery on 10th Monday.046375


==============================
## Title: One For Arthur wins 170th Grand National
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
One For Arthur wins 170th Grand National
LONDON, Saturday - One For Arthur, ridden by Derek Fox, won the English Grand National, the world's greatest steeplechase, with a stunning late burst from the final fence at a sun-drenched Aintree on Saturday.
The 14-1 winner, trained by Lucinda Russell, claimed the 170th running of the race with a thrilling sprint down the home stretch to prevail by four and a half lengths after a late duel with runner-up Cause Of Causes.
One For Arthur is only the second Scottish-trained winner of the race, 38 years since Rubstic last achieved the feat. Cause of Causes, 16-1, finished second with Saint Are, 25-1, and 8-1 pre-race favourite Blaklion third and fourth respectively.
The 24-year-old Irishman Fox rode superbly on his debut in the race, having only returned to competitive riding this week after suffering a broken wrist and collarbone in a fall on March 9, to claim the biggest win of his career.
It's the best feeling I've ever had, Fox told the BBC. He's just such a brave horse. A sign of a true race horse to win the Grand National. It's unbelievable.
I got a heavy fall in the novice chase and that was four weeks ago on Thursday.
This is the best feeling I have ever had or probably ever will have. I don't often get a chance to ride a horse as good as that.
After two false starts, the 40 horses finally set off on the 30-fence, four-and-a-half mile marathon and with just two obstacles to clear, Blaklion came to the front and looked the likely winner.
Yet One For Arthur and Cause Of Causes began to forge ahead and after taking the last more convincingly, Fox used the momentum to push his mount clear down the home straight.
That was amazing, I'm tearful but it is amazing, Russell, whose partner and assistant at their Arlary House Stables in the Kinross countryside, is former champion jockey Peter Scudamore.
It's total credit to Derek, he never panicked. I have just won the National!
Perhaps the most heartening news of all was Aintree's announcement afterwards that all 40 horses had returned safely to the cool down area shortly after the race.
- Agencies
==============================
## Title: Overall winner Filipino George Okonar
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Overall winner Filipino George Okonar
George Lewis Okonar of Golden Target team from Philippine emerged the overall winner of the inaugural Sri Lanka Tea Cup international cycle race concluded at Negombo yesterday.
Hamdan Hamidun (Malaysia) winning the third stage while Jeewan Jayasinghe and Naveen Ruchira Ruchira following second and third. Pictures by Saman Mendis
The three-day race is considered as a milestone in Sri Lankan cycling and conducted by Lanka Sportreizen in collaboration with Sri Lankan Airlines from Pasikuda to Negombo covering a total distance of 348.5 kms bridging the island's East coast to West coast. Okonar took 8:17.13 hours to complete the race. He donned the Yellow Jersey during the final stage. Samuel Walks of CCN team from Netherlands became overall second with a timing of 8:17.18 hours while his teammate Hari Fitrianto secured overall third place clocking 8:19.07 hours.
Sri Lanka Navy's Buddhika Warnakulasooriya was the best performer for Sri Lanka (8:24.14 hours) and he won the Blue Jersey. He was placed overall seventh and was followed closely in ninth place by another Sri Lankan representing Dehiwala Mount Lavinia Municipal Council team, Suranga Ranaweera.
The overall Best Sprinter award went to Team Malaysia's Sofian Nabil Omar Bakri who was the winner of stage one from Pasikuda to Mahiyanganaya. Rayan Subet of Philippine won the King of Mountains award. The Best overall team award was won by CNN team while Philippine team and Malaysian team won the second and third places respectively.
The third and final stage (124.5 km) from Kandy to Pasikuda was won by team Malaysia's Hamdan Hamidun clocking 2:58.09 hours. The second, third and fourth places of the final stage was won by Lankans.
South Asian Games double gold medalist Jeewan Jayasinghe of SL Air Force finished second while his team mates Naveen Ruchira and Dane Nugera secured third and fourth places. Malaysia's Aervandi Lakasek won the sprint award while Jayasinghe and Ruchira came second in the final stage sprint contest.
Fifty cyclists entered the final stage. Even though a few cyclists climbed the hills ahead of the main bunch, others too united with them during the flat track. Lakasek advanced during the first sprint at Mawathagama while Lakshan won the second sprint stage at Puskoladeniya. But unfortunately he fell and never returned to compete.
When the leading bunch reached Giriulla, eight of Lankan cyclists were in front. The second bunch was just a minute away from them and only another 10kms to the finishing stage. Hamdan Hamidun (Malaysia), Jayasinghe, Ruchira, Nugera, Nedalof and Hemantha crossed the finish line in a one bunch and followed by Mohamed Hikal and Gihan Pushpakumara after five seconds.
==============================
## Title: PM paying his last respects to Wasantha Obeysekara
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
PM paying his last respects to Wasantha Obeysekara
The funeral of award-winning veteran film Director Wasantha Obeysekara took place at the General Cemetery, Borella last evening.Here,Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe paying his last respects to Wasantha Obeysekara at the Jayaratne Funeral Parlour in Borella. Picture by Roshan Pitipana
==============================
## Title: Police woman reunited with Sri Lankan street dogs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Police woman reunited with Sri Lankan street dogs
A police woman on holiday was so moved by the plight of street dogs that she raised thousands of pounds to bring them home.
PC Claire McNaney, an alcohol harm officer with Durham Constabulary, was enjoying a break from her beat in Sri Lanka last June with her husband James and two friends.
While relaxing on the beach at the resort of Arugam Bay, she stumbled across a street dog who she named Mama with her two puppies.
They were basically dying there.Their eyes were stuck shut, they were so skinny and malnourished it was horrible to see, she recalled.
As an animal-lover, Claire couldnt bear to see the pups left to face a certain death and made it her mission to rescue them.
I started by stealing sausages from the hotel buffet to feed the dogs.Mama was so hungry she ate six in one go, she said.
Claire called a vet back in Newcastle who told her what medicines to give to the dog. Then she set about trying to find someone to care for them in Sri Lanka.
Then I contacted a vet who was around 12 hours away, I couldnt leave them, she said.
One had been left badly burned after having boiling water on her and she was given to an animal SOS centre in the island.
She still doesnt know what happened to the other puppy. After fellow animal lovers raised more than 7,000 for the cause, Claire was able to bring Mama and Angela to a new future in Britain, as well as two other dogs rescued from cruelty by Animal SOS; Seal and Snow White.Mama and Angela are being cared for in the North East, and Claire says she is delighted to see them happy and healthy. One of the other dogs, Snow White, has been kept in quarantine at the Heathrow Airport after he microchip couldnt be read.
She is now in quarantine for four months and the bill will be around 2,500. If we cant find the money, she will be put down which is horrible, she lamented. - Chronicle Live
==============================
## Title: Post relief, preventive measures discussed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Post relief, preventive measures discussed
A special meeting was held at the Kalmunai Municipal Council Auditorium on April 8 to discuss steps to be taken regarding the relief to be given for the people who fell seriously ill after consuming a food item distributed among them at a religious event at Vanagamuwa in the Irakkamam DS division in the Ampara district on April 5.
The steps to be taken to prevent similar incidents in future was also discussed.
The Chief Minister said Health Department officials, Local Authorities, Divisional Secretariat, Civil Security Service and Members of the CBOs did everything possible to provide relief to the victims.
Three died and over 950 including children were hospitalised in the incident.
The deceased were identified as Aboobacker Cassim Bawa, a father of 11, Abdul Majeed Haleema, a mother of two, and Kalanderlebbe Mariyam Kandu, mother of five. The Chief Minister and team of officials visited the Irakkamam Government Hospital on the day and spoke to the victims. They also inquired about the shortcomings in the hospital.
Eastern Province Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Services, Probation Child Care and Rural Electrification Minister A.L.M.Nazeer, Provincial Chief Ministrys Secretary U.L.A.Azees, Health Ministrys Secretary K. Karunakaran, Kalmunai RDHS Dr. A.L. Alawdeen, Health Department officials, LG officials, Ampara Disaster Management Centre officials and Provincial Councillors participated in the meeting.
==============================
## Title: Premier leaves to Japan on state visit today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 11:30
Premier leaves to Japan on state visit today

Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe left to Japan on a state visit earlier today.
The Premier will meet with Japanese Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe to hold discussions and sign agreements to further strengthen friendly relations between Japan and Sri Lanka.
The official visit will be followed by several other engagements within the course of the Premiers stay till April 16.
The Prime Minister was accompanied by Minister of Special Assignments Dr. Sarath Amunugama and Minister of Development Strategies and International Trade Malik Samarawickrema.
==============================
## Title: Questions and answers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Questions and answers
Executing a Deed of Transfer with Life Interest
Q: I am planning to buy a land for my son with my expenses. I want to reserve my Life Interest and execute the Deed of Transfer. Can a Deed of Transfer be executed subject to a Life Interest
Hendrick, Mt. Lavinia
A: There is no legal barrier. You can transfer the land to your son by executing a Deed of Transfer with your Life Interest. You are entitled to the life time possession of the said land, and if your son transfers this to a third party, then he needs your consent. If not, you can take legal action claiming your possession.
Obtaining Environment Protection License
Q: I am starting a polythene recycling industry in my own premises. Do I have to obtain an Environment Protection Licence What is an Environment Protection Licence and what are the documents to be submitted with an EPL application
A: Yes. You have to obtain an Environment Protection Licence from the Central Environmental Authority (CEA).
The Environmental Protection Licence is a regulatory/legal tool under the provisions of the National Environmental Act No 47 0f 1980 (NEA).
Section 23A of NEA states that no person shall carry out any prescribed activity except under the authority of an Environmental Protection Licence.
That means it is a legal authorization under certain conditions, for industries/ activities to discharge effluents, deposit wastes, emit smoke/gases/fumes/vapor or excessive noise /vibration into the environment.
The following documents have to be submitted with your application:
* Certificate for the Registration of Business
* Legal authorization to use the land for the particular industrial activity. (copy of deed, copy of the lease agreement of the land etc.)
* Copy of Survey Plan of the land
* Legal authorization for establishing the particular industry at the site. (Certificate of Conformity/Trade License or Consent paper from relevant LA)
* Production Certificate necessary for specific products.
(Distilleries, medicinal products, pesticide manufacturing etc.)
* Proposal for pollutant abatement
Residential Visa for Sri Lanka
Q: A friend from Nepal is planning to apply for Residential Visa for Sri Lanka. Please let me know under which categories can he apply for Residential Visa
Sujith, Ratnapura
A: Your friend can apply for Residential Visa under the following categories:
* Employment category
* Investor category
* Religious category
* Student category
* Dependents, spouse or family members
For further clarifications, contact the Department of Immigrations and Emigration.
Cadastral Map
Q: I am a law student. I want to know what is Cadastral Map Which department is responsible to maintain information on Cadastral Survey
A: A cadastre is a methodically arranged inventory of land parcels of individual ownership with unique identification number based on a survey of property boundaries.
It is essentially a systematic description of land parcels within an area. At the beginning of country cadastre, the unit of Cadastral Map was a village and recently changed as a Grama Niladhari (GN) division of a district. A cadastral map consists essentially of two parts via graphic record and textual record.
The Survey General is responsible of maintaining Cadastral Survey information.
The Cadastral Map is a primary requirement to register title to land under Registration of Title Act No.21 of 1998 and Surveyor General is mandated to fulfill requirement of preparation of Cadastral Maps under section 11 of the same Act and section 10 of the Survey Act No. 17 of 2002.
Gratuity payment for a domestic worker
Q: I am a domestic worker, working in a house and looking after a patient for five years. Am I entitled for Gratuity If so, on what grounds the Gratuity payment can be forfeited
A: As you are a domestic worker, you are not entitled to Gratuity payment. Under The Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the following are not entitled for Gratuity:
* Domestic workers
* Personal chauffeurs in private households
* Employees of co-operative societies
* Employees who are entitled to a pension under any non-contributory pension scheme
* Workmen designated under the Indian Repatriates (Special Provisions) Law of 1978
* Any establishment employing less than 15 persons during the period of 12 months immediately preceding the termination of services of a worker
Gratuity can be forfeited only if someone is terminated for following reasons:
* Fraud
* Misappropriation of funds of the employer
* Willful damage to property of the employer
* Causing the loss of goods, articles or property of the employer
Judicial separation for a desperate wife
Q: I am a desperate wife. My husband lives in adultery. As I have two children, I dont want to go for a divorce. Is there a legal relief for me to separate from my husband without divorcing him
Desperate Wife, Panagoda
A: Yes, there is a provision in Civil Procedure Code for judicial separation. According to Section 608(1), application for a separation on any ground on which by the law applicable to Sri Lanka such separation may be granted, may be made by either husband or wife by plaint to the District Court, within the local limits of the jurisdiction of which he or she reside, and the court, on being satisfied on due trial of the truth of the statements made in such plaint, and that there is no legal ground why the application should not be granted, may decree separation accordingly.
If you want you can dissolve your marriage after two years of the judicial separation.
==============================
## Title: Rathnavali excels at 2016 G.C.E. (O/L)
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Rathnavali excels at 2016 G.C.E. (O/L)
Rathnavali Balika Vidyalaya, Gampaha, reports excellent results in the 2016 G.C.E. (O/L) examination. The total number of students who sat for the G.C.E. (O/L) examination was 310, and all these students have gained eligibility to continue their higher studies in G.C.E. (A/L) classes.
The percentage of passing all subjects is 100 percent. The number of students who obtained distinction passes for all nine subjects (9As) is 174 and the respective percentage is 56 percent. This is an increase in 10 percent compared to the previous year's results.
The number of students who obtained 8As and 7As are 70 and 29, respectively. The total number of students who obtained more than 7As is 273 and the percentage is 88 percent.
The Principal highly appreciated the dedication of the teachers who endeavoured in producing these results while expressing her sincere thanks to Education Development Deputy Principal K.L.G.L. Piyangani, Assitant Principal Mala Mangalika, and head of grade 9,10,11 sections and member if the Administrative Staff Wajirakanthi Madhurapperuma for their special contribution in developing subject efficiency levels related to this examination.
Further, grade 6-9 teachers too, were appreciated.
==============================
## Title: Reactions to the Syria Strike: A Brief Guide
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Reactions to the Syria Strike: A Brief Guide
Leave aside the humanitarian and strategic consequences: Trumps decision to launch cruise missiles at Syria was a tactical political masterstroke worthy of Vladimir Putin. The Syria strike shattered the political coalitions gathered against Trump and assembled new ones from the pieces.
First and foremost, Trump won over the blob. The mainstream U.S. foreign policy community has harbored deep misgivings about Trump since the early days of his candidacy. But they certainly werent happy about Obama, either, especially when it came to Syria. In recent days, a number of former Obama officials have retroactively criticized his decision not to intervene in Syria, both on and, most colorfully, off the record.
Obama saw this coming. In an interview with Jeffrey Goldberg, he denounced the traditional formulas of American power.
Theres a playbook in Washington that presidents are supposed to follow, Obama said. The playbook prescribes responses to different events, and these responses tend to be militarized responses. But, he explained, In the midst of an international challenge like Syria, you get judged harshly if you dont follow the playbook.
In attacking Syria, Trump saw the political utility of playing by the rules once again.
A foreign-policy community weary of its antagonism to the grand office of the president would snap in line behind him. And snap in it did, just as soon as the cable networks broke in with somber anchors explaining that America was, once again, unleashing its arsenal over Middle Eastern skies.
Trumps moves allow him to draw a sharp line between himself and Obama, winning over many critics from the heart of the American foreign policy mainstream. The Senates two key Republican foreign policy voices, John McCain and Lindsey Graham, issued a statement in strong support of the strike, noting that Trump had marked a distinction from the Obama administration and begun establishing U.S. credibility. A leader of the conservative Never Trump movement, Bill Kristol, tweeted that he could support the action if not the man: Hes the president, not merely Trump.
New sheriff
Even the centrist and liberal wings of the blob turned out for Trump. Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a blob leader if ever one existed, noted that acting where Obama didnt gave Trump the chance to define himself as the new sheriff. Anne-Marie Slaughter, a former Obama official who has advocated intervention in Syria in the past, said bluntly: Donald Trump has done the right thing on Syria. Even Hillary Clinton was supportive of the action in remarks she made before the strike.
As a bonus, Trump managed to shed support from a particularly troublesome wing of his coalition: his ardent allies on the political fringe and the far right. Paul Watson of the xenophobic, conspiracy-mongering outlet InfoWars, declared himself off the Trump train and tweeted that he would turn his attentions to Frances Marine Le Pen.
For her part, Le Pen seemed uncomfortable with the action, declaring her surprise and saying Trump should have waited for an international investigation. Another pro-Trump, pro-Putin ally, Nigel Farage, also seemed taken aback by the actions of his one-time champion, choosing like Le Pen to declare himself surprised. But this group carries little weight on foreign policy and can be won back with some care and a few dog-whistle tweets.
Of course, Trump benefited from the groundwork laid by his predecessor. The plan Obama considered for striking Syria was significantly more comprehensive, in part because Syria still maintained the bulk of its chemical weapons stockpiles then. At the time Obama was considering action, Martin Dempsey, then-chairman of the Joint Chiefs, wrote that stand-off strikes would require hundreds of aircraft, ships, submarines, and other enablers. Depending on duration, the costs would be in the billions. The plan Trump approved looked very different from what Dempsey described, according to a former Obama official: many missiles hitting one largely symbolic target, rather than an effort to hit many targets. Trump didnt need to achieve the same military effect. He could instead simply do what Tomahawk missiles do best: send a political message.
The ability to send a message with a much smaller mission also enabled Trump to minimize the main risk of attacking Syriacollateral damage to Russian forces operating in the country. Russia has fumed in response, to be sure, but it certainly did not activate its air defenses in Syria. A Kremlin statement implied that the chemical attack itself was a ruse effected by the United States to justify interventionism. The Syrian Army has no chemical weapons, it said, while the government cut off existing coordination measures with America, ironically by suspending the deconfliction phone line Trumps military used to warn Russia that the attack was coming.
The false-flag message about chemical weapons is also an opening provided by Obama. By working through the destruction process, Obama opened the door for Trump to make Russia pay for violating its promises.
American credibility
The pieces were in place for a politically flexible operator to make a bold stroke. Trump could push just hard enough to move the American establishment into its posture of reflexive support for American credibility, but was able to hit lightly enough not to actually harm its most dangerous adversary. And he could do so while utterly repudiating his predecessors position, an opportunity made possible only because of the work done by that predecessor.
So what if Trump had denounced Obamas Syrias policy and decried George W. Bushs war-mongering A tactical opportunity presented itself, and he seized it. Once Putin finishes screaming, he may find himself compelled to applaud. - The Atlantic
==============================
## Title: Right on target
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Right on target
A blindfolded inmate of the Rajagiriya Victoria Home for Incurables participating in the Breaking the Pot competition at their Aluth Avurudu Festival (Bak Maha Ulela) on April 8. It was sponsored by the Friendship League of the Orange IT institute. Picture by Saman Sri Wedage
==============================
## Title: Sanjeewa completes hat-trick of Grand Prix wins
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
Sanjeewa completes hat-trick of Grand Prix wins
B A Sanjeewa maintained his lead after Round 3, to complete a Hat Trick of victories in the CAT SOLAR Pin Fernando Grand  Prix, April Edition, sponsored by United Tractor & Equipment Pvt Ltd. Sanjeewa returned a final day score of 1 over par to aggregate 278, total 6 under par for the 4 Rounds to win by One Stroke from N. Amarapadma who fired a a 3 undr par to close in on Sanjeewa but failed by 1 shot. Sisira Kumara maintained his 3rd position whilst Pradeep Kumara too, played consistent Golf to finish in 4th place 7 strokes adrift of the winner.
T. Akash proved his consistency with 4 rounds of 77, 6 over par to be the top junior with308, aggregate of 4 rounds 7 strokes ahead of Armand Flamer Caldera on 315. Lamindi Rainika the top junior in February & March was a further 4 strokes behind Armand. However, Akash finished in 12th place among the overall Grand Prix field.
The Pin Fernando Grand Prix, powered by CAT SOLAR  United Tractor & Equipment Pvt Ltd, sponsoring the Monthly conduct of the Grand Prix events is a boost for the Sri Lankan Amateur Golfers, since these scores qualify for World Amateur Golf Rankings (WAGR), monitored by R&A the world governing body of Golf, the International body of Sri Lanka Golf Union.
The standard of Golf displayed by the Sri Lankan Amateurs is very creditable with the top 3 players, under par over 4 Rounds, 6,5 & 3 under par respectively and 4th placed Pradeep Kumara 1 over par aggregate for the 4 rounds.
Cat solar pin fernando grand prix april edition 2017- final standings
278 B A Sanjeewa 71, 67, 68, 72 WINNER, 279 N. Amarapadma 67, 72, 72, 68 Runner up, 281 Sisira Kumara 68, 67, 74, 72 3rd Place - 285 G M Pradeep Kumara 71, 72, 70, 72 - 294 J M D Indika 79, 73, 69, 73 - 299 M U Chanaka Perera 73, 74, 77, 75, 302 Navinda Ranga 85, 70, 74, 73, 303 - M H Chalitha Pushpika 75, 70, 75, 83 - 306 D M Pradeep Bandara 77, 80, 75, 74, 307 R. Sureshan 78, 77, 77, 75 - 308 G I Dilranga 75, 81, 74, 78, T Akash (J) 77, 77, 77, 77 - 315 Armand Flamer Caldera (J) 81, 77, 77. 80 - 319 Lamindu Rainika (J) 86, 77, 77, 79 - 320 Januka Dilshan (J) 81, 80, 80, 79, T Jayaseelan 80, 83, 81, 76
==============================
## Title: Scarlett Johnsson calls Ivanka Trump 'cowardly' following 'complicit' interview
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 13:15
Scarlett Johnsson calls Ivanka Trump 'cowardly' following 'complicit' interview

Scarlett Johanssons appearance onSaturday Night Liveruffled a few feathers when she donned a blonde wig to portray IvankaTrump.
Asked her reaction to the skit, itself a fauxadvert for the perfume Complicit,Trump insisted shes activity involved with trying to guide the current Presidential administration.
Speaking at Tina Brown's Women in the World Summit, Johansson continued the conversation, calling Trump cowardly while commenting on the First Daughters recent interview.
[Ivanka] said she felt that the greatest change actually would be behind closed doors, and nobody would actually know that she had made this change, Johansson told the audience, according toThe Cut.
And I thought, well thats empowering! How old-fashioned, this idea that behind a great man is a great woman. What about being in front of that person or next to them It is such an old-fashioned concept that to be this powerful woman you cant appear to be concerned, that someone is going to think that you are bitchy, or a powerful woman. They get concerned with this idea that they are going to be seen in this unforgiving light and screw that. It is so old fashioned and it is so uninspired and actually really cowardly.
==============================
## Title: SL, India in joint venture to develop Trinco oil facility
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, April 10, 2017 - 01:00
SL, India in joint venture to develop Trinco oil facility
India and Sri Lanka have agreed in principle to jointly develop and operate the oil storage facility located in the strategically important Trincomalee, Petroleum Resources Development Minister Chandima Weerakkody said yesterday. The minister said this will be a joint venture between the two countries with benefits for both parties.
Some are trying to interpret this venture as a sale of State assets. But this is completely false and misleading, he added.
Under an agreement signed in 2003, all the 99 oil tanks were given to India. By with this new move, the Sri Lankan government will be able to take back 10 of the 99 tanks for the exclusive use of Sri Lanka, Minister Weerakkody told the Daily News.
The balance 73 oil tanks will be given to Indian Oil Corporation on lease to be developed by a company that will be operated as a joint venture between Sri Lanka and India, of which 50 percent shares will be held by the Government of Sri Lanka, Minister Weerakkody explained.
This facility has been idling since 1966. It will now come to use through this joint venture and importantly, the Sri Lankan government will only give these oil tanks on a lease, Minister Weerakkody said.
He also explained that the oil tank farm was a property of the United Kingdom until former Prime Minister S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike purchased them back.
Speaking on the economic prospects of the joint venture, Minister Weerakkody explained that when the Ceylon Petroleum Cooperation gets 10 oil tanks for exclusive use, Sri Lanka will have a guarantee of more oil stocks. All this time we had only a stock which is enough for 10 days, he said.
Once the facility is jointly developed, we will be able to earn 50 percent of the joint venture company, which is involved in both storage and sale of oil, Minister Weerakkody pointed out.
We will not only be able to sell oil stocks within the country but outside as well, Minister Weerakkody added.
==============================