## Title: MRs broken promise to Moon led to current impasse with UN
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
MRs broken promise to Moon led to current impasse with UN
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa accepted the fact that war crimes had been taken place in Sri Lanka and promised Ban Ki-moon on May 23, 2009 to hold an investigation but he did not do this, Cabinet Spokesman Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said .
He said Dr. Dayan Jayatilleke explained the method of conducting the investigation in his report. But nothing was done. That is what ruined the cordial relations that existed between Sri Lanka and the UN, Dr. Rajitha Senaratne said.
Addressing the weekly cabinet press briefing held at the Government Information Department Auditorium, yesterday The Minister said the former President should have rejected the opportunity given to him to address the UN because he rejected all the reports released by the UN. The inaccurate decisions made by the former President, dragged the issue to its current position.
According to Dr. Senaratne, the word hybrid is nowhere and it will be a domestic mechanism which is to be set up to investigate war crimes.
The Hybrid Special Court is only a proposal included in the UNHRC Report and it is not final. The final decision will be made on the 30th. Even the US proposal does not contain a hybrid special court.
All leading countries such as China, India, Russia etc. support the domestic mechanism. Only countries such as Ireland oppose it.
Maybe recommendations will be made requesting Sri Lanka to obtain foreign expertise and technical assistance to implement the domestic mechanism. It is all right because even the former President appointed three foreign judges. It is clearly mentioned in the Paranagama Report. We have to wait and see how the final proposal is being drafted.
Dr. Senaratne pointed out that it will take around one and half years to conduct the local investigation and the duration can be extended if required. No new laws are needed to conduct the local investigations. So far no country had won a crusade against the UN.
The only relief we have today is not signing the Rome Convention. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe did not sign it.
"It was me who opposed 13 - (thirteen minus) proposal of MR and halted it by fighting against it all alone. It minimized the damage, he added.t at the event.
==============================
## Title: Multi stakeholder platform necessary to achieve development goals by 2030
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Multi stakeholder platform necessary to achieve development goals by 2030
Creating a multi stakeholder platform is necessary to discuss and take measures to achieve sustainable development goals by 2030, Global Compact Network Director Sutheash Balasubramaniam said.
Balasubramaniam was addressing the media yesterday at Aitken Spence, Colombo.
He said all 193 member countries of the United Nations have agreed to adopt the 17 sustainable development goals which includes poverty and hunger eradication, ensuring healthy lives, promoting well-being for all, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promote learning opportunities for all, achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls, ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, etc. with the intention of eradicating poverty, protecting the planet and moving towards prosperity by 2030.
The Sustainable Development Goals will come into effect from January 1, 2016 and it is expected that all UN member countries will use them to guide and shape their policies through 2030 even though the members are not legally bound to do so, he said.
He also said that it is necessary to raise awareness amongst Sri Lankans about the global goals and initiate dialogue between corporate sector about potential opportunities in achieving them.
Balasubramaniam said the new Sustainable Development Goals will be a road map for all countries.
Sustainable development goals also aim the continuation of the progress achieved by the eight Millennium Development Goals, adopted in 2000 which is scheduled to expire at the end of this year, he added.
Senior External Affairs Officer Sandya Salgado and Global Compact Network Contact Person and Director Rasika Withanage also spoke.
==============================
## Title: Need for a new agricultural policy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Need for a new agricultural policy
I have read from afar that a re-formulation of the National Agricultural Policy is imminent. With this in mind, I encourage a revisit to the Irrigation Management Transfer pilot implemented at Ridi Bendi Ela under the Irrigation Department and the Irrigation Management Division, Ministry of Irrigation and Power (1998-2005).
Building on a previous programme of participatory irrigation management, this programme progressively mobilized farmers around the cultural capital of the village community. The cultural symbolism of water is central in the trilogy of tank-farm-temple, and the programme mobilized this form of capital first as bureaucratic voluntary farmer organizations, then as body corporate, and finally as an entrepreneurial organization the farmer company.
While income generation was the immediate goal, the long-term goal was to enable the community to assume greater responsibility and costs for operating and maintaining the irrigation system beyond the distributary canal (hitherto managed by the irrigation department). Income diversification in small holder agriculture was viewed as the path to the success of this policy.
Major irrigation system
In 2000, under a tripartite agreement between the Irrigation Department representing the GoSL, the farmer organization of the irrigation system, and the farmer company, the Ridi Bendi Ela irrigation system below the reservoir was leased for thirty-six months to the farmer organization. The farmer company was authorized to jointly manage water delivery, canal operation and maintenance jointly with the Irrigation Department and the farmer organizations, and implement programmes for agricultural service and income generation under the oversight of the IMD, its project committee, and the district administration. This pilot was abandoned in 2005 amidst political fears of water privatization.
Despite this, farmer shareholders still recall the farmer companys spectacular success of saving maha 2003; Ridi Bendi Ela was the only irrigation system to have a following yala. This was attributed to superior water management and how well the institutional arrangement in place worked. The institutional arrangement allowed for timely release of water into Magallavava by the Irrigation Department, with its delivery and distribution among farmers via the company, and coordinated by its management of hired expertise, particularly the Manager of Water and Lands. The arrangement also focused on farm management with the cooperation of the Department of Agriculture, a responsive system of water distributions opposed to standard rotation, farmer contributions above and beyond the norm for system upkeep, and information access. The success of the farmer company was attributed to low tech management.
Ridi Bendi Ela
A couple of notable successes of the income generation programmes still continue: the farmer company is a regional supplier of seed paddy, in 2007 primarily as a result of this enterprise, the company generated a profit of Rs 2.2 million, the highest in its history. In its heyday, the company produced and marketed traditional varieties of rice such as rathal, suvandal and madavalu, as well as basmati. Farm income diversification through poultry production and marketing is an original programme still continued today. Both programmes have much potential for expansion.
A farmer ploughing his field
Ridi Bendi Ela is an example of a major irrigation system with technical, management, and institutional issues typical of similar systems in Sri Lanka. In the context of climate change it would be useful to consider the following lessons learned from Ridi Bendi Ela in the development of a National Agricultural Policy.
1. Nowhere is water viewed in purely market terms. Irrigation and water management are institutional considerations that are historically derived and values-based, and is viewed as such in the development of similar programmes in the West as well. Ridi Bendi Ela was an exercise in socially constructed water rights rather than a purely market-based phenomenon, a cultural and political anathema in Sri Lanka, it is time to recognize it as such.
2. We have moved beyond Gal Oya and farmer participation, so it is time to recognize the fact that unless we improve farmers income they cannot participate in a meaningful way in self-mobilized management. With improved income models, farmers will be freer to pursue alternative models of management. Farmer shareholders themselves have evaluated this farmer company, an entrepreneurial organization, as superior to existing community-based organizations, including co-ops. This farmer company is a sustainable organization, which has continued to function since the termination of the tripartite agreement.
3. It is time to admit that some organizations do best at certain levels. The bureaucratic structure of the Irrigation Department, for example, does best at complex regulatory and integrative functions, including delivering water to Ridi Bendi Ela from upstream despite many technical and management challenges.
4. Given soil, water, technical, and social complexities on-farm, community management is the better norm below the reservoir. The enthusiasm of the members for the farmer company and its income generation programmes, particularly in saving maha with very limited water and doing the following yala, not to mention doing it well below salary and overhead costs as compared to the previous management system is a testimony to the power of social/cultural capital mobilized to achieve common goals.
5. Farmers need managers. The contingencies of managing under drought conditions and climate change required timely responses at all levels of management. In Ridi Bendi Ela, the Manager Lands and Water hired by the farmer company, and other technical staff filled an intervening role between the bureaucracy and community- based organizations by communicating with both sides in a timely fashion regarding water delivery and distribution in particular, but also with other matters. This vigorous and timely accessing of information is entrepreneurial in style, implemented by mobilizing structures and procedures as well as a sense of ownership of a culturally sanctioned resource. Their response to drought is a lesson in management that goes beyond the standard paradigm of adaptation used in community drought response research, which implies passivity.
6. Learn from mistakes. The Ridi Bendi Ela farmer company has undergone many a financial crisis. Farmers as board members or shareholders need assistance in financial management and business planning. However, unlike other farmer companies established at this time it has retained its shareholders, continued some of its original programmes, and has sued and recovered outstanding loans. This is perhaps a testimony of the sustainability of this company. The Company is currently grappling with an overstock of seed paddy causing financial difficulties.
Given the magnitude of water used in the irrigation sector in the context of climate change, it is indeed a priority to rethink irrigation institutions. Investing in sustainable community-managed irrigation is also an investment in national food security and in poverty alleviation in an impoverished sector with a large out-migration from farming.
(Dr. Namika Raby, Professor, Cultural Anthropology, at California State University, Long Beach is a PhD in Cultural Anthropology from the University of California, San Diego. Trained in irrigation management at IWMI, Raby has done extensive research on the Farmer Company at Ridi Bendi Ela and gave a workshop on the subject to the GoSL in 2009. Among her other works, Raby has evaluated the Participatory Irrigation Management Programme of the Philippines for the World Bank Institute and published on Mahaweli H for IWMI.)
==============================
## Title: No land bridge talks during Indian visit - PM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
No land bridge talks during Indian visit - PM
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe told Parliament yesterday that no discussion took place on a land bridge connecting India and Sri Lanka during his visit to India.
I was surprised to read about a proposal to build a bridge linking Sri Lanka and India in a newspaper.
This news item has been published without verifying the facts and it could breach the confidence of readers.
This could only lead to a loss of confidence in the newspaper concerned, the Prime minister observed. Making a special statement on his recent visit to India, the Prime Minister said that greater attention will be focused on strengthening the economical relationship between India and Sri Lanka. He said that the relationship between the two countries go back thousands of years. I would like to keep you informed about my fruitful visit to India and my talks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the PM said.
The Indian Prime Minister and Ministers of the Indian government warmly welcomed me and my delegation, he said.
The Indian Prime Minister expressed his gratitude for selecting India for my first official trip abroad as the Prime Minister. This year had been a very good year for Indo-Lanka relations with a visit by president Maithripala Sirisena to India in February, my visit to India and also the visit by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Sri Lanka in March.
I also informed Indian Prime Minister about the consensual government established in Sri Lanka. He praised Sri Lanka Parliaments decision to appoint R. Sampanthan as the Leader of Opposition. He also expressed pleasure over the end of political instability in Sri Lanka. Primier Wickremesinghe further said that he had invited his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to visit Sri Lanka to sign the Indo  Lanka economic and Technological Agreement.
The Indian Premiers also expressed his governments readiness to work cooperatively with Sri Lanka in future. The Indian government expressed its pleasure on the change of stance of the UNHRC in Geneva in favour of Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan government thanked India for its assistance in development and resettlement projects.
We discussed the means and methods of improving bilateral economic relationship between the two nations and signing of the Indo Lanka Economic and Technological Agreement. The Indian Premier agreed that we should enter into the agreement around May or June 2016.
Delegations of the two nations discussed the development plans to continue the Trincomalee Oil Tank farm as a joint venture, establishing a oil refinery by Indian companies in Sri Lanka with the permission of the Central Environment Authority and to finalize the work on thermal power plant, he added. The two nations agreed to address the problem of Indian fishermen poaching in Sri Lankan waters and to sort out matters in an amicable manner. During the two-day visit, four bilateral agreements were signed between the two countries. An agreement on the coordination of satellite for SAARC regions orbit frequency, an MoU on the provision of medical equipment to the Vavuniya General Hospital, an MoU regarding the Indian Grant Assistance for the implementation of small development projects to local bodies, and grant assistance agreement from India for the operation of emergency ambulance.
==============================
## Title: Over 5,500 MTs of paddy purchased from Matale
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Over 5,500 MTs of paddy purchased from Matale
The paddy purchasing program in the Matale District for the current Yala season is progressing successfully.
This was discussed at the Matale district agriculture committee meeting at the District Secretariat's auditorium recently. The Paddy Marketing Board is operating five purchasing centres in the district.
They are located at Wilgamuwa, Nagolla, Pelvehera, Kandalama and Kanadana areas.
A total of 5,549 metric tons of paddy had been bought at a certified rate. Another 500 metric tons of paddy will be purchased from the Galewela and Dewahuwa areas. Each farmer can sell only 2,000 kilograms to the government.
As a result, large stocks of paddy are being kept in farm houses without a way to sell it.
Farmers request the government to increase the purchasing quantity to 5,000 kilograms.
==============================
## Title: The perfect secret!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
The perfect secret!
What makes the perfect partner Study reveals the richer the man or woman, the more emphasis they place on attractiveness
*Study based on two of the largest national studies of mating preferences
*Found people with more desirable traits were more selective when dating
*Educated men preferred attractive partners more than educated women
*74% of men think a steady income is important compared to 97% of women
What you consider a perfect match can change based on your gender, wealth and confidence.
Now new research has revealed exactly what different types of people think are desirable and essential traits when looking for the perfect date.
It found that the richer the person, the more emphasis they place on finding a partner who is attractive.
Based on two of the largest national studies of mating preferences ever conducted, scientists asked nearly 28,000 participants, aged 18 to 75, to answer surveys on their ideal match.
Unsurprisingly, the research found that people with more desirable traits could be more selective when it came to who they dated.
But it also revealed interesting results about how mating preferences differed depending on their age, gender, race, income, education, and appearance.
We looked at the extent to which attractiveness and resources are desirable versus essential to men and women when they are looking for a long-term partner, said Dr David Frederick, assistant professor of psychology at Chapman University.
Weve known for a long time that men care more about attractiveness in a long-term partner, and women care more about resources.
The researchers divided traits into two broad categories: necessities and luxuries.
The team found that gender was the biggest factor that influenced what people were looking for in a long-term partner.
While men are more likely to choose pretty and slender woman, both sexes want to be someone who was just as attracted to them.
Ninety two per cent of men said it was desirable or essential that their potential partner was good-looking and 80 per cent said they had to have a slender body.
This compares to 84 per cent of women who are keen on appearance, and 58 per cent who want their partner to be slim.
Seventy four per cent of men think a steady income is important, compared to 97 per cent of women.
The study found that the richer the person, the more emphasis they place on finding an attractive partner. Pictured is billionaire and presidential candidate Donald Trump, with his wife and former model Melania Trump
Meanwhile being rich was important to 47 per cent of men and 69 per cent of women.
There were also gender differences in whether it was very important/a must have that their partner made at least as much money as they do, which 24 per cent of men saying it was key, compared to 46 per cent of women.
People who were confident in their own appearance did not have stronger preferences for a partner who is physically attractive to them.
But they did report stronger preferences for partners who are good looking and slender  this was true for both men and women.
Men with higher incomes showed stronger preferences for women with slender bodies, while wealthier women had stronger preferences for men who had a steady income or made lots of money.
Older people  both men and women  had weaker preferences for a partner they find physically attractive, who make as much money as they do, and who has a successful career.
We found that gender was by far the strongest predictor of what people want in a long-term mate, added Dr Frederick.
It was more important than age, income, education, or confidence in appearance.
-Daily Mail, UK
THE RESULTS IN BRIEF
Appearance
*More men said that it was desirable or essential that a potential mate had good looks and a slender body.
*Both men and women who said they were confident in their looks didnt have strong preferences for attractiveness.
Income
*Richer women stated that it was important for partners to have a steady income.
*A higher percentage of women also said that their mate should make as much money as them and have a successful career.
*Men and women with high incomes looked for attractive mates.
Education
*Well-educated men preferred attractive, slender partners more often than well-educated women.
*Both genders thought education level was not important when it came to wealth.
Age
*Older people has less preference for a partner who was physically attractive, wealthy, or managing a successful career.
==============================
## Title: Performance of Hajj is more than mere rituals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Performance of Hajj is more than mere rituals
Today Muslims all over the world will be celebrating the conclusion of Hajj by the pilgrims who have indulged in certain rituals in the holy Ka'aba in Mecca and in the desert cities of Mina and Arafah. These are not merely rituals they have a greater significance than what is connoted by the rituals.
For a start, all the male pilgrims, whether they are monarchs or subjects, rich or poor or of whatever social status are attired in two pieces of unsewn white cloth. If they are not attired so, their Hajj will not be accepted. All of them attired in this fashion will have to cicumambulate the sacred Ka'aba and go, while jogging a short distance, between the hillocks of Safa and Marwa, doing both these rites seven times and finally culminating in congregating in the mount Arafah. There is no way that anyone of whatever means can be exempted from this for whatsoever reason if he or she wants to accomplish the Hajj. Only in extreme circumstances where a person with the necessary financial means is bedridden and cannot undertake the journey and partake in these activities can assign a person to perform 'Hajj badal', the pilgrimage on his behalf. This is the only concession and no other.
Promoting social equality and brotherhood
God in His absolute wisdom has made this a massive gathering of people simply attired in the same manner and performing all the rituals everyone on his own to signify that no one is different in the sight of Allah and that everyone has to account for him or herself when risen in the last day similarly attired in the white shroud that he or she was buried in.
Similarly it signifies the promotion of brotherhood as contained the Prophet (PBUH) last sermon in the mount Arafah thus: "All mankind is from Adam and Eve. An Arab has no superiority over a non-Arab, nor does a non-Arab have any superiority over an Arab; a white has no superiority over a black, nor does a black have any superiority over a white; [none have superiority over another] except by piety and good action. Learn that every Muslim is a brother to every Muslim and that the Muslims constitute one brotherhood. Nothing shall be legitimate to a Muslim which belongs to a fellow Muslim unless it was given freely and willingly. Do not, therefore, do injustice to yourselves".
Thus, while establishing equality amongst all the people, the Prophet (PBUH) singled out Muslims brotherhood in this sermon.
Respect for women and their rights
In the performance of Hajj women have been given several concessions unlike men. They can dress in any fashionable clothing, as long as they are not revealing and modest and their face, hands below the .... And legs below the ankle are uncovered. They can cover their faces with the niqab if they fear that molestation, but cannot wear any perfume.
Thus the vanity with which women express their passion for fashion has not been curtailed. The Prophet iterated in the strongest terms the rights of women in his last Arafah sermon thus: "O people, it is true that you have certain rights with regard to your women, but they also have rights over you. Remember that you have taken them as your wives only under a trust from God and with His permission. If they abide by your right then to them belongs the right to be fed and clothed in kindness. Do treat your women well and be kind to them for they are your partners and committed helpers. And it is your right that they do not make friends with any one of whom you do not approve, as well as never to be unchaste.
Thereby, the combination of factors granting concessions for women to complete their Hajj, even if they become unclean by menstruation recognised and allowed in the Shari'ah provides ample testimony in respect of protection of women and their rights.
Sacrifice and humility
To complete an accepted Hajj all male pilgrims are required either to shave their heads or cut some of their hair. Most of them prefer to shave their head in order to show humility and obedience to God. Female pilgrims are required to cut some of their hair. They are not required to shave. This is another concession for females.
The most important event in the culmination of the Hajj is the sacrifice of an animal - a goat or sheep by one person or a bull or camel by a combination of seven or twelve pilgrims respectively. The meat is distributed to the needy, not only in the place of slaughter, but in any part of the world.
Thus the performance of Hajj may appear to be mere rituals to some people, bu it has a much greater significance as a training ground in universal equality, brotherhood, granting of women's rights sacrifice and humility.
Allah knows best.
EID MUBARAK
Email: [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Poetry, as a means of education
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Poetry, as a means of education
Reproduced below is the speech delivered by Prof Rajiva Wijesinha at the launch of Chandana Ruwan Jayanetti's poetry collection 'Reflections
in Loneliness'.
I am both pleased and proud to be here as Chief Guest at the launch of Chandana Ruwan Jayanetti's 'Reflections in Loneliness', a collection of poems and prose. I am pleased because the book is a fine example of creativity. It covers a range of emotions through poetry, while the prose recreates a lost world which reminds us how swiftly the fabric of society is changing.
My pride however is perhaps the greater feeling on this occasion, for Chandana is one of the first pupils in a new programe I started, which will remain perhaps my most enduring contribution to this country. He was also one of the best, and amply justified the faith we had in our rural youngsters, when we offered them an opportunity that had been zealously guarded before by the privileged.
I refer to the opening up of tertiary level qualifications in English, which commenced at the Affiliated University Colleges in 1992. I had long been complaining of the fact that English continued to be the preserve of an elite, but those in charge of educational policy thought this was only proper. However President Premadasa appointed a visionary University Grants Commission Chairman in the form of Arjuna Aluwihare, and he embarked on a brilliant initiative to expand opportunities in this sector. Having met him by chance at a social event at the British Council at which I was then working, I was drawn into his orbit, and ended up leaving the Council to take charge of all his new English initiatives.
These included the AUC programme, both the Special English Course and the General English Course for all students; it included English at Sri Jayewardenepura, which Prof Aluwihare described as the cutting edge of the University system, because of its readiness to take up new initiatives; and it included the pre-University General English Language Training programme, which I coordinated along with another visionary, Oranee Jansz.
But none of our efforts would have succeeded had it not been for the material given to us, the bright young boys and girls of Sri Lanka, many of whom are deprived of tertiary level education because of the unwholesome restrictions we have imposed on talent in this country. Tragically, the present government has forgotten completely its pledge to increase opportunities. I drafted, with the support of some of our best academics, a new Act and also produced Cabinet papers that would have introduced learning opportunities in the periods our youngsters now waste. But sadly no one seems interested in such initiatives, and I see no signs of fresh ideas emerging if they feel that my plans are too ambitious.
For we have now completely forgotten the ideals with which C W W Kannangara transformed education in this country. The twin pillars on which he built were equity, which meant expanding opportunities for those who would otherwise have been deprived; and excellence, which meant ensuring that the skills and capacities of the best were developed appropriately. It was for this reason that he set up Central Schools all over the island, and ensured that capable children not only got into these schools, but received education on a par with that provided in the existing elite schools.
Given that we tried to do something similar on a much smaller scale with the English programme we introduced at university level - and also through the English medum programme in government schools I started under another great visionary, Tara de Mel - I would like to say here a few words about how the life and work of Chandana Jayanetti exemplify the principles that Kannangara promoted.
As I said before, we created in 1992 an opportunity for youngsters from rural schools to study English at tertiary level. One of our purposes was to develop a cadre of capable teachers willing to go back into the school system. This was essential for we had found that the products of English degrees at the traditional universities were not keen to go back to language teaching at school level. This was understandable. In the first place their curriculum concentrated on material they could not make use of in the school system. The consequences of that were graphically illustrated to me today by your Director General, when he described attempts to teach Shakespeare by the English Language Teaching Unit at Sri Jayewardenepura, when as a new entrant from a school where there had been little English teaching, he needed basic communication skills.
So there was a mismatch between what was taught at the universities and what was needed in the country. And there was a second problem in that, because of their own good command of the language, graduates of these universities had access to much more lucrative jobs, and did not want to go back to teaching. With supply so limited, very few students being admitted in those days for English degrees - we had only five in the first year at Peradeniya when I started teaching there - the universities were certainly not a helpful source of English teachers.
It was our purpose therefore to produce many more graduates in English, skilled in a curriculum that would enable them to become good teachers of English in rural areas - and in those days you must remember that, as far as English was concerned, even provincial centres such as Galle and Matara and Kurunagala lagged behind. That, I am pleased to say, has now changed, mainly I think because when English medium was restarted, it was these towns in particular that raced ahead. We saw the results of this in the beautiful recitations today of Chandana's poetry by the young girls of Sanghamitta College, the fact that schools in these towns now have programmes to rival those in the previous elite centres, Colombo and Kandy and Jaffna, where private schools had continued to provide better opportunities for English learning that the state allowed.
Our curriculum way back in 1992, designed at Sri Jayewardenepura which I was persuaded to join, was tailor made for students without much previous expertise in English. We used material that was familiar to students, and even when we introduced English literature, we started with what students would find familiar. In addition, we published books for the courses, and got assistance to produce these at low cost so that students could have their own copies. I was accused of making money on these books, but I am happy to say that the students, who were getting books at Rs 10 or so, recognized that we needed to ensure that reprints were possible, and we only charged the cost of production. Typically, it was the elite who did not like the programme who were more aggressive in their accusations.
But since I have always believed that books are essential for learning - and this was long before the days of the internet - I carried on. We were able, in the ten years or so that I ran book development programmes for the Ministry and the English Association, to release over 100,000 low cost books into the market. Unfortunately the Cabinet Paper I produced earlier this year to develop a Universities Press lies forgotten now in the Ministry. So too my efforts to encourage book development and production came to naught when I was adviser on English to the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately there is a mafia which makes a lot of money through the monopoly on book production for schools that it enjoys, and the idea of having publishers compete to produced low cost readers for students is not something we can take forward here.
Obviously the students who came into the AUCs were of different capacities, given the uncertainties about their future. But there were plenty of good ones, in all sic places we had the English Diploma Course, Belihuloya and Rahangala and Buttala and Addalaichenai and Trincomalee and Anuradhapura and Vavuniya. I would visit these regularly, and it was a joy to see how students developed in confidence as well as in skills.
Students like Chandana soon established themselves as leaders in the field. In order to encourage them, I had a workshop for the six best students from each of three AUCs, to introduce teaching skills, 9 girls and 9 boys altogether. I had learned at Oxford that bringing bright students together developed synergies, which led to results improving all round - a technique that Oranee Jansz also used in initiating drama based project learning in the GELT programme. I should add that Chandana's equally able wife Lilani was one of the students there, and it is good to see her after a long time, as well as two other excellent students from Rahangala. I would like to think that the marriage between these two superb minds was set in motion at that workshop, but I suspect they were both romantic enough without all that.
Unfortunately the Sri Lankan mindset does not encourage excellence and the other students were upset. Populist academics then had workshops for all, which provide farcical - whereas we know that setting high standards and then encouraging team work through able leaders is a much better way of ensuring good results. Sadly the same principle of equalizing downward came to the fore when governments changed and no one knew what to do with the AUCs - and given our failure to develop systems, those in charge would not consult the earlier authorities and thought they had to reinvent the wheel.
So instead of developing AUCs into new style universities, they turned them into second rate versions of the older universities. We had to wait for a wholly new visionary, in the form of Chandra Embuldeniya, to start a new style of degree course at Uva Wellassa. Whether that will last I cannot be sure, it is certainly significant that it has not been replicated, despite its comparatively good employment record..
Meanwhile Sri Lanka completely ignored developments in the rest of the world. The United Kingdom, where university education had been the preserve of an elite for decades, had turned polytechnics into universities a couple of decades back, and now produces many more graduates than previously. But this country still sticks to an outmoded British system, and restrict degrees. The proposals we put forward years ago through the National Education Commission to provide degrees for Vocational courses have been ignored, with the so-called University of Vocational and Technical Education having produced very few graduates in the last few years.
And though things started to improve there under a new Vice Chancellor, tertiary education is hopelessly divided up so that progress is difficult. And in the absence of clear ideas about how to proceed, the students have a horrible deal. Thus, when I visited the AdvancedTechnical Education Institution at Labuduwa, wher Chandana now teaches, I found no members of staff except him - the others had gone to a wedding and not bothered to take leave. And students were without teachers, with the government having broken promises regarding recognition of courses.
No efforts have been made, as various new initiatives are started to develop technical education, to ensure a supply of good teachers. The suggestions we made in Parliament about introducing training components in all degree courses have been ignored. Planning for the future is something we do not bother about in this country, and we specialize in breaking up responsibilities, so that nothing can move swiftly.
I find this all very depressing, and often I feel there is no point in trying to effect reforms. But then I come across my students who strive under difficult circumstances to fulfil their social obligations, and I take heart. As I mentioned, it was deeply satisfying to see Chandana alone at the Technical College on the day I visited, and to recognize how well he got on with the students, and understood their problems. Similarly I had a student of enormous sensitivity at the Pasdunrata College of Education, which was created in the late eighties as a flagship English Teacher Training Institute. It had however collapsed when there was a change of government and the new Minister rejected all the initiatives of his predecessor (even though they came from the same party).
The deep commitment of my students for their own students is something I find immensely heartening. I have seen this in school teachers in Jaffna and in Tissamaharama, in Kalmunai and in Weeraketiya. Then there are those who are developing new programmes at universities at Sabaragamuwa and Uwa Wellassa and Horana and Oluvil, and also those at technical colleges.
And sometimes one comes across the articulation of the philosophy underlying this commitment. Chandana Jayanetti's book is remarkable for the unity of concept in the poems and prose. His vision of the world combines careful attention to detail with deep sympathy for individuals. And there is always a constant privileging of the vulnerable.
So when he talks of a dead soldier, he also deals with the agony of the mother.
There is a lovely account of an inspiring teacher who first introduced him to poetry. And my own favourite is a touching account of a Vesak Lantern burning up to the agony of its creator, the poet's younger brother.
Let me conclude then by thanking Chandana for this opportunity to participate in this launch; by congratulating him and his imaginative illustrator and the printer (who many years ago produced some of the materials we published through the Sabaragamuwa University Press); and to Lilani, his wife, who was also one of the excellent students who was at that long ago workshop when I felt that the initiative Arjuna Aluvihare had started was fully justified. Today, having read this book, and having seen so many former students from the University College here, who are doing so well as teachers or otherwise with their command of English, I feel a tremendous sense of fulfillment
==============================
## Title: PRECIPAC questioning former President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
PRECIPAC questioning former President
Former President and parliamentarian, Mahinda Rajapaksa was questioned by the Presidential Commission of Inquiry to investigate and inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources and Privileges (PRECIPAC) yesterday.
==============================
## Title: President to address 70th UNGA session on September 30
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
President to address 70th UNGA session on September 30
President Maithripala Sirisena left for New York yesterday to participate in the 70th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). He is expected to address the UNGA on September 30.
President Sirisena is scheduled to meet leaders of many countries including the US President Barack Obama during his stay in New York.
According to Presidential Media Division, President Maithripala Sirisena left for New York by a flight of the Emirates Airline.
The President is also scheduled to address the UN Sustainable Development summit which is to be held in New York from September 25  27 on the sidelines of UNGA.
==============================
## Title: President's US visit will stand in goodstead
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
President's US visit will stand in goodstead
President Maithripala Sirisena's visit to New York can make a change in the UN report expected to be released on September 30, Rural Economic Affairs Minister S. B. Dissanayake said
Addressing the Media yesterday at the SLFP headquarters, Minister Dissanayake said a satisfactory decision will be taken with regard to the report on the Investigations on Sri Lanka and matters relating to the domestic inquiry mechanism the government hoping to adopt.
"The UNHRC report is one-sided. The former regime did not leave room for the UN to conduct their investigation in the country. The evidence to the crime report has been given by LTTE supporters. The UN has proposed for a hybrid court and they raised doubts about the functioning of courts in Sri Lanka," he added.
"We believe that President Maithripala Sirisena's visit and the prevailing situation in the country will convince the UN officials to implement a domestic inquiry mechanism," he said.
Dissanayake said that it is the responsibility of the government to protect the rights of the War Heroes who liberated the country and ensure the country's unitary status and sovereignty and at the same time all those who made commitments to save the country should be protected.
The perspective of the international community has been changed after President Maithripala Sirisena took office. The international community including India, UK and USA have shown a positive stance over Sri Lanka. It was a good move to postpone the release of the report to September. Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa ended the war but the relationship that prevailed with the neighbouring countries faded. Several countries expressed their objections but the country maintained its independence. Release of UNHRC report was also a reason for Former President Rajapaksa's decision to go for an immediate election, Minister Dissanayake said.
International interference is unwarranted but we expect to work together amending few resolutions that has been proposed, Highways State Minister and SLFP Media Spokesman Dilan Perera said.
Many evidence mentioned in the report are obtained from foreign countries, they are mere facts. It was stated that an Act of Indemnity will be passed in the parliament to protect the soldiers, it is wise to expose to the world that there were no war crimes took place in Sri Lanka. A domestic inquiry will pave the way to solve the problems, he said.
Perera further said that people voted to form a national government, no main party was given an opportunity to form a majority government. Though there were many allegations against the formation of a national government, President Maithripala Sirisena formed the government with a social motive. The country witnessed the value of a national government after the UN report was released. Today the country is ready to face the international community as one nation. TNA leader R. Sampanthan's appointment as the Opposition Leader also in a way has changed the perspective towards our country.
The decision of the international community depends on the stance the powerful countries have on Sri Lanka. The report that was released recently is not the final one, he said. Perera noted that there were allegations that SLFPers were opposing the countries like UK and USA while UNP would go with the pro-American countries. But President Matiripala Sirisena took the leadership in collaboration with both the parties therefore today Sri Lanka has the support of almost all the countries.
==============================
## Title: Recent trends of Indian politics and Buddhism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Recent trends of Indian politics and Buddhism
Soft power tools presently used by the West are Hollywood, music and brand names. It is now becoming obvious the short life span of those cultures. In fact those cultural tools are miserably malfunctioning because those superficial "cultures" does not have the "muscle" or function as a vehicle to drive the objectives that Buddhism is able to achieve as a soft-power tool.
These are the realities that India and China have now understood. Indian Prime Minister's speech when he visited Sri Lanka as well as in his recent speeches delivered in his home country also highlighted this fact. On the other hand, Buddhism also has been able to generate a spiritual awakening amongst the people of the West probing for a calmer and philosophical meaning to their lives.
Asia also on the other hand needs to move away from the terrain of material pleasures. It is also important to note that Bangladesh, Maldives, Afghanistan were also all Buddhist nations once upon a time. In the above background, it is no coincidence that both India and China are now digging ancient links to Buddhism to use for its own strategic advantage.
Recent developments
Both China and India is now trying Buddhism to be used politically as a soft-power tool. Last week India declared one of their Cities as Buddhist spiritual Capital of the country. China hosted the first World Buddhist Forum in 2006 - attention was diverted to reviving Lumbini (the birthplace of the Buddha in Nepal) by investing USD 3 billion. India responded with supporting the Global Buddhist Congregation in Delhi. China has an edge because Buddhism is a fast-growing paradigm now in China whilst India is simply trying to use smart ways to counter Chinese hegemony.
China has often kept away India from regional links in South East Asia portraying India as an outsider but we can see through numerous trade agreements and visits that India is countering these drives using the cultural tool of Buddhism. For example as a strategic initiative, India is now looking at reviving Nalanda University.
India has even gone on to sponsor the International Conference on Buddhist Cultural Heritage in Yangon/Myanmar in an obvious bid to reach out to the 89% Buddhists in Myanmar. India also went on to take the "Kapilavastu Relics" preserved in the National Museum in Sri Lanka which showed how hundreds of thousands of Sinhalese Buddhists queue to pay homage.
Sri Lankan scenario
Scenarios related to Buddhism which has not yet understood by our leaders, is as follows:
Related to Buddhism, Sri Lanka does not need to do anything of that sort of digging as such, because it is already on the surface. Question is why we do not use Buddhism as a soft-power tool to forge greater ties with the Buddhist nations as well as spiritually invade into a fast growing Buddhist awakening in the Western hemisphere We are all well aware that both India and China are rivals for supremacy in Asia and both are looking for new strategies to tap resources needed to strengthen that supremacy. India and China nations though they put Buddhism aside for other priorities, they are now realizing that their answer for regional supremacy lies with Buddhism. I wonder why Sri Lanka's policy makers are not planning to utilize this power, which is right under their very nose.
It is a tragic truth that misinterpretation of Buddhism's gentle philosophy advocating right to life for both man and animals, attributed to its decline.
However, it is not too late for Sri Lanka to spearhead Buddhist teachings in its right spirit through Buddhist students, cultural links including both East and Western students and the exchange of Buddhist thoughts, views, discussions and other cultural programmes - there is a whole world of ways and means that Sri Lanka is able to use Buddhism to its advantage - our question is why is it lying dormant
Historical clarification
The Buddha was born in Nepal. The Buddha achieved enlightenment in India. Buddhism was later subsumed by Hinduism. Until now, none of India's governments sought to even consider reviving the lost place given to Buddhism. Historically, Buddhism was abandoned by India and its leaders never gave any prominence to it though the spread of Buddhism historically took place on its own way. China too opted to set aside Buddhism, until the emergence of its recent realization of how powerful if Buddhism could be used as a power tool.
Reality
India is not a predominately Buddhist country. Only 7% of Indians are Buddhist. Buddhism is accepted by only a handful of Indians who are more interested in the philosophical aspects of the Buddha's teachings. They are not interested or committed to Buddhism and would never desire to give up their Brahmin practices. India and China are now simply trying to stage a drama by acting as Buddhist. That is why Sri Lanka as a genuine Buddhist nation, needs to exert its supremacy because no one can challenge them. While China and India battling aggressively market on how to use Buddhism to its full potential, question is why Sri Lanka's Foreign Service is not using a tool already available With so many missions and manpower, why is Sri Lanka not using this soft-power diplomacy that would certainly work to our advantage on international forums like UN/UNHRC etc.,
Strategy for using Buddhism as a power tool
The populations of Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Japan, Korea, Tibet, Mongolia and China are very powerful sources to tap by using Buddhism as a soft-power. For that, Sri Lanka needs to device culturally and religiously focus strategies to alleviate political standings of those countries. With all the facilities such as Buddhist foundations/ organizations/ Buddhist scholars already available it is timely for Sri Lanka's leaders to use every avenue available to tap into these resources and make Buddhism a soft-power tool instead of watching other nations that abandoned Buddhism to take the lead not out of interest for Buddhism but probably to use it as a political tool.
Our ancient irrigation technology which was based on Buddhist guidelines is also another area which should be exposed to the world which is currently heading to an environmental disaster. Buddhist based ancient technologies addressed the total eco system in producing foods and the western system addresses only the hunger of mankind which is in fact only one link of a total eco cycle. Buddhist system of producing food from nature was a deal with it and not a confrontation as being practiced now because mankind definitely failed in such confrontations. Kidney disease in Sri Lanka which kills average one beneficiary farmer of so-called modern irrigation project is a good illustration for the plight of pure western approaches in dealing with the natural eco system.
Conclusion
Buddhism is a kind of software which could be used to hack the military hardwares used by super powers to conquer the world. That soft power tool is available in Sri Lanka. It is within Sri Lanka's capability to unite the nations of Asia using the Buddhist soft-power tool politically. Buddhism should be treated as a powerful tool that policy makers need to seriously look upon.
There is a need to identify right advisors in this approach. Politicians, whether they are Buddhist or not, should be smart enough to judge themselves whether these so-called Buddhist advisors around them are advising them on the right direction! During the Buddha's time there were no Buddhists. People became Buddhists first after listening to what the Buddha preached with open mind. Understanding the Terms of Reference (TOR) to be followed in its right spirit is the first step to comprehend any new mission. It applies to Buddhism too.
Any new TOR can be comprehended only by listening with an open mind. Right knowledge about the address of the final destination meant in the Buddhist mission is the starting step. For that, in the political field, politicians should play a Vignu Role. Meaning of Vignu is not educated as such but rather the ability to be open minded honestly, towards alternative ideas and paradigms. Right advisors will then appear. They are around. It is matter of become smart enough to recognize them. Thanks to Internet, lot of such right advisors for the strategy proposed in this note have also now become accessible. To use Buddhism as a soft political power tool, it must have "native ownership". It is already fulfilled in Sri Lanka because Buddhism is still enshrined in our Constitution.
==============================
## Title: From Religion to Dhamma
## Supertitle: [Buddhist Spectrum]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
[Buddhist Spectrum]
From Religion to Dhamma
There are many stories in Rasavahini written in the Polonnaruwa era to the effect that Buddhists living in Sri Lanka in the olden days who were following in the path of nibbana were in the habit of conducting all night dhamma sermons. One of the main reasons as to why the dhamma has spread throughout the world at present is that the vipassana meditation techniques preserved by the bhikkus of Thailand and Burma from generation to generation were passed on to the lay yogis and yoginis. As a result laymen were convinced that they can attain nibbana in this very life. It is pleasing and encouraging to note that the traditional system of conducting long sermons is reestablished in Sri Lanka once again and more and more people engage in vipassana meditation. As a result there is a possibility of Sri Lanka becoming a dhmmadeepa once again.
The picture here is of the sermon on Satipatthana sutta delivered by Venerable Udadumbara Kashyapa, the chief Kammattanacharya of Mahava Ihalagama Gallewa Vihara Aranya Senasana, on 5th September 2015 at Mihilaka Medura at BMICH. This sermon will be telecasted on 27th September 2015 through the Buddhist Channel at 9.00 pm.
This is the second sermon of this series and the organizers wish to continue this in the future as well. It would be most appropriate to support this endeavor since it is in line with the constitutional provision that the state shall give Buddhism the foremost place.
==============================
## Title: The Spell of Narcissism and the Anattaa Doctrine
## Supertitle: [ Buddhist Spectrum]
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
[ Buddhist Spectrum]
The Spell of Narcissism and the Anattaa Doctrine
Narcissism is a passion the intensity of which in many individuals can only be compared with sexual desire and the desire to stay alive. In fact, many times it proves to be stronger than either. Even in the average individual in whom it does not reach such intensity, there remains a narcissistic core which appears to be almost indestructible.
Erich Fromm, The Heart of Man
The word narcissism is derived from a Greek legend. Narcissus in mythology is a beautiful youth who loved no one till he saw his own body reflected in water. Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection; finally he pined away, died, and was turned into the flower of like name. Thus the word narcissism derived from this legend has been generally used to refer to a kind of morbid self-love.
The concept of narcissism was woven into psychological theory by Sigmund Freud. Freud himself borrowed this name from Paul Nacke, who used the term to describe a perversion, where an adult individual lavishes upon his own body all the caresses expended only upon a sexual object other than himself. it was Freud, however, who grasped for the first time the tremendous significance of the concept of narcissism. Freuds essay on narcissism is one of the richest spots in his psychology, unfortunately neglected by his fellow psychiatrists and submerged by the popular image of Freuds work. Freuds essay on narcissism is a little gem which would have been pushed into an insignificant corner in the field of psychological theory, but for the efforts of Eric Fromm who remarks that, One of the most fruitful and far-reaching of Freuds discoveries is his concept of narcissism. Freud himself considered it to be one of his most important findings...
In this paper I shall very briefly refer to the Freudian concept of narcissism and then present Fromms development on this against the background of the anattaa doctrine.
Before his paper on narcissism appeared, Freud made a clear distinction between the sexual instinct (libido) and the ego instinct, or in more popular terms between love and hunger. But he came across an interesting category of patients whose condition presented a great challenge to this distinction between sexual and ego instincts. We became slowly accustomed to the conception that the libido, which we find attached to certain objects and which is the desire to gain some satisfaction in these objects, can also abandon these objects and set the ego itself in their place, says Freud. More reflection on this point made him realize that a fixation of this kind to the subjects own body and his person was not something accidental, it is probable that this is the original condition of man (primary narcissism) out of which object love develops later without thereby necessarily affecting a disappearance of narcissism.
This conception of narcissism was backed by evidence from a number of sources. In megalomania, we get the subjective over-estimation of self-importance, in dementia praecox we get the magical belief in the omnipotence of thought. Freud also studied the mind of the infant and the primitive man and here too discovered an expression of narcissism. There are also other situations in life like disease, after an accident, in old age etc., when the tendency to this withdrawal into self-preoccupation is apt to become pronounced. Normal love is also affected by a great deal of narcissism. The notion of narcissism was used to explain a wide range of distinct phenomena ranging from love, jealousy, and fear to mass phenomena. Continuing on these lines Fromm has worked out the spell of narcissism in group behavior, nationalism, and war. It was due to Fromms insight that the concept of narcissism was salvaged from its limited base in the libido theory and given a more comprehensive interpretation.
NARCISSISM IN BUDDHISM AND THE WRITINGS OF FROMM
Fromm himself makes a reference to Buddhism which is extremely significant for an understanding of narcissism. Fromm says that the essential teachings of all the humanistic religions in the world can be summarized in one sentence: It is the goal of man to overcome ones narcissism. Perhaps this principle is nowhere expressed more radically than in Buddhism. Fromm concludes on these lines that if man sheds the illusion of his indestructible ego and the other objects of greed, only then can he be totally open, awake and be fully related to the world.
The illusion of the indestructible ego that Fromm mentions is quite clearly a reference to the Buddhist doctrine of anattaa (egolessness). There is no ego entity existing apart and independently of those physical and mental processes that constitute life.
The illusion of the ego has two basic forms: eternity belief and annihilation belief. The craving for selfish pursuits arises with a false conception of personality, based on the dogma of personal immortality (sassata-di.t.thi), and the craving for annihilation arises with a false conception of personality, based on the annihilationist view (uccheda di.t.thi).
An understanding of the doctrine of sakkaaya-di.t.thi (twenty forms of wrong personality beliefs) helps us to grasp the Buddhist doctrine of egolessness. Where there is a mere complex of corporeality, feeling, perception, dispositions, and consciousness, the individual being subject to the ego illusion assumes the existence of an ego:
1-5: Ego is identified with corporeality, feeling, perception, dispositions, and consciousness.
6-10: Ego is contained in them.
11-15: Ego is independent of them.
16-20: Ego is their owner.
This does not mean that the ego is merely an intellectual construction. The roots of the ego illusion are strong and it is fed by deep effective processes. These processes are dormant proclivities described in the Discourses of the Buddha as the latent desire for continued existence (bhava-raaga anusaya).
CORPOREAL OVERTONES OF THE EGO CONCEPT
The origin of the Freudian concept of narcissism is the point at which Narcissus falls in love with his own body. In relating auto-eroticism to narcissism, Freud says that the ego is first and foremost a body-ego. Fromm also says that one of the most elementary examples of narcissism can be found in the attitude to the body exhibited by the average person.
The narcissistic relation to ones body has its parallel in the doctrine of the Buddha, where he discusses the operation of personality beliefs (atta di.t.thi) in relation to corporeality. The majority of the people who are not skilled in the doctrine of the Buddha are subject to the ego-illusion associated with their body.
This ego-illusion is described in the suttas: These people who are untrained in the doctrine of the Buddha, regard body as the self (attaaa, Skr: aatman); they regard the self as having a body, body as being in the self, the self as being in the body. I am the body, say they; body is mine; and they are possessed by this idea. The Buddha also says that due to the excessive attachment to the body, when it alters and changes, sorrow and grief set in; thus the doctrine of anattaa is linked to the doctrine of dukkha (suffering).
However, while the body-image concept of the ego dominates the thought of Freud, the Buddha offers a more comprehensive analysis, relating the ego-illusion to feeling, perception, dispositions, and consciousness. To use a phrase of Wolheim, the corporeal overtones of the ego concept prevented Freud from presenting a broad base for his theory of narcissism.
In fact, Wolheim has pointed out a significant ambiguity in the Freudian analysis of narcissism. Sometimes Freud conceives narcissism as an attraction towards ones own person, and sometimes as an attraction towards ones own body.
Fromm has not merely re-vitalized the Freudian concept of narcissism, but takes it very much beyond this, and brings it close to the doctrine of the Buddha. Not merely does Fromm offer a theory of narcissism which is of interest to the Buddhist, but he quite clearly refers to the doctrine of the Buddha: The awakened person of whom Buddhist teaching speaks is the person who has overcome his narcissism, and who is therefore capable of being fully awake.
THE NARCISSISTIC SELF-IMAGE
The narcissistic person is not only proud of his body but he has an exaggerated and inflated image of all aspects of his personality: his intelligence, his honor and his wealth, his social standing, etc. Just as the narcissistic person has made his self-image the object of his narcissistic attachment, he does the same with everything connected with him.
His ideas, his knowledge, his house, but also people in his sphere of interest become objects of his narcissistic attachment.
As both Freud and Fromm point out, ones narcissistic image about oneself is projected on to the children. This is extended to identification with wider groups, culminating in nationalism.
Karen Horney was quick to point out that at the root of this kind of narcissistic self-image is found a kind of self-inflation rather than self-love, with a need not for love but the admiration of others.
At this point we see the relevance of the Buddhist concept of maana (self-conceit). Self-conceit, according to the Buddha, takes three forms: I am superior to others (seyyo ham asmi-maana); I am equal to others (sadiso ham asmi-maana); I am inferior to others (hino ham asmi maana). Maana is one of the fetters that bind man to the ills of existence, and it varies from a crude feeling of pride to a subtle feeling of distinctiveness that prevails till the attainment of arahantship (sainthood).
If a person is proud of his attainments, exaggerates them, and feels infuriated when someone gives a lower estimation of his doings, he suffers from an inflated sense of vanity (maana mada). If he feels frustrated, disappointed and underestimates his attainments he is subject to a kind of inferiority complex. This is similar to what Fromm describes as depression. The element of mourning in melancholia refers, in my opinion to the narcissistic image of the wonderful I which has died, and for which the depressed person is mourning.
Pride, vanity and conceit manifest clearly in interpersonal relations, as a reactive expression, as wounded narcissism. Its mechanism is similar to what Freud refers to as secondary narcissism. Ones wounded narcissism gives way either to an ego collapse, depression and melancholy or to anger and fury.
THE ANTINOMY BETWEEN SELF-LOVE AND LOVE FOR OTHERS
Apart from discussing the pathology of narcissism and its crippling impact on healthy personality growth, Fromm raises the question whether there could be a kind of healthy self-love, a benign form of narcissism as different from malignant narcissism. Is a certain degree of narcissism necessary for survival Is there a necessary antinomy between love of self and others
Part of the problem could of course arise due to the linguistic issues besetting the use of the word self in diverse contexts. A grasp of the subtle mechanisms that bear upon the psychology of human motivation can clear up another facet of this issue. Ultimately this might involve a whole philosophical perspective or a way of looking at the universe and man.
Fromms analysis of this question too can be presented against the background of the Buddhist analysis of the issues involved. The problem arises when we consider love for others and love for oneself as alternatives which are mutually exclusive. Selfishness is not identical with mature self-love. In fact selfishness is caused by a real lack of genuine self-love. Love, in principle, is indivisible as far as the connection between the objects and ones own self is concerned. Genuine love is an expression of productiveness and implies care, respect, responsibility, and knowledge. It is not an affect in the sense of being affected by somebody, but an active striving for the growth and happiness of the loved person, rooted in ones own capacity to love.
Fromm says that it is only a symbiotic attachment which is rooted in ones narcissism. Symbiotic attachment takes two basic forms: that of passive submission (to use a clinical term, masochism), and active dominance (sadism). The masochistic person escapes from the unbearable feeling of separation and isolation by making himself a part and parcel of another person; the sadistic person wants to escape from his aloneness by making another person part and parcel of himself.
From the Buddhist standpoint, a clear distinction could be made between self-devoting motives and self-centered motives. The practice of metta-bhaavanaa is the finest expression of the fusing of self-love and love for others in Buddhism. The meditation of loving-kindness is first developed towards oneself and then radiates towards others. One first starts with the thought, May I be happy, and then extends it to the welfare and happiness of others.
Even, where a person makes a sacrifice and forgoes certain material benefits for the sake of others, it merely strengthens his self-development. The very nature of the good is such that no one can seek the salvation of others without seeking his own. It is extremely important to mention that Buddhism considers the life of renunciation as the highest expression of the other-regarding instincts. This is very well expressed in the Kindred Sayings:
He who of both is a physician, since
Himself he healeth and the others too.
In the suttas, there is a classification of beings into four types: He who is neither bent on his own profit nor on the profit of another; he who is bent on the profit of another but not his own; he who is bent on his own profits not anothers; and he who is bent on the profit both of himself and another. The Buddha considers the last category as the best.
The context in which the Buddha made the analysis cited above may be a little different from the context in which Fromm has made a case for genuine self-love. But I do not see any fundamental difference between the approaches in Buddhism and that of Erich Fromm. It is true that the Buddha was basically concerned with the life of renunciation, and the other-regarding virtues in Buddhism are based on a deeper doctrine of compassion. But if we present the basic human relations presented in a homily to Sigaala, it will be quite clear that even in limited social situations, the Buddha advocates mature human relations which deny any symbiotic attachment of abnormal domination or dependence.
There is however a wider dimension in which the Buddhist analysis of self-love has to be presented. A layman who has made a necessary compromise with life will find it difficult to handle the obtruding ego, while the recluse committed to the path of renunciation will have at his command a more effective therapeutic control over the spell of narcissism.
The only way to bridge the gap is to discover significant similarities between the techniques used by the psychiatrist in special clinical situations and that the recluse who has made a life-long commitment to a therapeutic procedure of his own.
This short paper is essentially a response to a psychiatrist with vision who has opened a significant dialogue with humanistic religions.
==============================
## Title: Third suspect confesses
## Supertitle: Gruesome murder of Seya
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Gruesome murder of Seya
Third suspect confesses
The main suspect who was arrested in connection with Seya Sadewmis murder in Kotadeniyawa has confessed to the CID that he was responsible for the killing of the child, Police sources said.
According to the Police, the suspect has been earlier charged with several child abuse cases and various other misbehaviours.
The main suspect, Dinesh Priyashantha, 33 is also a person severely addicted to ganja.
The CID has found that the suspect had been in hiding during last few days. A team of officers had commenced an operation to nab the suspect after receiving information from the villagers.
The Criminal Investigation Division (CID) along with the Western (North) Police Squad yesterday arrested the main suspect in connection with the harrowing rape and murder of the five-year-old Seya Sadewmi, in Kotadeniyawa.
The Police sources said the suspect was nabbed when he was hiding in a forest in the Baduwathugoda area in Bemmulla, Gampaha. He is a resident of Bemmulla.
The Police have questioned around 30 persons in connection with the girls murder. Kotadeniyawa Police had also questioned the mother, father and her grandparents who were in the house, the day when she went missing.The CID is conducting further investigations.
Meanwhile, the teenage suspects mother told media that authorities should step into clear his sons name and duly compensate him for tarnishing his image.
==============================
## Title: US, China to build Bullet Train between LA and Las Vegas
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
US, China to build Bullet Train between LA and Las Vegas
US: It's been a decade since private railroad company XpressWest promised Californians and Nevadans a zippy interstate system that would hook up Los Angeles and Las Vegas. So long that many understandably began to lose faith; after all, several previous attempts to improve the connections between the Mountain West and Southern California failed. But finally, after four years of negotiations, a deal has been set up.
XpressWest has announced it is joining forces with China Railway International to make this high-speed passenger rail system come to fruition. Called the Southwest Rail Network, the 370-kilometre-long (230 miles) track will have numerous stops in LA and Las Vegas, and a few in-between.
The bullet train will cruise along at speeds of up to 240 kilometres per hour (150 mph), slashing a would-be four-hour drive to a more palatable 80-minute journey.
The project is supported by an injection of $100 million (65 million) in initial capital, but of course that won't go particularly far: The whole thing is estimated to cost close to$7 billion (4.5 billion), sourced from a combination of private capital and a hefty federal loan. Still, it's an improvement on the figure slapped on to a proposed Maglev system to achieve the same goal, onwards of $12 billion (7.8 billion). That financial burn, combined with the fact that it would be difficult to blendsuch a system with those planned for further on down the line, has meant this idea has essentially been scrapped.
Now that hands have been shaken, XpressWest has to make its way through a to-do list of regulatory and commercial activities, but the company hopes to begin implementation within 100 days.
Construction will commence slightly later on down the line, although it could start as early as this time next year. An environmental impact assessment has already been completed. Although there have, of course, been opponents to this high-speed rail system, alongside slashing the journey time between these two major cities, the project also brings numerous other benefits, like the creation of jobs and a reduction in carbon emissions. - (IFL SCIENCE!)
==============================
## Title: US, India are nations of innovation and opportunity - Kerry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
US, India are nations of innovation and opportunity - Kerry
US: Describing the Strategic and Commercial Dialogue that would be taking place between the United States and India as one the most important with any country on the planet, Secretary of State John Kerry said that both the United States and India must believe and also be seen as countries of innovation and opportunity.
Suggesting that both the United States and India have come from the same colonial background, and had a number of commonalities, Kerry, who was addressing a U.S.-India Strategic and Commercial Dialogue Summit reception here, said, "We think alike. We believe in human rights and opportunity for people. We have incredible diversity in our counties and tolerance. We have an ability to be able to build on this future. Each of our countries is ethnically and culturally diverse, and each is a labourer for peace, and each seeks a world in which the light of the human spirit overcomes darkness. And although, differences of ideology have separated us in the past ... we are in the end, the most natural of partners."
He further stated that both the United States and India must make the most of the opportunity "that is staring us in the face".
"I hope that India will be the partner with the United States that helps to get the job done for hundreds of millions, billions of people around this planet who are waiting for people to lead in the right direction and to make government live up to its fundamental responsibilities," Kerry said.
Putting on record his praise for the extraordinary work done by the U.S.-India Business Council over the last 40 years, Kerry said both Indian and American businessmen were beyond capable, globally recognised and, extraordinary CEOs who have helped to forge a dynamic US-India commercial relationship.
Moving to the business end of his address, the Secretary of State said that he once again wanted to reinforce his views on the challenge of climate change.
Describing climate change as one of the most pressing concerns of the globe, Kerry said, "A recent survey reported that 73 percent of Indians view climate change as the most pressing global concern."
He recalled his visit to China last year, wherein both Beijing and Washington negotiated an agreement for reducing emissions, and have now set goals that we will aim to reach a global climate protection agreement at Paris in December this year. Kerry also described the world energy market, as an entity "that is staring us in the face, waiting for people to grab onto".
"It is a USD trillion market with four to five billion users today, and it will rise to about nine billion, if the statistics are correct, over the next 30 to 40 years," he added.
- THE NEW INDIAN EXPRESS
==============================
## Title: Walker quits race with warning on Donald Trump
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Walker quits race with warning on Donald Trump
US: Scott Walker, a man once considered to be a true contender in the Republican primary, has not only pulled out the US Presidential race, but called on others to do the same so that the party can consolidate behind a single candidate to defeat Donald Trump.
This, he says, is not only in the best interests of the Republican Party, but of the United States.
It is also the clearest evidence yet of how fundamentally shocked the Republican Party is at the anti-establishment insurgency being led by Trump, a TV star, real estate mogul and political amateur with a history of backing Democratic causes and donating to Democratic candidates.
Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, became a Republican superstar by smashing collective bargaining rights in his home state and winning three elections on the trot against an inflamed and activist Democratic resistance.
He was one of those figures that conservative pundits were referring to when they said the Republican Party had a deep bench of strong, experienced candidates vying for the party's nomination in 2016.
As recently as April 1, he led the field of 16 Republican candidates. He bowed out shattered on Monday, after a CNN poll found he had zero per cent support after the second Republican debate last week.
"Today, I believe that I am being called to lead by helping to clear the field in this race so that a positive, conservative message can rise to the top of the field," he said, reading from a prepared statement in Wisconsin.
He called on the party to refocus on true conservative issues - small government and big military. "To refocus the debate on these types of issues will require leadership," he said. "I encourage other Republican candidates to consider doing the same [quitting the race] so that voters can focus on a limited number of candidates who can offer a positive, conservative alternative to the current front-runner. This is fundamentally important to the future of the party and, more importantly, to the future of our country."
And Walker is not the only heavyweight to quit while pointing the finger at Trump.
Last month Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas, "suspended" his campaign.
"The conservative movement has always been about principles, not personalities," Perry said. "Our nominee should embody those principles. He - or she - must make the case for the cause of conservatism more than the cause of their own celebrity."
Like Walker, Perry has perfect Republican credentials. As governor of Texas he held unemployment down during the financial crisis and lead the 2012 campaign for an extended period before flaming out in a dismal debate performance.
At present Trump is leading the Republican race, emphasising a grab-bag of issues popular with the party's base but that are anathema to its establishment class and Wall Street backers.
Trump speaks of little but walling off Mexico and mass deportations, while major employers want more labour and the GOP establishment needs more Hispanic support.
As if that wasn't enough, he has begun advocating tax hikes for hedge-fund managers.
But for the establishment the situation is even worse.
It is not just that Trump is coming first, but that insurgents are coming second and third too. The most recent CNN poll had Trump maintaining his lead, though it had been cut from 32 per cent to 24 per cent.
Carly Fiorina - a former Hewlett-Packard chief executive - has leapt into second place, jumping from 3 per cent to 15 per cent, over Ben Carson, the former neurosurgeon, who dropped from 19 per cent to 14 per cent.
The establishment's candidate, Jeb Bush, who has had over US$100 million funnelled to him by Republican mega-donors, is now in fifth place with nine per cent, behind Marco Rubio, the young senator who once counted Bush as a mentor.
It is hard to know who will benefit most from Walker's absence.
He has little support to be mopped up by the remaining field of 15, but major donors who had backed him will now be considering other candidates and he has a campaign infrastructure to bequeath.
He has tacked further to the right on key issues than other mainstream GOP candidates. This suggests he might clear some space for Rubio, a clear alternative to Bush for establishment voters.
For his part Walker can return to his day job running Wisconsin with his dignity (largely) intact, lick his wounds and mull his future.
On the Democratic side the frontrunner, Hillary Clinton, has had some good news.
Her lead has grown over Bernie Sanders, the socialist senator from Vermont whose campaign over the northern summer caused genuine excitement as Clinton wasted months arguing about her use of a private email server.
Clinton is backed by 42 per cent of Democratic primary voters nationally, compared to 24 per cent for Sanders, according to the CNN poll, a five-point jump since the last sample.
This is not to say that her campaign is not concerned about Sanders.
Her strategists are certain that even if he took surprise wins in the first two states to select their candidates - Iowa and New Hampshire - she would knock him out of the race in southern states where she enjoys the overwhelming support of large minority groups.
But the Clinton campaign does not want to be reduced to relying on what is now being called as her "southern firewall", because it would weaken her position in a general election.
And the Clinton team faces another threat in the popular Vice-President, Joe Biden, who still has not decided whether or not he will challenge for the nomination.
- SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
==============================
## Title: Wedding off the Agenda
## Supertitle: Robert Pattinson's family 'Relieved'
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Robert Pattinson's family 'Relieved'
Wedding off the Agenda
Robert Pattinson and FKA Twigs are taking their dear time planning their wedding, with reports circulating that it's being held for the foreseeable future, but Rob's family is glad he no longer has nuptials on the brain because they're hoping they call it off for good!
A source told OKMagazine.com exclusively that "news that things aren't going well has been met with relief," by his family, who live in London.
"Rob's family are very polite to Twigs' face but they're horrified by her raunchy on-stage persona and her piercings and tattoos," the source said. They'd prefer to see him with some conservative posh British woman.
And while they had a pleasant meeting last December during the holidays, Twigs is smart enough "to see through" their British manners.
The source added that because "Twigs doesn't want to cause a family rift," their wedding is "off the agenda" for now.
"She feels it's best to just bow out of the situation gracefully," the insider added.
According to Life & Style, the pair are also having disagreements about their big day, which, of course, also has been caused by Rob's family. "Rob's family wants a lavish church ceremony, while FKA wants a small wedding in an English pub," the source said. OK! Magazine
==============================
## Title: Yapahuwa, the citadel for dance research
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Yapahuwa, the citadel for dance research
Yapahuwa is in the Kurunegala district. It is North central province of Sri Lanka. It is nearly three kilometres east of Maho. The earlier glory of this ancient citadel can be found at one of the caves. This is seen from a short record in Brahmi script. The Brahmi language was in use from the 3rd century B.C to the 3rd century AD.
Yapahuwa gained prominence after the first half of the 13th century A.C, specially after the Kalinga Magha devastated the capital Polonnaruva. Kalinga Magha ruled from 1214 to 1235. Earlier Yapahuwa was known as Subha-Pabbata meaning auspicious mountain. According to history during the reign of Vijayabahu 1V (1271-1273A.C) the place was called Sundarapabbata. According to historical evidence king Vijayabahu 1V commanded his younger brother Bhuvanekabahu to settle there with his strong army to prevent the South Indian invasion. Despite his heavy guard the attack came from another direction led by Chandrabhanu in co-operation with his Pandya and Chola allies. Yet numerous historical records reveal that Yapahuwa had a long history.
In the 16th century the Portuguese referred to Yapahuwa as the fortress of the Sinhalese. The first serious study of Yapahuwa was done by John Bailey in 1850. In 1864 he published an article on Yapahuwa. On May 5, 1877 an architect from Anuradhapura mentioned Yapahuwa to the Governor W.H. Gregory by indicating that more attention should be paid to it.
Again after 15 years, the Royal Asiatic Society published two articles by F.H. Modder and J.Harward respectively under the title 'Note on the Fortifications of Yapahuwa. Yapahuwa is a stone structure. There is a staircase flanked and decorated by two stone-made lions with an attractive porch set against the famed Yapahuwa rock.
Still it is considered one of the finest ancient archaeological constructions of Sri Lanka during the post-Polonnaruva period.
The Archaeological Department commenced operations in 1911. The first Commissioner of Archaeological Department H.C. Bell took great interest to protect the constructions from destruction.
Today Yapahuwa provides ample evidence for carved ancient dance sculptures of Sri Lanka. Excellent carved sculptures are seen all over. Beautiful dance figures are carved in Yapahuwa. The carved figures including dancing girls, lions, swans and elephants are seen at Yapahuwa.
It also provides an opportunity to compare these dance figures with the poses of Indian classical dances especially with the dancing figures of Chidambaram temple and stone carving sculptures. And with Chola architectural sculptures.
However, there is no doubt that it was further modified according to the native Sinhalese architecture style by local craftsmen.
Beautifully carved dancing figures are seen at the staircase. Even Kirti Mukha (head of a mythical creature and a pair of Gaja Sinha are seen there). The base of the porch area is decorated with beautiful female and male dancing figures. The dancing figures depict numerous dance poses. The carved figures not only depict the dance poses but also numerous instrumental accompaniments for dance. These dancing figures closely linked to South Indan classical dance form Bharatha Natyam.
It implies that during that period the dances took place with instrumental music. And also it provides an opportunity for us to assume that dancing carved figures reveal some scenes of dance processions. The staircase can be divided into three different sections. At the third level, beautiful slender female figures are seen.
The stairway leading to the porch is well preserved. At both sides exquisite craftwork windows were seen. Such excellent windows are not seen elsewhere in Lankan archaeological sites. The stone window in the west was removed a few years back and it is said that it was brought down to the Colombo Museum. The other was a small fragment window which was taken to one of the Yapahuwa temples.
The window was fitted into a thick outer frame. Within the molded window, 45 cut circles were crafted. These cut circles were joined with one another. Within the circles a variety of figure works was crafted with meticulous care. Different dance figures of dancers were seen. Most of these dance figures are seen in typical Bharatha Natya Arimandi Isthana position. All the dance poses are seen with a proper and perfect geometrical format position. The centre of this window circle carries a lotus figure. At the sides of the centre lotus circle four wheels are seen with eight strokes and some circles are decorated with dancing figures. Hence for the dance research, Yapahuwa provides a great deal of information for researchers.
==============================
## Title: Chege Pemvathiyo launched
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Chege Pemvathiyo launched
Sagarika Dissanayakes latest novel Chege Pemyathiyo was launched recently. The book is a Kalana Ratna publication.
A Japanese Cultural Exhibition was held at the Lionel Wendt Gallery, No. 18, Guildford Crescent, Colombo 7, recently. The Exhibition has been organized by the Embassy of Japan in collaboration with the Japanese Language Teachers Association of Sri Lanka, and will feature Ikebana (floral arrangements), Bonsai (miniature tree planting) and Origami (paper folding) in the form of display and demonstrations. Moreover, special tea ceremony and Shakuhachi (bamboo flute) performance are also scheduled and their performers respectively will be flown from Japan for this Exhibition.
The Exhibition was designed to display Japans culture and lifestyle and thereby to further enhance the friendly relations between the peoples of Japan and Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Anti-migrant sentiment gives new rise to Greece's Golden Dawn
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Anti-migrant sentiment gives new rise to Greece's Golden Dawn
UK: Resentment against the growing numbers of asylum seekers crossing Greece's borders has helped solidify far-right Golden Dawn as the third force in the country's politics, one of its MPs says.
Elias Panagiotaros, who infamously described Hitler as a "great personality" in an interview last year, also claimed his party was the country's only true anti-austerity party, after Syriza signed a memorandum of agreement with Brussels earlier this year.
The neo-fascist Golden Dawn won 7 per cent of the vote on the weekend, behind Syriza and the conservative New Democracy - up from 6.3 per cent in the January election.
It scored more than 10 per cent of the vote on the island of Kos, where tens of thousands of asylum seekers have arrived from Turkey since the beginning of the year.
That was double Golden Dawn's vote share from January - and there was a similar pattern on Lesbos, Samos and Symi, other islands on the front line of the refugee crisis.
"We have a lot of serious problems," Mr Panagiotaros told Fairfax Media.
"We have a huge problem with an illegal invasion. Golden Dawn is saying this, we are not afraid of saying things that others want to say but they are afraid of not being politically correct.
"If we want to call ourselves a sovereign country we must patrol our borders. We must have sealed borders. Tourists, businessmen and students may come. No one else."
It did not matter that most of the migrants were just passing through the country, he said.
- SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
==============================
## Title: [Children]-24.09.2015
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
[Children]-24.09.2015
Planet Earth when it is quite clearly Ocean - Arthur C. Clarke
How inappropride to call this
World Maritime Day
World Maritime Day for 2015 falls on September 24. The theme for 2015 is "Maritime education and training." The theme was adopted to focus attention on the wider spectrum of maritime education and training, in particular its adequacy and quality, as the bedrock of a safe and secure shipping industry, which needs to preserve the quality, practical skills and competence of qualified human resources, in order to ensure its sustainability. World Maritime Day was first held in 1978 to mark the 20th anniversary of the IMO Convention's entry into force. Celebrations are held throughout the world to focus attention on the importance of shipping safety, maritime security and the marine environment, and to emphasize a particular aspect of IMO's work.. -UN.
'Pini Poda Wessak' goes to Kalutara
Award winning dramatist Nalaka Swarnathilake, who has produced many children's creations such as 'Dangamalla', 'Anne', and 'Mama Wenama Malak', is bringing his annual show back on stage on September 25. The show will unfurl at the Kalutara Town Hall. This event, titled 'Pini Poda Wessak - Small Wonders on Stage', is designed to showcase creative performances in the streams of drama, dancing and singing.
It will comprise two shows, a 10.30 am show for school children and the public show at 6.30 pm, which will be held under the patronage of veteran artist Edward Jayakody and Charitha Priyadarshani Peiris. It is a presentation of the Whyteleaf Performing Arts Academy and will feature around 50 children (who are between the ages of 10-15) performing 15 items, including songs and dancing styles stemming from several cultural backgrounds.
The 50 children are comprised of students from 20 schools in Colombo and Kalutara, marking the first time a show of this scale is being held in Kalutara.
It will feature songs from several famous Sri Lankan stage dramas and include a collection of songs written by Kalasuri Arisen Ahubudu. The music direction for the show will be done by veteran musician Lakshman Wijesekera. At a time when creations that can be jointly enjoyed by our children and adults are diminishing, the goal of this event is to present a stage show that rejuvenates this genre of entertainment.
As Nalaka explains, "the Whyteleaf Performing Arts Academy was the first institute in Sri Lanka that was started with the intent of using drama, dancing, singing and other aspects of the performing arts to develop the personality of the children. Its main objective was to create a better citizen for the future rather than just an artist. Thus, this show is being organised as an annual event to provide the childrenan opportunity to exercise their leadership and organisational skills as well as giving them a national stage to showcase their talents. It follows on from the tremendous success we had with last year's show".
For more information contact the Whyteleaf Academy on 0777577718.
Importance of reading
If we ask people about their hobbies, many would say "reading". Earlier generations used to read a lot compared to the current generation. Reading enables a person to be more intelligent and knowledgeable. There is no one in the world who hasn't read a book - it might be a school book, a comic or even a magazine. As we all know, by reading we unknowingly gather information. Books take us to another world. Even without visiting a new country, a person understands the culture and traditions of that country. When a child sees his or her elders reading, it inspires him or her to read. Parents should take care that as we take pain to inculcate the feelings of spirituality, social awareness and traditional values in children, we should also ensure that children befriend books. We can ensure that we are bringing up good citizens if we cultivate this habit.
When a child reads he or she can even find solutions to his problems through the books. Nowadays parents are too busy with their hectic life. They do not have time to pay attention to the concerns of their children. In many situations books can serve as guiding factor or helpline in children's life. Parents should take care that the child spends less time on TV and Internet and spends more time on reading.
Ravindu Dhanushka,
Grade 8B, Price of Wales' College, Moratuwa
My first bicycle
I still remember the day when I got my first bicycle. I got it when I was seven years old. It was a four-wheel cycle. It was blue in colour.
There was a beautiful picture of Manny, the mammoth, from 'Ice Age' on my cycle seat. Every day morning I would ride my cycle . I loved to ring the bell whenever I saw people coming near my cycle. My cycle had a basket in the front. I always kept my favourite teddy bear in the basket. Afterwards my father removed the side wheels. I was very scared to ride the cycle without side wheels. Suddenly, one day I put both my legs on the pedals and rode. Finally, I learnt to ride a bicycle all alone. I was so happy.
When I grew up my father bought me a big bicycle. Now, I ride it to some nearby shops. But still I love my first bicycle and keep it safe in my house. I will give it to my brother whenhe grows up.
Ahmed Nawser,
Grade 9,
Amal
International School,
Colombo
Farming
My grandmother always says that her favorite hobby is farming. I wondered how can anyone have farming as a hobby! She has mainly vegetables in her garden. There are vegetables like tomatoes, lady's finger, snake gourd, bitter gourd, drumsticks, green chillies etc. She cooks only those vegetables that grow in her garden.
She is a good cook. When I saw her garden I felt it is so nice to eat something that is grown in our own garden. We don't need to be afraid of harmful chemicals that are sprayed on plants. All the vegetables used are fresh and pure.
Lately many people are turning to farming. They say that farming gives them peace and happiness. I have seen my grandmother talking to the plants. I used to feel funny. But I have seen that the more she interacts with a plant, the faster the plant grows.
My grandma says when she gets up in the morning she feels fresh seeing the plants swaying in the breeze. It is as if they are saying "good morning." Everyone should follow my grandma's way of farming. We should be aware of the fact that the fertilizers that are used are dangerous and deadly. It can cause cancer, skin problems and various health hazards.
Parvathi Sibbe,
Grade 7, Badulla Central College,
Badulla
A hot summer day
I live in a city which is very hot during summer vacation. On a hot summer day I would like to stay indoors and play indoor games with my friends. We friends get together in our house and play games like carrom board, cards, scrabble etc.
My mother makes sure that we drink lots of water or juice. We go out to play only in the evening when it is less hot. If my friends are not around I like to sit in front of the TV drinking king coconut water. It is difficult to spend the day when electricity goes off as I cannot watch TV. If there is no electricity we sleep on the terrace.
My sister and I play a game "star counting". The person who counts the maximum number of stars wins the game. Sometimes when it is too hot I wish I lived in a village. Then, when its too hot I could jump into the pond and enjoy the cool water in the pond. I like summer because we can eat lots of ice cream.
Romesh Joseph,
Grade 5, St John's College,
Nugegoda












==============================
## Title: Compensation for land owners soon
## Supertitle: Yan Oya reservoir construction
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Yan Oya reservoir construction
Compensation for land owners soon
The government has instructed the Irrigation Department to accelerate the payment of compensation to those who have been moved from their lands taken over by the government for the construction of the proposed Yan Oya reservoir.
A 3Km dam is being built across the Yan Oya river close to Wahalkada in the Horowpothana Divisional Secretariat division under the programme. The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 34,000 million.
According to Irrigation Department sources, 546 families in the project site area are being evacuated and resettled. Rs. 13,000 million will be payed to them as compensation.
According to Project Director Eng. Palitha Wickramatilake, Yan Oya reservoir construction is to be completed by mid 2017.
==============================
## Title: Deepika Padukone-Ranveer Singh avoid each other
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Deepika Padukone-Ranveer Singh avoid each other
Is all well with Bollywood's golden couple, Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone If recent events are any indication, they seem to be going through testing times.
We told you how the two have been having several fights.
Now, we hear, they have been keeping a distance from each other at the gym that they train at. In fact, Ranveer had become a member of the gym on Deepika's insistence and the couple often worked out together. Things are slightly different today.
"Deepika mingles with the other girls, especially her fellow actresses who work out at the same gym. But whenever Ranveer comes along with her, he keeps to himself in a corner and works out intensely. He doesn't talk to anyone except the trainer assigned to him," says an eyewitness who also works out at the same gym.
Uh oh. That's not the Ranveer we know. After all, the actor is as gregarious as they come and has never shied away from displaying his affections for his darlin' Dippy.
Of course, he showed his caring side at the recent song launch of Bajirao Mastani, where he hugged Deepika to protect her from the thronging crowd.
But sources close to the couple say that the PDA is meant only for the cameras.
Buzz is the two are maintaining a happy facade solely for their forthcoming release, Bajirao Mastani.
You guys may remember that romance had blossomed between them on the sets of Sanjay Leela Bhansali's 2013 release Ram-Leela. And now, their love story has taken a different turn before their next release together.
Let's hope it's nothing but a minor hiccup. We're keeping our fingers crossed.
Yahoo
==============================
## Title: Elephant attacks farmer
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Elephant attacks farmer
A farmer was attacked by an elephant while he was trying to drive it away from his paddy field yesterday. He was identified as A. Arulanantham, 35, of Palachcholai in the Vellaveli Police area. He was admitted to Kaluwanchikudy Base Hospital and transferred to Batticaloa Teaching Hospital.
==============================
## Title: Female film-makers poorly represented at major
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Female film-makers poorly represented at major
Film Festivals
Survey reveals just 13% of directors featured at Venice were women, while the Toronto total was 26% New research has established that women film-makers are being sidelined in selection for major film festivals, even in programmes expressly designed to nurture emerging talent.
The data visualisation site Silk.co has posted research on the numbers of women selected at this year's Venice and Toronto film festivals in a survey that will include future events such as the Sundance film festival, the Bafta and Academy awards, and the film component of SXSW. The data, collected by Silk.co data journalist Alice Corona, reveals that, at Venice, just 13% of the directors of films selected were women, while at Toronto women made up 26% of all directors of films at the festival.
Silk also collected data on credited writers, finding that 10% of films at Venice had a woman credited as writer, and 27% at Toronto. However, these figures are incomplete, as large numbers of writing credits could not be ascertained.
Closer analysis of the figures points to other issues. Of the 400-plus films screened at Toronto, only 69 had a female director and credited writer (most of which are due to directors who have a writing credit). This contrasts with the 229 films that had all-male director and writer credits. Toronto's Discovery section, which in the words of festival director Cameron Bailey aims to "uncover thrilling new voices, inspiring storytellers and hidden gems ... from some of the most exciting new directors from around the world", contained only 9% of films by women directors, while the Masters section, a showcase for recently made films by major directors, contained no women at at all.
The overall figures for Venice were even less impressive. Only 9% of films in competition for the Golden Lion were directed by women - though, in contrast to Toronto, 25% of the directors in Venice's "new directions" section, called Orrizonti, were female.
The documentary section of the Toronto film festival, Tiff Docs, appears to be the strongest performer for women in either of the festivals, with 40% of films directed by women, rising to 47% for writing credits.
-Guardian.co.uk
==============================
## Title: France ready to bomb Syria 'in self-defense'
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
France ready to bomb Syria 'in self-defense'
FRANCE: France says it may carry out airstrikes against Islamic State targets in Syria as an act of self-defense. Last week French aircraft started to undertake reconnaissance missions over Syria.
On Monday, French President Francois Hollande said French military sorties in Syria would soon expand to include airstrikes against Islamic State (IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL).
"We are part of the coalition in Iraq [against ISIS]," Hollande said in a news conference with his Nigerian counterpart Muhammadu Buhari. "We started reconnaissance flights [in Syria] to enable us to consider air strikes if they were necessary and they will be necessary in Syria."
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said the use of weapons on Syrian territory is justified due to a string of Islamist attacks in Europe.
"We received specific intelligence indicating that the resent terrorist attacks against France and other European nations were organized by Daesh [Arabic derogatory term for IS] in Syria. Due to this threat we decided to start reconnaissance flights to have the option for airstrikes, if that would be necessary.
This is self-defense," the minister told the Belgian media. Paris previously announced its readiness to bomb targets in Syria in 2013, when the United States threatened military intervention against the government of President Bashar Assad.
Damascus never formally requested the US-led coalition, which was formed in response to IS taking over large parts of Iraq last year, to expand its airstrikes into Syria. This technically makes such attacks illegal under international law.
However, the Syrian government is so far turning a blind eye to the violations of its sovereignty. Damascus is facing a war with IS as well as with other terrorist groups like Al-Nusra Front and
US-backed rebel forces, who Washington consider to be moderates.
The US and its allies insist that President Assad should be ousted and has no place in the future of Syria. France now says his departure must not be a condition for political dialogue to start.
"If we require, even before negotiations start, that Assad step down, we won't get far," Fabius told Le Figaro.
Russia, which is supporting Syria in its fight against IS jihadists and is providing Damascus with military supplies, has repeatedly called on a broader coalition to fight the terrorist organization. Europe has endured several attacks by Islamist militants since the turn of the year, including the massacre at the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine in Paris and a failed to attempt to kill passengers aboard a high speed Thalys train travelling near the French-Belgian border.
- RUSSIA TODAY
==============================
## Title: Free schooling for 200,000 Syrian refugee children in Lebanon
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Free schooling for 200,000 Syrian refugee children in Lebanon
LEBANON: Half of school-aged Syrian refugees in Lebanon will receive a free education under a new campaign launched Monday by the host country and the UN's child and refugee agencies.
The government and the UN agencies said in a joint statement that the initiative would aim to reach 166,667 Lebanese and 200,000 non-Lebanese vulnerable children for the 2015-2016 academic year.
"Our responsibility is to ensure that every child on Lebanese territory has access to education," said Education Minister Elias Bou Saab.
Lebanon, a country of four million people, hosts more than 1.1 million Syrian refugees, including at least 400,000 school-aged children, according to the UN's refugee agency, UNHCR.
The $94 million project would cover the costs of school registration, supplies, and parental funds for refugees as well as vulnerable Lebanese children up to grade nine.
A similar programme last year provided free education and supplies for 100,000 Syrian children.
"This year marks a major breakthrough: we will double the number of children enrolled in Lebanese public schools compared to last year," said Tanya Chapuisat, UNICEF's Lebanon representative.
"However, with all the efforts expended, at least 200,000 refugee children still remain outside of the formal education system, deprived of their basic right."
UNHCR representative Mireille Girard said the agency's "priority is to identify out-of-school children and encourage their integration in Lebanese public schools."
"At a time when refugees are facing increasing challenges in their daily lives, certified education for their children is much needed."
According to UNICEF, more than 2.6 million children from war-ravaged Syria are out of school, sparking fears of a "lost generation."

- AFP
==============================
## Title: Game of Thrones wins 12 Emmys
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Game of Thrones wins 12 Emmys
Game of Thrones picked up a record-breaking 12 awards, including best drama series at this year's Emmys in Los Angeles.
Viola Davis also made history by becoming the first black woman to win the best lead actress prize for her role in 'How To Get Away With Murder'.
Jon Hamm finally won a best actor award for Mad Men in the show's last year. He had been nominated seven times before.
Political comedy Veep was the winner in the best comedy series category. And Inside Amy Schumer was named best variety sketch series.
It was the first time since it began in 2011 that Game of Thrones had won the best drama series award. Its other accolades included best writing, best direction and best supporting actor for Peter Dinklage, who plays Tyrion Lannister. Amazon's comedy-drama Transparent won awards for best director in a comedy and for its lead actor, Jeffrey Tambor, who plays a transgender college professor.
The show also picked up best guest actor in a comedy for former West Wing star Bradley Whitford. Viola Davis won her Emmy for lead actress in a drama thanks to her role as a tough criminal defence lawyer in ABC's How to Get Away With Murder.
Accepting her award, she said: "The only thing that separates women of colour from anyone else is opportunity.
Jon Hamm, who played Don Draper in the drama Mad Men, set in an advertising agency primarily in the 1960s, said: "It's incredible and impossible for me personally to be standing here."
Julia Louis-Dreyfus won best comedy actress for the fourth time for playing Selina Meyer on Veep, while Tony Hale, who plays her bag man, was again named best comedy supporting actor. Veep, which is set in the office of the fictional vice-president and subsequent president of the United States, Selina Meyer, also won the comedy writing statuette.
The show's win for best comedy ended a fiver-year winning streak for sitcom Modern Family - dashing the cast's hopes of beating Frasier, which also has five wins in the category.
Uzo Aduba, who plays Suzanne 'Crazy Eyes' Warren in Netflix prison series Orange is the New Black, was named best supporting actress in a drama. The TV Academy awarded only four prizes to the main US broadcast networks. But while the pre-awards talk had revolved around streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon, it was cable channel HBO that swept the board, with shows like Veep, Game of Thrones and Olive Kitteridge performing well.
The latter picked up six awards, including best mini-series, best lead actor in a mini-series or movie (Richard Jenkins), lead actress (Frances McDormand) and supporting actor (Bill Murray).
Andy Samberg hosted the show, his first time at the helm of a major awards ceremony.
Variety's Brian Lowry wasn't overly impressed with Samberg's debut: "What mostly came across, gradually, was that Samberg's approach just didn't wear especially well. He plays better in bite-sized bits, and his sprightly setup/joke rhythms yielded diminishing returns over the course of the evening."
But USA Today reviewer Robert Bianco was a little more effusive.
"For most viewers, the show only works if the host works, and Samberg did just fine. Like all modern awards show hosts, he did throw a few jabs at some of the folks in the room, but they were generally mild, which is what the job requires." BBC
==============================
## Title: Hajj messages
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Hajj messages
Hajj symbolises spirit of unity - President
The festival of Hajj is the most important annual event of the Muslims in the world, in which they pray to emphasize the importance of sacrifices in the name of Allah, President Maithripala Sirisena said in a Haj message.
The message: "Hajj symbolises the spirit of unity when millions of Muslims living in different continents, speaking different languages and belonging to different nationalities and cultures offer a common prayer to Allah.
"The government provides required facilities to Muslims of Sri Lanka to participate in the annual Hajj pilgrimage, where they renew their commitment to the teachings of the Quran and the Prophet Muhammed, and pray for peace, brotherhood and understanding among all people of the world. The Muslims of Sri Lanka live in harmony with other communities, with mutual respect for each other.
"It is a reflection of their friendliness and the desire for co-existence, qualities they inherited from the teachings of Islam.
"The prayers of all Muslims on this day of special religious observances will be directed towards progress, unity and peace with dignity for all.
"I wish all Muslims of Sri Lanka a Happy and Peaceful Eid-ul-Alha."
Co-existence leads to spiritual advancement - PM
The ultimate bliss of life and spiritual advancement of people could be achieved only by disciplining oneself to lead a life of co-existence, devoid of cravings and sharing one's wealth with the less privileged, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said issuing a Hajj festival message.
The message: "People should shun selfishness and social differences. The Muslims practice these noble ideals when they celebrate the Hajj festival annually.
"The teachings of Prophet Muhammad exemplify that a person who performs the ritual of Hajj will find only the paradise as his abode.
"The noble act of sacrifice which is a significant ritual in Islam is practices by Muslims during the Hajj period remembering the act of obedience of Prophet Ibrahim by dedicating his own son Prophet Ismail in the name of Allah.
"I believe that the Hajj festival sets an example to the whole world when devotees of Islam from all parts of the world congregate to pray for world peace.
"I wish a happy Eid-ul-Adha to all Muslim devotees celebrating Hajj today in anticipation of the continuance of a society in harmony where humanitarianism reigns."
Hajj signifies importance of equality - Gayantha
Muslims bring out the message of sacrifice and brotherhood through celebrating the Hajj festival, said Parliamentary affairs and Mass Media Minister Gayantha Karunathilake in his Hajj message.
He expressed his greetings and good wishes to all Muslims throughout the country on the occasion of the Hajj festival.
According to the teaching of Islam, the Hajj pilgrimage is for those who can afford it, signifies the importance of equality among all humans, obedience, peace and universal brotherhood enshrined in Islam, he said. "We will take this festival as an opportunity to ensure the success of the social and cultural reforms made by the new government, to build affability among all irrespective of their religions to enthrone a system of government acceptable to all communities." He said: "The message of Hajj which infuses a sense of brotherhood among all, is of special significance to all Sri Lankans while we are striving to achieve a lasting peace."
"I believe that the Hajj festival will encourage people to lead a peaceful life, respecting each other while developing the quality of sacrifice to build a selfless society."
'Demonstration of Islamic brotherhood'
Today, on the occasion of the Hajj festival, I am pleased to convey my greetings and good wishes to my Muslim fraternity throughout the country, State Minister for National Integration and Reconciliation A.H.M. Fowzie states in his Hajj message.
The message adds: "The Hajj festival has dawned on us following the conclusion of the Hajj pilgrimage by which the world Muslim community has demonstrated Islamic brotherhood transcending the differences of cast, creed, class, colour, language, nationalities, wealth and power. They mingle together clad in a piece of white cloth, be he a king or a pauper, all of them performing the same rituals in order, having surrendered to the command of Allah.
"The message of Hajj signifies sacrifices after which a Muslim is considered a sinless person leading a purified life. He is supposed to have given up hatred towards other people, greediness for wealth, intolerance and animosity towards other social groups. Instead, they turn themselves as persons personified in human love, co-existence, feeling of brotherhood towards fellow men and most of all, as ideal model to live as true Muslims.
"As far as Sri Lankan Muslims are concerned, I am happy that they are a disciplined community conducting themselves according to the teachings of Islam. In doing so they pay due respect to other religions and take enough care not to hurt the susceptibilities of fellow citizens in the country. "As responsible citizens co-existing peacefully, they play an active role in society and contribute their share to social, cultural, economic and political development of the country. They have also been most reasonable and considerate in their dealings with other communities to the extent that even on occasions of communal frictions they have restrained themselves against serious provocations.
"I wish to appeal to my brothers and sisters to continue to adopt patience and not to give in for provocations, and to conduct themselves in the manner to make our brothers of other communities to understand that Islam promotes love, friendship, brotherhood, peace and peaceful co-existence with them.
"As our Rasoolullah (Sal) had stressed in his last sermon at Arafath, we must follow the Holy Qur'an and Hadeeth in situations where we have to face challenges in our life. We must strictly follow his message at the Arafath that Muslims are brothers to each other and that the life and property of them are sacred.
"On this sacred day, I wish to request Muslim brothers and sisters to resolve to dedicate themselves to maintain peaceful environment and stability in the country and be ready to make sacrifices towards the cause of Muslim Ummah.
"I wish all my Muslim brothers and sisters a joyful Hajj festival. Eid Mubarak."
'Respect other religions in spirit of Hajj'
Today Muslims throughout the world are celebrating the Haj festival, Eid Ul Adha, which is a festival of sacrifice. This festival is focused on the sacrifice made by Prophet Ibrahim, his wife Hajara and beloved Son Ismail to adhere to the commands of Almighty Allah in fulfilling his obligations, states former Speaker and Co-chairman of the Forum for National Amity and Understanding and Sri Lanka Islamic Centre Chairman M. H. Mohamed, in his Hajj message.
The message adds: "Haj brings Muslims closer to each other in order to emphasize that the entire Muslim Ummah is a unified fraternity.
"The pilgrimage to Makkah on the occasion of Haj which is the fifth principle of Islam for all Muslims to seek their spiritual and material good, as they meet on the command of Allah in one place, at one time.
"Muslims irrespective of their nationality, language and colour, clad in the white Hiram cloth, assemble in the Holy City of Makkah and pray for a prosperous future. "As the Co-chairman of this Forum, I call upon all Muslims in the spirit of Hajj to respect religions of other communities in Sri Lanka while preserving our religion, culture and rights to live in peace and harmony in Sri Lanka. "I wish all Muslims a very Happy Eid Mubarak."
'Recall sacrifices made by the Prophet'
The Moors' Islamic Cultural Home extends its greetings to "Muslims in Sri Lanka as well as in other parts of the world on this auspicious Festival of Sacrifice, Eid-ul-Azha".
The message from its President Omar Kamil states, "We are indeed happy to share the joy with all our brothers and sisters on this sacred occasion.
"This great festival of Eid-ul-Azha, one of the two great feasts in the Islamic calendar, is celebrated the day following the 9th day of the month of Dhul Hajj where millions of Muslims from all over the world, irrespective of language, caste or creed assemble at Mount Arafath in Mecca for repentance. This festival is also celebrated to remind us the sacrifices made by Prophet Ibrahim (Alai) on the command of Allah the Almighty. "We wish you all a happy and prosperous Eid-ul-Azha (Haj Festival) and pray for a peaceful Sri Lanka, where all people can co-exist and live in harmony. "May the Almighty Allah Bless Sri Lanka with peace and prosperity.
"Eid Mubarak"
'Hajj rituals purify body and soul'
Hajj rituals fill a Muslim's heart with inner peace and tranquilly. Various rituals of Hajj purify one's body and soul. The Hajj festival is also an occasion to propagate unity among all, newly appointed Sri Lankan Ambassador to Palestine and Secretary to the Ad-Diyathush Shazuli-yahtul Fassiya of Sri Lanka, M. Fawzan Anwer said in a Hajj message.
His message adds: "Hajj, one of the five main pillars of Islam, has a message for the benefit and well-being of all people of the world, be they Muslim or not.
"The wonderful message of Hajj is that a Muslim should live in peace with his brothers in humanity, even if they are of different faiths. "Although Hajj is obligatory once in a lifetime for financially and physically capable Muslims, every single Muslim, man or woman, rich or poor, dreams to repeatedly offer it. During the Hajj rituals, a Muslim respects and accepts the opinions of different juristic schools. He should never fight or quarrel with anyone, even those who are different from him in stances and conduct. He lives in peace, leaves others to enjoy peace, and trains himself to be peaceful and forgiving. Thus, respect, mercy, kindness, and tolerance prevail and dominate the Hajj rituals.
"The celebration of Hajj with a shared spirit of joy should strengthen their commitment to live in harmony with all other communities in the cause of peace, reconciliation and national unity. On this happy occasion, I appeal to all to pray for peace and national unity. I send them my good wishes for a happy Eid Mubarak."
==============================
## Title: Jayalalithaa writes to Modi, demands release of fishermen
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Jayalalithaa writes to Modi, demands release of fishermen
Voicing concern over the arrest of Indian fishermen by Lankan Navy in the vicinity of Katchatheevu, the Tamil Nadu government has once again raised the demand that India retrieve the islet from Sri Lanka.
In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Jayalalithaa said 15 fishermen, who set sail from Nagapattinam, were apprehended by the Lankan Navy on September 21 and sought steps for their immediate release along with 28 boats in Lankan custody. This latest arrest of innocent and unarmed fishermen with a motive to intimidate and prevent them from venturing into their traditional fishing waters in the Palk Bay had happened in the vicinity of Katchatheevu, she said, the PTI said yesterday.
==============================
## Title: Legendary rule of Sir John Anderson
## Supertitle: The Governor tales
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
The Governor tales
Legendary rule of Sir John Anderson
He is the second Anderson to rule here as governor. He too rules only for three years as governor, not because he is recalled as his predecessor, but because he dies here, only British governor to breathe his last here and be buried at Borella cemetery off capital Colombo. His grave is said to be the best kept one in this sprawling complex of the dead.
Anderson died of appencitis and died at Nuwaraeliya. This glamorous city seemed to have become a favorite haunt of these governors. Remember the legend about Chalmers, that he and his wife were holidaying n this city when news reached of the demise of their two sons in the World War
Anyway Anderson's death so far away had triggered the longest funeral procession of the times. The crowds lining the roads had been so thick that finally the coach carrying the casket had simply flown, leading to British newspaper captions that screamed on the corpse that flew in the colony.
Why was John Anderson so popular That calls for a story. His rule followed that of Chalmers when during the famous riots, military rulers had their day. They teamed up with the trouble makers and one thing leading to another, a good many locals forfeited their property. This was the situation when the new governor arrived who appointed a committee and restored the property rights of many Sinhala Buddhists in the affected area. Here was gratitude shown.
Going back to his bio data, he was born in June 1858 at Aberdeen.
Educated at Aberdeen University he won the gold medal for the best student. He held many a state post that earned him an earlier visit to the island. He seems to have been a popular figure in European society in the east, especially as governor of Malaya. He was so popular there too that the Malayan sultans had gifted him a battleship. The last posts he held before coming here is that of permanent secretary at the Colonial office.
By this time the home govt. had realized that matters had gone awry in the colony of Ceylon and also come to the conclusion that the benevolent man Anderson was the most fitting for the needed salve.
And he did prove himself. Anderson, writes Hulugalle, carried out the task assigned to him with courage and candour thereby endearing himself toil the permanent population. He took steps to appoint a commission of inquiry that included the chief justice. This commission came up with the finding that the shootings that took place in the former governor's time had no legal justification.
The governor found a true friend in Maha Mudaliyar Solomon Dias Bandaranaike and their friendship resulted in this beautiful piece perhaps framed near his deathbed.
"Sir John was the first governor of this country to die while his term of office in Ceylon was yet unfinished and every circumstance combined to make his death a matter of general and universal grief, sol that it seemed almost a personal loss"
==============================
## Title: Life and times of Most Venerable Migettuwatte Sri Gunananda Thera
## Supertitle: [Buddhist Spectrum]-24.09.2015
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
[Buddhist Spectrum]-24.09.2015
Life and times of Most Venerable Migettuwatte Sri Gunananda Thera
By the mid-nineteenth century, our Motherland was actually in dire straits. Imperial forces were acutely engaged in bringing down the Sinhala Buddhist way of life and instilling instead, a new Western-biased culture.
However, by the time, a group of leaders well aware of the impending peril was also rising to the fore from the ranks of the clergy as well as the laity, intent on a Buddhist revival. The Most Venerable Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera was one of the foremost and most vigorous among them in evoking such a Buddhist Renaissance.
Born on the 09th of February 1883, to a Christian family in Migettuwatte (also known as Mohottiwatte), he was named as Miguel Mendis Silva by his parents, Ladduwatte Naide and Kaludura Maldo Silva. They wished to make out of young Miguel, who was faring very well in his studies, a Christian Priest. Though that was their ambition, Miguel was fortunate enough to be allowed fraternising with those in the village Buddhist temple. Thus, he studied Christianity in the Church while he learnt about Buddhism in the Temple. But as time passed, young Miguel became increasingly interested in Buddhism. As youth of 20 years, he witnessed an act of Buddhist worship at the Dodanduwe Gala Uda Vihara that was also known as the Kumara Maha Vihara. He found the proceedings so interesting that he stayed at the vihara for several days and took part in the ritual. The 20 year old young man was so enthralled with what he saw in Buddhism, that he became ordained as a novice Buddhist monk under the tutelage of Ven. Thelikada Sonuththara Thera.
But in the meanwhile, it was indeed a very distressing time for the Motherland. Buddhists were being persecuted by the Christians. Almost all high ranking government officials were working for their selfish ends. Under duress from these officials, some Buddhist laymen even feared to admit to their religion or values. Buddhist monks could not walk freely in the streets of Colombo. Those Sinhalese who were rewarded in rank and title by the Colonial government plotted in many ways to destroy Buddhism. They set about organising various debates to denigrate Buddhism as a religion.
In this context, Ven. Gunananda Thera, who had the fortune of studying both Buddhism and Christianity and realising the truth about the former, resolved to engage in these debates. With that intention in mind, the Venerable Thera came to reside in the Deepaduththarama in Kotahena, Colombo. At this time, Ven. Hikkaduwe Sri Sumangala Thera had also come to Colombo with whom Ven. Gunananda Thera had the good fortune of acquainting. The relationship that developed over time resulted in Ven. Gunananda Theras knowledge in the Dhamma rising to new levels, and he resorted to taking part in a number of debates against Christian challengers, in several places.
It is now an established fact by historians that Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera participated in more than 4000 such debates against his Christian opponents. This was in addition to the innumerable leaflets and other literature that were distributed for the same worthy cause. Among these debates that the Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera engaged in, 05 contests stand out in importance. In 1865 he took part in a debate at Waragoda, on 08th February 1865 at Baddegama, 01st February 1866 at Udammita and on the 09th of June 1871 at Gampola. But the most outstanding of these debates was the now world famous Great Debate of Panadura (Panadurawadaya) held in the namesake town on the 26th and 28th of August 1873.
This debate was not by any means merely another event in the Sri Lankan Buddhists calendar, but rather one that turned the Sri Lankan Buddhists way of life in a new direction. The Great Debate of Panadura ended by bringing in new vigour to the Buddhists and upholding their dignity lost so far. The spectators were made abundantly clear of the value of Buddhism paving the way for their misguided scepticisms to be swept away completely. They were elated with the truth that dawned on them. The news about the Buddhist victory, about Buddhism as a religion and on the truth that was now uncovered, spread far and wide across the world. At the end of the Debate, the honorary name of Vadhibasingha was conferred on the Most Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera by the people.
Reports on this debate spread across the international arena in a multitude of foreign languages. It was especially coveted among the great leaders of the West who were on a mission to seek the truth about life; it was plain and simple for them to see from these reports that they had in fact found the answer to their quest. They entered into regular correspondence with the Venerable Thera and were increasingly convinced about the veracity of Buddhism. Many of them opted to pay a visit to Sri Lanka; among them Col. Henry Steele Olcott, Leadbeater, Bennet, and Madam Blavatsky and Madam Marie Musaeus Higgins were most eminent.
Col. Henry Steele Olcott who arrived in Sri Lanka was especially instrumental in the Buddhist revival. He instituted the Buddhist Theosophical Society and contributed immensely to the restoration of Buddhist education. It is most noteworthy that this great Buddhist leader came to Sri Lanka because of the Great Debate of Panadura led by the Most Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera. The Thera also rendered a yeoman service to Buddhist education by founding the Maligakanda Vidyodaya Pirivena together with the Most Ven. Hikkaduwe Sri Sumangala Thera. We are today left with the pristine Buddhist educational institutions such as Ananda College, Dharmaraja College  Kandy and Mahinda College  Galle due to the untiring efforts of these enterprising members of the Sangha and the laity.
The Most Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera passed away on 21st September 1890 after an unrelenting 50 years of service to the Buddha Sasana in which the Thera pioneered the Buddhist Renaissance and liberated the Sinhala Buddhists from the woes they so far experienced. The 125th Commemoration of the Most Ven. Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera falls on the 21st of September this year. The lessons we can learn from the life of this exemplary Buddhist monk leader who rendered so great a service to this country, kindred and Buddhism is beyond compare. Let us firmly resolve ourselves to discharge our duties towards this country, kindred and Buddhism in the same manner, whilst living our lives as wholesomely as possible.
(The writer is Vice President  International Affaires  All Ceylon Buddhist Congress and Asst. Secretary General  World Fellowship of Buddhists)
==============================
## Title: Media plays significant role - Anoma Gamage
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
Media plays significant role - Anoma Gamage
Media plays a significant role in communicating to the masses as to how and why steps are taken by the government to curb corruption, bribery, misuse of state resources and other instances that violate the principles of good governance, Deputy Minister Dr. Anoma Gamage said.
She said so addressing the first meeting of the Media Forum of the International Conference on Asian Political Parties (ICAPP) in Seoul, South Korea recently.
The recent General Election held in Sri Lanka was conducted peacefully and democratically. A large part of this was due to the cooperation of media and political parties, she said. Media representatives recognized the need for a stronger relationship between the international media and the ICAPP. Cooperation between political parties and the media has been fraught with tension. On one hand, the international media can be accused of over-sensationalism as well as biased reporting, which can portray an incorrect impression of the policies of political parties. Political parties can also be criticized for suppressing media freedom for their own agenda and thereby not acting in the best interests of the people, the deputy minister said.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has given freedom to journalists and media institutions in the country to express their views independently.
The international media can fully utilize its role to raise awareness about the ICAPP in demonstrating the power of unified political discourse and the benefit derived from an Asian community.
Political parties of the ICAPP should utilize the international media in two ways - as a tool for good governance as well as a vehicle to learn and provide assistance in times of crises, such as humanitarian disasters, Dr. Anoma Gamage said.
"When in the opposition party, we had no opportunity to express our views independently and liberally. We were compelled to conduct our political campaigns vocally. We were not able to organise events either political or welfare peacefully," she said.
A strong community can help to hold a government accountable for its action. One way in which the international media and the ICAPP can cultivate their working relationship is in cases of humanitarian crises. Asia is home to 4.4 billion people, a large number of whom are refugees.
The international media is best placed to report on growing developments in situations such areas in which political intervention and cooperation are most needed, the deputy minister said.
==============================
## Title: More hurdles for the reconciliatory spadework
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Wednesday, September 23, 2015 - 19:30
More hurdles for the reconciliatory spadework
The resolution of Sri Lanka's issues at the Geneva based United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) has not been as smooth as originally envisaged after all, leading to concerns at the highest levels of the government in Colombo as to how best the matter should be handled.
When the annual sessions of the UNHRC began earlier this month, there was an optimistic expectation that the United States, which had earlier sponsored resolutions against Sri Lanka on successive years, would categorically endorse a domestic inquiry into alleged war crimes during the final phase of the Eelam war.
That was because a significant amount of diplomatic spadework was done by the newly installed Maithripala Sirisena - Ranil Wickremesinghe government to restore relations with the global superpower which had soured during the previous Mahinda Rajapaksa administration. This even resulted in US Secretary of State John Kerry visiting the country and the US announcing publicly that it would support a domestic mechanism to probe alleged atrocities during the last stages of the war.
Last week however, Geneva was sending out different signals. United Nations Human Rights High Commissioner Zeid Al Hussein, in announcing the UNHRC report on Sri Lanka, was to launch a scathing attack on the integrity of the Sri Lankan judicial system. Most notably, Hussein called for a 'hybrid' court of inquiry incorporating "international judges, prosecutors and investigators" while lamenting the lack of impartiality of a domestic probe, a reference that was to raise concerns in the corridors of power in Colombo.
Domestic inquiry
The government now finds itself in a difficult situation. Initially, being confident of enlisting US support for a purely domestic inquiry, it had publicly voiced its intention to co-operate with the UNHRC, as opposed to the strategy of non-cooperation adopted by the Rajapaksa regime. Then it suddenly found itself being told by High Commissioner Zeid Al Hussein to brace itself for a 'hybrid' inquiry.
It is understood that several countries of the European Union - which votes as one bloc at the UNHRC- are pushing to include an 'international' element to the inquiry. They are being actively canvassed by the pro-Eelam lobby which is actively campaigning in Geneva.
The government too is engaged in intense backroom lobbying to try and preserve what they see as the status quo. Colombo has assured it will co-operate with the UNHRC on all aspects of the probe provided it is within the framework of a domestic inquiry and free of international interference which it fears will be dominated by those with a pro-Eelam agenda.
Publicly, President Sirisena, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe and Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera continue to maintain that the outcome in Geneva has been positive so far. Public expectation is that the country will be able to resolve issues at the UNHRC with dignity, instead of being dictated to by the Council and the western bloc of nations. If the government fails to achieve that, it will be a major setback to the fledgling Sirisena-Wickremesinghe administration, which is still in the process of establishing its credentials.
Much remains to be done to ensure that international interference in any inquiry is thwarted. This will depend on the wording of the final resolution that is expected to be moved by the United States in concurrence with Sri Lanka. Colombo's representative in Geneva, Ravinatha Aryasinha, has already suggested revisions to the first draft of the resolution presented by the US, suggesting that the negotiations over the next few days would be critical.
Coalition of two major parties
The government has raised several issues during the negotiations in Geneva. It has been noted that while it is newly elected and therefore still enjoys the confidence of the public, its victory was by no means an overwhelming mandate because no single party enjoys an absolute majority in the new Parliament.
The strength of the government is derived from the fact that it is a coalition of the two major parties with the Executive being from the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and the legislature being dominated by the United National Party (UNP). The coalition of the two major parties confers a greater degree of stability to the government. Even so, a faction of the SLFP is opposed to this concept of 'cohabitation' government and plan to sit as an opposition group in Parliament. This group comprises of Rajapaksa loyalists, but does not enjoy much public support as of now, in the post-election phase where alleged irregularities committed during the Rajapaksa era are slowly but steadily coming to light.
If a 'hybrid' inquiry into alleged war crimes is launched, this allows the pro-Rajapaksa factions to emerge as defenders of the nation once more. They have already commenced their rhetoric for this purpose accusing the new government of a 'sell out' and of betraying troops who fought the war to a finish. Rajapaksa himself issued a statement on Tuesday calling on the government to reject the UNHRC inquiry. If this campaign gathers momentum, there could be more SLFP parliamentarians joining the pro-Rajapaksa camp, weakening the government and thereby stalling the momentum of the entire reconciliation process.
Colombo has also noted that Sri Lankan law as it stands at present has no provision for the type of 'hybrid' inquiry that has been called for by High Commissioner Hussein. Thus it would require tinkering with the Constitution which in turn requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament.
UNHRC sessions and TNA
While the UNP-SLFP combine, together with the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) does enjoy a two-thirds majority, there is a possibility that the support of the SLFP, where Rajapaksa still wields considerable influence, will dwindle if a constitutional amendment facilitating an international inquiry is the issue at stake. In such a scenario, not only will a two thirds majority be doubtful, it could also be a stepping stone for Rajapaksa, who is biding his time in the opposition benches, to reclaim the leadership of the parliamentary group of the SLFP. Colombo is likely to appraise the US of all these potential outcomes in their consultations in Geneva.
It is also noteworthy that the TNA has maintained a relatively low profile during this year's UNHRC sessions. In previous years, faced with the hard-line attitude of the Rajapaksa government, the TNA used the Geneva sessions as a forum to ventilate their frustrations and routinely called for international intervention. This year however, it has been more moderate in its pronouncements although some elements (most notably, Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Vigneswaran) have aired similar grievances, at times against the wishes of the leadership of the TNA.
In many ways, the Geneva sessions of the UNHRC will be the first major test for the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government.
If it can come way far from Geneva with an entirely domestic process to deal with alleged war crime allegations, it would have convinced the international community of its bona-fides and set Sri Lanka well on the path to reconciliation and lasting peace.
On the domestic front, it would also be negating the influence of former President Rajapaksa and strengthening the new political culture that has been the hallmark of this government. Therefore, the eventual outcome in Geneva will have a noteworthy impact not only on the resolution of outstanding ethnic issues in the country but also on the shape and form of the domestic political landscape in the next few years to come.
==============================