## Title: Build Sri Lanka 2017 to strengthen strategic  support for construction sector
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Build Sri Lanka 2017 to strengthen strategic  support for construction sector
Build Sri Lanka - 2017, the premier Housing & Construction Exhibition is organized by the Chamber of Construction Industry Sri Lanka (CCI), the apex representative body of all construction industry stakeholders which is recognized by the government.
The exhibition will be held from May 26 to 28, 2017 at the BMICH for the 13th consecutive year. Build Sri Lanka Exhibition is today regarded as the most dynamic Building and Construction Trade exhibition in Sri Lanka.
Build Sri Lanka 2017 will host over 300 exhibitors from various sectors of the construction industry island-wide. An impressive country specific pavilion will be a novel feature of Build Sri Lanka 2017, with over 20 Chinese companies registered as part of the China Pavilion.
The China Pavilion will comprise delegations of these companies looking to expand the countrys ever growing presence in the building and construction sector of the country with innovative, cost effective materials, products and services.
This has much significance in the light of major industrial developments based on Hambantota Port and Colombo Financial Port City Project undertaken as foreign direct investments from China totaling US$ 17 billion (Rs. 2550 billion).
As a proven platform for business transactions, Build Sri Lanka 2017 will showcase the latest developments in the building and construction industry, with eminent industry experts, stakeholders and decision makers in attendance, making it an ideal event to source new products, network and usher in new contacts and business opportunities.
Over 20,000 trade visitors are expected over the course of the event, looking to source the latest, inventive products on offer, not accessible otherwise in the local market, in addition to new product launches and added features, making it an ideal event to source new products, network and usher in new contacts and business opportunities.
Over the years, we have expanded to cater to the demands not just of the local market, but of the whole Asian region as well. This mega expo is the ideal forum for international players to showcase their products and services to the mutual benefit of both markets, said Eng. Nissanka N. Wijeratne, Secretary General/ CEO for CCI Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka is an ocean of opportunities and Build Sri Lanka offers a great platform for the construction industry, with a high potential for business networking, investment and exchange of ideas and information, said Prasad Perera, Marketing Manager of CCI Sri Lanka.
CCI Sri Lanka is the sole national body, for all construction companies, architects, engineers, quantity surveyors, town planners, land surveyors, valuers, insurers, builders, interior decorators, construction material manufacturers and suppliers, in short encompassing all in construction sector and forms the focal point and voice of construction industry stakeholders in the country.
Apart from holding Build SL Expo annually, CCI Sri Lanka is publishing the one and only Trade and Business Directory specifically targeting the construction sector once in two years. This Directory for the years 2017 and 2018, published for the 5th time, is due to be released during last week of April 2017.
This new Directory will be uploaded to the CCI web site www.ccisrilanka.org and the dedicated web site www.constructiondirectory.lk with a search facility.
Now, CCI Sri Lanka has evolved to become the premier organization facilitating the advancement of the building & construction industry in the country.
More information could be obtained from www.ccisrilanka.org

==============================
## Title: People dont need new Constitution
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
People dont need new Constitution
Independent MP Athuruliya Rathana Thera in an interview with the Daily News said a fair and national land policy would resolve the national question. The Thera said the government has to formulate new policies in the next three years. We also need structural changes and establish national planning and procurement commissions. Decisions will be made by these commissions, right now individuals make decisions; we want to change that, the Thera said.
Excerpts from the interview:
Q: What are your plans forthe future
A. What we expect from this government is to formulate new policies within the next three years. We also expect that they would make structural changes and establish a national planning commission and a procurement commission. The decisions will be made by them, right now individuals make decisions; we want to change that. I will decide what I will do after the next three years, I cannot say it right now.
Q: Your party has called for your resignation. So what is the political party you are going to work with in future
A. I have not decided on any party yet. Right now I am thinking of forming a wide movement. We named it the National Council of Sri Lanka (NCSL) and we are now building that movement.
Q: Don't you have any political ambition
A. No, I have no such at the moment.
Q: Have you got fed up with politics
A. I believe that it is better to build a movement which goes beyond one political party. A movement is capable of achieving things that a party cannot. We can also work with different groups such as NGOs, civil society groups, and apolitical entities via a movement. We can approach any party and invite them to join us. When you work for one party, other parties will not come to you in fear of certain policies your party holds. But a movement give you more freedom to serve the country.
Q: When Buddhist monks first proposed to contest for seats in Parliament, their main argument was that they could serve the country better if they were in parliament. This has not worked very well and nothing much has been achieved. What is your view now on that decision
A. I believe that we can achieve more through a mass movement than we do by joining a party.
Earlier I thought that could be achieved through the Jathika Hela Urumaya, but it simply turned into a traditional party.
Now my plan is to find ways to achieve my aim. We have launched the policy to achieve that goal.
Q: You have had several mass movements and campaigns and launched various policies before this but they achieved a little. What do you have to say in this regard
A. I worked for several political parties. We built many movements. The National Movement Against Terrorism was one of them. But once the war ended, the need for that movement faded away. The Pivithuru Hetak Movement now has been transformed into the National Council. The Pivithuru Hetak was formed to oppose Mahinda Rajapaksa. Now it is being expanded with more groups joining in.
Q: Do you feel that your party restricted your involvement in such movements
A. No there werent any restriction, but I believe that if I move beyond a party, I can engage more with such a movement. Many people like to be a part of something outside a political party. I could bring them all together. I am capable of bringing together different groups on one platform. So I believe I can use my ability for the betterment of the country.
Q: What is your key focus here Many allege that you stand for many things and that your movement is too wide. What is your view on this allegation
A. Yes, some may blame me, but the challenge we face today is to find a way to make the strongest impact using all the resources at our disposal I will choose the method that has the greatest influence. Today our problems are connected to the international community. If you take the economic policy of Sri Lanka, many think that it is neo-liberal which gives a free hand to foreign market forces to come into Sri Lanka and operate as they like. But many do not come and invest here. We can no longer depend on them. That time is over. The whole world is moving towards a more protectionist/nationalistic economies, and they now question the principles of a neo-liberal economy.
A few multi-national companies dictate our policies. In the last 150 years, we used a large amount of coal and oil thereby causing the climate change crisis. A new growth model is needed for countries like ours to develop.
We are not Singapore, Malaysia or Korea; our country is still a village. So we have the opportunity to take a step back from the current growth model. European countries cannot do that since they have gone too far in that direction.
Q: The President has stated that we would follow a more sustainable growth path. But if we look at our overall economic plan, it supports urbanizsation and Megapolis building. So it is the same economic policy in the past we follow even now. What is your view
A. Yes, nothing has changed. That is the problem. All the factories that the government promised us did not come here and only China grans us money.
The Chinese, with their experiences of the last government, figured out that our country has a very liberal economy.
They could have easily captured our economy. All they had to do was to bribe the right politicians. China is still thinking the same way and we have taken the easy path. We have loans to repay, so the easiest path to get rid of them, they think, is to sell the country to the Chinese.
Q: Is there an alternative to repay Chinese loans
A. Yes. Right now we have to pay back USD 2 billion. We can renegotiate the terms of loans and reduce the interest rates.
We can also ask for more time to repay loans and then look at what we can sell fast and earn money from. If we take 2-3 years, we can repay the loans. This is only an issue at present. By giving more time to it, we can resolve it.
Q: So isnt it better for you to be in the government to bring about all these changes
A. I am with the government. I am working on the organic farming project with the President.
Q: Then you are with the President. Are not you
A. Not exactly, I dont have any responsibilities under the Prime Minister. It is with the Presidential Secretariat that the programme proceeds. Agriculture and Energy sectors are also with the SLFP. We cannot limit all this to just one or two ministries. But we have to start from somewhere.
Q: The SLFP has proposed an amended Constitution while the UNP a new Constitution. What is your view on this issue
A. At the last election, the UNP lost. They got more seats but did not get the majority. Mahinda Rajapaksa also cannot topple the government and neither did he receive a mandate to be in power. Then it is only President Maithripla Sirisena, who received the mandate to run the government. So we have to base the government policy on his manifesto. This is a very sensitive issue and we have to do what we can. Some think that by making the the whites happy with a new Constitution, we will get more money. Neither the Americans nor the Europeans have an interest in a new Constitution. It is we who are telling them that.
Q: But you too contested under the UNP ticket, did you not then agree to their manifesto in that instance
A. True, but that does not speak of abolishing the Executive Presidency.
It spoke of a new Constitution but does not say much about it.
Q: A new Constitution means a referendum. What is your view
A. Yes, but how can we do that We dont even have two thirds majority in Parliament and the President also has to agree it. The President has to get his partys approval. So how can this be done.
Q: Why are you no in favour of a referendum
A. A referendum at this moment is very dangerous. You will just have the Tamils voting No and the Sinhalese Yes and vice versa, and that will cause major ethnic divisions. We would have achieved nothing in the end. Lets do what we can.
Q: But all this is creating much confusion amongst the people. What do you have to say in this regard
A. The people dont need a new Constitution. They need economic development. Only a certain group need a new Constitution. If the Executive is not being used in an authoritarian manner, people do not care what Constitution we have. What people want is the country to develop economically and we need to deliver on that.
We have stopped the misuse of power by the Executive. What remains is to provide a solution to the North and East. One of their main demands is land. The NCSL has proposed that a land commission be set up with representatives from the North, East, Forest Department, Archaeology Department, Agriculture sector and so on, and they should decide on land allocation. The government should give the land back to the people. Today even in the North and East, many lands belong to the elites who live abroad. So the government should immediately give back all their lands.
Q: What about the issue of power devolution
A. Why do we need power devolution We need to give the power to the people not to the politicians. When we solve the land issue, we wont have an issue.
Q: You seem to be trying to evade a political solution through the issue of land allocation
A. That is the political solution. The economic solution is the political solution. What people need is land, farmers need land. When we give them land, the problem should be over. Why are we against that The President can easily get all those who want land in the North and East together and through a transparent process, give out the land. Thereafter, we move towards a development plan; build them the tanks and supply them with water; then they can earn a livelihood.
Q: Do you think parties like the TNA will accept this plan
A. We should not look at what the TNA wants; we need to look at what the people want. If we solve the people's problems, there will not be much demand for the TNA.
When it comes to police powers, we said that the police most of the time engages in civil duties. So we need to split the police into two sections;, the civil police and armed police, which investigate large scale crime and drugs and so on. We can devolve the powers of the civil police to the provinces and have the armed police come under the central government. We can let the people of the area join the police and the army. It is natural that the people want those they are familiar with to serve them. We need to change the structure of the police.
Q: Isnt this similar to the 13th Amendment which you were against
A. No, the 13th Amendment asks to devolve the powers of the whole police force to the provinces. We cannot do that. If a crime occurs in Vavuniya, the suspect of that crime easily escapes by residing in another province. We cannot let that happen. We cannot devolve that power. So the Central government should keep the powers of the armed police and they can let the provinces control the civil police. We can even have them wear white uniforms. Why cant we do that That is not a problem.
We need to change the face of the police; at present, all they want to do is to imprison someone. We need to reduce the number of court cases and to reduce the number of people who go to prison, so we need the police to resolve issues in a better way.
Q: Your model is similar to community policing. Is that so
A. Yes. We need to make a more people oriented police.
Q: It seems that you are proposing to solve all other issues without actually granting what the minorities want, power devolution. Is not that so
A. How can we devolve power If we give land powers to the provinces, each will act according to their own whims and fancies. For example, some short-sighted politician in Nuwara Eliya would ask a forest to be cleared and then the rest of the country would not have water. Sri Lanka is a very small country. The Central Government should control forests.
Q: That could be said to a politician from the Central Government too. There is no way to stop him/her from doing the same. Is there
A. That is why we need the National Planning Commission. This Commission will have the TNA, JVP, SLFP, UNP, moderates, environmentalists and many other representatives. And they together will formulate a central plans acceptable for all. Those policies should be implemented. Not what the Central, Southern, Northern, or Eastern Chief ministers want. In this small country, the land policy should be national.
Q: This is not what the media reported recently on your stand on police and land powers. Is not that so
A. I was very clear in my stand. The media misreported my speech. In Costa Rica, there is no army. We also need a country where there is less army and police personnel.
Q: Your thinking has changed quite a bit; the military was something you were always in favour of. What is your view
A. When we need the army, we can increase numbers. I am not asking to disband or reduce numbers in the army. We can use them for other mega projects;, right now they are being used to build tanks in the East and that is good.
Q: Isnt this similar to what the previous regime did and you opposed such programmes then. Did not you
A. I dont mean menial tasks like cleaning parks and streets. I mean projects that are of national importance like building tanks, mega construction and so on. We even used the army to help make organic fertiliser. We have a large, trained man power just wasting away there; they need to be utilised better. We need to stop thinking traditionally here. We need to first help people think differently. Right now, our society has no new thinking. That is our biggest problem.
Q: Whichever campaign you have supported or headed became successful. Be it the campaign you led in support of the war from Mavil Aru or the one to bring President Maithripala Sirisena into power. What is the secret behind your success
A. I am always working on something and when the time comes, I make the decision that needs to be made. I made the decision not to support former President Rajapaksa without much fear because it had to be made. It was a dangerous decision but I made it.
People have faith in you when they see you make fearless decisions. I am not afraid of death and when you have that feeling, it gives you a lot of freedom. Many people are afraid of death and that is the problem in our country. A few brave people can achieve great things here. I have no children, property or interests to hold me back; it is a discipline I have gained from Buddhism. I have no problem in giving everything up.
==============================
## Title: Predicative Tests for Disease Preventionnow available at Durdans
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Predicative Tests for Disease Preventionnow available at Durdans
Durdans Laboratory Services (DLS), whilst retaining its traditional Test Panel recently made available novel tests to keep up with modern developments in Laboratory Medicine. Noteworthy are the Predictive Tests whose outcomes can be utilized to avert future illness / disease.
Durdans Laboratory Services is a medical testing facility meeting the contemporary investigative/extrapolative requirements of medicine, works with ultra-modern testing equipment, highest quality analytical reagents, and aptly educated and experienced medical laboratory technologists.
As mentioned in a press release issued by the hospital amongst the recently introduced tests is the Neonatal TSH Screening Test which is known as Neonatal TSH (NEO-TSH.) This test revolves round the likelihood of adverse consequences of low TSH production in the newborn and intervention to normalise growth and development of the newborn. In keeping with the National Health Policy of compulsory screening of newborns, Durdans Laboratory Services all across the island are geared to provide the NEO-TSH Screen to Local Hospitals, Maternity Homes and Family Practices.
The ISO 15189 certified Durdans Laboratory Services also offers investigations such as Vitamin D level testing for determining bone health in children and adults.
==============================
## Title: Aaysha Cake Exhibition
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Aaysha Cake Exhibition
The annual Cake Exhibition 2017, organized by the Aaysha Cake School, China Fort, Beruwala, was held at Cinnamon Bay Hotel, Moragalla, Beruwala, recently. This was under the patronage of Aaysha Cake School Director Maheesa Zawahir Azhar.
Fomer Naleem Hajiyar Ladies' College principal Fowziya Rashif was the chief guest, and AB Mauri Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Business Manager Jude De Silva and Aaysha cake school Advisor Al-Haj A.S.M. Zawahir were the guests of honour. Eden Hotel pastry chefs Roshan and Thusitha Priyankara were the judges, and organizing committee members Fadia R.S.Saleem and Aroosa Asard were also present.
50 students participated in this exhibition.
==============================
## Title: Alleged fraud revealed in Yan Oya reservoir project
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Alleged fraud revealed in Yan Oya reservoir project
It is allege that a fraud has been committed in identifying lands supposed to be get submerged to the Horowpotana Yan Oya reservoir which is under construction. The fraud has been detected at a special investigation by the Forest Conservation Department.
According to Anuradhapura District Forest Conservation officials, an investigation started when a man asked for a sand excavation permit from the Anuradhapura District forest officer having submitted a land grant under his name stating that the land was situated within the proposed Yan Oya reservoir submersion area. He had complained that an outsider was to dig sand from the land belonged to him. According to the Forest Conservation Officials, it was found that no permit or grant had been issued to such a landscape and the presidents land grant was issued only for 1.856 hectares whereas this figure was fraudulently altered as 4.85 hectares having amended two boundaries deceitfully.
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (06-03-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (06-03-2017)]
Manik Fernandopulle
Compassionate soul
His death anniversary which falls on March 6 took me back to the time when he was with Mangala, the charming lady, and their two lovable children: Rishanka and Rukshila.
The few lines to be written show that he is thought of in a warm and special way by all of us. It's been seven years since Manik passed away. Deep in our hearts, the memory of the one we loved so much shall never be forgotten," said Mangala, recalling the sad day. "He flew away with the angels," said Rukshila. "He must be watching us from above," was the son's remark.
You realize just how much you miss someone only when they are gone.
Manik was a person perfect in every sense of life for them, and they were not prepared for his untimely goodbye. He never failed to keep a close eye on their activities, and showered them with that special love and tender care which is a father's privilege. In Mangala's words: "It will never be the same without him, but we will go on with him in our hearts for all the days of our lives." Hence, it is no secret that his sudden demise on March 6, 2010, caused shock and sadness to all those who knew him. It was the darkest hour in their family life.
His illness took him away at the age of 54. The traumatic grief they underwent was such that they still feel the terrible loss. He was a cultured and refined being who stood by good principles. He hailed from a very respectable and well-known family in Morukkuliya, Dankotuwa. He was the eldest in a family of three boys who were well brought up in the family tradition. His deep love and dedication to his parents was something admired by everyone. He had made a tremendous contribution to his near and dear ones much to their benefit, and his joy.
He enjoyed excellent relationships with his in-laws. He was very lucky to have been blessed with a mother-in-law so loving, and both, he and Mangala, enjoyed every moment of being together with them. Together, they never failed to keep close contact with friends and relations, and at any time of need, never failed to assist them. The stability of a good home being always there achieved many things, and they led a full life.
Manik joined hands with Mangala who was also from an educated and distinguished family of fame. With the strength and courage received from almighty, they lived an exemplary happy wedded life together, sharing their journey through life. She was a loving and enchanting wife who was behind him in all what he did and looked after him well to the last. He had good faith and confidence in himself; he was positive-minded and also devoted to his family. As a devoted husband and father, he was a towering giant in their lives. He was a very close father to have given his son and daughter the correct education and exposure, laying the foundation for their current level of success. It is he who made them what they are today. It is true that their welfare was uppermost in his mind. He was handsome and looked majestic in his tall figure with fair complexion. He was a high-spirited, pleasant, and humble person. His esteemed deeds are still in the hearts of the still-living, and they are greatly proud of him. When going back to his childhood days, he had his early education at Maris Stella College in Negombo, and his secondary education at the most prestigious College in ColomboSt. Joseph's College, where he had a distinguished academic record. He was a bright and promising student of fame and popularity. He became a chemical engineer and achieved many things in his profession. Having completed his engineering degree in India, on his return to Sri Lanka, he did his Master's (MBA) in the Colombo University. He was a remarkable human being with absolute honesty. Through his wisdom, knowledge, and honesty, he had an illustrious career at the Oils and Fats Co-orporation at Seeduwa, and later at Dankotuwa Porcelain, making an immense contribution to its progress.
He was committed, and tirelessly made every effort to carry both colleges to fame. He honoured both alma maters in his life's journey. He was an outstanding member of the St. Joseph's College OBU, Negombo branch. Winning good-will of everybody, he played a key role in promoting vital activities. He was a prominent Rotarian as well. Above all, he had deep religious conviction. He was deeply involved in religious activities, with a deep respect for the church and the clergy.
He knew the essence of the teachings of the Almighty. His loyalty to the church was well-seen in the performance of his religious duties to the last days of his life. Such was the short but precious life of this rare personality.
Though he is no longer with us, the pleasant memories of the years gone by, keep him close to us, loved and remembered as a caring dad and hubby who did so much for us and the family.
In God's care you rest above
while in our hearts you dwell with love.
His rich smell of humanity still exists.
May his soul rest in peace.
- Rupa Banduwardena
Padma Arthenayake
Earnest individual
It is almost an year since Padma Arthenayake had left us for good. That was on February 25, last year. It was only when I phoned to wish her for her birthday on January 24, this year, that I heard the sad news that she was no more, from her daughter, Savanthi.
Padma and her husband (he was always Mr Arthenayake to us), were truly our well-wishers, and remained so until their demise. We have missed their company and care ever since then.
Padma was the third daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D.W.S. Ekanayake of Bandarawela.
Having had her schooling in Bandarawela, Badulla Central, and finally at Anula Vidyalaya, Nugegoda, she thereafter joined the then Ceylon Law College, where she met her future partner in life. She and Arthe took their oaths as Proctors of the Supreme Court on the same day in 1961 and got married in the same year. Having worked initially at the Incorporated Law Society of Ceylon, she ceased employment due to family commitments. It was in 1970, as a Legal Officer of the Bank of Ceylon, that she re-started work, and thereafter, worked for a short while at NDB. Joining the multinational Nestle Lanka Ltd later, she rose to be its Secretary/Legal Officer. I had the privilege of being professionally associated with her when I was required to represent Nestle around the country. She was a Founding Member and a live wire of the Women Lawyers Association. She served it in several capacities, finally ending up as President, besides being an active Committee Member of the Soroptimist International Sri Lanka Chapter. Despite her numerous professional and social commitments, she continued to be a dutiful housewife and a loving mother at their house in Etiyawala, which Arthe inherited from his father. Following his fathers principles, alcohol continued to be taboo in the house even under Arthe. Consequently, there were occasions where I had to rush there to clear the house of alcoholic gifts left behind by friends and visitors.
Padma was an excellent cook, and we had hers and Mr Arthenayakes company whenever a new hotel or restaurant was opened in or around Colombo. Such was their love of fine-dining. Arthe, being a non-alcoholic, made up for it with his love for good cuisine.
As destiny would have it, I had an occasion to visit their home for lunch just the day before Arthe suddenly passed away. It was such a terrible shock to hear from Padma the very next early morning that Arthe had suddenly passed away.
When I was to invest all of my meager savings on a piece of land, and was looking for a reliable Notary to handle the notarial work, Arthe was the obvious choice.
When I wrote to Arthe, introducing myself for the purpose, there was a prompt response, but with one condition: that there will be no professional fee payable, though I did not know him then. Not only did Arthe advice on the matter and handle the conveyance of the block of land where our house stands now, he also advanced the 25% of the auction price on a Sunday when I was out of the country.
Whenever Padma or Arthe heard our claim that we would've never had this house of ours if not for them, they would genuinely get embarrassed and reprimand us. Such was their kindness and modesty.
They had two children: Kavinda, who settled down in USA since 1987, and Savanthi, married to Sopaka.
Padma was a true embodiment of sincere love and kindness. Their domestic-aids were treated not as servants, but as family members. One of them got married, and her husband too, lived with them. Padma was not a 'Madam,' but an 'Amma' to their two daughters. We and our own daughters will always remember her for her generosity and endless kindness to all who were fortunate to meet her.
May she attain the supreme bliss of Nirwana!
- Upali A. Gooneratne
Wing Commander Noel Fernando
Estimable friend
Wing Commander Noel Fernando, an exemplary Air Force Officer and a gentleman par excellence, passed away peacefully on January 27. It is with profound grief that I write a few lines on my dear and lifelong friend whom I have closely associated with for over six decades.
Noel had his education at St. Thomas College, Mount Lavinia. He played Cricket and fives at College. He loved his school as he was very proud of it.
His name will go down in the history of sports as the man who officially formed the Squash Federation in Sri Lanka and promoted the game of squash.
He was a fine squash player of yesteryear, and excelled in the Masters Game. He was the founding President of squash in Sri Lanka, and in 1981, he was bestowed the title 'Father of Squash' during the Asian Squash championships in Sri Lanka. He was the 63rd President of the Rotary Club, Chairman of the Mission of Seafarers, President of the Travel Trade Association. Noel was elected twice as the President of SKAL.
I first met Noel In January, 1955, when we were undergraduates at Aquinas University. Our friendship continued until his demise. Noel was the second son of a very respectable and devout Buddhist family of four brothers and three sisters.
With the demise of his father very early in life, Noel admirably took over the responsibility of looking after the family with exemplary care, dedication, and affection. In 1955, when the Air Force advertised officer vacancies in the Air Traffic branch, together, we applied to the Air Force also making applications for officer vacancies in the Sri Lankan Army and Sri Lankan Navy. We were fortunate to be selected as Pilot Officers to the Air Traffic Branch of the Sri Lankan Air Force, and were commissioned on 15th June, 1957.
In October, 1957, we were proceeded to the U.K. for training. We received our training with the late N. Sangarapillai and Joe Abeykoon, initially with the Royal Air Force in the Isle of Man and subsequently at Grantham-Derbyshire. Returning to Sri Lanka in December, 1957, we were deployed on Air Traffic duties at Katunayake. Apart from excelling in his primary duties, Noel made a tremendous impact in activities, participating in all social, religious, sports, and other extra-mural activities.
In 1960, when I got married, he was my best man and performed the formalities with precision and affection.
Being a multi-faceted personality with varied interests, he actively participated in all these. My contemporaries found it difficult to understand how he had the energy and capacity to do it. In the mid 1960s, the development and expansion of the Sri Lankan Air Force was restrained by the lack of foreign exchange.
Development and expansion was inextricably interwoven. With the availability of foreign exchange, Noel, after intensive feasibility studies on his own initiative, and in consultation with Air Chief Marshall P.H. Mendis, made a proposal of an establishment of a commercial wing specially to fly tourists and others in Air Force Helicopters in a view to earn foreign exchange. Ably supported and guided by Air Chief Marshall Paddy Mendis, this project was a tremendous success and helped the country earn much-needed foreign exchange.
Noel was constantly commended for his initiative and dedication to duty. He was endowed with rare personal qualities. Noel made a tremendous contribution in every human activity he undertook. Being a fine conversationalist with a flair for public relations, he was a great asset to the Air Force and private organizations he served. After an impressive and distinguished service of 22 years, Noel retired from the Air Force on September 6, 1979.
He joined Thomas Cook as the Managing Director, and he completely restructured the company, enhancing the business image of it. Subsequently, as General Manager of Finlays Travels, he made a significant impact on this variegated career in the private sector and earning a reputation as a distinguished and respected personality in the Travel Trade.
Noel married Hyacinth, who was a great strength to him in his challenging duties, and looked after him with admirable care and affection. Noel was a very domesticated person. His love, affection, and dedication to his family was admirable.
A devout Buddhist, he practiced his religion unobtrusively, observing the four Sathara Brahma love, kindness, compassion, altruistic joy and equanimity.
He gave generously to places of religious worship. Throughout his life, he epitomized kindness, love, and compassion for the poor and marginalized. Noel was a wonderful friend who reached out to his friends particularly in times of distress. He was steadfast in his loyalty to his friends.
He was my friend and guide up-to his demise. I have lost my irreplaceable dear friend, and an emptiness remains in me that I cannot seem to fill.
I realize how real the immortal words of Charles Colton True friendship is like sound health; the value of it is seldom known until it is lost." I thank God for his life. I will not say farewell because I know we will meet again.
- J.T. REX FERNANDO
Prof. J.N.O. Fernando
Brilliant intellect
March 2, 2015, dawned as usual, and we the staff of the Department of Chemistry at the Open University of Sri Lanka (OUSL) were at a staff meeting in the office of the Head of the Department. The meeting was interrupted abruptly when the message of the sudden demise of Emeritus J.N.O. Fernando (JNOF), retired Senior Professor of Chemistry at OUSL, trickled in. We were dumbstruck; we remained speechless for some time, unable to digest the news.
JNOF was a giant, both literally and otherwise. His contribution to the progress of the OUSL as Senior Professor of Chemistry, as Head of the Department of Chemistry, and as Dean of the Faculty of Natural Sciences, has been recorded and published previously, and needs no repetition.
JNOF was considered synonymous with Institute of Chemistry Ceylon (ICHEMC) located at Rajagiriya.
In other words, he was considered as the Institute" as a result of the enormous contribution that he made to the development of ICHEMC. He was a giant who bestrode the corridors of both, Open Unversity (until his retirement), and ICHEMC, like a colossusan excellent administrator who stood by principles at all times.
His famous statement, best said in Sinhalese, "Kiyana dey karanawa; karana dey kiyanawa, still echoes among his contemporaries, including eminent and distinguished academics as Emeritus Professor Nalini Ratnasiri, Emeritus Professor Uma Coomaraswamy, and Emeritus Professor Dayantha Wijeyesekara.
Prof. JNOF did not mince his words. He expressed his ideas and opinion on many matters with great conviction and determination; there were not many who could counter his point-of-view (though they do now in his absence). His candid opinion was sought after by his peers on many matters.
Tributes and appreciation letters came in droves during the period after his untimely death. A special publication of the Chemistry in Sri Lanka [the quarterly magazine published by the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon (ICHEMC)] containing a collection of such articles dedicated to the late Professor was published, and was ceremoniously launched in the midst of a large gathering of his family members and close associates.
Prof. JNOF was a top scholar at St.Thomas College, Mt Lavinia, and the recipient of several scholarships at the time. In turn, he was instrumental in establishing many awards, scholarships, prizes, etc. at ICHEMC which went a long way in motivating the students.
I am sure the past graduate chemists, more than a thousand of them who may or may not be here, will attest to this fact. In keeping with his vision, a scholarship fund was initiated at the first death anniversary commemoration ceremony.
Prof. JNOF led a full life before his untimely demise. No doubt there is a lot for all of us to learn.
He made a lot of sacrifices to create more opportunities for those aspiring for higher education, a national need at present, given the increasing number of A.L. qualified students wanting to pursue higher studies. In addition to his numerous official duties, he held many positions in learned bodies including SLAAS (as General President), OPA, NASL, etc. contributing immensely in their development activities.
On a personal note, I would like to mention that as my mentor, he was instrumental in recruiting me as a temporary demonstrator at the department of chemistry at OUSL in 1990.
That appointment 26 years ago has led me to my current position as Senior Lecturer in Chemistry.
He also persuaded me to take up the post of Vice President in the Council of ICHEMC, the stepping stone for the post of President which I hold now. Unfortunately, he did not live to witness the day that I took up that position.
The second death anniversary of Emeritus Professor J.N.O. Fernando fell on March 2, and a commemoration ceremony was held at the Institute of Chemistry Ceylon (ICHEMC) with the unveiling of his bust, and a memorial oration was delivered by Emeritus Professor Eng. Dayantha Wijeyesekara, former Vice Chancellor of OUSL, and presently Chancellor of the University of Vocational Technology (UNIVOTEC)
Memories of Late Emeritus Professor J.N.O. Fernando will remain etched in our minds for a long time to come. No doubt, his family members: wife, Mrs. Mandrupa; son, Oshan; daughter-in-law, Gayathri; and granddaughter, Maia; will miss him, but continue to remember him in their hearts forever.
Let us all offer a silent tribute and prayer for the ManJerence Nansel Oleap Fernando.
- M.R.M. Haniffa
==============================
## Title: Army officers arrested for assualting Keith Noyahr further remanded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, March 3, 2017 - 15:45
Army officers arrested for assualting Keith Noyahr further remanded

The five army officers alleged to have assaulted journalist Keith Noyahr in 2008 were further remanded today (3) till March 16.
==============================
## Title: Bitcoin value tops gold for first time
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Bitcoin value tops gold for first time
A unit of the digital cryptocurrency Bitcoin has exceeded the value of an ounce of gold for the first time. It closed at $1,268 , while a troy ounce of gold stood at $1,233.
The current high is being attributed to surging demand in China, where authorities warn it is used to channel money out of the country. The past months surge is a major reversal for Bitcoin, which plummeted in value in 2014 after the largest exchange collapsed.
The value of Bitcoin has been volatile since it was first launched in 2009, and many experts have questioned whether the crypto-currency will last.
Earlier this year, Chinese authorities cracked down on Bitcoin trading in an attempt to stop money flowing out of the country illegally.
But the closer scrutiny from Beijing only briefly sent the currency lower. After it had soared to record highs in January, it has since picked its steady rise in value.
Bitcoin is attractive to some users because of its anonymiwty, as well as its lack of government control. The website Silk Road was closed in 2013 following raids by the FBI and other agencies amid allegations of drug dealing. Authorities seized millions of dollars worth of Bitcoin during the raids. Yet like all currencies its value is determined by how much people are willing to exchange it for. To process Bitcoin transactions, a procedure called mining must take place, which involves a computer solving a difficult mathematical problem with a 64-digit solution.
For each problem solved, one block of Bitcoins is processed. In addition the miner is rewarded with new Bitcoins.
To compensate for the growing power of computer chips, the difficulty of the puzzles is adjusted to ensure a steady stream of new Bitcoins are produced each day. There are currently about 15 million Bitcoins in existence. To receive a Bitcoin, a user must have a Bitcoin address - a string of 27-34 letters and numbers - which acts as a kind of virtual post-box to and from which the Bitcoins are sent.
Since there is no register of these addresses, people can use them to protect their anonymity when making a transaction. These addresses are in turn stored in Bitcoin wallets, which are used to manage savings. (BBC)
==============================
## Title: Bollywood celebrates Karan Johar's surrogate twins
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 12:15
Bollywood celebrates Karan Johar's surrogate twins

Bollywood celebrities have been congratulating top filmmaker Karan Johar on becoming a father.
Johar, who isbelieved to be gay, announced the birth of his twins through a surrogate on Sunday.
The director said in a statement that it was an "emotional but "well thought-out" decision.
Homosexuality is illegal in India, and individuals becoming parents through surrogacy, although legal, is not very common.
Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Abram wasalso born through surrogacyin 2013.
Top stars, including Alia Bhatt and Priyanka Chopra, were among the first to congratulate the director.
Many people have also congratulated Johar for taking the "bold decision" to become a single parent.
Johar has never spoken publicly about being gay, but he recently wrote in his autobiography that everybody knew "what his sexual orientation was, and he didn't need to scream it out".
"The reason I don't say it out aloud is simply that I don't want to be dealing with the FIRs [first information reports, or police complaints]. I'm very sorry. I have a job, I have a commitment to my company, to my people who work for me; there are over a hundred people that I'm answerable to," he wrote.
Commercial surrogacy, including for single parents, is currently legal, but a draft bill plans to limit it to childless couples who have been married for at least five years.
==============================
## Title: British investor to pump US$ 100 mn in  Kantale Sugar
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
British investor to pump US$ 100 mn in  Kantale Sugar
The once high profit recorded Kantale sugar manufacturing factory which the entire operations completely came to a standstill during the past 24 years will be recommenced shortly under a new joint venture between the Government and a British investor.
Addressing the media, Board of Investments (BOI), Chairman Upul Jayasuriya highlighted that recommencing the factory operations along with sugar cane cultivations in a 500- acre land helps over 20,000 farmer families in Kantale and surrounding areas to improve their livelihood activities once again.
As we are aware during the past 24 years these farmer families faced untold hardships due to non functioning of the factory and also the destruction caused to valuable sugar cane cultivation lands which also hit their main income generation source, he said.
Speaking further, Chairman Jayasuriya said a Memorandum-of-Understanding (MoU) which was signed in August last year between the British investor and the Sectary of the Finance Ministry, the former agreed to invest US dollar 100 million (Rs. 150 billion) in the project.
The MoU also mentions that Government will get 51 percent of shares while the investor company gets 49 percent shares of the total project. In addition the ownership of the factory will be vested to the Government after 30 years .
The investor also agreed to plant a high breed sugar cane variety which is imported from a foreign country as that could produce a bigger quantity of sugar than earlier. Chairman Jayasuriya said that 90 percent machinery and other equipment that were used in the factory 24 years ago are now not in a proper condition and new machinery will have to be replaced very soon. It is reported that some parts of the building is also in a dilapidated condition.
Meanwhile, steps have been taken by the investor to bring new varieties of sugar cane nurseries and seeds to be distributed among cultivators until the equipment and other sugar manufacturing machines be installed.
When asked about the progress of the feasibility study of the building and the cultivation lands, Jayasuriya said that the feasibility study have been undertaken by a German company Bosch.
It is said that the investor has spent over two million US dollars for the feasibility study.
He said spending such a huge amount for the feasibility study reflects that the investors are very keen to start the project as early as possible.

==============================
## Title: Busy bees!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Busy bees!
The Bees! What industrious creatures! Truly in the animal kingdom you cannot find better team players!. Garden Talk meets up with Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture Ratmalana, District Agricultural Instructor K.N.K Jayathilake on Bee Keeping which is an important part of Home Gardening. Honey should be an important part of our diet. So it is highly advisable for people to maintain Bee Honey Boxes and obtain the necessary honey for the household. We need to include honey in our food intake in a small amount, said Jayathilake
Honey Bees can be divided into two categories. Bees with Stings and Bees without stings. Bees with stings can be further categorized into three-
 Apis Dorsata
 Apis Florea
 Apis Cerana Indica
Bees without Stings are in one category  Trigona Irridipennis
All collect Honey.
Apis Cerena Indica is the Asiatic Honey Bee and is common in Sri Lanka. This is the variety that Sri Lankan Bee Keepers obtain honey from, stated Jayathilake
Egg types
The Most important member in the Hive is the Queen Bee. She lays two types of eggs. They are the Worker Eggs and the Male Eggs
The Worker eggs are all female. Worker Bees are all female. The Male Bees are necessary for procreation with the Queen Bee. The Workers are all responsible for the work in the hive. The Queen Bee gives leadership to the hive. She is the most important in the hive. She has a scent and directs activity with that scent. She provides guidance with this scent. She lays around 350  700 eggs in the hive daily. But male eggs are not laid every day, explained Jayathilake
These Worker bees can be further divided into more categories.
Nurse Bees are responsible for creating the Royal Jelly which is given to the larvae.
 Another type bring water
 Another type collect honey
 Another type creates wax
 Another is for protection
 Another collect pollens
 Another control temperature
This Royal Jelly is given as food for the larvae. If it is given for five days, a Queen is formed. If it is given for three days a worker bees if formed. The Queen engages in copulation only once, with one or two males in the sky. After copulation she returns to the hive and starts laying eggs. She copulates with the strongest and only once in a lifetime. The life span of a Queen Bee is around three years. Even though she lays male eggs, when Males are not necessary, she does not lay Male Eggs. The Lifespan of a Male is two months, pointed out Jayathilake.
There are three stages in a community.
 Growth Stage
 Honey Stage
 Dearth Stage
If human beings want to obtain a community, the Growth Stage is the ideal time. This is normally from January to April. The growth stage is when more honey is brought into the hive by more bees. More pollen is also brought in. This is the stage when more honey is stored. Bees will even travel 700m to find the honey. The honey is for their food and what they store in excess is what human beings want, added Jayathilake.
Of course when the population in the hive increases, the hive divides, because there is no space in the hive. During this growth stage Queen Cells are made by the Queen Bee. This is in order to make a new Queen Bee. When the new Queen emerges, the old Queen leaves the hive with a number of workers.
Procedure
When we want to keep Bee Honey Boxes we must follow a certain procedure. Firstly a hive is taken from the tree and placed in a box. The box will contain eight wooden frames. With the passing of time a comb is created in the wooden frame. So during the growth stage we need to monitor this box. We need to take the wooden frames out, one by one and look for the Queen Bee and Queen Cells. When we spot Queen Cells and the Queen Bee we need to divide them into two separate communities.
We take the frame containing the Queen Bee and three other frames and transfer them into a new box. The new box then has four frames. Then we add another four to complete. And then the two communities will start to grow, with new cells being created, new eggs being laid and the comb will be created, explained Jayathilake.
This is done so we can obtain more honey by creating two separate communities.
At the honey stage we can harvest the extract by getting the honey combs from the wooden frames. Then comes the Dearth Stage. This is the rainfall time and since there is no food we can provide a mixture of sugar and water as food. So then the Queen can lay her eggs, summed up Jayathilake
Pictures by Siripala Halwala
==============================
## Title: Carbon footprint certification to nine Jetwing Hotels
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Carbon footprint certification to nine Jetwing Hotels
Jetwing Hotels achieved another milestone by being awarded ISO 14064 certification for nine of its properties recently.
This prestigious honour was given to Jetwing Blue, Jetwing St. Andrew's, Jetwing Ayurveda Pavilions, Jetwing Lighthouse, Jetwing Beach, Jetwing Sea, Jetwing Lagoon, Jetwing Yala and Jetwing Vil Uyana. The International Organization for Standardization has a membership of 162 countries, and with a portfolio of more than 21,000 standards giving world-class specifications for products, services and systems, to ensure quality, safety and efficiency.
ISO standards provide a model to follow when setting up and operating a management system. These standards are formulated and a result of international, expert consensus which provides a number of benefits, such as efficient use of resources, improved risk management, amongst others. The ISO 14064 standard published in 2006 is a part of the ISO 14000 series of International Standards for environmental management. It specifies principles and requirements at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals. It includes requirements for the design, development, management, reporting and verification of an organization's GHG inventory.
Certified by the Sri Lanka Climate Fund (SLCF), which is a private-public partnership company under the purview of the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment, all direct emission sources and energy indirect sources have been accounted for in the GHG inventory across the nine properties making Jetwing Hotels the first to be verified under the ISO 14064 standard in Sri Lanka.
With the certificates we have received we have achieved quite a milestone indeed. Nine of our 19 resorts are now certified, and it is a great honour to have our efforts recognized and verified according to international standards, states Jetwing Hotels Chairman Hiran Cooray in a press release.
==============================
## Title: Caught in the act
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Caught in the act
A high Fisheries Department official who accompanied three Parliamentarians attached to the Parliamentary Sub Committee on fisheries and other officials on an observation tour of the Kalpitiya sand bay coral sanctuary facing destruction due to illegal fishing was himself caught by the press with a line and sink in hand trying to catch fish in the coral reef. The officer was seen allegedly indulging in the illegal act by the journalists who accompanied the group on the observation tour. The journalists wondered whether the illegal fishermen were destroying the coral reef in cohorts with the high Fisheries Department officials for personal gain. Picture by Prasad Poornamal Jayasinghe, Puttalam District Group Corr.
==============================
## Title: CCC welcomes NMRA medicinal drugs price control formula
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
CCC welcomes NMRA medicinal drugs price control formula
Consequent to concerns expressed by pharmaceutical companies on the enacted regulations to control prices of 48 medicinal drugs in October 2016, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce (CCC) continued to consult with members on the progress of implementation.
Representatives of the CCC and of the industry also met regularly with National Medicines Regulatory Authority (NMRA) Chairman Prof. Asitha de Silva to discuss concerns of the private sector companies.
Prof. De Silva at a meeting on February 15, 2017, explained to the CCC and industry representatives that contrary to perceptions, the policy of regulation of prices of medicinal drugs was based on an analysis by the NMRA of internationally accepted research contained in the WHO Guidelines on pharmaceutical pricing policies.
The CCC appreciates an approach of evidence based decision making.
It is a principle that the CCC continues to advocate to ensure that policies that affect people and the nation are ones that produce real benefits to those who are sought to be served.
Industry partners had also expressed concerns at the outset that innovator/originator brand drug companies would discontinue to supply drugs subjected to price control, to Sri Lanka. Based on feedback from industry and as confirmed by Prof. de Silva, the CCC observes that the expected trend has not been evident. CCC appreciates the role played by some companies that worked with their foreign principals to ensure continued availability of many brands significantly affected by the price controls.
While the industry partners as yet entertain concerns on the formula adopted and its suitability to Sri Lanka which does not have a significant manufacturing base and is reliant on imports, the CCC accepts that it is now their obligation to conform.
It is the position of the CCC that it does not oppose the introduction of regulations to control prices of medicinal drugs, because it seeks to ensure the availability and affordability of good quality medicines to the people. It is the view of the CCC that industry concerns which do not necessarily militate against securing the true benefits for the people, should also be addressed.
The CCC expressed its appreciation of the many changes that have been introduced at the NMRA which augurs well for the effective implementation of the regulatory regime and emphasised that the private sector wishes to continue to engage in a meaningful way with the implementation of NMRAs initiatives.
==============================
## Title: Circular to grant financial aid to be issued this week
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Circular to grant financial aid to be issued this week
The circular to grant financial aid to farmers who have lost their crops due to the dry spell will be issued this week, Disaster Management Centre Director General L S Senadheera said. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday he said a Rs 10,000 monthly payment would be facilitated to each affected farming family from March 15 for a period of three months. He stated as calculated, over 500,000 families would be entitled to this financial support. He said the money would be directly sent to the bank accounts of the farmers, adding that the procedure would be similar to that of distributing fertiliser subsidy.
He said the Treasury agreed to disburse required amount of money for the purpose during the Presidential Task Force meeting held recently.
The Task Force meets once in every two weeks to assess the latest situation and take necessary decisions. In the last few days, rainfall was recorded in several drought affected areas,such as, Batticoloa, Jaffna, Mannar and Galle lessoning the effect of drought. Still the drought continues unabated in Kurunegala and Puttalam and parts of Matale, Ampara, Ratnapura and Hambantota. We are coordinating necessary facilities and relief to these areas, he explained.
However, he said the necessity to declare an emergency situation does not arise, as the Meteorological Department has predicted showers after April and the prevailing disaster situation could be managed.
Meanwhile, an adjournment motion on Food, Water and Power Crisis due to the Extreme Drought Condition prevailing in the Country will be moved by the UPFA in Parliament on Friday.
Disaster Management Minister Anura Yapa, Water Supply and Drainage Minister Rauf Hakeem and Power and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya are to give details on the impact of drought in each of their rounds during this debate.
According to the Ceylon Electricity Board website, out of the total power generation the hydro power generation has dropped to about 7 percent, while thermal power generation (coal and oil) has risen to 91 percent as of Saturday.
According to the DMC situation report as at yesterday, about 1.2 million people belonging to about 300,000 families in 16 districts have been affected by the drought.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (06-03-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (06-03-2017)]
Why we need to rein in the underworld
Regular newspaper readers recently have had an overdose of information related to the underworld. The foremost among them was a narration of seven persons - five prisoners and two jailers - were massacred in broad daylight. It was really a dramatic scenario with the perpetrators attired in police uniforms.
This fiasco came to pass not so long ago on February 27 at 8.30 am in Kalutara. Surprisingly it is the area where the Police Higher Training Institute is located. Needless to say, the news bulletin surprised and took centre stage.
However we cannot, and shall not, pass the blame to anyone. The religious leaders, teachers, politicians, statesmen and other opinion leaders have an instrumental role in shaping the society we live in. But they too have a limit in shaping the social attitudes. The government is trying their level best to keep things under control. What they really need is correct guidance and proper consultation to steer the society well ahead of hazards such as underworld.
The press also reported that a commission had been appointed to look into underworld activities. It is easy to entertain a pessimistic opinion that such commissions  or even a committee among other things  would yield zero results. However difficult it may be, we should keep our fingers crossed about these commissions and committees appointed, because that indicates the attempt of the government to pull down the underworld activities. It may not yield results soon. But it may deliver something in future. Doing something is of course better than nothing at all.
D B Karunaratne
Ahangama
==============================
## Title: Colombo Design Studio partners with Rice & Curry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Colombo Design Studio partners with Rice & Curry
Colombo Design Studio, Sri Lankas first industrial and product design consultancy, has partnered with Rice & Carry, a social enterprise upcycling gleeful bags from old rice sacks, to release plastic surfboard wax combs.
The product, made entirely from Rice & Carrys off-cuts of polypropylene material, is manufactured using a CNC machined (a rapid-prototyping and manufacturing technique similar to 3D printing) mould fabricated by Colombo Design Studio.
Natural or synthetic wax is often applied to the deck of a surfboard, bodyboard, or skimboard, to keep surfers from slipping off their boards. Over time the wax becomes infused with sand and other grime, making it less effective and less comfortable.
In order to resurface a deck, the old wax must be scraped off with a special tool a wax comb so as not to damage the board. But only a few surf and dive shops import wax combs for redistribution, particularly in Arugam Bay and Hikkaduwa.
We started to think about other discarded materials that could benefit our society. It then occurred to us that it was lying right in front of us  the off-cut material from our upcycled bags, added Susan, a spokeswoman for Rice & Carry. After conversations with friends and community members passionate about surfing, the collected off-cut material seemed adequate for making plastic wax combs. Next, it was a matter of getting through to Lee from Colombo Design Studio.
We wanted to help Rice and Carry excite their targeted customers, said Lee Bazalgette, Founder of Colombo Design Studio. Usually, it takes the smallest piece of innovation and creativity to make a large difference in ones experience of a product. Combine that with the desire to turn trash into goods, we were compelled to turn Rice and Carrys novel wax comb into something more than just an idea.
==============================
## Title: Colombo FC retains Dialog Champions League
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Colombo FC retains Dialog Champions League
Colombo FC remained supreme with a brilliant 3-1 win over arch rivals Renown SC to retain the coveted Dialog Champions League title under lights at the Racecourse International Stadium.
==============================
## Title: Colombo High Court releases Shashi Welgama on bail
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 14:45
Colombo High Court releases Shashi Welgama on bail

Former Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) Chairman, Shashi Welgama was released on bail by the Colombo High Court, today (6).
Shashi Welgama was remanded for allegedly misappropriating Rs. 125 million of state funds.
==============================
## Title: ComBank ends 2016 re-affirming its superiority as countrys largest private bank
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
ComBank ends 2016 re-affirming its superiority as countrys largest private bank
Sets many milestones in service delivery with new branches,automation and technological innovation
The Commercial Bank of Ceylon has announced the achievement of several milestones in service delivery in 2016 through operational developments that complemented its stellar financial performance.
Sri Lankas most profitable private bank according to recently published figures, the Bank said its branch expansion programme saw it end 2016 as the largest private bank in the country in terms of physical presence, with 256 branches and an ATM network of 658 terminals, a network that achieved an impressive 99.6% uptime during the year.
Efforts to expand self-service banking saw Commercial Bank commission five new Automated Banking Centres at which customers can access an extensive list of services entirely on their own.
We firmly believe that our focus on service delivery, be it via technology or brick and mortar branches, is one of the key pillars of our success and exceptional financial performance, Commercial Banks Managing Director/CEO Mr Jegan Durairatnam said. As a result, we remain the biggest private sector bank in Sri Lanka, and amongst the leading organisations that provide customer convenience through technology-based automation.
Another example of the Banks investments in automation was the installation of 29 CashDeposit Machines (CDMs) and 10 Cash Recycler machines in 2016, taking the total number of CDMs to 40. The CDMs completely eliminate the use of paper and are therefore an important step in eco-friendly operations. The Cash Recycler machines are particularly useful to Micro and SME entrepreneurs who use of the facility to deposit their daily cash collections even after banking hours.
Commercial Bank also enabled the Card-less withdrawal function across its ATM network country-wide in 2016, adding a new level of convenience for its customers. The Banks ATMs enable automated bill payments to more than 25 institutions in addition to the cash withdrawal facility.
The ATM network of the Bank penetrates even the most remote areas of the country with state-of-the-art terminalswithin branches and at off-site locations. Significantly, more than half of Commercial Banks ATMs are in off-site locations for easy access by commuters, employees of industrial zones and the public at large.
For new branches in buildings it owns, Commercial Bank has developed a new eco-friendly model in yet another initiative to align its operations with the needs of the planet. These custom-built branches are equipped with an eco-friendly architectural design with energy efficient passive features such as renewable energy from solar panels and walls with more glazed windows and fixed glass panels for maximum utilisation of natural light, as well as heat gain arresting devices such as shades and fins that facilitate power saving. To date, 10 such Green branches have been added to the Banks network.
Taking its commitment to the planet further, Commercial Bank achieved a significant reduction in the use of paper in 2016 by actively promoting the migration of customers from traditional banking channels to digital platforms such as mobile and online banking and its sophisticated e-Passbook.
The Banks other environment related initiatives include programmes to reduce its carbon footprint through energy saving, energy optimisation and responsible fleet and vehicle management,responsible disposal and recycling of materials, responsible water consumption, the discontinuation of the use of products that emit ozone-depleting substances and protecting the bio diversity in areas where branches are present.
Efforts to make branches more accessible to the differently-abled customer segment also made steady progress in 2016, with the Bank completing the construction of 190 wheel chair ramps covering 75% of its branch network.
In the sphere of financial performance, Commercial Bank ended 2016 with the momentous feat of becoming the first private bank in the country to surpass one trillion rupees in assets and had the largest deposits (Rs 739.5 billion) and advances (Rs 633.3 billion) portfolio in the private sector.The Banks profit after tax of Rs 14.5 billion, makes it the most profitable private bank in Sri Lanka.
Commercial Banks key financial parameters such as CASA (Current Account to Savings Account ratio), Cost to Income ratio, Net Operating Income and Capital Adequacy ratio all recorded outstanding growth making them among the best in the industry.
Commercial Banks also further improved its international footprint by opening a fully-fledged Tier I Bank with a stake of 55% in the Maldives in September 2016 and by launching its own money transfer operation Commex in Italy. The Banks other overseas operations encompass Bangladesh, where the Bank operates 19 outlets and Myanmar, where it has a Representative Office in Yangon.
The only Sri Lankan bank to be ranked among the Top 1000 banks of the world for six years consecutively, Commercial Bank swept the board by winningall major international awards in 2016 and has over the years won multiple awards as Sri Lankas Best Bank, Best Trade Bank, Strongest Bank and Most Respected Bank from a number of local and international institutions and publications. It has also been adjudged one of Sri Lankas 10 best corporate citizens by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for several years.
==============================
## Title: Cosmo Loadstar aids Kelegama Primary School
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Cosmo Loadstar aids Kelegama Primary School
The employees of Cosmo Loadstar Pvt Ltd in Ja-Ela, Ekala, took it upon themselves to provide much-needed assistance and aid to the Kelegama Primary School, Avissawella, which mostly helps educate children of low income families.
Every year, the employees take the initiative to contribute a part of their income to a social service project of their choosing.
This year, under the leadership of the maintenance team with HR Manager Mahesh Dissanayake, the staff chose to help Kelegama Primary School. The school is located in a remote area, and has few facilities and around 30 children depending on it for their education.
Though lacking in many necessities, it is supported by a committed group of teachers who wants to ensure that their students reach great heights.
The company, thus, had donated school books, pens, lunch boxes, water bottles, and other items needed for the school to help them achieve their respective goals.
==============================
## Title: Detained Russian tourists to leave country
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Detained Russian tourists to leave country
Russian citizens detained in Sri Lanka will be released today and leave the country on Tuesday, sources said.
Russian embassy said the Russian consul to Sri Lanka was negotiating the release of the citizens with Sri Lanka's authorities. On Friday, media reports emerged about nine Russians having been detained in Sri Lanka.
According to the embassy, some of the detained Russians were charged with violation of rules of stay in the country. Sputnik
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank launches staff tree-planting initiative
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
DFCC Bank launches staff tree-planting initiative
DFCC Bank recently launched a commemorative staff tree-planting initiative where a tree is planted to celebrate each and every staff members birthday. Additional trees are also planted at key sites, where reforestation is a priority and these programmes are carried out in collaboration with Reforest Lanka, a non-profit society committed to the protection and extension of forest cover in Sri Lanka.
Staff members whose birthdays are celebrated each month receive a personalised invitation to attend the tree-planting campaign. They also receive an e-tree dedication certificate after the tree planting campaign which provides the link to find the exact location of the planted tree on Google Maps.
In January alone, DFCC Bank planted a total of 960 trees in Aranayake, 160 of which were planted to commemorate staff birthdays in January. Furthermore, to coincide with Independence Day celebrations, a further 1,000 trees were planted alongside the Kaduwela - Kadawatha Highway, out of which 100 seedlings were planted in commemoration of staff birthdays in February. In addition, DFCC Bank will plant 1,000 trees at the University of Jaffna during the latter part of February.
These tree-planting programmes were attended by staff members and their families, as well as members of the local community, who came together to support the Banks initiative. I would like to extend my congratulations to the DFCC Sustainability Unit and the entire team for successfully launching this initiative. In a short period of time, we have planted approximately 2,000 trees and actively engaged team members at every level of our organisation. This initiative has helped to instil a greater commitment towards protecting the planet and operating as a responsible corporate citizen internally which is in line with one of our core values; being socially responsible, states CEO - DFCC Bank Arjun Fernando in a press release.
==============================
## Title: DIMO recognised overall runners-up  at ACCA Sustainability Awards 2016
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
DIMO recognised overall runners-up  at ACCA Sustainability Awards 2016
Diesel and Motor Engineering (DIMO) PLC was recognised as the Runners-up at the ACCA Sustainability Reporting Awards 2016, held on the February 28, at the Cinnamon Grand Hotel.
The awards recognise Sri Lankan companies for the transparency, accountability and responsibility of action as reflected in their Sustainability Reporting. In addition, DIMO was also the winner in the Retail and Trading category.
Ranjith Pandithage, Chairman of DIMO speaking on the win said, While the pursuit of awards has never been a priority in our reporting process, we are delighted with recognition received for this years annual report. Theseaccolades validate our commitment to transparency and honesty in reporting both the positives and negatives of our impacts, operations and strategies.
DIMOs corporate philosophy revolves around being responsible for their actions and has been among the first corporate entities in Sri Lanka to publish a Sustainability Report; in fact it won its first ACCA Award for Sustainability Reporting a decade ago in 2005.
The company was also the first company in Sri Lanka to publish an Integrated Report. The DIMO Annual Report for year ended March 31 2016 under the theme What you see is what you get was the companys sixth integrated report.
==============================
## Title: Djokovic has lost his edge, says former mentor Pilic
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Djokovic has lost his edge, says former mentor Pilic
BELGRADE, Saturday - Novak Djokovic has lost the tenacity which enabled him to rule men's tennis for a number of years, former mentor Niki Pilic said on Saturday.
Djokovic reached the Mount Everest of tennis last year after winning the French Open, Pilic, who guided the Serb as a junior at his Munich academy, told Bosnian daily Nezavisne. He had 16,950 points and that's a tally which will never be repeated again, but loss of form and missing tournaments made his advantage melt away.
Djokovic looked untouchable after capturing his 12th grand slam title at Roland Garros last June, but was dethroned from the top of the world rankings last November by Andy Murray, who beat him in the final of the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals. The 29-year-old Serb appeared to have rediscovered some of his form when he gained revenge over the Briton in January's Qatar Open final but he then suffered a shock second-round Australian Open exit at the hands of Uzbek Denis Istomin.
This week he was beaten by Australian Nick Kyrgios in the quarter-finals of an ATP event in Acapulco, prompting Pilic to cast doubts whether Djokovic can reclaim the top spot. Novak had a physical and mental edge second to none, he was in sixth gear, said the 77-year-old Croatian who helped a Djokovic-led Serbia to their 2010 Davis Cup title in an advisory role.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Eight Indian fishermen arrested while poaching in Sri Lankan waters
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Eight Indian fishermen arrested while poaching in Sri Lankan waters
Naval personnel onboard a Fast Attack Craft attached to the Eastern Naval Command arrested eight Indian fishermen along with a fishing trawler poaching in the sea area Northeast off Pulmudai on Friday.
The fishermen and trawler were handed over to Harbour Police, Trincomalee, the Navy said.
==============================
## Title: Ekroma Realtors  partners with Invoke
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Ekroma Realtors  partners with Invoke
Introducing boutique concept living with Elegant 16
Ekroma Realtors in partnership with Invoke (Pvt.) Ltd introduces its latest range in boutique residential development in Colombo, Sri Lanka with their latest project Elegant 16.
Nestled away from the hustle and bustle of the city while still being in the epicenter of the commercial hub, this new-age boutique apartment concept is set to consist only sixteen well laid out 2-bedroom and 3-bedroom apartments off Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5.
Expecting to hit the skyline of Colombo by March of 2018, Elegant 16 is exclusively marketed by Invoke (Pvt.) Ltd. Invoke is a group of result-oriented, experienced, and accomplished Property Development, Design and Marketing Specialists that provides effective contemporary solutions for every stage of a project including feasibility, concept development, marketing, and sales.
The company works with developers from the initial stages of the project development bringing out the highest quality while ensuring their product pricing, marketing strategies and location selection is ideally suited for the intended target audience.
Apart from Elegant 16, Invokes portfolio also includes projects such as Signature 12, Signature 7 and Avenue 9 that featured many industry firsts in Sri Lanka.
Innovating with Elegant 16, Invoke seeks to introduce the newest trend in the real estate market, the concept of boutique apartments.
The word boutique simply means serving a sophisticated or specialized clientele. In line with this, a boutique apartment is a small and luxurious space. With apartments ranging from 900 sq. ft. to 1900 sq. ft., the dwelling spaces will feature open plan interiors to create the ideal ambience for family life. Be it for young professionals, families or anyone who needs the convenience of the city, Elegant 16 offers the ideal opportunity. .
The apartment complex will be located within the residential hub, off Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5 to give you the ultimate experience of the hype of urban dwelling. Located near Colombos commercial centre and a world of amenities from schools to hospitals, and malls to supermarkets, all your requirements will be minutes away.
Elegant 16 comes complete with a swimming pool, fully-equipped gym, function room, rooftop with recreational and BBQ area, jogging path, kids play space and more, giving you a complete range of extras for everyone. Elegant 16 will prove to be the epitome of luxury and class, the ideal home for residents, with a central location, while experiencing the best value for money with the highest standard and quality in luxury amenities, high-end finishes, eco-friendly environment, and security.

More information could be obtained from [emailprotected] or website www.invoke.com
==============================
## Title: Entombed!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Entombed!
French artist Abraham Poincheval was freed from a block of stone in a Paris recently after spending seven days enclosed in it.
He entombed himself in a body-shaped slot carved in a limestone boulder on February 22 at Paris' Palais de Tokyo contemporary art museum.
Poincheval, 44, ate stewed fruit and purees while breathing through an air vent. He had some personal items such as a log book and an emergency phone line.
"I'm a little dazed, which I imagine is totally normal after one week living in a rock which hosted me well. I thank it very much for having been so enthusiastic about welcoming me," he told reporters minutes after his release.
"Yes, there were very long moments of loss of self, where suddenly you no longer know where you are, but you are there, and that is what was great (about it)," he said.
The artist was helped out of the room by a medical team to the applauds of an audience that had gathered to witness his release.In 2014, Poincheval spent 13 days living inside a hollowed-out bear sculpture, eating worms and beetles to mirror a bear's diet. Yahoo News
==============================
## Title: Ex-OIC and four other cops remanded
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Ex-OIC and four other cops remanded
Panadura Additional Magistrate Calhari Liyanage remanded Wadduwa Police former Officer-in-Charge retired Police Inspector Nimal Karunaratne with four other policemen until March 6 in connection with the death of a suspect, Chandrasiri Appuharmy, who died in the Wadduwa Police cell four years ago
The Criminal Investigations Department (CID) produced the suspects before Court on March 3 with a report stating that the CID conducted investigations into the death of Chandrasiri Appuharmy of Thalpitiya Wadduwa at the cell of Wadduwa Police a four years ago, while the first suspect, Inspector Nimal Karunaratne was the Officer-in-Charge of Wadduwa Police.
Police Sergeant S. Sepala, Police Constables Sarath, Lional and D. Sarath of Wadduwa Police allegedly arrested Chandrasiri Appuharmy of Thalpitiya Wadduwa in connection with an alleged theft.
He died while in police custody.
Senior Lawyers Sugath Handunge, Lakmini Pediris, Dulsheka Ratnayaka and Aruna Deepal appeared for the suspects
==============================
## Title: Farmer offered 2,400 for his five-legged cow
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Farmer offered 2,400 for his five-legged cow
Abhinav Abrol, 24, has been overwhelmed with visitors hoping to see the two-day-old calf which is apparently fit and healthy - despite the extra limb.
Worshipers think the cow - a sacred animal in the Hindu religion - is a lucky charm and one cult has offered him 200,000 rupees for the animal, local sources said. But Abrol from Ludhiana district in Punjab, India, has refused to sell the baby cow which has a fifth leg next to its neck - which has three extra feet. One local said: He has been offered approximately Rs.200, 000 but the owner is emotionally attached with this calf and he has dedicated it to his father.
This new born calf has suddenly become a centre of attraction and people are coming from far flung areas to see him. People are really excited to take photos with this calf and some people are treating him as a lucky charm. They are worshiping him and offering money in front of him.The cow has great significance in Hindu religion and according to the owner one cult who worship cows has started to offer money.
www.express.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Father, daughter drown as trishaw caught in high tide
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Father, daughter drown as trishaw caught in high tide
A 41-year-old father and his 14-year-old daughter died and two others managed to swim to safety when the three wheeler in which they were travelling got swept away in a high tide while crossing the Pedduwa Causeway across Deduru Oya on Saturday.
The man was identified as H.M. Gamini Herath and his daughter, Rashmi Navodya of Anodawa, Pahala Pedduwa. Those who managed to escape the ordeal wee their relative W.M. Gunatilleke, 55, and an 18-year -old neighbour named M.B. Dulaj Mahesh Madushan. Navodya, a grade 9 student of Wellawa MV was the only child in the family.
They had left home in the three wheeler around 3 a.m to attend a pinkama held at Weeraketiya when the tragedy occurred on the way. Navodya's body stuck in a thorny shrub about a kilometre down stream from the causeway was found by neighbours around 8 a.m, while Herath's body was found about one and a half kilometres drown stream around 11 a.m.
Dulaj Mahesh who swam to safety after creeping out of the three wheeler had alerted neighbours and brought them for assistance.
They saved Gunatilleke who was dangling from a branch of a tree on which he had hung by his hands to save himself from surging waters.
The ill fated three wheeler stuck in the river about 200 metres down stream was pulled ashore by neighbours. Kurunegala Acting Magistrate Felican Perera who held the magisterial inquiry sent the bodies to the Kurunegala Hospital JMO for a post mortem examination. Wellawa Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Finco Green Energy Solutions to support  Ministry of Power and Renewal Energy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Finco Green Energy Solutions to support  Ministry of Power and Renewal Energy
Having completed over 3MWp of solar within Sri Lanka, Finco Green Energy Solutions is moving forward with support to the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy for their initiative towards the new community based power generation project Soorya Bala Sangramaya (Battle for Solar Energy) in collaboration with Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority (SLSEA), CEB and LECO.
Having the Best Solar Panel in the market the LG Neon 315W panel which was recently awarded the Gold Mark by the Ceylon Institute of Builders and internationally being awarded the Best Panel at the Inter Solar Awards 2015 held in Germany.
The Efficiency of the LG 315W panel is 19.2% when compared with a normal 250W panel efficiency of around 15% in the market.
FGE the Supplier and installer of Solar for Hatton National Bank (HNB) Network covering over 40 Branches Islandwide, providing over 1.1MW of solar power to the National Grid. FGE also looks into working on BOT Projects (build, operate and transfer) with the support of their mega sister Company ICC.
Finco Green Energy Solutions spearheaded by Nishan Weerasooria, is a leader in Solar Energy with their quality products and unmatched after sales service.
Incorporated in 2011, the youngest member of the Finco Group with a proud history of over 50 years, Finco Green Energy Solutions is ready to give its fullest support to the Governments initiative of making Sri Lanka a Greener place to live in the years to come.
==============================
## Title: Fitch affirms Richard Pieris & Company at A(lka); Outlook Stable
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Fitch affirms Richard Pieris & Company at A(lka); Outlook Stable
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Sri Lanka-based conglomerate Richard Pieris & Company PLCs (RICH) National Long-Term rating at A(lka) with a Stable Outlook. Fitch has also affirmed the National ratings on RICHs outstanding senior unsecured debentures at A(lka).
RICHs rating reflects the groups strong diversification, market leadership in most end-markets and its established operations.
==============================
## Title: Flippin great!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Flippin great!
Pancakes are already awesome to eat, but one Japanese chef also turns them into works of art.
Keisuke Inagaki is a chef at La Ricetta in Zama City, has turned the lowly pancake into a veritable canvas, putting designs of everything from Pokemon characters to portraits of pets, according to Barcroft TV.
Each pancake masterpiece takes about 20 minutes: 5 to 10 to draw the outline and 5 to 10 to cook the incredible flapjack.
As you might expect, this Picasso of pancakes has flipped his passion into a huge Instagram following. Inagaki discovered his pancake passion in the aftermath of the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.
After Fukushima I participated in a camp for children to comfort them, he told Barcroft TV. I wanted to think of some activities that mothers and children could do together. Then I discovered pancake art. I saw it for the first time on TV, an American named Nathan Shields making it and thought it was interesting. Whilst children were playing, the mothers and I wanted to surprise them.
Although most of Inagakis edible artworks get consumed quickly after they are served to customers, he has his eye on posterity.
Theres vacuum packing available, and you can present your work in this way, he told Barcroft TV. I think it would be fun to do a gallery show if I create enough pancake art.
Its certainly food for thought!
The Huffington Post
==============================
## Title: Gherkins export  helps farmer incomes  in NWP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Gherkins export  helps farmer incomes  in NWP
Over the years and fruits and vegetables has been an important exportable sector of the countrys export portfolio.
Sri Lanka produces more than 800,000 metric tonnes of fruits and vegetables annually and exports both fresh and processed varieties to many destinations in the world.
The potential for supplying high value vegetables and spices such as gherkins, jalapeno pepper and Spanish pepper for the export market reflected a substantial improvement in export performance during previous years.
Gherkins has been identified as one of the main vegetable export crops from Sri Lanka. In 2015, export earnings of gherkins reached US$ 6.23 mn.and Sri Lanka enjoyed the eleventh (11th) position among gherkin exporting countries in the world.
The export of gherkins has registered a positive growth rate of 1.2% when compared with export earnings registered during the corresponding period in 2014. China, Australia, Taiwan, the Netherlands, Malaysia and Japan are major export markets for Sri Lankan Gherkins. With regard to export performance of gherkins to the European market, a growth rate of 20.07% and 27.37% of exports has been recorded to the Netherlands and UK respectively. Sri Lanka is supplying gherkins to world renowned brands including McDonalds, Burger King and Hungry Jack.
Around 10,000 metric tonnes of gherkins is produced annually in the dry zone and intermediate zones in Sri Lanka. The Kurunegala district is one of the major areas where gherkins, jalapeno pepper, and Spanish pepper are cultivated.
There is high potential for cultivating these demand driven cash crops in areas namely Ambanpola, Ataragalla, Kathnoruwa, Andarawewa and Siyabalangamuwa in the Kurunegala district and farmers have been making high profit both in Yala and Maha seasons for more than 15 years.
Considering the market potential and ideal climatic conditions prevailing in the Province to cultivate high valued vegetables, the North Western Provincial Office of the EDB made arrangements to implement a pilot Project in the year 2015 to strengthen Gherkins production and develop a consolidated supply base for the export market.
HJS Condiments, which is a subsidiary of Hayleys Agriculture Holdings that holds 43% of share of Sri Lankas exports, joined this project to provide buy-back facilities and other assistance.
It is a fact that trellis poles is essential to cultivate gherkins in order to maintain the required export quality of crops and it also helps to increase the crop yield.
Therefore, this programme was undertaken in order to assist selected farmers to cultivate quality Gherkins and link them with direct exporters for marketing arrangements. Seventeen farmers in Ambanpola Divisional Secretariat Division have been selected as beneficiaries for this programme.
They will be assisted by EDB to upgrade their production and supply capacity by way of providing GI pipes and linking them with direct exporters to achieve the expected outcome of consolidating the supply base for the export market. The Ambanpola Divisional Secretariat is providing its support for this project.
Dilhan Athapattu, Regional Development Director for The Sri Lanka Export Development Board, Assistant Director, Thushara Jayalath for the North Western Province of Sri Lanka Export Development Board, R.D.S.T.Gunasinha Assistant Secretariats Ambanpola Division, Nalaka Jayawardene Assistant Manager of HJS Condiments and field officer, Anusha Madushanka, Ambanpola Regional Secretariat officials and beneficiaries participated.
==============================
## Title: GMOA to sue SAITM for Rs.1,000 m
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
GMOA to sue SAITM for Rs.1,000 m
The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) will file a case demanding Rs. 1,000 million against SAITM for tarnishing its image by stating that the GMOA is connected to the shooting incident of former SAITM CEO, GMOA Editor and former Secretary Dr. Nalinda Hearth said. Addressing the media in Colombo yesterday, Dr. Herath said that the SAITM tarnished the image of the GMOA and slang mud on the GMOA stating that the GMOA was connected to the shooting incident involving in former SAITM Chief Executive Officer.
The Police have now confirmed that it was a drama staged by him,Dr. Herath said.
GMOA Secretary Dr. Navin De Zoysa said that a few Ministers are preventing President Maithripala Sirisena from taking decisions in connection with the SAITM issue.
The Ministers or no force will be able to defeat or stop the GMOA and all the other anti SAITM forces struggling to defeat SAITM, Dr. De Zoysa said.
Addressing the anti SAITM rally in Colombo yesterday, GMOA President Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya accused the Health Minister of misusing his official powers and that is the main cause which prevents the finding of solving the SAITM issue.
Leaders, members and supporters of the Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP),the JVP, the Front Line Socialist Party, the Jathika Hela Urumaya etc.joined the massive protest walk and rally against SAITM held in Colombo yesterday. They demanded the Government to close down SAITM pointing out that it is the only solution for the issue.
==============================
## Title: Government to establish special tourism zone at Thabbowa to Wilpattu
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 12:00
Government to establish special tourism zone at Thabbowa to Wilpattu

Skill Development and Vocational Training Minister Palitha Range Bandara said that the government hopes to establish a special tourism zone from Thabbowa to Wilpattu.
The Minister said that at least 15, 000 direct and indirect job opportunities will be availed by this project.
Minister Range Bandara said work on the Thabbowa economic zone had already commenced and President Maithripala Sirisena has paid special attention in this regard.
==============================
## Title: Govt. contemplating renewal of Defence pact:JVP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Govt. contemplating renewal of Defence pact:JVP
Political higher-ups of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) yesterday, charged that the government was deliberating the renewing a the defence pact which was signed secretively between Sri Lanka and the US ten years ago under the previous regime.
The pact, JVP General Secretary Tilvin Silva said, is highly disadvantageous to Sri Lanka. It was signed throwing dust in the eyes of everyone, even the Cabinet.
It was clandestinely entered into. Then the Permanent Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa signed it secretively with the then US Ambassador to Sri Lanka Robert O Blake, Silva said.
He was speaking at a press conference held at the JVP Headquarters in Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
The expiration of the term of the pact, Acquisition and Cross-Services Agreement (ACSA) ended yesterday, March 5, 2017, Silva said. The Agreement says that it could be extended for a further ten year period by mutual consent of the two governments.
We learnt that the government had already held many discussions with a focus to giving its consent to the Agreements continuation, he said.
We have reasons to believe that the present government too would follow the example of the previous regime and give its consent for the continuation of this Agreement secretly, he stated.
We seriously ask the government to stay away from this defence pact which was signed under the previous government without the approval of Parliament. It holds no advantage for the country. Nevertheless, it will bring harmful consequences to the country in the course of time, he said.
According to the Agreement, both countries are bound to provide facilities such as logistics, land, fuel and other facilities to defence personnel, aircraft and vessels, he said.
Sri Lanka is unlikely to engage in wars, but the US is. Hence the Agreement has no impact in terms of Sri Lankas disposition. Should the US engage in a military mission in the region, we are bound to provide the US with land, fuelling, ammunition and other hardware, he explained.
We vehemently opposed this Agreement which was signed during the time of the previous government, because of its seriousness in terms of possibilities that could engender regional discord. We also raised suspicions as it was signed between two US citizens, on account that Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa is a US citizen, he said.
He also drew attention that the US had already established a military base in Diego Garcia in the Central Indian Ocean stating in case should the US wages a war against  say India or China for that matter, Sri Lanka should provide facilities to the US in support of their mission.
Silva also requested the Defence Ministry to declare their stand on the matter.
==============================
## Title: Great investment opportunity from Pan Asia Bank
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Great investment opportunity from Pan Asia Bank
Pan Asia Bank has come out with a long term Fixed Deposit promotion where customers get the opportunity of receiving interest up to 17% p.a. for Fixed Deposit terms of 2, 3 4 and 5 years. Under this promotion which will commence from March 5, there is no upper limit to the amount one can invest.
Naleen Edirisinghe Deputy General Manager- Retail Banking & SME of Pan Asia Bank stated that this provides an ideal opportunity for customers to lock in a high interest rate for their long term investments. It is also a great opportunity for investors who look to receive a steady interest income from their deposits as he/she can protect his and her investment from falling interest rates during the tenure of the deposit.
In a Fixed Deposit, the return is guaranteed in comparison to most of the other form of investments regardless of interest rate fluctuations. Also it is a very simple tried and tested investment method that is considered very secure which will give Peace of mind to any investor.
Pan Asia bank decided to attract long term funds, reason being Fixed Deposits will fulfill an important gap in the market it also will allow us to grow aggressively on certain product categories especially in Retail and SME segments by helping us to strike a balance between long term assets and long term liabilities.
Customers who place these long term fixed deposits with us are entitled to a range of credit facilities such as Overdrafts, Term Loans, Import & Export loans, Personal loans, Credit Card and so forth up to 90% of the deposit, Mr Edirisinghe further added.
Apart from offering higher interest rates for deposits, a deposit at Pan Asia Bank is a highly secure investment since Pan Asia Bank is a licensed commercial bank which is regulated by the Central bank of Sri Lanka.
Pan Asia Bank which is known as one of the fastest growing commercial banks in Sri Lanka, currently operates with 82 branches and 81 ATM points.
==============================
## Title: Gurusinhas appointment, a timely one says SLC chief
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Gurusinhas appointment, a timely one says SLC chief
Former ace batsman Asanka Gurusinha assumed duties as the new Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) Manager from yesterday and SLC president Thilanga Sumathipala revealed that his appointment is a timely act and a part of SLCs restructuring process.
Sumathipala addressing a press briefing at the JAIC Hilton yesterday that Gurusinhas appointment will greatly be helpful towards lifting the standard of cricket.
Gurusinha he said will mainly work as a coordinator between the national team, selection committee and SLC. He will also act as the national team manager on all foreign tours.
Sumathipala however said that the existing team manager Ranjith Fernando would continue his role alongside Gurusinha.
The duties of the team manager and head of selection committee will come under Gurusinha while Ranjith Fernando will look after the administrative affairs during tours.
Sumathipala stressed that the team manager and SLC manager are two different duties.
Gurusinha addressing the media said that it was a pleasure to serve the country after two decades.
I am highly impressed by the performance of the young Lankans during the recently concluded T20 series in Australia and I hope to contribute my best to sharpen their skills in the future, said Gurusinha who played a pivotal role in Sri Lankas 1996 World Cup victory. He is on a three-year contact with SLC till the 2019 World Cup.
SLC cricket advisor Aravinda de Silva, selection committee chairman Sanath Jayasuriya, captain Angelo Mathews, SLC secretary Mohan de Silva and SLC Chief Executive Officer Ashley Silva were also present.
==============================
## Title: Happy soul
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Happy soul
She is the kind of girl you will feel comfortable enough to walk up to in a room full of strangers and chat. She has that nice girl vibe about her and this is reflected in the characters she portrays as well.
Though she comes from a family which is very much rooted in the acting scene, Thisuri Yuwanika took time coming into the limelight. However once fame and fortune claimed her, they had a hard time letting her go.
Though I am very dedicated to whatever project I take up, I look forward to taking a break once shooting concludes. I am not someone who likes to work night and day nonstop, pursuing project after project. I value a stress-free lifestyle. Though I do not take up so many projects or make frequent appearances on screen, I believe that this did not have much of an impact on my fame, Thisuri opined.
She is awaiting the release of her movie Darma Yuddaya. She had concluded shooting for Suneth Malinga Lokuhewas Nidahase Piya, a movie based in D S Senanayakes life. A few of her teledramas are also slotted to begin telecasting soon.
Q: Since you come from a family which is into acting was it predestined that you will become an actress
A: I was not that keen on acting during my childhood. However since my mother, Susantha Chandramali, is a well known actress, acting was not an alien subject for me.
I remember that my mother was not at home most of the time. She had to go to the locations to take part in shooting. I did not like that much. However I got the opportunity to act because of her. I did a few childrens roles in her projects but studies were my priority. Therefore I managed to do well in both my G C E O/Ls and G C E A/Ls. I won a Presidential Award of Merit for the role I played in Udugam Yamaya when I was studying in grade five. All this and the feedback I got from the fans boosted my interest towards the field. The path has already been prepared for me. I just need to try my luck at it.
Q: Do you have any limitations when you take on roles
A: Yes and no. (Laughs) An actress needs to take on any kind of role that is handed over to her... BUT I do have some limitations that I have imposed on myself. I am careful about the clothes I wear because we live in a culture conscious society. I need to act in a manner so that I would be able to go out in public with my parents without any embarrassment.
I need to consider the steps I take now because I should be able to face my children without shame in the future. Though I have imposed such rules on myself I believe that such things did not have any effect on my career. I still get plenty of offers in quality productions.
Q: What was the most difficult scene you had to portray
A: No scene was too difficult so far, but I was a bit hesitant to play romantic scenes at the beginning of my career. (Laughs) I guess that was because romance was something quite new to me. That was quite embarrassing to engage in those scenes in front of the crew. However once I got the hang of it after acting in several productions, I got over my difficulties and loosened up.
I think the role I had to work really hard was for Rukmal Niroshs Sulanga Mata Mohothak.
I portrayed two different roles: a 21 year old campus student as well as mother of a six year old in it. Since there was a huge time gap between the transitions of the role I wondered whether I would be able to carry it off with ease (Flashing a huge smile) I did it! I managed to do justice to Charulathas role. That was quite memorable simply because it was such a challenging role for me.
Q: What is your greatest strength and what is your greatest weakness
A: My parents are my greatest strength. Without their support and advice I could not have conquered such heights.
They are also my greatest weakness because I cannot do anything without them.
Q: What is your first childhood memory
A: Believe it or not I have quite a lot of clear memories from my childhood. I was a very naught child especially because my mother never punished me. One day I had gone to play with my friend next door without informing my mother. When my mother was frantically searching for me she had seen me climbing their roof by clinging onto the roof tiles. That had frightened her a lot. That was one of the few times I took a beating. (Giggles)
Q: What makes you super happy
A: Anything and everything! (Laughs) I am a happy soul. I love to make the best of the moment. I do not fret over facts like I do not have this or that. I am happy with what I have achieved.
Q: If you could star in a biopic, whose role would you like to play
A: I do not have anyone particular in mind. I would take on any character in a project if I feel that I can do justice to the role.
Q: What was the worst rumour you have heard about yourself
A: (Laughs) Thankfully there have not been bad rumours about me in any of the papers, TV or websites so far. (Pauses and then goes on in a more serious tone) There was a selfie we took during a scene in the sets of Diyaniyo. Someone has posted it on the web stating that it was taken at the funeral of one of our colleagues who passed away after an accident. The person who had posted it had reproached up saying that artistes are heartless and uploaded that picture as an example. Later some others have clarified that statement claiming that the picture was taken on the sets of Diyaniyo but the incident left a bad taste in everyones mouth. I felt very angry as well as disgusted that such foolish people exist and they stoop to such a low level to make such attacks on us.
Q: If you could change one thing about yourself what would you like to change
A: I get angry a bit too easily for even minor matters. I would like to control my temper.
Q: What is the best acting advice you have gotten and who gave it
A: Every word of wisdom I have gotten is from my parents. They have been the guiding light of my future. If someone tells me something gently and lovingly I listen to them. It does not matter to me if they are a veteran in the field or new to the scene.
Q: If you could have anything in the world as a snack right now, what would you choose to have
A: (Laughs) Goodness I eat everything. I do not stop to think whether I would develop pimples or put on a few kilos. So bring anything you please and I will devour it (More laughter)
Q: If you could not become an actress, what would you have been
A: I have not really thought about doing a career. Maybe I would have simply stayed at home. I do not like to trouble myself too much with work. I work with dedication whenever I take on a project but I have never been a workaholic. I value my free time.
Q: Isnt it about time you tied the knot
A: (Shyly) I do have someone in my life now. However we do not have plans to tie the knot anytime soon.
Q: Would you ever take part in a celebrity reality competition or beauty pageant
A: No. Those things are not for me. My field is acting. However I do admire my fellow artistes who do well at such competitions. They inspire me but I do not aspire to take part in such projects. Taking part in beauty competitions has never appealed to me. They use a lot of chemicals on your hair when they style it and I am scared that something will happen to my tresses. It has always been my wish to dress as a bride for the first time for my wedding.
Q: 10 years from now how do you see yourself
A: I see a lot of changes in my life then. I would be married and with children. However one thing is for sure.
I would have ventured forward as an actress.
==============================
## Title: Hearn eyes Bellew world title shot after Haye win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Hearn eyes Bellew world title shot after Haye win
LONDON, Sunday: Tony Bellew has put himself in contention for a shot at world heavyweight champions Deontay Wilder and Joseph Parker, according to promoter Eddie Hearn.
Bellew, the WBC world cruiserweight champion, stepped up a division to stop British rival David Haye in the 11th round of a non-title heavyweight fight that took a dramatic turn in the sixth round when Haye suffered a suspected Achilles injury.
It was an upset win that leaves Bellew with plenty of options after Haye was stopped for the first time since 2004 in his third career defeat.
Hearn believes Bellews future is now at heavyweight and is confident of making home fights against either American Wilder, the WBC champion, or New Zealands WBO title-holder Parker, who defends his title against Briton Hughie Fury on May 6.
Hes just beaten one of the best heavyweights in the world so do you want to go back down to cruiserweight or fight Deontay Wilder and Joseph Parker Hearn said at a press conference after the fight at London's O2 Arena.
I think we could bring Wilder of Parker to the UK. This fight has done great numbers and they arent going to get that money anywhere else.
Hes beaten one of the best heavyweights in the world, so as far as Im concerned hes earned his shot.
But Bellew, 34, insisted he had not decided on his next move, which included the option of a rematch against Haye in Liverpool, possibly at his beloved Everton football club's ground, Goodison Park.
Well evaluate everything on Monday morning, but the salt and pepper are on my side of the table next time, said Bellew, who seemed to rule out an immediate return to cruiserweight.
Ive just come down to his back yard, now he can come to mine.
From the sixth round, Haye was left dragging his injured right foot behind him and was an easy target for Bellew, who showed no mercy, flooring him in the seventh and then sending him crashing through the ropes in the 11th prompting trainer Shane McGuigan to throw in the towel.
After the fight, Haye went to hospital for treatment on his injured ankle.
The biggest one-punching heavyweight couldnt put a dent in me, said Bellew.
Just before the stoppage I said to David Stop now, because Im not here to hurt people. I looked at [Hayes trainer] Shane McGuigan and said Stop it'.
He has got a great chin and took right hands all night long but he didnt see the left hook and it made him collapse through the ropes.
Haye had threatened to hospitalise Bellew amid a series of pre-fight comments and had promised to end his British rivals career.
I did not expect him to have the chin and the durability that he has, said Haye after the fight.
Bellew, by far, was the better fighter tonight. I believe Im more gifted but he had a bigger heart tonight. He took my best shots, got back up, and put me down. I'm at his mercy -- I can't think of world titles now. - AFP
==============================
## Title: Heavy fine for errant shopkeepers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Heavy fine for errant shopkeepers
Four shopkeepers is Deniyaya PHIs division who pleaded guilty to displaying food unfit for human consumption, were fined Rs. 20,000 by Morawaka Magistrate Janaka Samarasinghe.
They are residents of Deniyaya, Bateyaya and Kandilpana.
==============================
## Title: Heenkenda going great guns in Adelaide
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Heenkenda going great guns in Adelaide
Mineth Heenkenda, a Sri Lankan School boy residing in Adelaide, South Australia who is representing Under 14 Unley Cricket team is selected to the Adelaide district side Cricket Pool when he showed an outstanding ability as an all-round cricketer.
Mineth has scored 252 Runs in six matches, his highest score being an unbeaten knock of 70 runs against Adelaide CC. As a Medium pace bowler, he has claimed 12 wickets and his best figures being 4 for 29 against Northern District Team.
These all-round performance helped him to name as the Best Cricketer of the season by his Club. In addition he is being selected to the Distrct Cricket pool in preparation for the forthcoming Inter District Cricket tournament scheduled to be held in March this year. His present Coach is Jason Harriet. Mineth is the only son of Pradeep & Tharanga Heenkende, both Attorneys-at-Law residing in Adelaide, South Australia.
Pradeep Heenkenda was a former Dharmaraja College & Kandy CC Cricketer in the mid Ninetees.
==============================
## Title: Hemas Hospitals revamps NITF partnership  with addition of benefits for public servants
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Hemas Hospitals revamps NITF partnership  with addition of benefits for public servants
Hemas Hospitals renewed its landmark partnership with the Government-owned National Insurance Trust Fund (NITF) to update its comprehensive range of healthcare benefits and services to its members at highly competitive rates.
The newly renewed partnership with Hemas Hospitals will enable Government sector employees who are entitled to benefit under the NITFs Agrahara scheme to receive of a wide spectrum of high quality healthcare services at specially discounted rates of up to 10% from any of Hemas Hospitals state-of-the-art facilities.
Consequently, while Agrahara members will continue to be entitled to the existing list of benefits from the facility of their choice - in Wattala, Galle (Hemas Southern Hospital) or Thalawathugoda - covering in-patient charges, room charges, laboratory investigations and radiology investigations.
Moreover, the updated partnership agreement also added a host of new surgical packages for NITF beneficiaries covering orthopedics, urology and general surgery while existing packages have all been made even more competitive when compared against discounts previously made available in 2016.
The MoU was signed by NITFs chief executive, Sanath C De Silva and managing director, Hemas Hospitals chain, Dr. Lakith Peiris.
With over 2.5 million state sector employees and their family members currently being registered under the programme, NITFs Agrahara represents one of the single largest groups of health insurance beneficiaries in Sri Lanka.
Commenting on the significance of the partnership for the group, Managing Director of Hemas Hospitals Chain, Dr. Lakith Peiris said, We are greatly encouraged by our continuing relationship with the National Insurance Trust Fund. Since our partnership was first initiated in 2015, Hemas Hospitals been able to support the NITF in its mission to uplift the living standards of the public service and provincial public service and their families through the provision of superior healthcare facilities and services and we will continue to do so moving forward.
Hemas Hospitals is one of Sri Lankas leading internationally accredited, multi-specialty, family hospitals managing three state-of-the-art healthcare facilities situated in Wattala, Galle and Thalawathugoda and is a subsidiary of the Hemas Group, one of Sri Lankas most prestigious conglomerates operating across multiple sectors of the Sri Lankan economy including FMCGs, Healthcare, Transportation and Leisure.
The National Insurance Trust Fund (NITF) is a statutory body established in 2006 with the goal of providing Agrahara Insurance for public sector including comprehensive general insurance coverage and a growing medical insurance scheme and is currently the only company engaged in the reinsurance business in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Hiniduma calvary shrine pilgrimage
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Hiniduma calvary shrine pilgrimage
The lent pilgrimage season to Hiniduma Calvary Shrine commenced with the Ash Wednesday Service on March 1, at 4 p.m. It will conclude with a thanksgiving mass on April 23, at 8 a.m.
All arrangements have been made by the administrator of the parish Rev. Fr. Ravindra Seneviratne to celebrate the pilgrimage season on a grand scale for the 68th time.
This is the most popular shrine among catholic devotees that is located in Kurusakanda, about 50 km from Galle on the Galle-Neluwa road via Udugama, beside the bank of Gin Ganga.
New stations for the way-of-the-cross were erected at the old Gethsemane near the bank of Gin Ganga for the benefit of the pilgrims who are unable to climb the mount calvary hill. This was done by the former administrator of the calvary shrine Rev. Fr. Ranath Indika Anthony under the direction of the Bishop of Galle Rev. Mons. Dr. Raymond Wickramasinghe. Facilities such as water, electricity, sanitary, first-aid, restrooms are available.
Holy mass is conducted from Monday to Wednesday at 7 a.m, common way-of-the-cross, 7 to 10 a.m., and the holy hour is from 7 to 8 p.m. Common way-of-the-cross and holy hour for Thursdays start at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m., respectively.
Common way-of-the-cross and holy hour for Fridays and Saturdays are from 7 to 10 a.m. and 7 to 8 p.m., respectively. On Sundays, way-of-the-cross is held at 10 a.m. while the holy hour is at 7 p.m.
==============================
## Title: How postcards from my mother helped me survive childhood
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
How postcards from my mother helped me survive childhood
For years, my mother wrote to me every day.
Id been sent away to boarding school and for the first weeks was forbidden to call home. I was eleven. This was just before mobile phones came beeping and clicking into the lives of everyday people. I did not yet have an email address.
About two weeks into my new school life, a rumor started. It seems absurd now. The rumor was thisI was going to bring Hitler back from the dead. If you spoke to me, your family would die. I had never shown an interest in Nazis, but I had made the mistake of asking a girl what an Ouija board was. Somehow the story of my small question twisted, turned, and grew fangs.
A friend came to me alone. She smiled. She touched my arm. She told me she couldnt risk speaking to me anymore. Afterwards, I wondered how anyone thought I could control the dead. I couldnt even get one living girl to stay my friend. Our housemistress took me aside to say that she knew I wasnt a witch, but could I please tell the other girls I wouldnt kill their families Then she gave me a chocolate biscuit.
I cried alone. The ban on phone calls was still active. I held the latest postcard from my mother in my lap and felt the points press into my fingertips. I dont remember the drawing on the front or the words on the back, just the tips of the cardboard.
Id be at that school for five years. Five years of falling asleep hugging my pillow and five years of postcards. Often the postcards were about the postcards themselves.
Look theyd say this is such a cute tiger! I liked this tiger. Or theyd tell me where my mother bought the postcard. Or why shed soon have to stop writing the postcard. Got to go train arriving. Frequently, her handwriting would be illegible. She has a big looping cursive that looks beautiful but sometimes all those swashes get tangled.
I loved them for their presence more than their content. These were my rectangles of home. I tiled my small section of wall with them. Some fell down the side of the bed. Others got crumpled. Some became bookmarks. I wasnt careful with them. I was sure there would always be more. More letters. More tigers. More carefully chosen stamps. Now, I wish Id put them in scrapbooks. That Id date ordered them. That I hadnt left so many behind at the end of each year.
Eventually, the rumor died down. Still, girls read my diary out loud. At times, I heard people talking about me as I rounded a corner. Often I sat on the school coach alone. There was a brief rumor that I talked to trees. I was, in fact, talking to myself. My mother mailed me a selection of Orwells essays.
In Why I Write, he wrote of how as a young man he continually described his actions as if he were the narrator of his own life.
For minutes at a time this kind of thing would be running through my head: He pushed the door open and entered the room. A yellow beam of sunlight, filtering through the muslin curtains, slanted on to the table, where a match-box, half-open, lay beside the inkpot.
In the context of the essay, this is not meant as writing advice so much as a description of the behavior of a lonely young man. But I was a lonely child. And so I walked along the path, describing the flint beneath my feet. I spoke of the pines beside the path that pointed up like so many arrowheads.
I described the clicking of the shoes of the other girls and their noise like seagulls laughing above a pile of soggy chips found on a seashore bench.
My descriptions were long, and distinctly un-Orwellianfull of too many adjectives and too many words. But they filled my days.
The natural thing would have been to write these meanderings down. I didnt. Not in a diary and not in letters to my mother.
In fact, I never wrote to my mother. Every day, a new rectangle would appear in my narrow pigeonhole, but I never thought shed want or need my words.
By then, I was allowed to talk to her on the school telephone and that was what I did. I pressed the big black handset to the side of my face and crouched on the floor. The telephone was inside a cupboard.
- Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: Human body parts found in fallow paddy land
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Human body parts found in fallow paddy land
Weeraketiya Police found parts of a human body in a fallow paddy land at Nararatnamulana in Manduwawa Weeraketiya yesterday.
Police also found two mobile phones and a belt worn by elderly men lying beside the spot. The parts of a human body are suspected to be that of one Edagamage Charles, 87, of Attanayaka who was reported missing two weeks ago.
A daughter and a son of Charles identified the two mobile phones and the belt as those used by their father.
They said they had made a complaint to Weeraketiya and Agunukolapelessa Police about the disappearance of their father. Police had even published a notice with the father's picture in newspapers seeking public information to help trace him. A magisterial inquiry on the body parts was due to be held today. Weeraketiya Police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: IIT presentsEmbedding Sustainable Development goals in Corporate Strategy Master Class
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
IIT presentsEmbedding Sustainable Development goals in Corporate Strategy Master Class
Informatics Institute of Technology (IIT) is organising a Master Class which will focus on Embedding Sustainable Development goals in Corporate Strategy with special attention to how every business can select and prioritize their chosen UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG).
There will only be one session for Sri Lanka in 2017, with sessions scheduled to be held in China and Vietnam between February and October. The programme is scheduled to be held on March 21, 2017 from 9 am to 5 pm at Ramada Colombo.
The full-day programme will be conducted by Dr. Ravi Fernando, a renowned Blue Ocean Strategist and Chairman and CEO of Strategic Corporate Sustainability (Pty) Ltd. He is also an Executive in Residence in the INSEAD business school in France.
The participants of the programme will be provided a clear understanding of the principle of Blue Ocean Strategy and tools to create New Sustainable market spaces for business by identifying which UNSDGs they should impact and thereby align to the new global agenda for sustainable development launched in December 2015 with the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Commenting on the programme Dr. Ravi Fernando said, Tomorrows corporate leaders need to be conversant with the new global agenda of sustainable business and aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This programme gets them up to speed and gives them a clear strategy to do so.
In the technology driven world we live in today, companies around the globe are striving to achieve the highest level of sustainable practices and responsibility in every aspect of its operation.
We have taken the key initiative to empower Sri Lankan organizations by promoting sustainable practices and also providing comprehensive knowledge in key specialized areas for corporate professionals. Being the pioneer in providing globally renowned undergraduate and post-graduate degrees in IT and Business in Sri Lanka, we are continuing our endeavour of sharing knowledge and grooming corporate leaders, CEO of IIT Dr. Sampath Kannangara said.
The concept of Blue Ocean Strategy is a comprehensive set of analytic tools and framework created by W. Chan Kim and Rene Mauborgne. Rather than the conventional idea of attempting to out-perform the industry, the Blue Ocean Strategy provides a systematic approach to make competition irrelevant by creating uncontested market spaces and avoiding falling into Red Ocean Commodity traps.
Strategic Corporate Sustainability will make participants aware of vital concepts such as the Triple Bottom Line  how to create greater business value by incorporating economic, social and ecological factors in an accounting framework.
The Master Class will also discuss the importance of prioritising the UNSDGs by business sector, to work towards impacting a minimum of three of the seventeen UNSDGs while assisting participants to develop a company specific strategy to embed these goals into their corporate strategies. More information could be obtained from [emailprotected].
==============================
## Title: IMF Chiefs visit postponed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
IMF Chiefs visit postponed
International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Christine Lagarde will not be visiting Sri Lanka as scheduled, the IMF said yesterday.
Ms. Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the IMF, had been tentatively scheduled to visit Sri Lanka later this month.
Unfortunately, due to an unforeseen change in her schedule, she will not be able to visit the country at that time. She is looking into the possibility of visiting Sri Lanka in the near future and we will keep you informed of her plans, IMF Spokesperson Gerry Rice said in a statement.
An IMF delegation is currently in Colombo to review progress of a US$1.5 billion loan approved in June 2016 which was mainly to strengthen foreign reserves.
About the IMF delegation visit, Finance Ministry Secretary Dr R H S Samaratunga told the Daily News earlier This is a three year programme and IMF is conducting periodic reviews. We, on the part of the Treasury, briefed them on the fiscal sector of the country as to how we are going to manage the budget deficit and related matters. The ongoing
computerization programme of the Inland Revenue Department and the current status of Value Added Tax (VAT) were also explained. How to improve the performances of state owned institutions such as the Sri Lankan Airlines, National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Ceylon Electricity Board and Ceylon Petroleum Corporation were also discussed. The requirement is to get them at least to the break-even level of performance, he said.
Meanwhile, Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake had told foreign media that Lagardes proposed visit would have been a courtesy call while she was en route to another country in the region.
==============================
## Title: Inside Robert Lowells restless mind
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Inside Robert Lowells restless mind
Jamison understands mania in both a clinical and a personal way. A professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins and an authority on mood disorders, she is also the author of the eloquent best seller An Unquiet Mind, about learning to live with her own manic depression. Now she aims to prove that Lowells illness and his poetic imagination often fused to produce great art. Terrified of going crazy, he nonetheless acknowledged that his episodes energized his creativity. I write my best poetry when Im manic, he said.
In 1957, severely psychotic and on the verge of his fifth hospitalization, Lowell wrote most of Life Studies, his first confessional volume. He recognized that the work in it (including a 40-page prose section lamenting the remote mother who told him hed been unwanted) was fresher, more radical and original than anything hed done before.
Voluminous reader
But Jamison starts well before this artistic breakthrough, tracing the seeds of Lowells mania to the inexplicable bursts of anger that characterized his childhood. At prep school, where he was known for his wild mood swings, he was nicknamed Cal  short for the imperious Roman emperor Caligula. One minute hed be picking a fight, the next hed turn gentle and funny. Classmates said he was very smart, a voluminous reader whose sense of honor led him to identify with heroic figures including Jesus, Shakespeare and Napoleon. Loyalty was important to Lowell, and these same classmates remained friends for life.
In 1934, when he was 17, Lowell determined to be a poet; by the end of that year he had written 30 poems. Such productivity can be a symptom of mania, as Jamison notes elsewhere, though of course it can also just be a sign of ambition. (Lowell, the biographer Richard Ellmann once surmised, was determined to be at the center of his age as he thought Hart Crane had been.) By the early 1940s, however, he showed real evidence of the illness even as it remained undiagnosed. Lowell was then married to his first wife, the gifted young novelist Jean Stafford. They had an intense, tortured relationship, punctuated by heavy drinking and quarrels. When Lowell crashed their car into a wall, Stafford broke her nose and had to have several painful operations. Lowell survived unscathed, but the accident unhinged him and threw him almost into a psychosis, one doctor noted.
In 1949 he had his first full-blown manic attack in Chicago, where he supposedly dangled a friend out the window while shouting poetry. Later, when he was screaming obscenities through the open window, it took four police officers to handcuff him. I was completely out of my head, Lowell wrote. Strange physical sensations  I was a prophet and everything was a symbol; then in the hospital: shouting, singing, tearing things up. Provided at last with a diagnosis of acute mania, he was admitted to a psychiatric hospital. He remained for three months. After electroshock treatments he was released, but soon had another attack.
By that time hed divorced Stafford and married the critic Elizabeth Hardwick, who proved to be the strongest, most loving force in his life  always standing by him even as the attacks kept coming. For the next decade Lowell was hospitalized again and again. I didnt know what I was getting into, Hardwick later told an interviewer, but even if I had, I still would have married him. He was not crazy all the time  most of the time he was wonderful.
The couple had a daughter, Harriet, whom they both adored, and she proves to be a valuable and forthcoming source for Jamison and a refreshing presence for the reader. Lowell was a wonderful father, Harriet says, present and loving .<U+2008>.<U+2008>. whatever his mental state, and wonderfully odd. But his recurring illness was exhausting for everyone close to him.
Lowells agonizing episodes would continue until 1967, when he was given the new wonder drug lithium to balance the extremes of elation and depression in his brain. Lithium seemed to have no side effects, and provided relief from his madness. Lowell was productive in those years. He wrote poetry, worked on translations, taught at Harvard  but he was also restless. With lithium, Helen Vendler tells Jamison, he wanted to create another life with someone who would not think of him as a potential madman.
By 1970 hed moved to England and fallen in love with Lady Caroline Blackwood, a ravishing Anglo-Irish writer formerly married to the painter Lucian Freud and then the composer Israel Citkowitz. Blackwoods aristocratic background rivaled Lowells own Boston Brahmin heritage. Hugely privileged from a shattered childhood, she had reckless blood, she said, which seethed and tingled like Champagne.
The two were happy for a while. They married and had a son, and Blackwood became Lowells muse, Jamison writes. His 1973 book The Dolphin was inspired by her, and his final book, Day by Day (1977), was about the end of their relationship. Caroline had grown terrified of his rages; she hadnt realized he was slowly going mad again. The lithium stopped working. Lowell became poisoned with it and had to be hospitalized. He and Caroline were fighting constantly; she was drinking. They separated.
Total mess
He flew to America in the hope of reconciling with Hardwick. They spent the summer in Maine together, and all the while he kept writing and rewriting. His work was everything to him, Harriet says. Even at his most jittery and disheveled, when his life seemed a total mess, hed escape into writing and be healed. What this makes clear is that the breakdowns arent the entire story: The real life was full of unknowns and possibilities, Harriet tells Jamison at one point. Its a lesson Jamison might have done more to heed. Two narratives are at war in this book: one about Lowells mania and one about his enthralling private life separate from the psych wards. - New York Times
==============================
## Title: IP commits suicide in restroom
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 08:00
IP commits suicide in restroom

A Police Inspector attached to the Maradana Police station had committed suicide yesterday (5) inside his restroom, Police said.
He had reportedly hanged himself.
==============================
## Title: JOs life span will end in August with many swindlers being jailed:Dr. Senaratne
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
JOs life span will end in August with many swindlers being jailed:Dr. Senaratne
Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine Minister Dr.Rajitha Senaratne said yesterday, that the life time of the Joint Opposition which dreams of toppling the present government, would end by August this year.
Those who swindled money would have to go to jail starting from August and then we can see what would happen to the JO after this August, he said.
The Minister was speaking after receiving the blessings of the Mahanayake Theras of Asgiriya and Malwatte Chapters yesterday.
The Minister who paid courtesy calls on the Mahanayake Theras of Asgiriya and Malwatte Chapters to discuss the traditional Oil Anointing State Ceremony for the forthcoming the Sinhala and Hindu New Year to be held in April at the Sri Natha Devala compound in Kandy.
The Minister further said that the UNHRC had granted a period of two years to take steps regarding the human rights in Sri Lanka which is a very reasonable time period.
We could improve the human rights situation in Sri Lanka within this period which is a recognition of Sri Lankan
commitment to human rights, he added.
==============================
## Title: JSA officials to act as Presiding Officers at BASL election
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
JSA officials to act as Presiding Officers at BASL election
Judicial Services Association (JSA) officials have agreed to act as the Presiding Officers at the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) election scheduled to be held on March 15.
BASL Secretary Amal Randeniya said this decision was taken at a meeting of JSA and BASL senior officials and Executive Committee members held at the District Court of Colombo on Saturday.
Accordingly, District Judges and Magistrates will act as the Presiding Officers at the forthcoming BASL election which will be held to elect the new BASL Chairman. The Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) election which was earlier scheduled to be held on February 21 was postponed due to a decision taken by Judicial Services Association (JSA) to refrain from acting as the Presiding Officers at the election because of the difference of opinion the two associations had over President Maithripala Sirisena appointing an Attorney-at-Law as a High Court Judge,Randeniya said.
The JSA had strongly objected to the appointment of Ramanathan Kannan,a lawyer practicing at the Private Bar in Batticaloa as a High Court Judge citing it as a violation of the Constitution and the judicial service tradition.
==============================
## Title: Ketchimalai:Historical and religious place of Muslim worship
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Ketchimalai:Historical and religious place of Muslim worship
Ketchimalai in Beruwela is a mount where the monument and Maqbara of His Holiness Sheik Ashraff Walliyullahs is enshrined. Muslims consider the place as a great historical and religious place of worship, where they pay regular visits and perform Zikr.
Today marks the completion of the narration of Hadees of the Prophet, culminating with the Ziyarath and feast in the name of this great saint. While Muslims have had the blessings of all governments to make this great feast of Beruwala a unique event, the Mosque situated on the Hill top of Ketchimale as per description in the famous book Silk Route by Ibn Batuta has a history dating back to the 14th century when the original Muslims settled down in Beruwala and His holiness Saint Ash Sheik Ashraff Walliyullahs whose shrines is now at this mosque is one among them.
It the year 1882, the then Governor of Sri Lanka Sir Arthur Henry Gordon on an official visit to Galle, the horse he was riding on suddenly (on its own), changed the usual route at Beruwala and took to the present Customs road and knelt down at the foot steps of an old shrine on top of the hill, (which is presently known as Ketchimalai) and refused to move. The Governor was so taken aback that he felt that there was some spiritual significance attached to the place.
The feast that is held here is common for all Muslims, irrespective of any sects and therefore is patronized by Muslims from all parts of the island. Incidentally the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation(SLBC) relays this event uninterrupted since 1951. It is worthy of mentioning the importance of the mosque where annual Majlees take place.
==============================
## Title: The Korean sense of place
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
The Korean sense of place
A few years ago, while on a writers residency in the south of France, I took the train to the Frankfurt Book Fair, where I came across a well-known Korean literary agent. Once he realized that I was an author, he told me, please write Korean things. Since those are the most universal things. His comment mystified me: he couldnt, I thought, mean fiction stuffed with kimchi and makgeolli and jeong and han.
But there are senses in which our literature is distinctly Korean. Naturally, Im no spokesperson for Korean literature, but at times I cant help acting as a kind of representative. When an American journalist interviewed me once, she asked what I thought about North Korea. I was born in 1982, and for those of my generation, the North Korean issue, and especially the relationship between North and South Korean literature, is impossibly complex. I simply looked dazed, and she asked instead about the possibility of a Korean winning the Nobel Prize for Literature. This time I was able to answer easily. Because that  at least for me  was not at all an important issue. Koreas young writers, as far as I know, have no particular interest in the Nobel Prize. But over the past few years, we have begun to think about what it means to have a national literature.
Literary language
This year is the hundredth anniversary of the publication of Yi Kwang-sus Heartless (Mujong), known as the first modern Korean novel. Ive read it many times, and its always made me wonder about the linguistic confusion that Korean writers active at the beginning of the twentieth century must have felt. During the Japanese colonial period, from a young age Koreans had to absorb Japanese as the official language, and Korean as their mother tongue, along with Western modern culture; intellectuals, moreover, would have had to study Western languages such as English, French and German. What could their literary language have been like Im also interested in the fact that most of the characters who appear in the fiction of the time are unable to find a place for themselves, a destination towards which to direct their energies both physically and psychologically. Such a place fundamentally does not exist. To understand the essence of Korean fiction, one must read Heartless; at first sight, its protagonist Yi Hyeong-shik is similar to Julian Sorel from Stendhals Le Rouge et le noir in that, with nothing but his mind to rely on, he dreams of climbing the social ladder through romance and marriage. But Yi Hyeong-shik has a different goal, which lies in nationalism; he believes that Koreans require liberating from colonization through enlightenment. So in the final scene Yi and the two women with whom he has formed a love triangle go to study in America. Yet, the realities of the time mean that this journey is only possible in their imagination; in actuality, they never leave Korea.
Korean War
Had Jules Verne been Korean, he could never have written Around the World in Eighty Days. And while in the West, the novel was established as a genre over the course of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, in Korea this happened 100 years later and much more rapidly, via Japanese translations of European and anglophone literature, and through the filter of the Korean War. The experience of the colonial period and the Korean War left the protagonists of Korean fiction stuck fast.
Choe In-huns novel The Square (Kwangjang, 1960) also takes the sense of place as its subject. It ends with the protagonist Lee Myeong-jun, feeling unable to go either south or north after the peninsulas division, choosing a (non-existent) neutral country. In more recent Korean fiction, too, movement never appears easy. From the ICF crisis of 1997, the sub-prime disaster of 2007, and the low growth that has continued ever since, to the recent breakdown of national politics, our protagonists are confronted by a fate that restricts their lives.
So what are Korean authors writing today One issue with which we are grappling is how to rescue and revive female autonomy, which has been trampled in the literature of the past hundred years. The time has come, it seems, to settle the detestable legacy of patriarchal society. This is not the first time feminism has appeared as a subject in Korean literature  Na Hye-sok, heralded as both the first female professional painter and the first feminist writer in Korea, was one of Yi Kwang-sus contemporaries, active from the second decade of the twentieth century. But whereas the voice of women had previously been treated as peripheral, in recent decades it has begun to take the centre ground, in the short stories of Oh Jung-hee, the poetry of Kim Hyesoon and the novels of Han Kang, to mention only those in English translation. It is because Yi Hyeong-shik and Lee Myeong-jun are male that they at least have choices, whether America or some neutral country  even if these are only countries of the mind. Under Korean patriarchy, women have always had far fewer opportunities to receive education or enter into society, so for them such things could barely be expressed; in fiction, too, women lacked agency, even when they were the protagonists. For the most part, women appeared only as supporting characters, flimsy beings who featured simply to make the male characters more concrete and real. So my interest, and that of many of my contemporaries, lies in determining the factors that make movement either possible or impossible for women in fiction.
And so, even if it is not what that agent meant, it is true that Korean literature is approaching something universal. It is tapping into an international shift towards the re-examination of canonical works from a feminist perspective, especially those writers who dominated the early twentieth century: Kim Dong-in and Hyun Jin-geon, and the Japanese authors Natsume Saseki and Kobe Abe, are just a few.
On each old bookshelf, misogyny blooms like a poisonous mushroom. In the midst of that, Virginia Woolfs A Room of Ones Own is being read again in the context of womens writing, and Charlotte Perkins Gilmans Yellow Wallpaper, which was obstructed by men, is being read now in the context of gaslighting. And the female Korean writers who appeared over the past hundred years only to disappear again are being reevaluated. Now is the time for women to heed the final line of Goethes Faust, the eternal feminine draws us on, for our own sake. The eternal feminine will draw Korean literature on. Korean literature is now on the brink of such a transformation.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Lanka wins Most Popular  Tourism Destination in Guangzhou, China
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Lanka wins Most Popular  Tourism Destination in Guangzhou, China
Sri Lanka won the Most Popular Tourism Destination Award for the second consecutive year at the Guangzhou International Travel Fair (GITF) held recently, the Foreign Affairs Ministry said in a statement on Friday.
Sri Lanka winning the award is testament to the countrys growing popularity among Chinese travel enthusiasts, the Ministry said.
The Consulate General of Sri Lanka in Guangzhou in partnership with the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau participated in the Guangzhou International Travel Fair (GITF) from February 23 to 25 2017 in Guangzhou
==============================
## Title: Lankan in illicit drug case jailed for three year in Doha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Lankan in illicit drug case jailed for three year in Doha
A Doha Criminal Court has sentenced a Sri Lankan man to three years in jail and subsequent deportation for illicit dealing and consumption of drug.
Local Arabic daily 'Arrayah' reported that the court also ordered the defendant to pay Qatari Riyal 200,000 as fine for the offence.
The matter came to light after the Drugs Prevention Department at the Ministry of Interior (MoI) received information from a source that the defendant used to consume and sell the illicit drug, marijuana. The suspect was walking near his accommodation when a police patrol officer searched him and found some marijuana hidden in his clothes. More of the illicit drug was found during a thorough search of his room, while a blood test indicated that he had consumed marijuana.
During interrogation, the defendant admitted to dealing in the contraband.
Gulf Times
==============================
## Title: Lets all fight for the animals right!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Lets all fight for the animals right!
Friday, March 3 was World Wildlife Day, which coincided with the adoption of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in 1973. CITES plays an important role in ensuring that international trade does not threaten the species survival.
The day will be celebrated this year under the theme: Listen to the Young Voices. Given that almost one quarter of the worlds population is aged between 10 and 24, vigorous efforts need to be made to encourage young people, as the future leaders and decision makers of the world, to act at both local and global levels to protect endangered wildlife.
Major threats
Youth around the world are being exhorted to rally together to address ongoing major threats to wildlife including habitat change, over-exploitation or illicit trafficking. Youth are the agents of change. In fact, we are already seeing the positive impacts on conservation issues made by some young conservation leaders around the world. Well, if they can help make a change, you can too! We all extend courtesy and good manners and charity to our own species, but do we ever think about protecting wild plant and animal species and their habit So you will come to realise that nature conservation is important. In fact, it is essential. But it is not because we need to save the planet. It is because we need to save us from ourselves.
Governments, law makers, enforcement officers, customs officials and park rangers across every region are scaling up their efforts to protect wildlife. It is also up to every citizen, young and old, to protect wildlife and their habitats. We all have a role to play. Our collective conservation actions can be the difference between a species surviving or disappearing. Sri Lanka harbours a remarkable assortment of plant, animal, fish, frog, lizard and serpent species, ranging from majestic mammals such as elephants and leopards to rare medicinal plants and wildflowers. Unfortunately, many of our species have not fared well over the past few decades as a result of habitat loss and the spread of invasive species.
The day serves to remind us that endangered and threatened species of wildlife and plants are of aesthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value to the world and its people. Everyone should be concerned by the disappearance of unique creatures and plant life.
Serious threats
It is also an opportunity to celebrate the many beautiful and varied forms of wild fauna and flora and to raise awareness of the multitude of benefits that conservation provides to people. At the same time, the day reminds us of the urgent need to step up the fight against wildlife crime, which has wide-ranging economic, environmental and social impacts. It is crucial that governments ensure that we conserve the ecosystems upon which endangered and threatened species depend. Although extinctions occur naturally, scientific evidence strongly indicates that the current rate of extinction is much higher than the natural or background rate of the past. The main force driving this higher rate of loss is the destruction of habitat. Over-exploitation of wildlife for commercial purposes, environmental pollution, and the spread of diseases also pose serious threats to our worlds biological heritage. Perhaps the greatest threat to many species is poaching and the illegal trafficking of wildlife parts and products.
This crime involves hundreds of threatened and endangered species, from elephants, rhinos, leopards and tigers, to lesser known birds, reptiles, fish, and plants. Every day, rampant greed and corruption drive a soaring trade to feed growing markets, particularly across Africa and Asia. All too often, local people suffer in the process.
Conservationists warn that by 2025 as many as one fifth of all animal species may be lost, gone forever. In recent times, hundreds of species have become extinct as a result of human activities. Habitat destruction by illegal logging; ever-encroaching human settlement, pollution of water, soil, and air and illegal hunting to supply the demand for skins, hides, traditional medicines, food, and tourist souvenirs all threaten species' existence.
Global warming too has made the protection of endangered species increasingly challenging. Climate change not only affects our plants and animals directly, through changes in temperature, but can worsen the impact on endangered species of traditional threats, such as invasive species, wildfires and diseases.
Wildlife crime
Besides, over the last few decades it seems as if forestry has gone mad in our little island nation. Large-scale illegal logging and clearing operations have drastically reduced the countrys forest cover. As far back as 1980, conservationists had complained that the Upper Mahaweli watershed was being spiked at its source by the constant rape of its surrounding forests. The situation had become so serious that it prompted the then government to establish a combined task force comprising police and army units to track down the timber pirates. Still, the decades of destruction of our beautiful tropical woodlands have taken their toll. Statistics have proved that the problem is and has been a grave one. In 1956, Sri Lankas forests covered about 7.2 million acres of the countrys total land area of approximately 16 million acres. Today, the forest cover stands around 3 million acres, reduced from 44 per cent to less than 16 per cent within the last 50 years.
Wildlife crime is a serious offence, not a distant problem in a faraway country. It has decidedly become a global challenge that spans continents and crosses oceans. It matters, and not just because we care about elephants, leopards, tigers, rhinos and other fascinating creatures. Local communities that depend on wildlife for tourism or sustenance are being robbed of their livelihoods.
One of the many tangible benefits of biological diversity has been its contributions to the field of medicine. Each living entity contains a unique reservoir of genetic material that has evolved over aeons. This material cannot be retrieved or duplicated if lost. So far, scientists have investigated only a small fraction of the worlds species and have just begun to unravel their chemical secrets to find possible human health benefits to mankind.
The worlds best loved species are being slaughtered by widespread and dangerous criminal networks. Driven by a voracious demand for illegal animal parts and products, the black market in wildlife rivals illegal arms and drugs trafficking. Increasingly, wildlife traffickers are the same kingpins involved in trafficking people and arms and narcotics. The majestic elephants are being decimated for their tusks, the magnificent leopards and big cats for their pelts and bones. Extinction is forever.
We must act now and have our voices heard. Time is running out.
==============================
## Title: Liverpool crush Arsenal, Zlatan misfires for United
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Liverpool crush Arsenal, Zlatan misfires for United
LONDON, Saturday - Liverpool put their recent troubles behind them, showing touches of their best early-season vibrancy to overcame Arsenal 3-1 at a jubilant Anfield and leapfrog the Gunners into third place in the Premier League on Saturday.
After Manchester United and an out-of-sorts Zlatan Ibrahimovic missed their chance to gain ground in the battle for Champions League places with a wasteful 1-1 draw against Bournemouth, Juergen Klopp's men at last rediscovered some of their old swagger.
Liverpool won only their third game in 13 matches in 2017 with goals from Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane and Georginio Wijnaldum to move onto 52 points, ahead of Manchester City on goal difference and two clear of Arsenal, who are now fifth.
Chelsea, still the runaway leaders on 63 points, play at West Ham United on Monday while, on Sunday, second-placed Tottenham Hotspur, on 53, host Everton, and Manchester City, 52, visit Sunderland.
Liverpool produced a dominant first-half performance to take command with goals from Firmino and Mane but Arsene Wenger got his team selection wrong by leaving Alexis Sanchez on the bench.
Forced to bring on his key striker at halftime to chase the game, Wenger saw Sanchez set up a goal for Danny Welbeck before Wijnaldum sealed a deserved Liverpool victory late on.
Our performance was not at the level we expect in the first half but that is down to a lack of rhythm, we have not played for a while, said Wenger.
Earlier, United's League Cup-winning hero Ibrahimovic missed a penalty and 10-man Bournemouth battled to snatch a point in an incident-packed affair at Old Trafford.
United manager Jose Mourinho was left with no complaints after his side again failed to take maximum points from a game they dominated.
After a Marcos Rojo goal was answered by a Josh King penalty in a turbulent first half, United were left sixth on 49 points.
Ibrahimovic, fresh from scoring twice in United's Wembley triumph over Southampton, had a wretched afternoon and not just because his second-half penalty with the score at 1-1 was saved at full stretch by Artur Boruc, who gave an inspired performance.
Just before halftime, the Swede was fortunate not to be dismissed for elbowing Nathan Mings, moments after the Bournemouth defender stood on his head as he lay on the pitch.
In the subsequent fracas, Bournemouth's Andrew Surman pushed Ibrahimovic over and was sent off for this second yellow card offence.
Ibrahimovic denied he had acted out of retaliation. My intention was not to injure him but to protect myself, he said.
Mourinho said United were to blame for missing out on three points. Who can I blame Ourselves. Nobody else. We missed big chances. We felt the pressure of the clock running down and lost the quality of our attacking football, he said.
Elsewhere champions Leicester City maintained their dramatic revival under caretaker boss Craig Shakespeare, coming from one-down to beat Hull City 3-1 with goals from Christian Fuchs, Riyad Mahrez and a Tom Huddlestone own goal. It was their second straight win since Claudio Ranieri's sacking.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Local politicos seek divine intervention to get Wimal out
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Local politicos seek divine intervention to get Wimal out
A group of local politicians in Matale representing the Joint Opposition held an invocation to gods at the Kali Devalaya in Matale yesterday seeking gods providence to obtain the release of Parliamentarian Wimal Weerawansa from remand prison.
The group led by Central Provincial Council remember Parakrama Dissanayake, former Ukuvela Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman Samantha Dharmasena and former Matale Pradesheeya Sabha Chairman Kapila Bandara dashed Coconuts seeking divine intervention get Wimal Weerwansa released.
==============================
## Title: Marsh, Renshaw give Australia edge in 2nd Test
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Marsh, Renshaw give Australia edge in 2nd Test
BANGALORE, Sunday - Opener Matt Renshaw said managing a challenging pitch would be the key to defeating India after his dogged half-century helped Australia take a crucial first-innings lead in the second Test on Sunday.
The left-hander, who started the day on 15, made a 196-ball 60 before Shaun Marsh struck another half-century for the visitors on a gruelling second day in Bangalore.
Australia were 237 for six at stumps on the second day, leading India by 48 runs at M Chinnaswamy Stadium. Matthew Wade on 25 and Mitchell Starc on 14 were at the crease.
It was a grind. The plan was to try and bat as long as possible and wear the Indian bowlers down, 20-year-old Renshaw told reporters.
We know that the fourth innings chase is going to be quite hard out there. Hopefully we get a substantial lead out there and the bowlers can do a successful job, like they did in the first.
Marsh top-scored with a gritty 66 before Indian seamer Umesh Yadav lured him into a tired-looking shot that was caught at short midwicket just before close of play.
Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja claimed three wickets, including the key scalps of Australia skipper Steve Smith (8) and Renshaw on a pitch that offered variable bounce.
Fast bowlers Ishant Sharma and Yadav, with a wicket each, unsettled the visiting batsmen but regular partnerships helped Australia surpass Indias first-innings score of 189.
Renshaw cited problems with variable bounce.
It was probably a bit harder against the quicks because its not bouncing as much, and some (balls) are going up, so I think that challenge is probably the biggest, he said.
Australia were faltering at the tea break on 163-5, but Marsh returned to score his sixth Test fifty while he and Wade put on 57 for the sixth wicket.
Marsh had his share of luck, surviving a few close calls against the Indian bowlers, including nicking a Yadav delivery on 14 off the glove. The appeal was turned down and India did not opt for the review.
Earlier Renshaw put on 52 runs with Marsh to keep the Indian attack temporarily at bay as runs came at a miserly rate of roughly two an over. The left-handed opener, who had scored 68 in the first innings in Pune, looked ready to take off after hitting Jadeja for the first six of the match, but the bowler got his revenge two balls later.
Jadeja saw Renshaw emerge from his crease and fired the ball down the leg side. Wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha completed the stumping in quick time.
We felt like we were just about to get on top of the game when I got out, so it was quite frustrating from that point of view, said Renshaw.
If we had probably got a few more runs, me and Shaun Marsh, then we could have had complete control of the game.
Runs came at a trickle in the morning session, with the visitors scoring just 47 in 29 overs as two of their top batsmen Warner (33) and Smith were sent back to the pavilion.
Ashwin bowled Warner to get the opener for an eighth time in 12 Tests, while Smith battled hard for 52 deliveries before being caught by Saha off a wily Jadeja. The morning was enlivened by banter between the lanky Sharma and Smith, who traded barbs as the day progressed, with Indian skipper Virat Kohli also exchanging a few words with the Aussie batsmen.
Indian batsman Cheteshwar Pujara said India would have a better game plan in their second innings and were still very much in the match.
We have already seen the ball is keeping low. They have to bat in the last innings... we will put up a better show in the next innings, said Pujara.
The visitors lead the four-match series 1-0 after beating India in the first Test in Pune inside three days. AFP
==============================
## Title: Matters of mutual importance discussed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Matters of mutual importance discussed
Minister of Local Government and Provincial Councils Faiszer Musthapha, who was on an official visit to India, met the Indian Minister of Women and Child Development Maneka Gandhi, recently, in New Delhi.
The two Ministers discussed matters of mutual importance including the latest political developments. Minister Musthapha made reference to Minister Gandhis special interest in animal welfare, in the context of ongoing initiatives in Sri Lanka aimed at resolving issues pertaining to animal cruelty, and in addressing animal-borne diseases, particularly rabies, and related developments.
Minister Gandhi shared the Indian experience extensively with details of the proposed national action plan for rabies eradication and stranded dog population management. Minister Gandhi also shared Indian endeavours aimed at preventing animal cruelty.
Minister Gandhi said that India would welcome a team of experts from Sri Lanka to hold discussions with their Indian counterparts, and visit the Centres established to address these issues. She also offered short training courses for Sri Lankan officials in India.
Minister Musthapha invited Minister Gandhi to visit Sri Lanka, and Minister Gandhi accepted. It was agreed that the two sides could decide on mutually convenient dates through formal channels.
==============================
## Title: Mcilroy eyes regaining number one world ranking
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Mcilroy eyes regaining number one world ranking
MEXICO CITY Saturday - Patience will be a virtue for Rory McIlroy on Sunday as he seeks to win the WGC-Mexico Championship and possibly regain the world number one ranking.
McIlroy played solidly in Saturday's third round at Club de Golf Chapultepec, but was distracted by the adventures of playing competitor Phil Mickelson, who needed several long rulings after wayward drives.
It was hard to get any rhythm because Phil was here, there and everywhere, so I was waiting a lot, Northern Irishman McIlroy told reporters after a steady one-under-par 70. It probably shouldnt have affected me but it did a little bit.
McIlroy and Mickelson will start the final round two strokes behind American leader Justin Thomas, and one adrift of world number one Dustin Johnson.
If world number three McIlroy wins, he will go back to the top of the rankings as long as Johnson finishes worse than solo fourth.
Mickelson, meanwhile, has his sights set on ending a victory drought that stretches back to the 2013 British Open at Muirfield. The 46-year-old was fortunate to be so close to the lead, after a stretch of poor driving and a couple of favorable rulings.
At the 10th hole his ball was ruled to have been picked up by a spectator, which afforded him a free drop instead of a stroke-and-distance penalty.
At the next hole his drive ended under a bush, almost unplayable, but he was allowed a free drop after convincing rules official Slugger White that he would have been forced to stand on a sprinkler to take the shot he wanted.
I know it looks bad. Im just telling you thats the truth, Mickelson told White, who said he would have to take the golfer at his word.
Mickelson escaped with an unlikely par and was lucky to drop only one shot at the 12th hole after finding another bush with his tee shot.
I had a complete meltdown and lost all focus in my game for a nine-hole stretch, Mickelson said after shooting 68.
I fought hard and showed a lot of heart trying to just stay in it.
- Agencies
==============================
## Title: Meethotamulla protest hampers traffic on Awissawella  Colombo road
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 11:00
Meethotamulla protest hampers traffic on Awissawella  Colombo road

A protest by Meethotamulla residence, with the participation of UNP Parliamentarian S.M. Marikkar, hampered traffic on the Awissawella - Colombo road today (6).
The protest is against dumping garbage of elsewhere at the Meethotamulla dump.

==============================
## Title: Mertens nets double as Napoli upset Roma
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Mertens nets double as Napoli upset Roma
ROME, Saturday - Dries Mertens scored twice as third-placed Napoli upset AS Roma 2-1 away on Saturday and moved to within two points of them in the Serie A standings.
Mertens was set up for the opening goal by Marek Hamsik with a clever through ball but still needed to beat the offside trap and two defenders before chipping cleverly over Roma goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny in the 25th minute.
The Belgian international added a second five minutes into the second half, touching in a cross from the left by Lorenzo Insigne. But Napoli had to survive an anxious final five minutes after Kevin Strootman pulled a goal back in the 89th minute and Mohamed Salah, who had hit the upright, and Diego Perotti came close to a stoppage-time equaliser with Napoli's Pepe Reina pulling off a dramatic save to ensure the points.
Napoli are now back in contention for an automatic Champions League berth next season as they moved on to 57 points. Second- placed Roma have 59, seven behind leaders Juventus who play at Udinese on Sunday.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Murray wins first title of year in Dubai
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Murray wins first title of year in Dubai
DUBAI, Saturday - World number one Andy Murray won his first title of 2017 with a 6-3 6-2 victory over unseeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in the Dubai Tennis Championships final on Saturday. Murray lost his first two service games of the match but overcame that poor start to win in Dubai for the first time.
Obviously I'm very happy to do it here for the first time. It's been a good start to the year, Murray told the BBC.
Often when you get through matches like that (quarter-final against Philipp Kohlschreiber when I saved seven match points) it settles you down for the rest of the tournament.
It's been quite a few late finishes this week. Maybe the last couple of matches, I didn't start as well as I would like. It's been the same for all the players, a bit tricky with the rain. Once I got going today, I was moving well and I finished strong.
This year has given me great momentum.
Murray, who had won 12 of his past 13 matches against the Spaniard, started slowly and was broken in the first game before breaking back in what was a nervous start by both players.
The heavy-hitting Verdasco cracked a series of powerful winners to break an uncomfortable-looking Murray again in the third game and consolidated to hold for a 3-1 lead. Despite a shaky serving performance, Murray, helped by a string of Verdasco errors, reeled off five successive games to take the first set 6-3.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Neighbourhood noteworthy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Neighbourhood noteworthy
Indias High Commissioner in Sri Lanka, Taranjith Singh Sandhu, addressing a ceremony to mark the 68th Republic Day of India at India House spoke in admiration of the diverse fields in which India had assisted Sri Lanka for the social and economic development of the country. He referred to the emergency ambulance service in the Southern and Western provinces and renovation of Duraiappah Stadium in Jaffna as recent innovative steps taken in expression of Indias goodwill to the people of Sri Lanka.
He also referred to the vast opportunities Sri Lanka has for developing its economy by cooperating with India for making the vision of India that integration of the economies of the neighbouring countries with the economy of India contributes to the economic development and the eradication of poverty in the entire region.
In this article, I intend to discuss the policy perspectives of India towards Sri Lanka in the light of the many changes that have occurred in the international geo-political structure and domestic political developments in India and Sri Lanka from the beginning of 1990s.
In the course of his speech on the 68th Republic Day, the High Commissioner of India stated that it is the neighbourhood first policy that is adopted towards Sri Lanka and neighbouring countries.
What he means by the neighbourhood first policy is the special attention that India pays for maintaining a friendly and good neighbourly relationship with the South Asian countries in the neighbourhood.
India, in formulating its policy towards the neighbours is guided by two pivotal considerations. One is that it is necessary to maintain a friendly relationship with the neighbouring countries for ensuring that these countries will not allow their soil to be used by outside powers for any activities against the security interests of India.
The other consideration is the vision of India that India should obtain the cooperation of neighbouring countries in South Asia for integrated economic development under the guidance and leadership of India.
Indo-Sri Lanka Agreement of 1987
India is motivated by the neo-liberal view that the cooperation of the neighbouring states for integrated economic development contributes to the wellbeing and development of all countries extending such cooperation.
There was a tendency on the part of the Sri Lankan government under the leadership of President J.R. Jayewardene to ally with the Western Power Bloc led by the USA. It is the threat posed by Sri Lankas tilt towards the West to the security of India which led India to intervene militarily in the year 1987.
In an Exchange of Letters that constituted a part of the Indo-Sri Lanka Agreement of 1987, President Jayewardene assured Rajiv Gandhi that certain aspects of Sri Lankas foreign policy would be modified to accommodate Indias security concerns.
The Sri Lankan government also undertook not to make available Trincomalee or any other port in Sri Lanka for military use by any country in a manner prejudicial to Indian interests.
This agreement was signed in the context of the prevailing situation of rivalry between two power blocs during the Cold War period.
At that time, India perceived that the USA and other countries of the western bloc as rivals and enemies of India. India itself had allied with the Soviet Union.
The end of the Cold War, however, led to the emergence of the USA as a Super Power and the gradual transformation of the state structure towards a multi-polar system. India has tended to establish a very close strategic relationship with the USA and other western countries.
But, two powerful neighbours of India, Pakistan and China, were still viewed as rival states. Some territorial and boundary disputes with these two states still remain unresolved.
Indias role in reconciliation process
After the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi by the LTTE, India realized the futility of negotiating with the LTTE or seeking the cooperation of the LTTE for a durable political settlement for addressing the genuine grievances of the Sri Lankan Tamil community in the North and East of Sri Lanka.
After the assassination India took steps to ban the LTTE as a terrorist outfit and withdraw all support to the LTTE even in Tamil Nadu. After the failure of the peace-talks facilitated by Norway, India extended whatever support it could give to the Sri Lankan government for defeating the LTTE militarily.
Although India extended its support for the military defeat of the LTTE by the Rajapaksa government, India was concerned about the hardships and the human rights violations experienced by the civilians during the course of the war.
India, after the end of the war, urged the Sri Lankan government to give priority to initiate a reconciliation process and bring about a political settlement aimed at evolving a power-sharing arrangement.
However, the Indian government realized that the Rajapaksa government lacked the political will to bring about a political settlement for addressing the grievances of the Tamil community.
The Rajapaksa government was guided by the ethnic nationalist perspective that the Tamil community did not experience any special disabilities or discriminatory treatment by the Sri Lankan government and therefore there was no need for any constitutional amendments for a power sharing arrangement or even to comply with the resolutions adopted in the UNHRC, in Geneva.
It is this arrogant attitude of ignoring the demands of the Tamil community in Sri Lanka and the international community which compelled India to support the resolutions against Sri Lanka in the UNHRC in Geneva sponsored by the USA in March 2012 and again in March 2013.When Sri Lanka lost the support of India in the UNO and UNHRC in Geneva, Sri Lanka found itself isolated from the international community.
At that stage, the Sri Lankan government felt that China was a more reliable friend of Sri Lanka because China together with Russia voted against the resolutions in support of Sri Lanka at the UNHRC sessions in Geneva.
However, India continued to extend its assistance to the Sri Lankan government for completing several projects for the rehabilitation and resettlement of the displaced families as a result of the war.
The Indian government also undertook and completed several infrastructure development projects such as the reconstruction of railways, roads, school buildings and hospitals.
The leaders of the Sri Lankan Tamil political parties hold the view that there is a responsibility on the part of India to discuss with the Sri Lankan government reasons for the slow progress in the reconciliation process and persuade the Sri Lankan government to act more expeditiously to address the pressing issues such as the release of lands held by the military in the North and the East, resettlement of families displaced as a result of the war and the lack of progress in the constitutional reforms process.
It is because of the confidence that the Tamil leaders have reposed on India that when the Indian Foreign Secretary Dr Jayashankar visited Sri Lanka, a TNA delegation met him in Colombo and discussed their grievances with him.
Indias vision of integrated economic development for the region
The Indian government, assuming the leadership of the South Asian region for launching a process of economic integration for the entire region has sought the cooperation of all neighbouring countries for investment and trade.
India has signed agreements with neighbouring states for the promotion of trade and investment. India signed the Indo-Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement in the year 1999.
After signing the Agreement there was a tremendous increase in the volume of bilateral trade between the two countries. However, the Sri Lankan businessmen found that they were at a disadvantage due to the Non-Tariff barriers that they happened to confront with in sending their products to the Indian market. The present government of Sri Lanka seeks to sign the proposed Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement (ETCA) which is a more comprehensive agreement aimed at further broadening the cooperation between the two countries for economic development.
But, it is unfortunate that there is a section of the business community and also some professional organisations who express a fear that the real motive behind Indias involvement in development projects and signing agreements with neighbouring countries is Indias desire for dominating neighbouring countries economically.
Problem of Indian fishermen crossing the IMBL
There is a tendency on the part of Big Powers to adopt an assertive attitude towards the small states when they negotiate settlements regarding inter-state disputes. Sri Lanka has that experience regarding the settlement of some disputes with India.
One such problem has been the Indian fishermen crossing the IMBL in the Palk Bay in large numbers, almost on a daily basis, during the fishing season. They fish in the waters off the coast of Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan fishermen protest against the plunder of their resources by the South Indian fishermen.
The Sri Lankan government and the Sri Lankan fishermen view that the reason for the inability for the two countries to reach a satisfactory settlement to the illegal stray of Indian fishermen even up to the coast of Sri Lanka is the lack of an interest on the part of the Indian government to find a solution to this problem.
It appears that the main obstacle for reaching a settlement among the concerned parties is the attitude of the Tamil Nadu politicians who attempt to justify the illegal stray of Tamil Nadu fishermen claiming that the Palk Bay area is a part of the traditional fishing grounds of the south Indian fishermen.
Involvement of China in development projects of Sri Lanka
There are Indian politicians diplomats and even officials of the Indian government who express the view that India is concerned about Chinas increasing involvement in the development projects such as the construction of harbours and airports in Sri Lanka. For example, former Defense Secretary, Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, in the course of an interview with the Daily Mirror (February 23, 2017) made the revelation that when he met the National Security Advisor to the Indian government, Ajith Doval, he had told the Defense Secretary that they were not happy with the Chinese investments in Sri Lanka.
The National Security Advisor had categorically told Gotabhaya Rajapaksa that they wanted the Sri Lankan government to stop the Port City project and to take full control of the Hambanthota harbour. He had further told Gotabhaya Rajapaksa to take back the full operation of the South Terminal of the Colombo Port.
However, the Sri Lankan government needed the assistance of China, since it was the only source from which the development assistance that Sri Lanka wanted, could be obtained.
Even after the regime change occurred in Sri Lanka in 2015, the National Unity government found that China was the only country from which foreign aid, by way of loans could be obtained for the massive development projects planned by the government. Both the Chinese government and the Sri Lankan government have explained to the Indian government that both governments have only economic and commercial interests.
Moreover, the Sri Lankan government has taken the precaution of including the necessary conditions in the agreements with China to ensure that the Sri Lankan soil will not be used by China against the interests of India or any other country.
Sri Lankas policy has been to remain non-aligned to Big Powers and to obtain assistance from all countries which are prepared to support the Sri Lankan government for completing the planned massive development projects.
==============================
## Title: New railway engines and power sets from India
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
New railway engines and power sets from India
The Sri Lanka Railways will purchase 10 new Railway engines and six power sets from India under an Indian credit line.
The MOU for the purchase of these engines and power sets manufactured in India was signed by General Manager of Railways B.A.P. Ariyaratne and Executive Director of the Indian government owned production company RITES Puneet Kumar in the presence of Indian High Commission's Economic Affairs Consul Suja K. Menon recently, a press release by the Transport and Civil Aviation Ministry said.
US $ 42 million has been granted in respect of the 10 engines and US $ 58 million for the six power sets under the Indian credit line.
GMR B.A.P. Ariyaratne said the Railways Department decided to make the purchase since nearly 55 percent of the department's engines were about 30 year old and about 250 compartments were nearly 25 years old.
The new engines and power sets are built by the Indian government owned RITES company. The engines are up to European technological standards. The engines and power sets built in association with Sri Lanka Railway engineers according to Sri Lanka specifications could be obtained within one and a half years.
Indian High Commission's Economic Affairs Consul Menon said further strengthening age old ties between India and Sri Lanka, the Indian government will provide concessionary loans to develop the Sri Lanka transport sector. India would come forward to assist in the rehabilitation of rail tracks, repair of old engines, of railway maintenance factories and yards, moderation of signal systems and replacement of old bridges.
Railway Additional General Managers, A.C. Abeywickrama and Dilantha Fernando were also present.
==============================
## Title: New Zealand Minister leads  business delegation to SL
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
New Zealand Minister leads  business delegation to SL
New Zealand Minister, David Bennett is leading a business delegation of 14 New Zealand companies to further strengthen business links between the two countries.
New Zealand Trade and Enterprise, with support from The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, is hosting the New Zealand business delegation from a range of industries such as aviation, technology, healthcare and construction.
 Its an exciting time for New Zealand companies to be doing business with Sri Lanka as our relations with this island country go from strength to strength. Im pleased to be here alongside such an innovative and diverse range of New Zealand business leaders, said Tony Martin, Regional Director, India, Middle East and Africa for New Zealand Trade and Enterprise.
Its encouraging to see more New Zealand companies looking to explore business partnerships in Sri Lanka to build on the current $308 million two-way trade between our two countries, Martin said.
Sri Lanka is New Zealands 23rd largest goods export market and is worth NZD$ 254 million. New Zealand is Sri Lankas 54th largest goods export market worth NZD$ 55 million.
New Zealands top exports to Sri Lanka are milk powder, butter and fruit. Sri Lankas top exports to New Zealand are tea, retreaded tyres and gloves.
The following New Zealand companies are visiting Sri Lanka as part of the business delegation: Staah, Tait Communications, Vista, Powershield, Aeroqual, Framecad, Pan Pac Forest Products Limited, Color Communications, Precision Medicine International Limited, Pictor, Fisher and Paykel Healthcare, Syft Technologies and International Aviation Academy of New Zealand.
==============================
## Title: Newly constructed Lahugala Divisional Secretariat building complex opened
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Newly constructed Lahugala Divisional Secretariat building complex opened
The newly constructed Lahugala Divisional Secretariat building complex at a cost of Rs. 4.1 million was declared opened by Home Affairs Minister Vajira Abewardhana on Friday.
Petroleum and Petroleum Gas Deputy Minister Anoma Gamage, Home Affairs Ministry Secretary Neel De Alwis, Ampara District Secretary Thusitha P. Wanigasingha, Additional District Secretary K.Wimalanathan, Lahugala Divisional Secretary L.A. Somaratna, and Departmental Heads participated at the event.
==============================
## Title: Next Campus offers suite of industry relevant qualifications by Birmingham City University
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Next Campus offers suite of industry relevant qualifications by Birmingham City University
Having a portfolio of partnerships with a number of top universities in the UK, Next Campus now offers a suite of qualifications from the prestigious Birmingham City University UK.
Birmingham City University is a 174 year old university and one of the largest in the UK , with around 25,000 students from 80 different countries. The University is well respected in the UK industries with majority of the BCU programs having relevant industry accreditations. The Universitys international appeal has been acknowledged by winning the prestigious Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Award in 2011.
International MBA: The statement a World without borders has never been truer that it is today. Liberalized economic policies and free trade agreements have increased the chances of Sri Lankans working extensively with the rest of the world.
With enhanced focus on Internationalization of Business, the International MBA from BCU is the perfect program for those who are looking to grow in their careers. With 10 modules and a dissertation, the MBA covers subjects such as Innovation & Change, Entrepreneurship and International Management, in addition to the standard MBA modules.
MSc Logistics & Supply Chain Management; The highest qualification in Supply Chain Management, available in the country, the MSc Logistics Supply Chain Management is a much sought after course among the Supply Chain Professionals of Sri Lanka. The Masters degree, with a curriculum that is updated every year, covers the most recent developments and trends in Supply Chain in the world.
The MSc in Logistics & Supply Chain is also accredited by Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport UK (CILT - UK) which enables students who complete the MSc to obtain full membership, effectively making the MSc Logistics & Supply Chain, a 2-1 qualification!
MSc Project Management ; With a predicted 15 million jobs being available in Project Management by 2020 (PMI White Paper, 2014), MSc Project Management is one of the most sought after qualifications in the world.
The BCU MSc in Project Management is a conversion course that allows anyone from any discipline, whether a IT Professional or a Marketer or a Doctor or a Merchandiser to obtain a qualification in Project Management. As with most BCU Degrees the MSc in Project Management is accredited by the Association of Project Management UK (APM, UK).
BA (Hons) in Business Administration; An exciting one-year program, designed for young adults between the ages of 21 - 27, the BA (Hons) in Business Administration (BABA) is a great program for those who missed out on enrolling for a degree. This program is also ideal for those who have completed a professional qualification that is equivalent to the first 2 years of a degree.
==============================
## Title: obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
obituaries
DE SILVA - LORRAINE (Librarian St. Josephs College, Colombo 10). Beloved wife of Tony (P Mathew and Company), loving mother of Tracy (Gabo Travels) and Tania (Bankhill Educare), beloved sister of Desmond and Neville Kroon, expired 3rd March 2017. The funeral was held on Sunday 5th March at St. John Dal Bastone Cemetery, Pelawatte, No. 1/H/6, Jayawardanagama, Battaramulla.030320
DISSANAYAKE - MERVYN PATRICK - Retired Engineer Railway Department. Beloved husband of Marian, precious father of Rosianne, Genevieve, Dinesh and Deshan, loving father-in-law of Jude, George, Shamalene and Nilmini, grandfather of Lyendra, Hiruni, Maldini, Lahiru, Dinimali, Malintha and Trishan, loving brother of late Justin and Philomina, brother-in-law of Sybil, late Oswin, late Sextus, Ranjie, late Christo, Christine, Noeline, Kingsley, Bede, Trisette, expired. Cortege leaves residence No. 150, Maligatenna for burial at Roman Catholic Cemetery Ilukwatta, Kadugannawa on Monday 6th of March at 3.30 p.m.030294
JAYASINGHE - SHELTON (Smart Western Trailors). Husband of Chitra Jayasinghe, father of Asha Wijesekera and Punya Ranasinghe, father-in-law of Ashoka Wijesekera and Ishant Tandon, grandfather of Nuwani Ranasinghe, Nuvin Ranasinghe and Sathyyanage Wijesekera passed away at the age 77. Cortege will be leaving residence on 6th of March 2017 to Nisala Arana Cemetery, Kohuwala at 5.00 p.m. Contact No. Asha Wijesekera 071 7130139.030321
PRASANNA - RATNAWARDENE Teacher at St. Marys College, Kegalle (former) and Thalangama Central. Beloved husband of Shiranthi (Kegalu Vidyalaya) and father of Shehan, at rest with Jesus. Remains lie at House, Yatagama. Burial at family burial ground at Yatagama, Rambukkana at 3.00 p.m. on 06th March (Monday).030272
RANASINGHE - MRS. TECLA - (Retired Teacher - Christ King College, Tudella). Beloved wife of (late) Basil Dias, loving mother of Prasantha (St. Anthonys Auto Service - Kattuwa), Dr. Shirantha (Base Hospital - Gampaha), Chrishantha (Superintendent - Chilaw Plantations), Sujeewa (Staff - St. Peters College, Colombo - 04), mother-in-law of Chulani (Staff, Holy Cross College, Gampaha), Manik (Staff-Holy Family Convent, Colombo - 04), Dammika, Nilruwan Fernando (Tech One Pvt. Ltd.), grandmother of Dinidha, Isindu, Minindu, Sineri, Prahith, Maneesha and Shalindi, passed away. Cortege leaves on Monday the 06th of March 2017 at 4.00 p.m. from No. 27, Fatima Road, Kanuwana, Ja-ela for burial at Roman Catholic Cemetery, Kanuwana, Ja-ela.030289
SUBASINGHE - DOCTOR HENRY. - Retired Director, Department of Animal Production and Health, beloved husband of Kamala Subasinghe, father of Udeni and late Senaka, father-in-law of Palitha, grandfather of Anushka and Purni, uncle of Pradeep and Senani (Bake House Colombo). Remains lie at the Jayaratne Funeral Parlour from 5th, 8 a.m. to 6th evening. Cremation on 06th March 2017 at 4.00 p.m. at General Cemetery, Borella. (No. 32/16, Sangaraja Mawatha, Kandy).028792
WIJERATNE - BULATHSINHALAGE CHANDRA MALLIKA. Dearly beloved wife of late Dr. Hector Wijeratne, loving mother of Srimathi, Manel, Ranjani, Damayanthi and Nirmali, mother-in-law of Mahinda Illangage, Deepal (Chico), Guneratna, Amitha De Fonseka, late Dr. Chandra Waidyasekera and late Ranjith Cooray, beloved grandmother of Buveendra and Siroshni, Banuji, Sashen and Eshantha, Tanushka and Thuresh, Arjuna and Kishani, Romesh, Dinesh, Tinesh and Sadish, viewing from 9.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. at the Jayaratne Funeral Parlour from Monday to Wednesday. Cortege leaves the funeral palour at 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday March 8th for cremation at 3.00 p.m. at Borella Kanatte.030319
PERERA - SHELTON, Called to eternal Rest. Beloved husband of W.D. Merle, father of Ronali & Rev. Sister Dinalika (RGS), father-in-law of Gehan Dias, grandfather of Lindy & Michelle, brother of Derrick, Concy, Ivy, Christable (Canada), Anton & Moureen, brother-in-law of W.D. Canisius (Cannys), W.D. Nihal, Hilary (Don & Sons), Nimalka, Shirani & Genevive. Cortege leaves residence No. 16B, St. Judes Road, Ederamulla, Wattala on Tuesday 7th March at 4.00 p.m. for service at St. Sebastians Church, Ederamulla followed by burial at Church cemetery grounds.030322

==============================
## Title: In pain Read a book
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
In pain Read a book
Reading has long been known for its entertainment value. But researchers now believe that it could also help to treat chronic pain for millions of people.
Regularly consuming literature has similar effects to the brain as the popular cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), scientists claim.By triggering older, happier memories, books can help those plagued by discomfort to forget the pain they are currently in.
Researchers from the University of Liverpool assessed the impact of reading on various groups.
They compared those who enjoyed literature as part of a group - known as shared reading - to those undergoing CBT.
They found that shared reading allowed those to recall positive memories from their time before suffering from pain.
This is because it encourages the brain to send new, pain-free messages back to the body, according to the study published in the BMJ Journal for Medical Humanities.
While CBT allowed participants to exchange personal histories of living with chronic pain, allowing them some form of relief.
Study author Dr Josie Billington said: Our study indicated that shared reading could potentially be an alternative to CBT in bringing into conscious awareness areas of emotional pain otherwise passively suffered by chronic pain patients.
Meditation is more effective than medication at easing chronic lower back pain, researchers found last year.
While meditation is practised to calm the mind, the technique of quietening the mind could be used by some to help alleviate pain.
Training the brain to respond differently to pain signals may be an effective pain relief tool, the authors from the Group Health Research Institute said.
The encouragement of greater confrontation and tolerance of emotional difficulty that sharing reading provides makes it valuable as a longer-term follow-up or adjunct to CBTs concentration on short-term management of emotion.
The analysis comes shortly after it was revealed that people are more likely to suffer chronic pain if they havent got a university degree.
Researchers from the University of Buffalo studied more than 19,000 participants over the age of 51.
In addition to their initial findings, they discovered that increasing numbers of people are showing pain symptoms than ever before.
They also found that people with the least education are 80 per cent more likely to experience chronic pain than people with the most. -Daily Mail
==============================
## Title: Painkillers and back pain
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Painkillers and back pain
Back pain affects pretty well everyone at some stage or another, and many people turn to painkillers as the first line of treatment. But is time the greatest healer
Woman with back pain.
Almost everyone gets back pain. Its as inevitable as paying taxes and death. But at least you can take painkillers, right Except that the American College of Physicians (ACP) has announced that drugs should no longer be the first line of treatment.
Instead of reaching for paracetamol or ibuprofen, you should try treatment such as heat (superficial), massage or acupuncture. Codeine (with paracetamol) and the occasional diazepam are particularly frowned upon because they carry the risk of addiction.
Of course, times change: I remember patients with back pain regularly arriving by ambulance to be strapped on to beds with traction devices. Antidepressant drugs, just as antiquated a treatment, are now rejected by the ACP as being no more effective than placebos.
The solution
Acute back pain usually lasts less than four weeks  if it persists for more than 12, then it becomes chronic. Up to 30% of us will have low back pain a year after having an initial attack. What the ACP stresses is that most people with back pain get better, regardless of treatment. Doctors should therefore avoid any tests and treatments that could cause harm.
The ACPs recommendations are based on a thorough review of the evidence  but the research is often poor. Massage and acupuncture are recommended based on low-quality evidence and the health watchdog Nice takes the opposite view, stating: Do not offer acupuncture for managing low back pain. Both Nice and the ACP suggest trying spinal manipulation, although Nice only recommends it as part of a treatment package that includes of exercise and psychological therapy. The research is weak on whether heat helps, but anyone with back pain can probably testify to the benefit of a hot water bottle.
If nothing else works  and the passing of time has the most evidence going for it  the ACP suggests non-steroidal anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen. You could also try a Smartie: earlier this month, research showed ibuprofen was not much better than a placebo for relieving back pain. Ibuprofen is also, unfortunately, good at causing gastric problems such as inflammation of the stomach and ulcers. Paracetamol is also no better than placebo for helping back pain.
Nice says it is reasonable to try weak opioids for acute pain if ibuprofen does not work or is too risky. For chronic pain, the ACP recommends exercise, acupuncture (again) and mindfulness, as well as tai chi and yoga. For sciatica, where a nerve root is compressed in the spine, there is little evidence that any interventions help a lot.
Nice stresses the importance of exercise, psychological therapies and for people to continue with normal activities. Anyone with chronic back pain will know there is no magic bullet. These latest recommendations focus on not making things worse.
-the Guardian
==============================
## Title: Pakistani mans tricky heroin smuggling attempt fails
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Pakistani mans tricky heroin smuggling attempt fails
The Police Narcotics Bureau on Saturday arrested a Pakistani national who attempted to smuggle-in heroin worth Rs.30 million using a novel method.
According to the Police, the heroin had been mixed with rubber carpets. The carpets had been created mixing two layers of rubber and one layer of drugs. The Police said it was difficult to detect the drug with a preliminary inspection. The drug, according to the Police, can only be consumed after setting the carpet alight. The heroin is sold to customers as pieces of the carpet.
The 25-year-old Pakistani national had arrived from a middle eastern country. He was arrested on a tip-off.
The Police said three carpets he had contained heroin weighing 5.5 kilograms. He was produced before the Negombo Magistrates Court and was remanded until March 11.
==============================
## Title: Park that boosts countrys agro industry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Park that boosts countrys agro industry
The first ever agro technology park in Sri Lanka, Chamal Rajapaksa Agro Technology Park, at Bata Attha, Hungama in the Hambantota district was set up by the Information and Communication Centre of the Department of Agriculture under the initiative of the then Agriculture Minister, Chamal Rajapaksa
OIC of the park K.R.W. Keerthi said the park was set up to provide knowledge and new technologies of farming to the farming community and to make the tourists aware of the traditional techniques that ancient Sri Lankans used in farming.
He said farmers in paddy farming are given training in new farming technologies at the park.
An orchard can be seen in the park where native plants such as veralu, uguressa, madan, hibatu, galsiyabala, anoda, and nelli grow. Papaya, mangoes, pineapples, and rabutan plants are also seen at the orchard.
Keerthi said a model of traditional chena cultivation was set up where maize, cowpea, and kurakkan are cultivated right throughout the year. Not only from the Hambantota district, but from the adjoining districts, farmers value the service they receive from the park very much, Keerthi said.
==============================
## Title: Park wins Champions tournament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Park wins Champions tournament
SINGAPORE: South Korea's Park In-Bee produced a putting masterclass to win the LPGA's Women's Champions tournament Sunday after overnight leader Michelle Wie blew her chances when she four-putted for double bogey.
Park shot a superb final round of eight-under 64 to finish at 19-under 269 and capture her first title since her gold medal at last year's Rio Olympics.
Ariya Jutanugarn of Thailand finished second at 18-under after closing with a 66 while rising South Korean star Park Sung-Hyun was third on 16-under after a final-round 68.
Wie led by two strokes after birdieing the third and fourth holes but lost her place at the top of the leaderboard when she four-putted from within 12 feet for a double-bogey 7 on the par-5th.
The American closed with a 72 to finish tied for fourth at 14-under alongside Canada's Brooke Henderson (66) and last year's winner Jang Ha-Na (69).
The world number one Lydia Ko also shot 72 in her last round to end up in joint ninth.
Park was playing just her second tournament after taking a six-month break to recover from a thumb injury. But she showed no signs of rustiness as she reeled off nine birdies in 13 holes between the 5th and 17th holes to open up a decisive gap over a star-studded field featuring 19 of the world's top 20 players.
The seven-time major winner knocked in an astonishing sequence of long putts, including one from almost 30 feet on the 17th that proved decisive, to capture her 27th professional title, her 18th on the LPGA Tour and her second in Singapore.
She made her only bogey of the day on the 18th when she hit her approach into a greenside bunker, but still managed to break the course record at the new Tanjong layout at the Sentosa Golf Club.
My putting was amazing today, obviously, Park said. Yesterday I was really disappointed with my putter. I couldn't make any putts yesterday and obviously I made up for it today.
Pretty much everything I looked at wanted to drop in. Jutanugarn, the world number two and reigning British Women's Open champion, was level with Park after 10 holes but could not match the South Korean's hot run on the back nine.
I had so much fun playing playing with In-Bee. She's awesome. She's the best player, said Jutanugarn.
I learnt a lot from her. She's very calm. I feel like she makes every putt.
I don't think she missed one today. Park, playing in the penultimate group with Jutanugarn and Jang, had to endure a longer than expected wait before receiving her winner's trophy when play was halted just moments after she finished her round.
Organisers ordered play to be stopped because of lightning in the area, with just the final grouping of Sung, Wie and Ko still on the course butout of contention.
==============================
## Title: Pilliyan further remanded till March 20
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 13:45
Pilliyan further remanded till March 20

Former Eastern Province Chief Minister Shivanesathurai Chandrakanthan alias Pilliyanwas further remanded today (6) till March 20.
The order was made by the Batticaloa Magistrate S. Ganeshan.
==============================
## Title: Pining for Picasso
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Pining for Picasso
A 10-month-old dog named Picasso is exiting a very blue period in his life, thanks to an Oregon dog rescue group.
Picasso, a pitbull-terrier mix, was born with a facial deformity that makes it look as if his snout is going right while his jaw goes left.
Liesl Wilhardt with Picasso
Except for a misaligned upper canine that digs into the gums of the lower jaw, Picasso is healthy, according to Liesl Wilhardt, executive director of Luvable Dog Rescue, located just outside of Eugene.
He can eat sideways, but hes a very messy eater, she told HuffPost. Same with water.
Picasso was a part of a litter of five puppies born last year in Porterville, California, by a backyard breeder. But the breeder was unable to sell Picasso and Pablo, and they were both taken to the Porterville Animal Shelter. Both dogs were close to being euthanized before Wilhardt found out about them from Shannon Corbit, a volunteer at the shelter.
I asked her if she had any dogs with special needs, because I felt we could take some on, Wilhardt told HuffPost. She said, Yeah, theres a dog with a facial deformity, and I fell in love with his picture. When Wilhardt found out both Picasso and Pablo were on the shelters euthanasia list, she immediately adopted them.
That was two weeks ago. Since then, Picassos unique features have made him a viral sensation.
Luckily, most of his deformity is cosmetic.
His jaw is fine, the deformity is in the top part of his nose, she said. The jaw hinge is not deformed. He can open it normally. Nevertheless, there are plans to have a tooth removed in the near future to remove that upper canine. Once Picassos tooth is fixed, he and Pablo will be put up for adoption as a duo. They are very attached, she said.
The term bonded is over-used with dogs, but these two have come to rely on each other for security comfort and support. Wilhardt says both dogs are perfect for an active family with older kids. Picasso is outgoing, happy, curious and loving, she said.
Hes so unaware of how different he is.
The Huffington Post
==============================
## Title: President Sirisena leaves for Indonesia today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
President Sirisena leaves for Indonesia today
President Maithripala Sirisena will leave for Indonesia today to attend the Leaders Summit of the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) commencing on March 7.
The President is expected to arrive at the International Airport in Jakarta at 2 p.m. today (06) to attend the summit which takes place under the theme Strengthening Maritime Cooperation for a Peaceful, Stable, and Prosperous Indian Ocean.
The Summit will bring together the Leaders of the 21 IORA Member States and its 7 Dialogue Partners as well as other special invitees and guests.
On the sidelines of the IORA meetings, Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera will hold bilateral discussions with his counterparts from IORA member countries.
IORA is a regional forum which aims to facilitate and promote economic co-operation in the Indian Ocean Region. Sri Lanka was a founder member of the IOR-ARC and hosted the 4th and 5th Council of Ministers Meeting in 2003 and 2004 in Colombo.
Currently 21 countries are members of the IORA along with seven dialogue partners.
The meeting will focus on IORAs objectives and priority areas including Maritime safety and security, Trade and investment facilitation, Fisheries management, Disaster risk management Academic, Science and Technology Cooperation and Tourism and Cultural exchanges.
Following the conclusion of Leaders Summit, President Sirisena will pay his first state visit to Indonesia as the Sri Lankan Head of State. During the state visit, the two countries are expected to sign several bilateral agreements on a wide range of matters.
==============================
## Title: Rasanjana excels in drawn game
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Rasanjana excels in drawn game
Nalandas stylish left-hander Lakshitha Rasanjana scored a magnificent century and Kasun Sandaruwan a half century at the 88th Battle of the Maroons cricket encounter against Ananda College that ended in a draw at the SSC grounds yesterday.
Nalanda who were dismissed for a paltry 144 put up a better display of batting in their second innings to finish on 280 for four wickets with Rasanjanas innings being the highlight and his unbroken century partnership with Sandaruwan that put paid to any chance Ananda had of pressing for a win.
Ananda resuming at their overnight score of 160-5 took a first innings lead of 46 when they declared at 190-8 losing three wickets within the first hour to paceman Kalana Perera who scalped the prize wicket of Sri Lanka under 19 cricketer Sammu Ashan for 67.
Perera and Asel Kulatunga claimed three wickets each for 35 and 47 runs respectively.
Nalanda lost the wickets of Avishka Perera (7) and Malinga Amarasinghe (21) before the first innings deficit was wiped out.
However a brilliant 90 runs partnership for the fourth wicket between Rasanjana and Suhanga Wijewardene followed by the formers association with Sandaruwan put Nalanda out of danger. Wijewardene scored 44 including 3 fours and a six. Sandaruwan built a strong 111 partnership with Rasanjana to take Nalanda to their final total before the match ended.
Rasanjanas brilliant knock of 113 not out included 11 fours and a six while Sandaruwans splendid 50 comprised 5 fours. Rasanjana was fortunate to be let off at 90 by Anandas vice captain Dileepa Jayalath.
The Man of the Match and the Best Batsman award was won by Rasanjana and the Best Fielder award went to Asela Kulatunge also of Nalanda. Ananda skipper Avishka Anjula bagged the Best Bowlers award.
Nalandian Laksitha Rasanjana celebrates after the scoring a century in the 88th Battle of theMaroons cricket match against Ananda College at the SSC grounds yesterday.Pix by Saman Sri Wedage 
==============================
## Title: Ravi renews challenge to MR
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Ravi renews challenge to MR
A former President who has been accused of exploiting the controversial bond issue should go before Court. His proxies have nothing to do with it, Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake said.
Responding to a statement by MP MP Bandula Gunawardana, Finance Minister Karunanayake renewed his challenge to the former President during a media briefing at the Finance Ministry recently.
MP Gunawardana said earlier that he would go to Courts on behalf of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa.
Minister Karunanayake said: "If Bandula Gunawardana or Prof. G.L. Peries who held portfolios in the previous government are preparing to go to Court, there is no meaning in the attempt.
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said recently that he would take legal action against the allegations that he acted dishonestly in issuing treasury bonds. Responding to his statement, Minister Karunanayake challenged the former President to go to Courts against the allegations if he has guts to do so.
I challenged former President Rajapaksa to go to Court if the allegations against him are wrong. He said he would go. Statements by Bandula Gunawardana and G.L. Peries to answer the issue on behalf of Rajapaksa would not be acceptable. Rajapaksa, as the previous Finance Minister is responsible for the signatures which endorsed those gazette notifications," Minister Karunanayake said.
==============================
## Title: Right to equal justice
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Right to equal justice
Judicial Activism is a device to accomplish the cherished goal of social justice. Social justice is achieved not by lawlessness process, but legally turned affirmative action, activist justicing and benign interpretation within the parameters of law. It suggests that the process to secure social justice needs adherence to the discipline of law and to operate within circumference of the body of laws. It emphasizes for positive action under law.
A Bill of Rights which is a fundamental feature of the modern written constitutions is not a self-executing instrument thereby requiring judicial activism for its reality. The ideological scheme involving justiciable issues to which many post colonial constitutions including Sri Lanka and India were victims led to the recognition of civil and political rights as justiciable rights over the Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ESCR).
The judicial creativity pioneered by the Indian Supreme Court and followed by Sri Lankan Supreme Court facilitated the transition of the right to education and some of the ESC Rights from their non-justiciable constitutional status of the Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP) to that of justiciable rights. Equality provisions of the Constitution also served as a source of judicial activism for this transition. This study recommends the incorporation of judicial review of legislation and justiciable ESC Rights including the right to education in the proposed Constitution for the proper constitutional governance.
Inequality of educational opportunity
The concept of Human Rights gathers strength from year to year, takes root in the consciousness of people of the most diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds and reflects itself increasingly in the legal systems of many nations.
Human rights epitomize a complex, interactive, dialectical and yet unfortunately volatile relationship between people and their States. Both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the Vienna Declaration of 1993 have reaffirmed indivisibility of human rights.
In Sri Lanka a number of education reforms have been introduced with a view to increasing the volume of output and improving the quality of the output of the educational system. However, there exists an inequality of educational opportunity available to children from the rural area, the urban slums and disadvantaged regions. There are serious disparities in terms of physical facilities between schools situated in rural, remote disadvantaged areas.
This situation greatly affects the quality of education and the retention of students in schools. A related fact to notice that Great One admissions have become a controversial issue and matters came to a head recently with the interdiction of several school officials at popular national schools.
It was noted in the media that there have been persistent allegations of malpractices and corruptions in school admissions and the government has decided to investigate the process at several schools.
The present governments effort in making the school in the heighbourhood the best school is phraseworthy and should be equitably realized.
Therefore just providing for equality of opportunity for all students without rectifying disparities specially in terms of facilities in schools, in another words an objective of formal equality is totally inadequate in Sri Lanka. A concrete effort towards substantive equality in terms of affirmative action is therefore essential. Towards this end positive judicial approach, so called judicial activism as far the role of the judiciary is concerned, specially in the absence of appropriate legislative measures in bridging the gap could also play a substantial role.
International Legal Regime on Human Right to Education and Equality
Economic and social rights are found as part and parcel in many international instruments, universal and regional.
Among the universal instruments adopted by the United Nations are the following: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) (1948), International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) (1966), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (1963), and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (1979).
The misconceptions about the enforcement and justiciability of economic, social and cultural rights have been out to rest now by the General Comments of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Limburg Principles on the Implementation of the ICESCR (Limburg Principles) (1986) and the Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (Maastricht Guidelines) (1997).
The right to education is recognized in Article 26 of the UDHR. This Article contains three paragraphs. In terms of Article 26 (1), everyone has the right to education which shall be free at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Article 26 (1) also provides that technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
Article 26 (2) of the UDHR prescribes the standards and objects for the content of education. Firstly, education should reflect the development of the human personality and stresses the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Secondly, it should promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations racial or religious groups.
Thirdly, education should further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. In terms of Article 26 (3), the UDHR recognizes the parents prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.
A similar provision is contained in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This Covenant recognizes the right to education and stipulates that education should be purposive and directed to the full development of the human personality and the sense of its dignity.
In order to realize this right, primary education should be free and compulsory; secondary education in its various forms should be made generally available and accessible to all by every appropriate means and by the progressive introduction of free education. Similarly, higher education should be made accessible to all on the basis of ability and by the progressive introduction of free education.
With regard to equality, in the United Nations Charter of 1945, faith is affirmed in the equal rights of men and women (Preamble). Preamble of the UDHR also recalls the reference in the preamble of the UN Charter to the equal rights of men and women.
In the two Covenants namely, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) the tradition of the UDHR is followed at least in the beginning. Part II of the two Covenants contains a rule of non-discrimination which largely follows Article 2 of the UDHR. Article 2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) embodies the principle of non-discrimination. Article 2(1) (d) of the Convention on Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) and Article 2(b) (e)and (f) of Convention on Elimination of Discrimination against Women require the State to bring an end to discrimination by any person, group or organisation.
The General Conference of the UNESCO unanimously adopted the Convention on Discrimination in Education and a Recommendation in 1960. This Convention which is comparatively short and simple, contains undertakings to eliminate and prevent discrimination in education based on race, sex, language, religion and other grounds. Article 2 of the Convention allowed for situations which when permitted in a State should not be deemed to constitute discrimination. Thus, the establishment and maintenance of separate but equal educational systems for the two sexes were permitted provided that there really was equivalent access and equally well qualified staff and the same or equivalent courses of study.
US Constitution and the Right to Education
In America, where to the origin of equal protection can be traced, the 14th Amendment which became law in 1868, states in section I that No State shall  deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. The Amendment was primarily motivated by the need to protect the Negroes from racial discrimination. But with the passage of time, the Amendment was used to protect any individual or class of persons from discrimination.
One important case in the field of admission to higher education decided by the US Supreme Court is Regents of University of California v Bakke. In this case the constitutionality of a special admissions programme of the Medical School Davis, which was designed to assure the admission of a specified number of students from certain minority groups came out. The Justices were deeply divided on key issues. Five of the nine Judges held the programme was unconstitutional.
In the programmes at Davis sixteen places in each entering class of one hundred were reserved for minorities. There were two admission programmes - a regular programme and a special programme. Under the regular programme, candidates with undergraduate grade point averages below 2.5 were summarily rejected. This cut-off point did not apply to the special programme which was reserved for minorities. Bakke, a while applicant was rejected both in 1973 and 1974 although his achievements were significantly higher than some applicants who were admitted under the special programme. The Court dealt with the purposes that the special admission programme purported to serve and which the University claimed served an important governmental objective. It held that the Constitution forbade a purpose that sought to assure within the student body some specified percentage of a particular racial group.
A classification that aids persons of a relatively victimized group at the expense of other innocent individuals would not be approved unless there are judicial, legislative or administrative findings of such victimization and its extent and the remedial action proposed inflicts the least possible harm to such innocent persons competing for the benefit. In the instant case there were no such findings. With regard to another stated purpose, that of improving the delivery of health care services to communities currently underserved, the Court held that the preferential classification was not shown to have such effect.
The Court held that the attainment of a diverse student body was a permissible goal and went on to examine the question whether the classification under test was necessary to promote that goal. The majority refused to accept the argument that a racial quota was the only effective means of serving the interest of diversity. The diversity that furthers a compelling state interest encompasses a far broader array of qualifications and characteristic of which racial or ethnic origin is but a single though important element. However, the special programme at Davis focused solely on ethnic diversity and this would hinder rather than further the attainment genuine diversity.
The assignment of a fixed number of places to a minority group is not a necessary means towards achieving diversity, the Court stated. The admission programme at Harvard was held up as a model. At Harvard, a committee reviews the large middle group of applicants who are admissible and deemed capable of doing good work in their course and the race of an applicant may tip the balance in his favour just as geographic origin or a life spent on a farm may tip the balance in other candidates cases.
There are no target quotas, say, for black musicians, foot ball players or Californians but attention is paid, with a number of criteria in mind, to distribution of places among many types and categories of students. Such a programme, the Court stated, was flexible enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifications of each applicant, and to place them on the same footing for consideration, although not necessarily according them the same weight. Further, the weight attributed to a particular quality may vary from year to year.
It was held that since the special programme at Davis totally excluded whites from a specific percentage of places while preferred applicants had the opportunity to compete for every place, it had to be struck down as violating the Equal Protection Clause.
The four Judges who formed the minority on the question of the constitutionality of the special admission programme upheld Davis special programme. The programme they said, did not operate to stigmatize or single out any discrete and insular, or even an unidenfiable, non- minority group. It did not establish an exclusive preserve for minority students. Its purpose was to overcome the effects of segregation by bring the races together. Although whites were excluded from the special programme, that only operated to reduce the number of whites to be admitted in the regular programme in order to permit admission of a reasonable percentage. (less than their proportion in California where Negroes and Chicknos made up 22% of the population) of otherwise under represented, qualified minority applicants.
The minority Judges took the view that the special programme was not unconstitutional merely because there was a pre - determined quota for disadvantaged minority applicants instead of using minority status as a positive factor to be considered in evaluating their applications. For purposes of constitutional adjudication, there is no difference between the two approaches.
A determination of the degree of preference to be given to disadvantaged minorities is unavoidable and this depends on how many minority applicants a particular school is seeking to admit in a particular year as long as the number of qualified minority applicants exceeds that number.
In Bakke, the Supreme Court enjoined Davis from ever considering race of an applicant. However, five out of nine Judges of the US Federal Supreme Court reversed this finding. They stated : A case by case inquiry into the extent to which each individual applicant has been affected, either directly or indirectly by racial discrimination, would seem to be, as a practical matter, virtually impossible, despite the fact that there are excellent reasons for concluding that such effects generally exists. When individual measurement is impossible or extremely impractical, there is nothing to prevent a State from using a categorical means to achieve its ends, at least where the category is closely related to the goal.
It is submitted that on the question of constitutionality of the reservation of quotas for admissions, the minority view in Bakke is to be preferred. In the opinion of the court race may be deemed a plus in a particular applicants file but a quota was not to be permitted. It is submitted that even so, the admitting authority has to decide on the weight age given to a plus. That weight age would be determined with a view to increase the representation of the minority concerned. The authority would have a certain minimum level of representation in mind.
This minimum level will not be arbitrarily selected. It is further submitted that in arriving at the minimum level sought to achieve the authority would normally consider the same factors that it would consider if it was called upon to decide on a quota. As the minority in Bakke correctly stated, there is a no constitutional distinction between the two processes.
==============================
## Title: Rock falls on woman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Rock falls on woman
A 63-year-old woman named T.G. Leelawathi of Ambalawa was injured and admitted to Hemmatagama hospital when a rock slid from a mound of earth removed by a backhoe machine, engaged in the Mawanelle Gampola road widening project, fell on her head as she was passing the spot at Hemmatagama on Saturday.
She was transferred to Gampola hospital as she was complaining of pain in the head, Hemmatagama hospital Chief Medical Officer M.J.D.B. Fernando said.
==============================
## Title: RPC investments top Rs 70 billion between 1992 to 2016
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
RPC investments top Rs 70 billion between 1992 to 2016
In recognition of its 150th year of Ceylon Tea, the Planters Association of Ceylon released a comprehensive list of the most recently available corporate sector data on the tea industry with a view towards providing a more comprehensive understanding of the present state of the countrys regional plantation companies and their contribution to the wider economy.
According to the latest RPC data, Estate Crop production for tea stood at 79.1 million kgs, while bought crop accounted for a further 23.9 million kgs, with cultivated extend for VP tea accounting for 37,353 hectares, while seedling tea accounted for a further 31,894 hectares at the end of 2016.
Commenting on the Associations latest release of information, PA Chairman, Sunil Poholiyadde stated:As we reach another major milestone for Ceylon Tea, our Association believes it is imperative that we work together with all stakeholders to develop a clearer understanding of the present status and future trajectory of the Plantation industry.
While our Association has maintained impeccable records detailing every aspect of production, with 150 years of rich history behind us, we believe that this data should now be utilized to generate fresh insights into the performance of the RPCs, their immense contribution to the Sri Lankan economy to date and potential strategic frameworks that could serve to re-invigorate the industry and power its growth for another 150 years and more. He added that a further announcement on this subject could be expected from the PA in the coming months.
Despite continuing hardships arising out of adverse weather conditions, diminishing availability of labour and significant declines in commodity prices, RPCs continued their investments into the estate sector as evidenced by cumulative investments by RPCs reaching Rs. 70 billion between 1992 and 2016.
During this same period, RPCs contributed substantially toward Government revenue through lease rentals which stood at Rs. 6.69 billion, income tax which accounted for a further Rs. 1.72 billion while dividends were also released to Sri Lankan shareholders over the period from privatization amounting to a total value of Rs. 8.17 billion.
The RPC sector has also led the way in terms of replanting, accounting for 24,575 hectares out of a total 36,766 hectares of replanted tea in the RPC Estates of Sri Lanka. Including RPC rubber plantations, the sectors new planting and re-planting has covered an extent of 37,971 hectares while the RPCs lost a further 4,420 hectares of land to acquisitions by the State and others.
The percentage of replanting/new planting in both Tea and Rubber in the RPCs easily surpasses the percentage rate of replanting in both the Tea Smallholder and Rubber Smallholder sectors, both of which receive extensive subsidies, financial assistance and other benefits from the state.
Total labour in the RPC sector as at the end of 2016 comprised of 67,021 male employees and 87,495 female employees.The RPC sector continues to provide comprehensive healthcare and other welfare services such as prenatal care to expectant mothers and total custodial child care up to 5 years for all the children of its employees while providing other facilities and amenities to their dependents as well,It is currently estimated that the total beneficiaries of RPC welfare programmes are in excess of 1 million.
Since privatisation, significant and marked improvements to the health status of RPC employees have been recorded where some indicators have performed better than National averages. The Poverty Head Count in the Estate sector as a whole has declined from a height of 38.4 PHC at the time of privatization. The Nuwara Eliya District where 62% of its population is RPC community has a Poverty Head Count of only 6.6 which is even better than the National Average of 6.7.
In addition to its leading role in terms of production, replanting and welfare, the RPC sector has also consistently promoted the adoption of the most stringent agricultural standards and practices, particularly through the adoption of international quality certifications.
At present, there are 688 International certifications for 297 RPC factories including HACCP, ISO 22000, Fair Trade, Forest Stewardship Certification(FSC) ISO 9000, CQC, Ethical Tea Partnership (ETP), UTZ, Rainforest Alliance (RA), Global GAP, SA etc.,thereby ensuring the maintenance of extremely strict production and processing standards that ensure the safety of consumers, workers and the wider environment.
UTZ is currently the largest international programme for sustainable farming of coffee, cocoa and tea in the world and covers agricultural best practices, farm management and environmental protection. Similarly, certifications like the Rainforest Alliance are internationally renowned for their ability to help communities around the world to mitigate social and environmental risks arising out of estate sector activities.
This is achieved through strict limitations on the application of agro-chemicals and the implementation of integrated pest management practices that decrease dependency on chemical-based weedicides and pesticides where possible. The certification also requires RPCs to ensure protection of drinking water sources and the provision of safe drinking water to communities and a rational use of water that ensures efficiency of use and the prevention of wastage.
The total revenue from RPCs added to the local economy without any value addition at estate level is over Rs. 70 Billion annually from Tea, Rubber and Oil Palm Plantation Crops at Estate Levels.
While the RPCs are directly responsible for the sustenance of a plantation community of over 1 million people resident in their plantations, across High, Mid and Low Grown elevations, hundreds of villages, local bazzars, small enterprises and ancillary services are totally dependent on the local Plantation economy for their survival. Furthermore, the Ceylon Tea image and the branding of Food Factory Concept, Chemical Free Tea, Cleanest Tea in the world, Ethically Managed Plantations, Zero Child Employment, Ozone Friendly Tea, Sustainable Agriculture, Product Traceability to Source and Single Origin Estate Marks are predominantly leveraged on RPC estates, management systems and services and facilities provided for their employees which is greatly useful for the total Ceylon Tea Image Branding.
While the RPCs have taken over the estates when the State had to subsidise the Estate sector to the tune of Rs. 5 billion per year by 1992, RPCs have continued to manage without being a burden to the State.
Any diminution of the RPC sector will have far reaching consequences not only to the people employed in the plantation sector and to the Tea Industry but to the country as a whole.
==============================
## Title: Safa House - athletic champions of As-Siraj Maha Vidyalaya.
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Safa House - athletic champions of As-Siraj Maha Vidyalaya.
Safa House emerged overall champions in the annual Inter-House Sports Meet - 2017 of Salambaikeni As- Siraj Maha Vidyalaya, in the Navithanveli DS division under the directions of its Principal S.M.M.Yoosuff which took place at school play grounds recently.
Sports Deputy Minister and SLMC Deputy Leader H.M.M.Harees was the chief guest at the sports meet.
The Co-ordinator to the Minister S.B.Dissanayakka, Y.L.Sulaimalebbe, Sammanthurai Zonal Education Office Deputy Education Director M.H.A.Jabir, Navithanveli Divisional Education Officer S.Saravanamuthu, Assistant Education Director A.Musthak Ali, Principals, Teachers, Parents, Past Pupils and well  wishers participated on this occasion.
The Judges selected each House, in accordance with the performances and how best the March pasts were done.
House Positions.
1st palace: Safa House  432 points.
2nd place: Marwa House  415 points.
3rd place: Mina House  376 points.
==============================
## Title: SAITM issue: Govt. would reach amicable solution soon:Rajitha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
SAITM issue: Govt. would reach amicable solution soon:Rajitha
Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne has informed the Malwatte Chapter Chief Prelate Most Ven. Thibbotuwaww Sri Siddhartha Sumangala Thera that the Government would be able to find a permanent solution to the SAITM issue shortly. The minister who called on the Chief Prelate yesterday, had said that a meeting between all relevant stake holders on the SAITM issue had taken place recently and a second round of talks chaired by President Maithripala Sirisena, would take place on March 09.
Minister Senaratne had expressed his strong belief that an amicable solution could be reached during the third round of talks which would take place with the participation of the President and himself.
Meanwhile, replying to a question at a meeting with the Maha Sangha in Kandy the same day, Minister Senaratne had said that the government would look into the possibility of acquiring the SAITM hospital which provides clinical training to students of the private medical college in Malabe, if necessary.
==============================
## Title: Sampanthan writes to President on land issue
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Sampanthan writes to President on land issue
Opposition and Tamil National Alliance (TNA) leader R. Sampanthan has written to President Maithripala Sirisena on the land issues in several areas of the North.
Sampanthan in his letter thanked the President for meeting him and a TNA delegation recently to discuss the issue.
The Opposition Leader said 54 blocks of land have been handed over to their owners.
There are 30 other persons who owned lands earlier, but do not have permits. They are entitled to be given the lands they possessed earlier. They had not obtained permits due to the prevalent situation at the time," the letter reads.
The Government Agent in the area should be able to obtain the necessary information. These 30 persons owned lands earlier, and therefore, they should be issued permits. The houses on these blocks of lands were destroyed. The people should be provided with housing and other facilities, the Opposition leader said.
The persons who were demonstrating against being kept out of their lands, have called off their demonstration. The Opposition leader thanks the President and other authorities for the expeditious action taken to hand back these lands.
Sampanthan stated in his letter that following his discussion with the President, action is being taken to return 142 perches of land to the Killinochchi Maha Vidyalayam.
Sampanthan said the Kilinochchi Maha Vidyalayam has around 2500 students. The school is short of accommodation, particularly for the primary section. It urgently needs more accommodation and a playground. The opposition leader said he visited the school and saw the difficult position the students face.
The balance land should be released soon. I shall be grateful if action is taken to release the balance land also to the Kilinochchi Maha Vidyalayam authorities at the earliest, Sampanthan said.
==============================
## Title: Scan Technologies secures biggest VRF air-conditioning installation in SL
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Scan Technologies secures biggest VRF air-conditioning installation in SL
The newly formed Scan Technologies Global (Pvt) Ltd. secured the installation, testing and commissioning of GREE VRF Air-Conditioning systems of ASTORIA Project under construction in the heart of Colombo city.
A ten year maintenance contract of the equipment was also signed. According to Pavithra Ishan Abeynayake, Managing Director of Scan Technologies Global (Pvt) Ltd., the new Company was incorporated to meet many challenges faced by the Construction Industry in Sri Lanka.
He further explained that his Companys intention is to provide a quality installation and after sales service with the help of their factory trained young Engineering Team and skilled Technicians and to meet the construction target dates of projects scheduled to come-up in Sri Lanka.
The ASTORIA in Colombo 3 is a project developed by AVIC International, which is an extension of the Aviation Industry Corporation of China, a reputed Global 500 Company.
China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) is the main contractor of ASTORIA comprising 4 Towers of 42 Floors in each Tower.
Gree Electric Appliances Inc. of Zhuhai, China is the manufacturer and supplier of 1,000 GREE VRF Air-Conditioning systems with over 4,000 Indoor Units for ASTORIA project. GREE manufactures 60,000,000 sets of Room Air-Conditioners and 5,500,000 sets of Commercial Air-Conditioners annually with over US$16 Billion Sales Revenue in 2015.
The installation of GREE VRF Air-Conditioners are progressing well at ASTORIA according to Abeynayake. Engineer Raguparan Kobiraj is in charge of the Air-Conditioner installation team of Scan Technologies Global (Pvt) Ltd.

==============================
## Title: Security experts brief US Army delegation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Security experts brief US Army delegation
The Institute of National Security Studies Sri Lanka (INSSSL) hosted a briefing for a delegation from the Young Alakai Warriors of the U.S. Army Pacific on Security Challenges of Sri Lanka in the Next Decade recently.
The briefing was conducted by members of the Advisory Council of INSS, Admiral Dr.Jayanath Colombage and retired Major General Milinda Peiris at the Defence Ministry.
==============================
## Title: Selfish groups suppress human values: Chandrika
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Selfish groups suppress human values: Chandrika
A dreadful situation has arisen in the country today where age-old human values are suppressed. A selfish group of people betrays any one or anything for the sake of financial and other personal gain. Certain politicians too fall into this category, Former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga said.
The former President was addressing as the chief guest the gathering at the prize distribution of an arts festival at the Orchardwatta Vidyalaya, Horagolla, Nittambuwa recently to mark its 25th anniversary.
Kumaratunga said she offered a prominent place to develop education during her period of office. She sat down with the Education Minister day in and day out to introduce educational reforms in the country which helped create a significant progress in the education field, she said.
"Nearly 700 schools were upgraded as Navodaya schools, two schools from each DS Division. They could not touch the schools in the north and east because of the war situation.
Permanent principals were appointed to schools where there were no principals. Principals and teachers clamouring for transfers to Colombo and other congenial stations were retained in the uncongenial stations by offering them higher salaries and other facilities," Kumaratunga said.
"The reorganisation scheme was stalled halfway due to the change of then government. Now steps were being taken to reintroduce those reforms. Every effort would be taken to develop the five Navodaya schools and other schools in Attanagalla, so that students in the area need not clamour for Colombo schools any more," the former President said.
Eastern Provincial Council Education Minister Ranjith Somawansa, and Parliamentarian Harshana Rajakaruna were present.
==============================
## Title: SLIIT convocation confers bachelors,  masters degrees for students
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
SLIIT convocation confers bachelors,  masters degrees for students
SLIIT the premier higher education institute in Sri Lanka recently held its graduation ceremony conferring Bachelors and Masters Degrees in Information Technology, Engineering and Business Management.
With seven sessions graced by eminent personalities, the convocation ceremony was held at the SLIIT campus in Malabe on Martch 2 and 3.
President Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, Professor Mohan M. Kumaraswamy Honorary Professor University of Hong Kong, Dr.Saman Kelegama Executive Director, Institute of Policy Studies, Dr. Sanjiva Weerawarana Founder, CEO and Chief Architect, WSO2, Professor Moses Tade Deputy Pro Vice Chancellor, Curtin University, Australia and Professor Roger Eccleston Pro Vice Chancellor, Sheffield Hallam University, UK graced the convocation as chief guests and delivered the Convocation Address at each session.
Congratulating the new graduates who were conferred with degrees, by President Maithripala Sirisena commented, Affordable access to knowledge should be universal and should not be confined to the boundaries of a chosen field of study. Hence, I am happy to note that over the last few years SLIIT has taken giant strides in diversifying its academic offerings to build the skills of its students.
Students who excelled in academic and extracurricular activities were recognised with special awards. Mohamed Yazdaan Alimudeen, received the SLIIT Gold Medal for overall Academic Excellence in the Faculty of Computing in Information Technology, Selvajane Mithushan, received the Professor Lakshman Ratnayake Gold Medal for overall Academic Excellence in the Faculty of Engineering and Wanya Jerleen Gunawardena received the SLIIT Gold Medal for overall Academic Excellence in the Faculty of Business.
Professor Lalith Gamage Gold Medal, for the Outstanding SLIIT Graduate who has excelled in both Academic and Extra and Co-curricular activities was awarded to Dilini Buddhima Rathnayaka Weerakoon. Pasindu Dulanjaya Panditharathna clinched the title for the Best Overall Performer.
Commending SLIIT for its service rendered to the higher education sector in Sri Lanka, Hon. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said, In todays competitive higher education landscape, it is pertinent to note that SLIIT has rendered a yeoman service to the field of education. SLIIT has grown admirably, keeping abreast of new developments that take place constantly in the ever evolving sphere of higher education.
Professor Lakshman L. Ratnayake, Chairman of SLIIT said, So far SLIIT has produced over 20,000 graduates with Bachelors and Masters degrees in IT, Engineering and Business, a record unmatched by any other non-state higher education institute in Sri Lanka.
The annual Convocation is one of the most significant occasions in our calendar and this year it takes on even a greater significance as it marks a very important milestone  the graduation of the very first batch of our own Engineering students, commented Professor Lalith Gamage, CEO SLIIT.
==============================
## Title: SLT takes on role of ICT  solutions provider for BMICH
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 19:30
SLT takes on role of ICT  solutions provider for BMICH
The countrys leading ICT solutions provider, Sri Lanka Telecom recently entered into a partnership with the BMICH, becoming the iconic venues official ICT partner.
The contract was officiated at the Cinema Lounge of the BMICH in the presence of Sunil Dissanayake, the Director General and CEO of the BMICH and Dileepa Wijesundera the Group CEO of SLT.
The initiative is made up of a fully integrated digital security camera system, as the BMICH is a preferred location for mass scale premium International and Local events. This step is to ensure security to the hundreds of public who come to BMICH weekly, local and international VIPs who attend functions & events.
Wi-Fi coverage of the premises provided by 23 Access Points (APIs) will cover a multiple number of locations including the Main Conference and Concert Hall, Banquet Hall, Exhibition and Convention Centre, Function Rooms, Nuge Sevana, Mihilaka Medura, Bandaranaike Centre for International Studies (BCIS) and the Restaurants, thus enabling a seamless connectivity of 100 MB per month to everyone who steps into BMICH premises aligning to the public free Wi-Fi initiative by the government.
Wi-Fi is enabled throughout the entire premises with hi-bandwidth fibre links while the exhibition areas can boast of FTTH facilities which allows exhibitors to obtain necessary connections for their stalls as well as receive point-to-point links, VPNs and business internet lines via fibre.
Whilst also introducing fibre to the premises technology with fibre based ultra-high speed broadband as well as a new SLT Experience Centre and Teleshop where any visitor may experience the full extent of SLT and Mobitel services, including the payment of bills, at the BMICH.
SLT is the most reliable and cost effective ICT solutions provider in Sri Lanka due to the organization being the long-standing national communication service provider for enterprises, business organizations and SMEs. Known for its flexibility of customizing solutions SLT is capable of providing services of the highest quality thanks to the level of technology possessed by the organization thus making operations much smoother and convenient at the award winning BMICH as well as for the venues visitors.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka joins South Asian partners to safeguard children's rights
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 12:30
Sri Lanka joins South Asian partners to safeguard children's rights

Sri Lankan legislators have joined fellow lawmakers from across South Asia to prioritize and safeguard children's rights in the region, the UN children's agency UNICEF said on Monday (6).
UNICEF said that despite economic growth and consequent improvements in realizing the rights of children, massive disparities still exist preventing children from living in dignity, reaching their full potential and making choices about their futures.
Sri Lanka, home to 8 million children under 18, has some of the region's best health indicators, almost universal primary schooling, with nearly 90 percent of the population having access to safe drinking water.
However UNICEF noted that violence against children, including physical abuse in the home remains a concern and while the rate of extreme poverty is declining (by 16 percent between 2002 and 2012) child poverty rates remain higher with pockets of extremely high vulnerability across the nation.
"Even though our indicators are really good, we still have issues like child marriage, school dropouts and migration affecting children," parliamentarian Sudarshani Fernandopulle said at the first meeting of The South Asia Parliamentarian Platform for Children.
"Children remain at the heart of a country's development and future economic growth. We need to invest more in policy reform and budgetary allocation in order to address the remaining disparities that prevent every child, especially the most vulnerable and marginalized, from reaching their full potential," she added.
UNICEF said the children's regional meeting was a milestone in bringing together lawmakers from all eight countries in South Asia to prioritize, promote, and safeguard children's rights.
It added that it was also an opportunity to plug in the critical role that parliamentarians can play in tackling key development challenges affecting children in the region within the larger framework of the Sustainable Development Goals.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Threeposha  introduces Suposha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka Threeposha  introduces Suposha

One of the key reasons for health issues arising among infants and school children, their parents failure in giving them a balance diet for breakfast which is a vital requirement for their physical, mental and social growth during the early stages of life.
Unfortunately many are encouraged in taking short-eats or instant food for their childrens breakfast, exposing them in to serious health issues.
To solve this problem in a nationwide program Threeposha company of Sri Lanka has produced and introduced a new version of cereal product known as Suposha in to the local market and its ceremonial launching took place at Waters edge, Battaramulla in the presence of Chief Guest
Health Minister Dr. Rajitha Senaratne and Deputy Health Minister Faizal Kasim recently.
Prof. K. K. D. S. Ranaweera said, The Threeposha is a highly nutritious cereal food mothers and children as alike locally and produced on imported American wheat with high percentage of eastre jent, so it is suitable for elder mothers as well.
Sales Marketing Manager, Mahes Thawalampala said, Using the mobile app, we are having a distribution network of Suposha in Sri Lanka.
Suposha has one of the B vitamins - folate of in its synthetic form, folic that prevents neutral tube defects (NTD) serious abnormalities of brain and spinal cord. Suposha contains 100% of the daily value (DV) of folic acid per serving size introduced by Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltd. An expectant mother to do ensure a healthy baby is to make sure you are eating a healthy diet, with plenty of folate rich foods, before you get pregnant.
Suposha is an option for a pregnant mother for many years in Sri Lanka, Thriposha Ltd took the actions required to supply Thriposha additional food without any shortage to equip the future generation fully with nutrition.
Freely distributed Thriposha program was implemented with the support of the fund from the department of treasuries of the government and one of the most renown house hold brands in Sri Lanka to date, nearly touches over 1.2 million beneficiaries in the country.
It has an excess production level of over 900 MT and 2.4 million packets of Thriposha being freely distributed to over 1.2 million beneficiaries living island-wide including pregnant mother.
Sri Lanka Thriposha Ltds production process directly and indirectly helps thousands of local farmers and domestic agricultural sector. Over the last five years the company has taken the initiative to install new machinery under an extensive research program to double the production.
Additionally Rs. 500 million has been further invested to install new machinery in 2015-2016 which resulted increasing the production that help to achieve excess production. It consists of 100 percent locally grown maize, corn, soya, non-fat dried milk minerals and vitamins.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka tourist arrivals dip
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Sri Lanka tourist arrivals dip
The pullout of Sri Lankan Airlines from Paris and Frankfurt and also the Colombo International Airport closure has been attributed to the 0.1 % drop in tourist arrivals last month. February saw arrivals recording 197,517 while in 2016 February it stood at 197,697.
According to the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) data most of the tourists had come from the UK (20,218), followed by Germany (14,712), and France (13,909).
Arrivals from Eastern Europe increased by 9.3 percent with the arrival of 23,768 tourists in February 2017 with arrivals from Russia rising 29.8 percent during the month. In the first two months of this year tourist arrivals increased 6.4 percent with the arrival of 416,877 tourists compared to the 391,977 arrived during the same period last year.
Arrivals from North America rose 1.4 percent to 8,489 in February while the arrivals from Western Europe reached 76,770 during the month, a 4.4 percent increase from the 73,533 tourists arrived in the same month last year.
Tourist arrivals from Middle East rose 12.9 percent with 5,530 visitors. Tourist arrivals from East Asia declined 11.1 percent as 41,460 visited the country compared to the 46,632 visited in February 2016. Arrivals from China decreased 21.6 percent with 25,248 tourists arriving in the country last month.
Arrivals from South Asia also declined 2.9 percent with 35,148 tourists visiting the island. Arrivals from India declined 0.9 percent to 26,320 compared to February 2016.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan wastes millions on lease aircraft seats
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
SriLankan wastes millions on lease aircraft seats
SriLankan Airlines is spending millions of dollars in refurbishing the seats of its leased aircraft and the airline engineers claim that this is an unwanted expense.
An official from the SriLankan Engineers Union told the Daily News that over 600 seats were imported to be installed in the leased aircraft for what is said to improve, cabin appearance
However when Thai Airways and several other airlines had engaged in the same process they had overcome the problem in an cost effective manner simply by adding a new decorated cover to the existing seat.
PIA yet to pay SriLankan
SriLankan Airlines sources say that the much hyped SriLankan aircraft lease to Pakistan Airlines had run in to more controversy as it is claimed that only two months lease payments has been made so far.
The lease which was for six months has allegedly been terminated in five months and only two months lease payments have been received so far. The source said that much stronger negotiations should have been made during the time of signing the lease agreement.
The union member said that the mockery of this whole exercise is that these seats are being added to leased aircraft and when the lease is over they have to be replaced with the original seats once again.
The airline has now also taken a huge yard in Seeduwa and is stocking these old seats until such time they have to be re fitted to the aircraft when the lease is over.
The airline is paying huge sums to up keep this yard in Seeduwa which is only used for stacking old seats,he said.
The unions points out that if they wanted better seats that should have been negotiated at the point of obtaining the lease.Meanwhile eye brows are also being raised as to why a particular aircraft (A320 4R-ABK) which is ending its lease in a few months time is being refurbished spending millions of rupees.
This aircraft is to be now run by INDIGO airlines and it is being fitted with all new parts belonging to SriLankan which need not be done.
The engineers say that whenever an INDIGO aircraft comes for a mechanical test to Colombo (C Check) all top engineers at SriLankan come and personally give it preferential treatment.
Meanwhile the Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya (SLNSS) branch of SriLankan Airlines has said that they would resort to trade union action if they are not updated on the latest developments on the sale of the airline and have asked for an opportunity to meet President Maithripala Sirisena.
President SLNSS, Janaka Wijayapathiratne told Daily News that they want this meeting with the President because conflicting messages are being given by Ministers as well as top decision makers of the airline. He said that the Chairman of SriLankan Airlines says that he does not know anything about these developments and to ask the Government.
Ten companies placed their bids for a stake in SriLankan Airlines and three investors Peace Air which has links in Sri Lanka, Maldivian based Super Group and US based TPG group were short listed.

==============================
## Title: Study to modernise transport between Colombo and Malabe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Study to modernise transport between Colombo and Malabe
The preparatory study by JICA for the first elevated Light Rail Transit (LRT) line in Sri Lanka between Colombo and Malabe started recently.
The study will address key aspects such as current and projected traffic patterns, environmental and social impacts, economic viability, financial implications, optimisation of the route, inter-modal connectivity, implementation schedules and operation and maintenance systems.
The 25km route which would be covered by the study runs through Malabe, Battaramulla, Rajagiriya, Borella, Union Place, Kollupitiya and Fort.
As a detailed study has been conducted on the route by JICA during the feasibility study for monorail, it would be possible to shorten the period of the new study by using the same data.
The final optimum route would be determined with special focus on environmental and social considerations and inter-connectivity with other public transport modes.
Malabe to Fort is a high priority transport corridor which connects the administrative capital to the business district in metro Colombo. The CoMTrans Master Plan study conducted with JICA assistance in 2012  2014 found that the corridor carries the largest number of vehicles and has the lowest speed compared to all other corridors.
It is the one major corridor not served by a rail based public transport mode. The monorail study found this route economically viable if some of the private vehicle users would shift to public transport during the rush hours.
The government agencies which are responsible for different aspects of land transport would need to coordinate and work towards prioritising public transport to transform Colombo into an advanced city. The government will maintain such policy consistency which would be crucial to provide equitable, efficient, environmentally sustainable and safe mode of transport to all citizens, JICA Sri Lanka Office Chief Representative Kiyoshi Amada said.
==============================
## Title: Sugar cane harvesting  season opens amidst  record Rs 1 bn profit
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Sugar cane harvesting  season opens amidst  record Rs 1 bn profit
As state owned sugar manufacturing industry reported historic profit levels, Sri Lanka thanked its cane harvesters for their supportive role in unprecedented success heard for the first time in years.
Thanks to your contribution, today our government owned sugar production industry is earning profits without any need for privatisation, Industry and Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen said in Buttala.
The Minister was addressing the inauguration event of sugar cane harvesting ceremony of Pelawatte Sugar Industries owned by Lanka Sugar Company (LSCL) under his Ministry.
We start another round of sugarcane harvesting today. For years, similar harvesting ceremonies have been taking place but local sugar production was incurring losses and likelihood of privatisation has been in the air, said Minister Bathiudeen.
This is a state owned business success. I thank you for your contribution and wish for success in your harvesting. Let us build on this trend.
We are producing less than 10% of our annual sugar needs locally and we need to increase this. Meanwhile Maximum Retail Prices (MRP) on sugar sales are not helping our sugar development efforts. I believe removing MRPs can help the sector to be more competitive.
LSCL reported a Rs one billion loss (US $ 6.6 mn) but this trend reversed by September 2016 when LSCL reported a Rs one billion profit (US $ 6.6 Mn) a turnaround not seen in any other Sri Lankan State Owned Business Enterprises in recent times.
Minister Bathiudeen meets sugar cane workers and harvesters in Buttala  

==============================
## Title: A taste of Spain as Bayern ease past Cologne
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
A taste of Spain as Bayern ease past Cologne
MUNICH, Saturday - Spaniards Javi Martinez and Juan Bernat scored their first league goals of the season to give Bayern Munich a comfortable 3-0 victory at Cologne on Saturday and move seven points clear at the top of the Bundesliga.
Central defender Martinez gave them a deserved lead in the 25th minute and fullback Bernat doubled it after the restart to make sure of Cologne's first home defeat in the Bundesliga since April 2016.
Bernat then set up Franck Ribery for their third goal in the final minute.
The Bavarians, who travel to Arsenal next week for their Champions League round of 16 second leg, are on 56 points with RB Leipzig, who drew 2-2 at Augsburg on Friday, in second on 49.
Borussia Dortmund, hosting Benfica on Wednesday for their own Champions League match, also made the most of Leipzig's slip-up, closing in to within six points in third place after Bundesliga top scorer Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored twice to help them demolish Bayer Leverkusen 6-2.
New VfL Wolfsburg coach Andries Jonker, who succeeded sacked Valerien Ismael this week, failed to inject any new life into the struggling former German champions, who drew 1-1 with Mainz 05.  Agencies
==============================
## Title: Teachers asked not to box schoolchildrens ears
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Teachers asked not to box schoolchildrens ears
Teachers should not hit on the ears of schoolchildren as it causes serious health problems, Colombo National Hospital ENT Unit Head, Consultant Surgeon Dr. Chandra Jayasuriya said.
Addressing the media at the Health Education Bureau in Colombo yesterday, Dr. Jayasuriya said: When a person hits on another person's ear, the ear drum ruptures. The ear drum also gets ruptured due to the use of cotton buds and loud sounds. Schoolchildren come to receive medical treatment after teachers hitting them on the ear, she said.
Jayasuriya said watching videos using smart phones increases migraine. Many persons receive medical treatment after watching videos using their smart phones, she said. 
ENT Surgeon Dr. R.P.Dayasena said people can obtain the service of 50 ENT Surgeons in the country through main state hospitals. They can get their hearing improved by visiting the ENT Units of main state hospitals when they have problems related to hearing, he said.
Around 330 million in the world suffer from hearing problems. More than half of them are living in developing countries, he said.
==============================
## Title: Theres no hurdle for Arjuna to serve sport - Thilanga
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Theres no hurdle for Arjuna to serve sport - Thilanga
SLC president Thilanga Sumathipala has extended a hand of friendship and invited Arjuna Ranatunga the 1996 World Cup winning captain to provide his services to uplift Sri Lanka cricket.
I have no objection towards Arjuna coming to help, said Sumathipala acknowledging Ranatungas vast knowledge and experience.
We have about nine out of 14 of the 1996 World Cup winning team working with us. Aravinda, Sanath, Romesh, Hashan, Vaas, Upul Chandana and now Gurusinha, said Sumathipala.
All of them are highly talented. Kumar Dharmasena is an international umpire, Roshan Mahanama was a renowned ICC Match Referee. Even before them players like Ranjith Fernando and Hemantha Devapriya too did a great service, he said.
During my previous tenure as SLC president Aravinda and Arjuna both played for the national team. I was the vice president when we won the World Cup. Arjuna has an enormous amount of knowledge and experience. He can do a great service again. I have no objection in inviting him to render his services towards building up the team.
There is no restriction for that. Lots of cricketers honour him and there is no question about his experience, Sumathipala stated.
Ranatunga has been a heavy critic of Sumathipala for his alleged connections with the betting industry and has said that he should not hold the post of SLC president. At the last SLC elections Sumathipala was voted in unanimously as president while Ranatunga contesting the post of vice president lost.
==============================
## Title: Thomians finalise team for Blues Battle with Royal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Thomians finalise team for Blues Battle with Royal
S Thomas College held their final practices at Mount Lavinia yesterday with consultant coach Dav Whatmore, head coach Dinesh Kumarasinghe and fast bowlers Lasith Malinga and Anusha Samaranayake in attendance. Malinga and Samaranayake were present on invitation to give a final pep up to the team ahead of the 138th Battle of the Blues cricket encounter against Royal College scheduled at the SSC grounds from March 9-11.
S Thomas College team: Romesh Nallaperuma (captain), Ravindu Kodituwakku (vice-captain), Dinura Gunawardena, Ishen Perera, Sithara Hapuhinna (wk), Dulith Gunaratne, Manthila Wijeratne, Dellon Peiris, Pawith Ratnayake, Thevin Eriyagama and Kalana Perera.
==============================
## Title: Thurman wins welterweight unification bout
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Thurman wins welterweight unification bout
NEW YORK: WBA champ Keith Thurman defeated Danny Garcia by a split decision Saturday night to claim the WBC welterweight belt in a unification clash between a pair of unbeaten champions.
Thurman successfully defended his title for the third time, winning a tactical defensive struggle by scores of 116-112, and 115-113 on two of the judges' scorecards. The other judge had it 115-113 for Garcia.
Ain't no robberies happening tonight, said Thurman, who improved to 28-0 with 22 knockouts.
Saturday's matchup between the 28-year-old Americans was only the third time in history that two undefeated fighters fought to unify welterweight world titles and the first since Oscar de la Hoya faced Felix Trinidad in 1999.
Thurman is the first fighter in the division to hold multiple titles since Floyd Mayweather held the WBA, WBC and WBO belts after defeating Manny Pacquiao in 2015.
I thought I outboxed him. I thought it was a clear victory, Thurman said. You heard the scorecards. I knew it had to go to me. This is your boy Keith 'One Time' Thurman and still champion of the world. One time became 'Two Time' baby. There were no knockdowns as the 12-round fight at the Barclays Center turned into a strategic battle.
Thurman was the aggressor, scoring early then staying out of trouble in the final rounds for the victory.
Garcia went long moments without throwing a punch, content to wait for Thurman to attack then try to counter. But Thurman always seem to land one or two good punches in the closing seconds of each round.
Thurman landed more power punches (102-81) and jabs (45-41) than Garcia. He felt he did enough in the first nine rounds to slow the tempo down the rest of the way.
I was not giving the fight away. I felt like we had a nice lead and we could cool down, he said. I felt like we were controlling the three-minute intervals in every round. There was some tough rounds, but at the end of the day I knew I did what I had to do to win. Garcia suffered his first loss in 34 fights. He was warned for a low blow in the seventh round. At the end of the 11th he seemed confused and headed to the wrong corner before Thurman tapped him on the shoulder and pointed him in the right direction.
Shrugs off loss
Garcia thought he had won the fight raising his hands in victory after the first two scores were announced then shrugging off the defeat as Thurman celebrated another title defence.
I came up short tonight but I gave it my all, Garcia said. I thought I was the aggressor. I pushed the pace of the fight.
I came to fight and it didn't go my way -- oh well. Thurman is now 7-0 with three knockouts in world title fights.
He's hoping the victory brings a shot at Filipino superstar Pacquiao or Britain's Kell Brook, the International Boxing Federation champion who is 36-1 with 25 knockouts.
-AFP
==============================
## Title: Thurstan defeats Pathana in l/o
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Thurstan defeats Pathana in l/o
Thurstan College beat Isipathana College by 164 runs in their 37th Battle of the Brothers annual limited overs cricket encounter for the W.A. de Silva Memorial Trophy played at the P. Sara Oval yesterday.
Thurstan winning the toss and batting first piled up an imposing 367-7 in 50 overs with the main contributions coming from Charana Nanayakkara (83), Imesh Viranga (80) and Yeshan Wickramarachchi (78). Lahiru Dilshan took four wickets for 66 runs.
Isipathana in reply were restricted to 203-9 with Sanjula Abewickrama making a top score of 72. Shawan Prabhash took 3 wickets for 26 runs.
Scores:
Thurstan: 367/7 in 50 overs (Charana Nanayakkara 83, Imesh Viranga 80, Yeshan Wickramarachchi 78, Kasun Abeyratne 40, Navod Samarakoon 23, Lahiru Dilshan 4/66, Madhushika Sandaruwan 2/48)
Isipathana: 203/9 in 50 overs (Sanjula Abewickrama 72, Pethum Nisshanka 35, Neranjan Wanniarachchi 28 n.o., Shawan Prabhash 3/26, Charana Nanaykkara 2/44) - YK
==============================
## Title: Traditional rice varieties at affordable prices
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Traditional rice varieties at affordable prices
The Civil Security Department has come forward to assist the three-year plan mooted by the Presidential Secretariat to implement President Maithripala Sirisenas concept of a toxin free country, righteous agriculture, healthy nation by purchasing traditional varieties of paddy and selling rice to the public at an affordable price after milling themt.
Accordingly, the Department had now commenced purchasing traditional paddy varieties such as kahawanu, marachamadu kuruluthuda, pachchapermumal, batapola al, kahamala, and rathdel from farmers at Padvavi Sripura, Weli Oya, Morawewa, Gomarankadlwa, and Seruwawila in the Puttalam district. The milled rice would be sold in the Colombo district at Rs. 120 per km.
The sale of traditional rice varieties was launched at a ceremony held under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena at Galle Face, Colombo on March 2.
Civil Security Department Director General Chandraratne Pallegama, Additional |Director General Rear Admiral Shermal Fernando, Director (Personnel) Brig. P.B.D. Dias and other officials were present at the occasion.
==============================
## Title: Traffic congestion costs over Rs. 1,000 million per day: Patali
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Traffic congestion costs over Rs. 1,000 million per day: Patali
A wastage of over Rs. 1,000 million occurs daily due to traffic congestion, Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka said.
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the redeveloped Kottawa-Pannipitiya Road financed by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the government, the minister said there is no significant development in the transportation sector along with the economic development in the country. It contributes to traffic congestion. Vehicles used over 40 years are still being used. Buses to be used in cargo transport are being used for passenger transport, he said.
Minister Ranawaka said 20 days were wasted due to protests in Colombo during January and February.
He said new buses will be introduced to the Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB). Trains will be operative centering Colombo and the suburbs with financial assistance from the Japanese Government.
He said over Rs. 360 million out of Rs. 371 million spent to redevelop the Kottawa-Pannipitiya Road was borne by JICA.
The minister said the Kelani Valley Railway line will be transformed into a double-track railway with the financial assistance from the Transport Ministry and the Asian Development Bank (ASD). A plan will be implemented to take action on illegal constructions prior to the establishment of the railway track, he said.
Ranawaka said Nawinna will be developed as a suburban town.
Referring to the registration of the medical graduates from the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM), the minister said education should not be used as a trading mechanism to increase profits.
==============================
## Title: Treating alcoholism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Treating alcoholism
Consultant Psychiatrist , Kalubowila Teaching Hospital Dr.Malika Weerasinghe speaks about alcohol addiction and its adverse health impacts. At present a large number of persons including school children have got addicted to alcohol and other substances.
Q: Who gets addicted to alcohol often, how and why
A : Alcohol is a psychoactive substance with dependence properties. Alcohol acts on the brain and may cause addiction. Harmful use of alcohol causes diseases in almost all systems in the body. It also causes mental health issues, social and economic problems. Although many people use alcohol as a recreational substance, only some of them get addicted to alcohol. There is no single explanation for this. Multiple biological, mental and social factors interact with each other to cause this.
Having a family history of alcohol abuse and being male increases the risk. In other words, if a close relative (father/ mother/ brother etc.) had problems with alcohol addiction, one is more likely to have problems oneself. Mental health disorders like depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder also increases the risk of addiction.
Lack of a positive parent-child relationship is linked to early age of drinking which increases risk of addiction later in life.
Living in an environment with easy accessibility to alcohol (bartender/ restaurant worker), where alcohol is accepted as part of life also increases the risk of addiction. However perceptions related to alcohol play a major part. People who take alcohol to get "drunk" are more likely to get addicted.
Peer influence, relationship problems, low self - esteem, not having a purpose or satisfaction in life are other factors which further increase the risk of addiction.
Q: How is alcoholism treated
A : Certain chemical changes occur in brain cells in people who are addicted to alcohol. As a result when alcohol consumption is reduced or stopped suddenly, body develops withdrawal symptoms. These include tremors, vomiting, increased heart rate, agitation and sweating. More serious complications like seizures (fits) and confusion can also occur. Therefore even if a person wants to stop alcohol they might find it difficult to do so.
Basic steps in treatment are motivating to seek help, managing withdrawal symptoms and maintaining abstinence. Education about negative consequences of their habit and counselling helps a person seek treatment. Medications are available to treat withdrawal symptoms. This can be done as an outpatient or inpatient depending on the degree of addiction and available supports.
Effective drug treatments are available to reduce craving and prevent relapse. Behavioral treatment methods can also be used to prevent relapses. Some may benefit from therapy at Day Centers or long term rehabilitation at Residential rehabilitation centers.
Q:What can be done if the alcoholic is not willing to get rid of his/her addiction
A : Many continue to use alcohol despite knowing the harm due to physical dependence and unpleasant withdrawal symptoms. Some people again tend to use alcohol after remaining abstinent since they find it difficult to manage craving. A person may also relapse due to other psycho socio factors (influence of "bad friends"- a single "event" set back may bring on the previous state rapidly and also add to the low self- esteem.)
Success of treatment depends on person's willingness to change.
Alcohol cause significant medical problems. If a person is not willing to take treatment family members can initially take him to a doctor to check for medical problems. Most of the time addicted person will have changes in liver enzymes and changes in other blood reports. By seeking help for those physical complications and educating about the contribution of alcohol they can be motivated to seek help for alcohol abuse.
Q:What can be done by a healthy non addicted person to protect himself / herself from getting addicted to alcohol or any other substance
A : A person should be aware of how high his/ her risk to develop dependence. If you are having risk factors, steps should be taken to minimize modifiable factors.
For example if one is having mental problems like social anxiety, depression , or low self -esteem s/he should seek help since these factors can commonly lead to addictions. Learning to manage day to day stress effectively and practising healthy coping skills would prevent a person seeking solutions by using alcohol or drugs which in turn can develop in to an addiction.
People who are living or working in an environment where alcohol use is accepted as norm should also take steps to control their drinking pattern (eg. Substitute non- alcoholic beverages)
School based interventions like correcting misconceptions about alcohol use, teaching youth to say no to alcohol, promoting healthy life style and education about addictions also help in preventing addictions among youth.
==============================
## Title: Trump accuses Obama of tapping his phones during campaign
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Trump accuses Obama of tapping his phones during campaign
US: President Donald Trump on Saturday accused Barack Obama of tapping his phones during last years White House campaign, charges that his predecessor denied as simply false. Id bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election! Trump wrote on Twitter, without providing evidence of the explosive charge.
How low has President Obama gone to tapp (sic) my phones during the very sacred election process. This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy! he wrote in another tweet, referring to the political scandal that toppled president Richard Nixon in 1974.
An Obama spokesman called Trumps accusations simply false.
A cardinal rule of the Obama Administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice, spokesman Kevin Lewis said in a statement issued several hours later.
As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any US citizen. Any suggestion otherwise is simply false. Trump leveled the charges in a flurry of tweets shortly after dawn, as his administration remains mired in controversy over communications between Russian officials and some of his senior aides including Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Trump and Obama frequently traded barbs on the campaign trail, and the Republican real estate magnate was a driving force behind the so-called birther movement that questioned whether Obama was born on US soil and eligible to be president.
The two men initially adopted a cordial tone as Trump took office, though the president has stepped up accusations against Obama in recent weeks, blaming his predecessor for being behind damaging leaks to journalists.
Since US intelligence took the unprecedented step of publicly accusing Russia of trying to swing the November election in Trumps favor, questions have swirled about whether some in his campaign colluded with Moscow.
The presidents associates, including Sessions and disgraced former national security advisor Michael Flynn, met Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak before taking office.
Trump, who has accused his political foes of conducting a total witch hunt, on Saturday directed his Twitter tirade at his Democratic predecessor.
Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found, Trump wrote a day after departing Washington for a weekend getaway at his Mar-a-Lago Florida resort for the fourth time in five weeks.
The president compared the alleged action to Senator Joe McCarthys campaign in the 1950s to root out supposed Communists and sympathizers, which was marked by innuendo and abusive investigations.
Is it legal for a sitting President to be wire tapping a race for president prior to an election Turned down by court earlier. A NEW LOW! Trump said, again providing no proof of Obamas supposed efforts to seek a court order to spy on the then-candidate. Former Obama adviser David Axelrod said a court would have approved such a wiretap only if there were cause. If there were the wiretap @realDonaldTrump loudly alleges, such an extraordinary warrant would only have been OKed by a court for a reason, he said, referring to the president by his Twitter handle.
Republicans were mostly silent on Trumps Twitter tirade.
Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican hosting a town hall in his native South Carolina, told the event that if it is true, it would be the biggest political scandal since Watergate. Responding to Trumps allegation that Obama was a Bad (or sick) guy!, Adam Schiff, a Democratic ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee said the president had gone too far.
If there is something bad or sick going on, it is the willingness of the nations chief executive to make the most outlandish and destructive claims without providing a scintilla of evidence to support them, Schiff said.
Trump delivered a well-received address to Congress late Wednesday, but the White House was plunged back into turmoil the following morning after it confirmed a news report that Sessions failed to disclose two meetings with ambassador Kislyak during last years election campaign.
Trump has repeatedly denied having any personal ties to the Kremlin, and his aides have denied or downplayed contacts with Russian officials.
But the accusations have continued amid almost daily leaks revealing new details about connections between Moscow and senior Trump officials.
One such revelation in The Washington Post about a meeting between Sessions and Kislyak prompted the Republican former US senator to recuse himself from any investigations into the presidential election campaign.
Sessions told a Senate committee under oath that he did not have communications with the Russians, but reporters found that he had actually met the Russian ambassador twice in the months before taking up his post as attorney general, the top US law enforcement officer.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Turnover levels  hit 3-month high
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Turnover levels  hit 3-month high
The Bourse ended in negative territory this week as the ASPI decreased by 36.63 points (or 0.60%) to close at 6,101.51 points, while the S&P SL20 Index too decreased by 28.34 points (or 0.80%) to close at 3,524.77 points.
Turnover & market capitalization
Kotmale Holdings was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR 1.94Bn or 31.61% of total turnover value. JKH followed suit, accounting for 25.94% of turnover (value of LKR 1.59Bn) while Expolanka contributed LKR 0.66Bn to account for 10.78% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR 6.13Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR 1.87Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR 1.23Bn (+162.43% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.47Bn. Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.77% W-o-W (or LKR 20.68Bn) to LKR 2,679.37Bn cf. LKR 2,700.05Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms)
The Diversified Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 38.29% (or LKR 2.35Bn) of market turnover. Sector turnover was driven primarily by JKH & Expolanka Holdings which accounted for 95.92% of the sectors total turnover.
The Beverage, Food & Tobacco Sector meanwhile accounted for 33.22% (or LKR 2.04Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by Kotmale Holdings which accounted for 95.16% sector turnover.
The Manufacturing Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 8.60% (or LKR 0.53Bn) to the market. The sector turnover was driven by Chevron & Tokyo Cement which accounted for 68.36% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Diversified Sector dominated the market in terms of share volume too, accounting for 48.98% (or 133.15Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 2.35Bn.
The Power & Energy sector followed suit, adding 20.81% to total turnover volume as 56.57Mn shares were exchanged. The sectors volume accounted for LKR 0.31Bn of total market turnover value. The Beverage, Food & Tobacco Sector meanwhile, contributed 34.35Mn shares (or 12.63%), amounting to LKR 2.04Bn.
Top gainers & losers
SMB Leasing[X] was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 50.00% W-o-W from LKR 0.20 to LKR 0.30. Ceylon Printers gained 22.00% W-o-W to close at LKR 61.00 while Singer Industries gained 18.51% W-o-W to close at LKR 144.70.
Amana Takaful (+16.67% W-o-W) and Singer Sri Lanka (+14.36% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers. CIFL was the weeks highest price loser, declining 30.00% W-o-W to close at LKR 0.70. Lucky Lanka (-17.24% W-o-W), The Finance Co (-16.95% W-o-W) and Tess Agro (-16.67% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net buying position with total net inflows amounting to LKR 1.10Bn relative to last weeks total net inflow of LKR 0.10Bn (+973.22% W-o-W). Total foreign purchases increased by 245.10% W-o-W to LKR 2.86Bn from last weeks value of LKR 0.83Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 1.77Bn relative to LKR 0.73Bn recorded last week ( +142.67% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Expolanka Holdings and Dialog Axiata led foreign purchases while Renuka Agri & Teejay Lanka led foreign sales. In terms of value, Expolanka Holdings & JKH led foreign purchases while Ceylon Dockyard & Teejay Lanka foreign sales.
Point of view
Turnover levels hit a 3-month high this week, as renewed Institutional and HNI interest buoyed market sentiment. Crossings over the week, accounted for 72% of the weeks LKR6.0Bn turnover, helping push the weeks average daily turnover levels to LKR 1.23Bn, the highest since Dec16 when strategic buying pushed turnover to a 41/2 year high.
Crossings over the week were driven by mid-cap and Blue-chip stocks with Kotmale Holdings accounting for 32% of the markets total turnover ( 44% of the weeks crossings) and JKH accounting for 16% of the total market ( 23% of the weeks total crossings). Significant interest in counters such as EXPO, VLL, LLUB, DIAL and banks such as HNB, COMB and SAMP also helped drive the rebound in turnover. Revived interest in equities was partially driven by strong market earnings over the Dec16 quarter.
Total earnings of 94% of market which have reported results rose to LKR 74.3Bn, up 29.5% Y-o-Y relative to the LKR 57.3Bn reported by the total market in Dec15. Quarter on quarter performance was also positive (total earnings in Sep16 was LKR 60.4Bn), and the strong earnings performance helped push market PER levels lower to 11.94x (cf.12.04x last week).
Despite the robust corporate performance and the revived HNI and Institutional interest however, the benchmark ASPI dropped 37 points over the week to close just 1.5 points above the 6100 level; since falling to a low of 6068 points in early February, the benchmark ASPI consolidated around the 6100 level over the month of February.
Markets in the week ahead are likely to retain the current momentum, although the US Feds policy rate decision today is likely to impact the direction of EM asset performance in the week ahead.
ASPI not immune to revived interest in EM assets
Although at an initial glance Sri Lankan equities appear to not have gained in tandem with the emerging market rally, and the ASPIs YTD* loss of 1.1% looks grim in light of the MSCI EM (+8.6% YTD) and MSCI FM (+5.6% YTD) market gains, domestic equities have not in fact, been completely immune to the renewed interest in EM stocks. From a monthly perspective, Index losses have eased over Feb (+0.03% cf. -1.5% over Jan).
Net outflows from the CSE meanwhile have slowed, and at the end of Feb was LKR 0.07Bn cf. an outflow of LKR 1.60Bn during the same period last year. Although this is not to say that market sentiment over the past two months hasnt been extremely dull, markets have stagnated at these 6100 levels, which when compared to the free-fall the ASPI experienced in the same period last year indicates improvement.
Part of this stability has stemmed from the improvements on the macro-economic front. Although, policy uncertainty and fiscal concerns persist, the major pressure on the LKR, interest rates and on the fiscal front in Q116 have eased in Q117 and this is being reflected within the equity space.
Thus, while the ASPI hasnt rallied as strongly as other EMs in the aftermath of the US Presidential elections, some consolidation appears evident.
The ASPI does not necessarily move in tandem with the rest EMs for multiple reasons such as i) the South Asian regions lower trade and portfolio investment exposure (cf. East Asian markets) to global markets and China, ii) Sri Lankas low market liquidity, iii) the lack of equity market representation by some of the countrys major growth sectors and, iv) higher-than-peer FX volatility all of which makes it less prone to contagion (both on the upside and downside).
==============================
## Title: UGC report to shed light on procedure
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
UGC report to shed light on procedure
Former UGC Chairman Prof. Kshanika Hirimburegama and former Higher Education Ministry Secretary Dr. Sunil Jayantha Navaratne have been summoned before the Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE) on Thursday for questioning over the procedure taken to grant the degree awarding status to the SAITM.
The University Grants Commission (UGC) was asked by the COPE to submit a report on Wednesday giving details as to how the degree awarding status was granted to the SAITM. UGC Chairman Prof Mohan de Silva told the Daily News yesterday that the report was nearing completion and it would be ready today. A COPE member said the report was asked as many interesting information about granting degree awarding status to the SAITM could be revealed when the UGC authorities led by its Chairman appeared before the COPE on February 22 along with the Higher Education Ministry Secretary. He also said the Committees attention was also drawn to the problem of existing student vacancies in the state universities. When we considered the student enrolment in the last three years, we found that 5,500 vacancies for students exist in the universities. The COPE discussed the injustice this problem causes to the students. The UGC has come up with a new mechanism to solve this problem and we also asked for a report on that he said.
Meanwhile, an Adjournment Motion on Issues pertaining to the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe will be moved by the JVP in Parliament on Thursday. Its debate will be held from 11.30am to 6.30pm.
==============================
## Title: Van, bus collision: Three dead, six injured
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Van, bus collision: Three dead, six injured
Three persons died and six others were injured when a van and a bus collided head-on at Amithirigala in Avissawella on Saturday night. The bus had been travelling from Amithirigala to Avissawella while the Van carrying a group of pilgrims was travelling from Kataragama to Kirindiwela.
D.M.Dharmasiri (75), Padma Chandralatha (65) , both from Kirindiwela and another 70 year old woman who is yet to be identified had succumbed to injuries at the hospital.
The injured are currently being treated at the Avissawella hospital.
The Police said the driver of the bus has been arrested and an investigation launched.
==============================
## Title: A voice for children
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
A voice for children
The Legal Aid Commission under the theme Be a voice for children, conducted two awareness-raising programmes for school children and parents, separately, at Gunasinghe Vidyalaya, Colombo 12, on February 23.
The LAC Legal Officers of the Head Office, Colombo, Piyumi Kumari, A.A.L., Thamarashi Wickramanayake, A.A.L., Dr. P.A.P Nandathilaka  National STD/AIDS Programme, A.S.G. Mendis, Police Officer, Women and Children Bureau Police Division, Maradana, and Sgt. Chandrakanthi  Dam Street Police Station, participated as resource persons, and conducted the sessions and activities for students and parents.
As the area is more prone to drug issues, illegal and unethical activities, trafficking, using children for illegal business, and family disputes, Gunasinghe Vidyalaya Principal R.M.U. Ratnayake requested LAC to raise awareness on such issues at the programme. Most parents in the area do not send their children to school regularly. About 120 Sinhala, Tamil, and Muslim students study in this school.
Awareness programme for school children
The students were educated on the following topics with activities:
*Good habits, and the importance of a sound education
*How to protect themselves from child abuse and other offences committed on children
*How to avoid drugs, alcohol, and cigarettes, and live a healthy life
*Authorities working for children and how to communicate with them
*How to communicate with parents, teachers, and other authorities in the case of child abuse or any other offence committed on children
*Communication skills
*Rights and duties of a child, and how to be a good citizen
*Personality development and team work
Awareness programme for parents
Parents were educated on the following socio-legal issues
*Laws related to child protection
*Current socio-legal issues related to children  child abuse, violence, offences committed on children, and drug issues
*Documentation issues  birth certificates, marriage certificates etc.
*Authorities working for children  child protection authority, regional probation, and childcare officers, police, women and child bureau, hotlines etc.
*Custody and adoption of children
*Maintenance of children and family law issues
*Child rights
*Child labour
*Importance of sending children to school and providing them a sound education
*Laws related to migration of women having minor children
*A mobile clinic was also conducted for parents at the end of the awareness-raising programme to resolve their legal issues
Distribution of school items
On the request of Gunasinghe Vidyalaya Principal, the LAC donated school items for school children such as stationary and mathematical equipment. The LAC also distributed LAC caps and t-shirts to parents at the programme.
The LAC plans to conduct more awareness-raising programmes under Be a voice for children project for schools with limited facilities in Colombo.
==============================
## Title: A vote of confidence in Judiciary
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
A vote of confidence in Judiciary
There has been a lot of debate and discussion in local and foreign media about the possibility of appointing a hybrid court to probe human rights and accountability issues that have arisen following Sri Lankas war against terror that ended in 2009. In essence, a hybrid court will have both local and foreign judges who will examine such issues and give appropriate verdicts.
Sri Lankas Constitution provides no room for such a mechanism, given that the judiciary is an entirely local apparatus. As far as we know, even the new Constitution that is in the works makes no provision for such a mechanism.
The idea of a mixed or hybrid court took hold internationally during the regime of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, when the independence and the integrity of the judiciary were severely compromised by the action of the Executive. One prime example was the overnight impeachment of the then Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake.
A notion developed among members of the International Community that Sri Lanka's justice system will not have the independence to probe alleged International Humanitarian Law (IHL) violations that may have occurred during the conflict period. Hence the call for independent and impartial foreign judges and other personnel. The UN Human Rights Commissioner Prince Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein recently reiterated his call for foreign judges to sit on any such mechanism.
However, things have changed in Sri Lanka during the last two years. Today, the judiciary is truly independent and there is zero interference by the Government in the judicial processes. Several recent court decisions have gone against the Government and its leading figures. Such an act would have been unthinkable during the Mahinda Rajapaksa era. Moreover, fears that the authorities would not act against any bad eggs in the Forces are unfounded  a number of Security Forces members have been arrested over charges of assault and murder.
The final decision with regard to its own internal affairs is taken by Sri Lanka itself. In this context, both President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe have categorically stated their opposition to any move to establish hybrid courts. Just last week, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe ruled out the possibility of a hybrid court, saying it was not politically feasible.
Instead he proposed a Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) as the best option to deal with post war issues. A 100 percent home-grown effort, such a Commission could have a bigger mandate than the Rajapaksa-era Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) and the newly proposed Office of Missing Persons (OMP), both of them worthy mechanisms in their own right. South Africa established such a TRC mechanism as apartheid ended and its findings went a long way towards bringing South Africans together.
Any attempt to establish a hybrid court will be a political and practical nightmare, as shown by the Prime Ministers posers: Can you actually establish a hybrid supreme court If you bring in an Amendment for that purpose, is the two thirds majority of Parliament sufficient What if the court decides that it requires a referendum
It is true that we have to come to terms with our past, including the conflict period, to lay a course for the future. This self-retrospection is essential for reconciliation and national unity which the Yahapalana Government is promoting with vigour. But this must essentially be a completely local endeavour, though the authorities can study overseas models such as the South African experience.
This is why the Government is now considering a TRC which may be able to resolve many issues. The South African experience and the strengths and weaknesses of that process, will be studied. Generally all political parties are in agreement with a TRC in principle.
Obviously, there are extremist elements on both sides who seek to derail any attempts to resolve the problems and achieve reconciliation. These elements thrive on ethnic discord and rancor, without which they apparently cannot sustain themselves. If the authorities try to pander to their whims and fancies, the country will get nowhere.
The people in the North are tired of the long-drawn out war. The South is not any different. The people yearn to live together in peace. They do not have a war mentality anymore, although the extremists are trying to relight the ambers of ethnic disharmony. Reconciliation cannot be achieved overnight and there are many challenges to overcome as well.
This is why Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera has called for more time to be given to Sri Lanka to fulfill its accountability obligations. This is the correct path to choose, because these measures cannot be half-baked. This may seem to be slow progress, but the conduct of a 30-year conflict cannot be examined in a matter of months. Several countries including the UK have supported this stance. There are countries whose conflicts ended more than 40 years ago which are still searching for peace - and answers. Thus an unnecessarily hurried process will not result in lasting peace and reconciliation.
==============================
## Title: Weapons at Mt. Lavina Courts: Main suspect arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Weapons at Mt. Lavina Courts: Main suspect arrested
The main suspect wanted in connection with the detection of weapons at the Mount Lavinia Courts recently, Rangana alias Maiya has been arrested by the Police.
The investigations into the detection of weapons have revealed that the firearms smuggled into the court premises were to be used to assassinate an underworld leader who was slated to attend a hearing in the courts.Proceedings at the Mount Lavinia Courts were suspended last Wednesday after the Police in a special search operation discovered a pistol with 4 live rounds and a revolver with 6 rounds hidden in a bag inside the court premises.
Twenty suspects were arrested in connection with the weapons detection later and were remanded in connection with the incident.
The Police have tightened security, especially in court premises, following the recent attack on a prison bus in Kalutara that killed five prisoners including a gang leader and two prison guards.
==============================
## Title: Weird but intensive
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Weird but intensive
Window Farms
Perhaps youve seen one in a window already: a vertical cascade of hanging vesselstypically halved soda/water bottleshome to soil-less leafy green plants and herbs. The method is simple enough. Plants grow out of the bottle while an air pump (such as those used in fish tanks) circulate liquid nutrients that gently flow down the structure. Sunlight is necessary, but for windows that dont receive enough light, hanging LED lights will work.
It goes without saying that this method of gardening is ideal for residents with no patch of grass to claim as their own; the method is also dirtless.
But first-floor residents beware: you are sure to get curious by-passers peering into your personal space, so consider a privacy curtain. Read about one womans window farm initiatives here.
Mittlieder method
The Mittlieder method creativelyand affordablycombines soil-based gardening with hydroponic gardening. This method takes advantage of space, time, and resources and works with both soil beds and raised beds. Apartment dwellers can enjoy this method as much as commercial farmers.
So how does this method differ from other gardening techniques Plants must be fed 16 essential nutrients, as determined by Dr. Mittlieder himself. In addition, while the soil type isnt a major factor in gardening, soil distribution is essential for proper irrigation, which he believes to be centralized watering, as opposed to drip irrigation. Plant spacing is also more liberal in the Mittlieder method. Finally, pruning vegetable plants is essential, yet often ignored in other gardening techniques.
Aquaponics
Aquaponics is one of two soil-less gardening methods we highlight. This is an organic gardening system that uses fish waste to nourish plants. This doesnt mean your plants are submerged, however. A variety of systems exist, including simple trays in which plants sit: their bottoms are hydrated and fertilized by the aquatic ecosystem. Kits are available for purchase and because you get to choose the type of fish involved, children are curious about aquaponic gardening. Just like a normal fish tank, your aquaponics system will need monitoring and occasional testing, so dont forget to include your gardener tot in these duties. For an overview of aquaponics and greater starter tips, head to Oregonlive.com.
Straw Bale Gardening
You dont need to live on acres of land to utilize a straw bale garden. Even a small bale (discretely placed, if you prefer) will provide high yields and require little maintenance. Bales are great raised beds: straw collects/disburses moisture and is compostable, which means over time your plants will gain nutrients as the straw decomposes. Plus, the bales retain heat to extend your gardening season even further.
Heres how its done. Before placing your bales, lay some fabric to inhibit weeds from sprouting up through your bale. Lay bales side-by-side if you have more than one, making sure the strings stretch across the sides, not the top. For two weeks, soak and fertilize the bales so they are ready for crops. Finally, plant your seedlings. Modern Farmer gives more detailed instructions for creating straw bale gardens.
Square foot gardening
The Square Foot Gardening method can be started using only a frame and some dividers. The square foot gardening method focuses on the number of seeds that can be planted within each square box based on the size of the plant. For example, one tomato plant might occupy its own square while oregano can be planted 4 times within a square. Carrot seeds, on the other hand, can be planted 16 to a square. Not sure how big your plant will be Check the back of your seed packet for spacing information.
Keyhole gardening
Keyhole gardens provide adequate growing conditions in less-than-adequate environments. Keyhole gardens are named after their shape: they are typically round beds with a pie-slice-shaped aisle for easy access, all built around a circular center compost. These types of garden beds provide the best of several worlds: raised beds allow for regulated soil conditions, the compost center permits rich nutrients to re-enter the soil through recycling, and soil stays nourished via water poured into the compost pile, essentially drought-proofing your crops.
Straight-from -the-soil-bag gardening
This method should by no means be considered the lazy way. Its the ingenious way! Soil bag gardening can be customized to the amount of space you have available.
You can even start a soil-bag garden near a window that gets full sun.
If youre a beginner and just want to test your green thumb, go out and pick up one 40-pound bag of top soil. Instead of spreading that soil in a raised bed or container, simply lay it flat.
Youll cut off the entire top of the packaging, exposing a window of pre-ready soil for your plants.
You might think the next step is too easy: plant seedlings at the appropriate time (found on the back of the seed packets). This method is more than just convenient.
Youll have practically no weeds and, if you choose to continue your gardening adventures, over time the bag will etch an automatic bed outline in your lawn.
==============================
## Title: When there is a glimmer of hope...
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
When there is a glimmer of hope...
Though life may not be the same after a cancer diagnosis; Manjula, a survivor shows us that life after cancer can be rewarding, exciting, and filled with joy. Along this cancer journey, she says her life was enriched with beautiful people and experiences and took a new meaning with a new direction.
"Although I would not have chosen cancer, I decided to use my energy in a positive way to win the battle."
"I am not dreaming to be rich; all I want is to be happy," she says.
Manjula Abeysinghe is the picture of sophistication and confidence. A professional in the banking sector with nearly 18 years of experience, Manjula is mother to her20 year old daughter and 15 year old son; wife to her doting hotelier husband.
Her journey with cancer began when she was diagnosed in 2015. She had been an active, healthy person hardly ever consulting a doctor. "After turning 40, my husband kept on asking me to get a check-up done and after putting it off for a while I finally did it."
The result of her medical tests threw her off balance. Who would in the superficial prime of health expect a cancer diagnosis
"My mammogram reports were clear but in another report,the hospital detected something under my arm and wanted to investigate further. Facing a cancer diagnosis is hard, there's no way around that. There is no one alive who has been told they have cancer and who did not wonder if they just had only a few days to live. It's unavoidable. But once I got past that fear and found the right place for treatment, I knew I was going to be fine. I just knew. You have to keep your ears open, your mind open, and your heart open." Manjula spoke with clear conviction.
"My family and friends became my support network. My parents looked after my household, my husband was always there with me through all the hospital visits and treatments. He ensured I ate propernutritious food. This was in 2015 and my daughter was facing her G.C.E. Advanced level exam - there were days when my daughter would have to go and sit for her exam and I would have to go to hospital. She would hug me tearfully before she left for the exam. It was a testing time for all of us as a family.But it all ended well." Manjula says.
"Cancer treatment didn't change my life too much", Manjula says. "But it did change my looks. I lost my hair. I lost weight. All my nails turned black. At first, these side effects were difficult to live with, but I quickly learned to embrace them, and to embrace the beauty within me as a person which couldn't be taken away by medication. I enjoyed putting on make-up." She quips. After completing her treatment cycle and being cleared clinically, she says that she looks at life differently and this is why she wants to give people hope. "I want to help. I don't mind talking to people when I have the time. I want to tell people that this is not the end of the world while I know some people die because of this - you must always be positive," she advises.
"There are wonderful doctors and nurses out there. Find them", she says. "Having a doctor who listens to you and addresses your real needs give you that sense of empowerment which helps you through this kind of life- altering ordeal"
Manjula talks dearly about Dr. Saman Hewamana, Head of Lanka Hospitals Heamato-Oncology Unit. "I had to go to different doctors and after going through several surgeries and treatments I finally met Dr. Hewamana."
Manjula wants to encourage everyone who faces cancer, to have faith. She says that there is hope along their journey and never give up, and to hold on to their dreams. "I believe that what we go through in our lives shape our characters to become who we are. I think it helps us to be stronger to face the unknown future."
Manjula's story is not unique. Many cancer survivors face similar challenges. With a new lease of life, she appreciates everything she has learned from a very painful, but incredibly rewarding and life-changing experience, "I am also determined not to let cancer or the fear of it rule my life." -NM
==============================
## Title: Wijewardene new SLIA President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Wijewardene new SLIA President
One of the giants and a pioneer in the industry Archt. D. H. Wijewardene FIA (SL) was inducted as the President for the session 2017-19 whilst the Council Members for the Session 2017-19 were also elected on this special occasion.
This was during the Architect 2017 Members Trade & Work Exhibition, the Annual General Meeting of Sri Lanka Institute of Architects (SLIA) was held on the 18th of February 2017 at the BMICH with the participation of SLIA members.
Sri Lanka Institute of Architects Annual Sessions 2017-18 were held from 14th to 19th February 2017 at the BMICH including the key events of the Inauguration Ceremony, National Conference, Architect 2017 Exhibition, Fellowship Night and the Annual General Meeting.
==============================
## Title: Wimal Weerawansa further remanded till March 20
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 13:30
Wimal Weerawansa further remanded till March 20

National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader Wimal Weerawansa was further remanded today (6) till March 20 by the Colombo Magistrate court.
Weerawansa was arrested on January 10, by the FCID for allegedly misusing 40 vehicles belonging to the State Engineering Corporation (SEC) while functioning as the Housing, Construction and Engineering Services Minister, incurring a loss of Rs. 91 million to the government.
==============================
## Title: The winds of wind power
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
The winds of wind power
An uncontrollable global emission of carbon dioxide from fossil-fuel is the most dangerous environmental problem that the world is facing today. This serious threat leads to global warming, which has been increasing during the last few decades and, today, is at its highest rate. Therefore the world cannot anymore depend on fossil-fuel and we have to find renewable energy sources for our future energy consumption. Among all renewable energy sources, wind power has been rapidly growing as an alternative energy source and is expanding as a significant contributor to the world electricity grid, during last few decades. Denmark, which is popular as the windmill nation, has showed the world that the wind power has a huge potential to contribute to an eco-friendly green world. The world can learn very important lessons and experience from Denmarks successful applications on wind energy.
Wind is not a new source of energy to mankind because we have been using it since ancient times. Wind mills are still popular in the agricultural sector, which have been used for pumping water, running irrigation systems and milling grains. The ancient Greeks used wind to sail ships and so called new world was discovered by the help of wind centred sailing ships centuries ago. According to historians, the first windmill was discovered in Persia, which had vertical axis, AD 947. Later in 12th century windmills were built in Europe on the Mediterranean coast and in northern France. European windmills had carried horizontal axis and it was a major technological shift. In the 13th century, windmills were growing popular in northern Europe, in France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom as major power source. By the middle of the 19th century windmill growth had reached its peak. According to reports there were some 20,000 windmills in France, 18,000 in Germany, 9,000 in the Netherland, 8,000 in England, and 3,000 in Denmark. Besides Europe, China was a giant in windmill usage in the 19th century. According to French historians, there were more than 500,000 windmills in China and that number equaled to windmills, which installed throughout Europe that time.
Installing windmills
Interestingly, windmills were just not only an innovative power source but also a progressive social tool. British historian Edward Kealey argued that the windmill undermined feudal oppression and contributed to womens liberation; The windmill was a tool for social development, the number of skilled mechanics increased, and it lessened the burden of women, they no longer had to mill their grain by hand. In addition, the windmill was a symbol of freedom, during feudal era. According to historian Edward J. Kealeys research, windmills were behind various social uprisings and who initiated windmills in England, were progressive citizens.
The feudal land lords, who owned watermills, were totally against for installing windmills because there authority, commercial interests were threaten and some windmills were destroyed by these land lords, during that time. But social active citizens thought that wind was free commodity for everybody and fought hard to install windmills.
Besides Europe, the United States had a long history with the windmill technology. As the historian Walter Prescott Webb stated that farm windmill was one of the three technological innovations made settlement on the Great Plans. By 1850s, 14,000 windmills were installed in the United States and it generated 11 megawatts. Paul Gipe, author of Wind Energy Comes of Age, stated that windmills were rapidly popular through America, during next 80 years and in 1930s, number of existing windmills raised to 200,000 and total power generation jumped to 150 megawatts. During that time only 10% of farms were received electricity from Rural Electricity Administration. But within next few decades centre-station power generation rapidly increased and windmills installation significantly declined. In 1970s, existing windmills declined to 24,000 and total power generation dropped to 18 megawatts. Compare to US, Denmark took a difference approach on wind power in 1970s. Because of the oil import embargo during the Arab war, windmill nation largely concentrated on wind power development. At that time, 95% of Denmarks power generation depended on imported oil. In 1975, Danish Academy of Technical Sciences determined that 10% of the nations electricity met by wind power. Denmark authorities started to achieve that goal and they have never looked back. According to World Wind Energy Report 2015, Denmark is the worlds largest wind energy generator. Their wind generated power share reached to 42.1% in 2015, increased from 33% in 2013, and 39% in 2014. In year 2012, Denmark government has set up another goal to reach by year 2020. Denmark authorities declared that they will generate half of the nations power from wind energy and to 84% in 2035. On the other hand the United States could succeed only 4.67% from wind energy.
Paul Gipe, who wrote of Wind Energy Comes of Age, pointed out that American wind turbines designed by aerospace industry experts, in contrast Denmarks wind energy technology developed by agriculture sector. Denmarks three-fourths of its total land area used for farming and countrys iron industry has closely linked to agriculture. They developed low cost wind energy technology, which directly related to agriculture sector. Thats why Denmarks three-fourth of all wind turbines installed singly or in small clusters.
Denmark government introduced sound energy and public planning policy to develop wind energy, which led Denmarks success on wind power generation. This policy has included financial incentives, local development dynamics and public administration and planning procedures. Since the local government reforms in 2007, wind power plant sections, planning procedures and other administration responsibilities met by the Denmark municipalities. This decision has led to cut administration red tapes and significant boost on wind energy production.
Incentives to local and foreign investors
Wind energy is becoming a popular trend. According to the World Wind Energy Report 2015, by the end of 2015, wind turbines contributed to generate 432.9 GW representing cumulative market growth of more than 17%. This represents 3.3% of the global electricity demand. Asia has become the focal point of the wind energy creation in year 2015, mainly thanks to China and India. According to the World Wind Energy Report 2015, total 175.8GW wind power capacity installed in Asia. The Chinese wind market almost doubled its capacity from 75 GW in 2012 to reach 145 GW by the end of 2015, reinforcing Chinas lead in terms of cumulative installed wind power capacity. Since year 2006, India doubled its wind energy power generation.
Wind power accounts for 6% of India's total installed power capacity, and it generates 1.6% of the country's power. Indias new wind energy installations totaled 2,623 MW in 2015, for a total of 25,088 MW.
During the 2013 budget presentation, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa offered incentives to local and foreign investors, who are willing to invest in renewable energy sector. The Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority (SLSEA) also has announced a policy to increase the share of renewable energy in power generation to 10 per cent in 2015. Unfortunately they couldnt achieve the target. Sri Lankan energy authorities can learn lot from Denmark wind energy strategy, which mainly focus on small and single turbines.
==============================
## Title: Yasodara House emerge champions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, March 6, 2017 - 01:00
Yasodara House emerge champions
Yasodara House emerged champions collecting 621 points at the Inter House Athletic Meet of Pushpadana Balika Vidyalaya,Kandy held on 3rd March,2017 at the Bogambara Stadium, Kandy . The Chief Guest was Sunil Jayaweera, the special adviser of Physical Education and sports of the Ministry of Education. Chandana Ekanayake, Superintendent of Prisons was the Guest of honour.
W.M.Wijeratne, the zonal director of Eucation was present on the occasion. The principal of Pushpadana Balika, Ms.E.Egodawela received the distinguished guests.
The sports meet was held in connection with the 75th anniversary of the School.
House positions
1st place Yasodara House 621 points 2nd place Sangamitta House 477 points 3rd place Gothami House 452 points 4th place Chitra House 439 points Champions in the respective age category.
Under 12 Isuri Nimsara Yasodara House Under 14 Nimasha kavindhi Yasodara House Under 16 Aruni Wijeratne Chitra House Under 18 Ushari Egodawela Yasodara House Under 20 B.G.W.M.Sriyananda Yasodara House
==============================