## Title: Election winners, and losers, return to Myanmar Parliament
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Election winners, and losers, return to Myanmar Parliament
MYANMAR: Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi returned to Parliament Monday along with dozens of rivals freshly hammered by her pro-democracy party's landslide election victory as the legislature begins overseeing the country's delicate transition.
Suu Kyi is constitutionally barred from top political office but has vowed to rule above the next president, who she will select following her National League for Democracy's formidable win in the November 8 polls.
The NLD bulldozed the current army-backed ruling party in polls set to dramatically reshape the country's political landscape.
But it will be the lawmakers from the military proxy Union Solidarity and Development Party -- still smarting from their election drubbing -- who will continue to dominate parliament as the pre-election legislature returns for a final session that will last until at least the end of January.
Suu Kyi was mobbed by dozens of journalists as she arrived at the parliament on Monday, but declined to make any comment as she takes a low profile approach to victory.
She is banned from becoming president by the junta-era constitution because she married and had children with a foreigner.
The Nobel laureate has nevertheless pledged to rule an NLD government through a puppet president, without revealing a candidate or setting out how the arrangement would work.
Suu Kyi has the power to select a president because of her party's parliamentary majority, with the candidate chosen in a vote of the new NLD-dominated legislature in February.
Observers predict a fevered period of political horsetrading, centred on the uncertainty over the presidency as the country creeps out of the shadow of the military.
NLD spokesman Win Htein told AFP that the party was acutely conscious that the size of its victory mirrors its success in 1990 elections, which were ignored by the then ruling generals who clung to power for another two decades.
This time, although we are quite glad that we won, we worry that history may repeat itself. We don't think the transition will be 100 percent perfect, he told AFP.
Suu Kyi, 70, has sought to take a conciliatory approach following the elections, dampening victory celebrations and requesting talks with President Thein Sein, army chief Min Aung Hlaing and parliament speaker Shwe Mann -- heavyweights from the former junta.
All three have accepted the invitation but only Shwe Mann, whose eagerness to work with Suu Kyi made him enemies among the military elite, has already set a date for his meeting -- Thursday. On Sunday Thein Sein, whose quasi-civilian government has opened the hermit nation to the world since taking power in 2011, said the elections were the result of his sweeping reforms and sought to reassure Myanmar's nervous populace that the handover of power would be smooth.
Myanmar's complex political system is the brainchild of the former junta, which has incrementally loosened its suffocating grip in recent years with stark changes, including releasing political prisoners and welcoming foreign investment.
The army, which retains a quarter of parliamentary seats and other political and economic privileges, has also pledged to support the transition.
Suu Kyi has criticised the long handover process, calling the constitution that proscribes it very silly.
This is quite incredible; nowhere else in the world is there such a gap between the end of the elections and the forming of the new administration and certainly it is something about which we should all be concerned, she told reporters ahead of the elections.
- AFP

==============================
## Title: Elvis stays top of UK album charts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Elvis stays top of UK album charts
He may have only ever set foot in the UK fleetingly at Prestwick Airport  but Elvis mania is once again sweeping across the nation.
Elvis, the undisputed King of Rock N Roll, has secured a second week at the top of the official UK album charts, with If I Can Dream: Elvis Presley with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.
The album - released by Sony Music Entertainment - sold 88,603 in its second week of release.
That was 9,550 MORE copies than it sold in its first week. That made it the first album to debut at No1 and then sell more copies in its second week on sale for three-and-a-half years (Gary Barlow/Commonwealth Bands Sing, May 2012).
It also saw The King beat off the Fab Four, with The Beatles 1 landing at No5 in the album charts.
Elvis album has now sold a total of 167,656 copies in just two weeks of release  and is already certified gold.
Executive producer Priscilla Presley said: I have been truly humbled by the reaction to this record in the UK. I know that Elvis always held the fans in the UK with great affection. He would have been thrilled with both this record and to know that, even now, he has so many fans on this side of the Atlantic. Elvis is the biggest-selling solo artist of all time, having sold  astonishingly - more than ONE BILLION records worldwide. Music
- News
==============================
## Title: Fear and beauty at foot of Ecuador's Cotopaxi volcano
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Fear and beauty at foot of Ecuador's Cotopaxi volcano
ECUADOR: Since it awoke in August from a 138-year slumber, Ecuador's Cotopaxi volcano has become one of the most-watched in the world, holding wary locals and fascinated scientists in thrall.
Cotopaxi, whose snowy peak rises majestically from the patchwork quilt of central Ecuador's high plains, rumbled to life on August 14, belching a column of ash in its first major eruption since 1877.
President Rafael Correa declared a state of emergency as authorities warned the volcano was one of the most dangerous on Earth because of its big snow cap and the relatively large population nearby.
So far, the fiery explosion of lava and cataclysmic snow-melt the government feared have not materialized.
But scientists are keeping a wary eye on Cotopaxi.
A team from Ecuador's Geophysics Institute recently climbed to the last shelter before the crater and installed wind-powered generators to keep their monitoring equipment running in case it gets covered by volcanic ash.
"This is the most monitored volcano in South America. We can't rule out any scenario," said the institute's director, Mario Ruiz.
Touring the ruddy terrain around the volcano's base, where herds of wild horses run amid the meadows and lakes, Ruiz pointed out the deep grooves carved by the 1877 eruption.
"In the 10 kilometers (six miles) immediately surrounding Cotopaxi there's almost no one and nothing," Ruiz told AFP.
"But there's a possibility the volcano could generate pyroclastic flows -- a mix of gas, ashes and rock fragments -- that could melt the glacier and form rivers of mud and debris, or lahars, which could affect the surrounding population for dozens of kilometers."
A powerful eruption is unlikely, he said.
But if it happened, it would have a devastating impact on an area that is home to 325,000 people, an oil pipeline and a key agriculture industry and sits just 45 kilometers south of the capital Quito.
During the August eruption, authorities evacuated hundreds of people and closed tens of thousands of hectares (acres) of the national park that surrounds the 5,897-meter (19,347-foot) volcano.
President Correa also decreed a controversial "prior censorship" measure that barred the media from releasing any unauthorized information on the volcano.
Residents who live near the volcano have grown used to living in a state of "yellow alert," the second scale on Ecuador's four-level warning system. They go about their days as Cotopaxi spits large volumes of ash and gas into the sky.
"I live with the joy of having this marvelous volcano nearby, but with the fear that it could turn destructive," said Roberto Veloz, who lives in the small town of El Pedregal, 10 kilometers from the volcano.
The three states considered to be at risk -- Cotopaxi, Napo and Pichincha -- periodically organize eruption drills. But they have not released estimates of the economic impact an eruption would have.
Visitors to the Geophysics Institute's headquarters in Quito are greeted by a map of mainland Ecuador's 84 volcanos, color-coded as dormant, potentially active, active or erupting. - AFP
==============================
## Title: First Session of Sri Lanka, Bhutan Foreign Office consultations conclude
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
First Session of Sri Lanka, Bhutan Foreign Office consultations conclude
The first session of the Foreign Office Consultations between Sri Lanka and Bhutan concluded in Colombo yesterday.
The Bhutan delegation was led by Foreign Secretary Tshering Dorji while Foreign Affairs Ministry Secretary Chitranganee Wagiswara led the Sri Lanka delegation.
The consultations were convened following the signature of the Memorandum of Understanding signed during the visit of the Bhutanese Prime Minister Tshering Tobgay in April 2015. It may be recalled that the highlight of the visit was the gift of the Bo Sapling of the Sacred Sri Maha Bodhi in celebration of the 60th Birth Anniversary of the Fourth King of Bhutan.
The discussions focused on further intensifying bilateral cooperation in the areas of Education, Health, Aviation, Tourism, Hospitality, Trade and Economic Cooperation, and Cultural and Religious Cooperation.
The field of education was extensively reviewed, and it was agreed to provide more opportunities for Bhutanese students to pursue educational and professional development and training at various higher education and technical institutions in Sri Lanka. Currently around 200 Bhutanese students pursue the MBBS and other programmes in Sri Lanka.
The parties also agreed on the need to explore opportunities to enhance trade and economic cooperation. Both sides agreed to work within the existing regional framework of SAARC such as SAFTA and SATIS as well as BIMSTEC and to establish stronger links between Chambers of Commerce of Sri Lanka and Bhutan.
A decision was taken to finalize a bilateral Air Services Agreement at the earliest paving the way for air connectivity between Sri Lanka and Bhutan. It was also agreed to deepen cooperation in the field of health. Sri Lankan doctors and academics in the Medical education were invited to work in Bhutan while the Bhutanese side requested to explore the possibility of Post-graduate training for Bhutanese doctors in Sri Lanka.
Matters pertaining to the regional and international cooperation, including SAARC and BIMSTEC, were also extensively reviewed.
The six member Bhutanese delegation included Ambassador of Bhutan to Sri Lanka Pema Choden, Signye Dorji, Deputy Chief Programme Officer of the Ministry of Education and senior officials of Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy of Bhutan in Dhaka.
Sri Lankas delegation included Anura Jayawickrema, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine. Wasantha Ekanayake, Secretary, Ministry of Buddhasasana. Madhava Dewasurendra, Addl.
Secretary, Ministry of University Education and Highways R.M.S.P. Ratnayake, Addl. Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, Maj. General Milinda Peiris, Vice Chancellor of Sir John Kotalawela Defence University and senior officials from the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Industry and Commerce and the Sri Lanka Institute for Information and Technology.
==============================
## Title: Gee Vidara Musical Evening
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Gee Vidara Musical Evening
The Old Boys Association of Kandy Vidyartha College will showcase their first ever event Gee Vidara Musical Evening on November 21 at St. Anthonys Hall, Katugasthota from 6.30pm. Veteran Musicians and singers Victor Rathnayake, Nirosha Virajini and Kasun Kalhara will perform at this event.
This is been organised to raise funds for the proposed sports complex of the school.
==============================
## Title: Govt aims to make SL a highly competitive economy - Mangala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Govt aims to make SL a highly competitive economy - Mangala
The governments intention is to make Sri Lanka a highly competitive economy on par with Southeast Asia, Foreign Affairs Minister Mangala Samaraweera said.
"The newly created Development Strategy and International Trade Ministry will coordinate investments and economic relations. The barriers to Direct Foreign Investments including bottlenecks and delays to doing business will be removed," he said.
"There will be reforms in the financial and monetary sectors and more stringent control of the budgets," the minister said delivering a lecture on 'Politics and Development in Sri Lanka' at the Institute of South Asian Studies, National University of Singapore on Thursday.
Samaraweera said to strengthen social sector programmes, especially universal access to education and health, the government will increase the budgetary allocations to both sectors.
A new set of laws will be put in place to combat corruption and financial crimes, he said.
The past six years or so since May 2009 saw Sri Lanka take an unfortunate journey on an autocratic path. Civil liberties were curtailed, independence of institutions including the judiciary was compromised, democracy was weakened, the rule of law was undermined, and good governance practices and human rights were violated with impunity, the minister said.
"We failed to address the causes of conflict in a manner that would guarantee durable peace, meaningful reconciliation and non-recurrence. Divisions in society were becoming deeper along religious and ethnic lines, freedom of speech and expression were curtailed, and fear and intimidation pervaded society," Samaraweera said.
"This is the first time in our countrys history that we have a truly Sri Lankan leader, who has been elected through the votes of all Sri Lankans, irrespective of race, religion and language. A President who stands for a united New Sri Lanka in which ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity is respected, celebrated and valued; a leader who would fulfil the aspirations of the people for strong and independent democratic institutions, freedom of expression, rule of law, good governance and the promotion and protection of human rights," the minister said.
From the very first day since assuming office, President Sirisenas Government, with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has been pursuing an agenda of reform which I am sure you must be familiar with," Samaraweera said.
"We have also initiated dialogues with diaspora groups and individuals with a view to working with them and obtaining their ideas, views, and assistance for the reconciliation process that is currently underway in the country including projects that directly relate to the welfare of the people," he said.
" Sri Lanka is once again working closely with the United Nations Organisation and its systems and procedures. We liaise closely with the High Commissioner for Human Rights and his office and we remain open to working with the OHCHR to obtain technical assistance to address several important issues including justice and accountability related issues," the minister said.
"Despite all the violence of the last several decades, there is a large reservoir of goodwill in my country, among the people of all communities. They are, after all, guided by the four major religions of the world which pursue peace, compassion and brotherhood  Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism and Islam," Samaraweera said.
The priority objective of the government is of course the achievement of reconciliation and development which is essential for the nations long-term stability, development and prosperity, the minister said.
"As Sri Lanka embarks on this important journey we look to Singapore, the one country in the region that is hailed as the modern success story of economic advancement combined with political stability and ethnic harmony," the minister said.
"Today, Sri Lanka has no choice but to take this chance; this opportunity before us, which may not present itself again, and work collectively with commitment, with the assistance of the international community, to re-build our country as a strong, united and prosperous pluralistic nation, ensuring ethnic and religious harmony, economic success, political stability and a balanced foreign policy," the minister said.
==============================
## Title: How to overcome the pressure of forthcoming O/L Exam
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
How to overcome the pressure of forthcoming O/L Exam
The end of the year is speeding towards us. Little less than half a million students are prolifically getting ready for GCE Ordinary Level Examination. Teachers and parents alike are busy in the last minute guiding and encouraging students. Department of Examination is dealing with necessary arrangements to hold the examination. The whole month of December is dedicated for this great exercise. With the release of the examination results, a substantial percentage of children leave schools owing to poor results, poverty and other factors. Their preference is to join the labour market seeking an early employment rather than continuing further studies. Those who are successful, proceed for AL with the selected stream of studies of their choice. Thus, GCE Ordinary Level is decisive and crucial in the selection of childrens future educational directions and career paths.
The syllabus of OL is rather extensive consisting of nine subject areas. In addition to subject matter coming under the purview of each subject, OL is expected to develop a wide range of other important skills concerning childrens development such as language competencies, social skills, learning techniques, decision making, team work and attitudinal development. The underlying objective of the examination is to assess the knowledge imparted to students on core curricula. Intensity of the syllabus keeps teachers and students extremely busy throughout the whole academic period. In the end, preparation for examination is naturally strenuous for children. Stress is one of the most terrible experiences that children encounter before an impending examination. It is exceedingly increased when examination is nearing.
The intention of this small attempt is to bring to the notice of our parents some significant points of parenting when their children are sitting for OL examination. Parenting is a rewarding and exciting function which varies from stage to stage depending on the age specific goals and objectives. Children sitting for OL examination are in their teens during which biological and psychological changes begin to take place in their bodies and minds. The role of parents in OL exam phase is considerably significant and it is a hard and a learned task especially during adolescence.
Emotional and psychological issues
Along with physical and emotional changes occurring in the teenage, children develop a range of diverse problems during exam phase. Headaches, physical pains in various parts of the body, constant tiredness, dizziness, increased heart rate, excessive sweating etc. are some prominent physically witnessing symptoms among children. They look ill tempered and depressed. Due to loss of appetite they cannot eat well. Children come across sleeping difficulties when exam is coming near. Bowel movements become irregular. Emotional and psychological issues such as anxiety and nervousness are common natural reactions emerging during examination period. Children sitting for a public examination having a considerable number of subjects like OL for the first time cannot bear these worries mounting within them. They desperately need parental support at this critical period. Parents have to play a multi-faceted role as a friend, a guide, a facilitator and a source of encouragement helping them to study, revise lessons and face the examination peacefully.
The first and foremost is to provide a favourable and peaceful environment at home. The home atmosphere would be a facilitating and supportive one without noises and disturbances. A carefully arranged ventilated room is conducive and encouraging the child to study.
Cleanliness of the room is important. Parents should necessarily persuade children towards studies. It is essential to educate the child about the vitality of getting through OL and the tangible benefits in facing an exam such as developing memorization, enhancing writing skills, accepting challenges, gaining confidence and emotional resilience required by the child to cope up with future responsibilities as an adult.
Tranquility and peacefulness of the mind provide a strong basis when start revision of lessons. Leaving the children alone allowing them to deal with exam stress and panic is destructive.
Parent, in regard, must be able to recognize and share the childs feelings. A close acquaintance with children is a vital element in parenting so that children do not have anything to hide from their parents. Both mother and father need to develop the habits of talking to the child affectionately, listening carefully, absorbing and providing appropriate directions as to how he could get rid of such disturbing feelings. Parents must not allow the child to feel the family worries and problems since such behaviour can intensify the worries of the child at this crucial period. Maintenance of calmness and relaxation at home is beneficial.
Last few days prior to examination
Certain parents establish unrealistic expectations for their children which are impossible to realize. Failure to achieve anticipated grades at the examination can lead to psychological downfall and self defeating. Exerting unnecessary pressure will end up with damaging effects. Confidence building on the childs capability to perform at the exam and gain desired results would adequate. The life does not depend only on getting through OL, but there are other alternatives to succeed the life. Intelligent parents are more concerned with the childrens wellbeing rather than exam results.
Convincing and ensuring the child about these realities is very effective for him/her to ease the exam burden. Unfortunately most parents promote their children in academic success neglecting other important areas in life.
Parents must keep in mind that succeeding in academic field alone does not produce a balanced personality. Playing games, watching television, association of peers and relatives, enjoying the nature and developing cultural values etc. are essential elements in the overall development of a child. Children therefore, need to be provided with separate times for studying, playing, taking meals, watching television, enjoying the family relationships, religious performances and once in a way outing etc.
Teenagers by nature, disagree with punitive strategies and nagging by parents. The more you impose punishments, the more children become adamant. Patient listening is more constructive than nagging. There is an undesirable habit among some parents to compare their own child with his/her colleagues who are considered to be well behaved and academically thriving. Evidence has suggested that positive reinforcement is more productive than criticizing and comparison. Such an approach damages the childs self esteem.
Parents must understand that anxiety and nervousness of children aggravate when exam is coming closer. Continuous physical pains, changes in functioning of bodily organs and various other complexities develop faster. Some of the children feel that they did not adequately prepare for exam. Some others have confusions over what they have learned so far. Forgetfulness is another serious issue during the eve of the exam. Some of the children are affected by fear arising over achieving expected grades. These symptoms and complexities appear in children at different intensities. Apart from a few, most children cannot withstand them. Last few days prior to examination are extremely crucial where close association and guidance by parents is imperative. Parents can be supportive pillars in the revision exercise, relieving stress and improving the tranquility of childrens minds.
Following are some of the effective suggestions to enhance memorizing and revision exercise and stress reducing practices that could be applied.
Assist the child to manage the limited number of remaining days effectively. Help organizing notes, textbooks and study related other materials in a systematic manner enabling the child to pick them up easily. Discuss with him/her and arrange the most preferable time for study. Before starting lessons the child should have a self determination to accept the challenge and achieving satisfactory results.
The willpower of the mind and courage is advantageous more than anything else. Ask the child to take regular intervals about ten minutes while studying. During these short breaks the child could go out of the study room and refresh the body and mind. End of the day he could engage in some physical activities like, cycling, walking, swimming, gardening or meditation which largely help avoiding stress.
Discussions and reviewing lessons with peers is an effective revision technique for some children. According to their preference and willingness group discussions of this nature could be arranged with random supervision by parents. Children must avoid studying new areas relating to curricula, that he could not touch earlier, during the last few days prior to examination. Focusing on what the child has thoroughly studied will help him/her to face the exam with a positive mind.
Past question papers of OL examination are readily available. Children can collect relevant question papers and answer them with fixed time. If this is done genuinely within the time indicated, it is a sound practice and a rehearsal for impending examination. Some vague idea about the pattern of questions and possible topics that might come up at the exam can be guessed through reviewing and answering past papers.
Simulating a mock exam will help children decreasing the exam panic and anxiety. Advice the child to visualize the exam process and mentally engage in individual steps involved.
When he has practiced the imaginary exam process several times, he can enter the actual exam hall and perform the exam confidently with reduced stress. It has been proved that mental rehearsing builds up confidence when it comes to actual situation. Another simple stress releasing technique is breathing exercise.
The child is to take a deep breath in to fill up his chest, hold and let out a big sigh. Letting out a big sigh is said to be the fastest way to relax your body and decrease the nervousness. This breathing exercise needs only a few seconds. The child can repeat the same as many times as he wish during the day.
Successful exam performance
Physical health of the child is also vitally important at this period. Parents need to ensure that the child get a balanced diet so that s/he does not get physical weaknesses or ailments during examination. Enjoying the meal together with the child with relaxed conversation is much beneficial. He should not be allowed to overwork during this period. A sound sleep is necessary to maintain health and improve concentration and thinking ability. Carrying out physical exercises is an effective practice that will boost up energy level of the body.
The child has to spend the last day before examination relaxing. Heavy involvement in studies in the whole day including night is a bad habit which is to be avoided. Concentration and memorization of short notes under each topics/subjects would benefit. He needs a full sleep during the whole night. Getting ready with necessary documents and materials and being present at the centre in time, with calm mind, is very important on the examination day. Then the child can relax for sometime before exam starts. The child should be aware how to perform answering process during examination. Rushing through the question paper in a hurry is not advisable. S/he should take time to read through the instructions and questions carefully several times. Then to follow the instructions properly and select questions that s/he could answer best. Start answering the easiest question first and rather difficult one last. In order for success, child must answer fully all the required number of questions in each paper. Equal allocation of time for each question is very important. Finally, s/he need to save few minutes to go through answer scripts before handing over.
For successful exam performance, discourage children from discussing foregone papers and concentrate on the next one.
Parents role is to educate and facilitate children on these revision techniques and stress management methods, encourage them to get used to. Exam panic and worries can accordingly be reduced to a greater extent and perform at the examination well.
Email: [emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: IMAAD MAJEED  THE WRITER, POET & SINGER
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
IMAAD MAJEED  THE WRITER, POET & SINGER
Imaad Majeed is a musician whos been performing in Colombo for the past several years. His style and music keeps changing and hes bounced from journalism to advertising and now to writing food-reviews for YAMU, that is when hes not strumming a guitar at The Melomanic Sessions or rapping for a live audience somewhere. With his fingers in a lot pies creatively speaking, we caught him for a quick Q & A session to hear him out.
Q: When and how did you start making music
A: I was 15 years old, and I got a guitar from my parents  they also had a piano but I sucked at playing it. I started out with very emo kind of music and just started writing lyrics to basic chords.
Q: You write poetry, you sing, you rap. Can you tell us a bit about how you experiment with form as an artist
A: I find that lyrics in whatever genre, is poetry. There is stylized language, a set verse and all music comes out of this type of conversation. One rap song I worked on was about how I dont like Ronald McDonald - it was a song about obesity. I like to use one form of expression thats usually associated with a certain type of character, and flip it over unexpectedly. Im also working on visual poetry now, where I post pictures on Facebook and ask for peoples comments  and I use their responses in my poetry.
Q: How easy or hard is it to be commercially successful as an artist, today in Sri Lanka
A: It can be done if youre lucky, and have the right networking and friends, and if you keep commitments. Im not commercially successful. There is an industry that exists  if you work with it, and create a brand around your name, you can move forward. You need to sell out if you want to make it.
Q: You touch on some controversial topics in your music. You were once removed from the Good Market after a performance. Tell us more about those songs.
A: I started writing these kinds of songs after studying journalism in India, around the time that the BBS (a hardline hate-group in Sri Lanka) was getting more vocal. I was asked to perform at Good Market and someone thought the words in my rap song Thambi Vamsa were racist and derogatory to Muslims. Another song called Night Club Bauddhaya had the same effect  it name-dropped certain individuals known for frequenting night clubs in Sri Lanka, and one such individuals sister had a stall at the Good Market, so I got kicked out for it.
Q: Thambi Vamsa sounds pretty radical, what was it about
A: I was inspired by music from the Beat Generation and by the rap-poet Krisantha Sri Bhagyadatta. Thambi Vamsa is a twist on the word Mahavamsa, and explores the origin of Muslims, how they areperceived and the clashes theyve experienced  it was made more in response to events in Sri Lanka, than any statement made against anyone.
Q: How do you take on the criticism that you get
A: Im all ears to criticism. Someone asked me how to respond to haters  dont think of them as haters, its important to listen, and learn how to more creatively express yourself and maybe change your work accordingly. However if someone is constantly striking you down, its important to have some self-respect and stand by your original work.
Q: Besides performing, youre also a part of new creative movements, like Poetry Plau. What has that been like
A: Poetry Plau was started by Krisantha Sri Bhagyadatta  it was initially just a handful of people meeting at his house to share their poetry. Today there are about 200-300 individuals interacting with the event, and about 20-30 people gathering for it at Hansa Caf, every first Saturday of the month. I think it allows people a space to vent, by reading out their poetry. So thats a kind of social commentary.
Q: Kacha Kacha is another event you curated  featuring a mash-up of very interesting new Sri Lankan artists. Tell us more about that.
A: Kacha Kacha was part of Radhika Hettiarachchis Cinnamon Colomboscope, and she wanted us to get trilingual, original material for it. We went with hip-hop, rap, poetry and baila blues. Buddhi de Mel is one artist at Kacha Kacha, whose code-switching between Sinhala and English is very interesting.
It was a great hit at Castle Hotel, where you got people who specially came for the event, and also the regulars at Castle Hotel, so we cover a wide range of people in the audience.
Q: Youve tried your hand at a lot of things and you keep changing. Whats next for you Will you be doing the same thing in ten years
A: Well Im not sure if Ill still have this moustache in ten years! One long-term project that I plan on sticking to is the Annasi and Kadalagotu chapbook. The A&K literature festival, started by Elmo Jayawardene, is also a part of it  the event which involves local writers and artists is more accessible to everyone than other literary events here tend to be. We started the chapbook with 200 copies  it featured eight poets, and good, recent poetry. Its crowd-funded now and is more sustainable and weve produced 400 copies, with the sixth edition coming up. The next one may be commissioned. So this is what I think Ill still be working on in the future.
Q: You rap in Sinhala and English, have collaborated with artists who work in different languages. Do you feel language can be a barrier in Sri Lanka
A: Languages are associated with different cultures. Whats more sensitive to one culture may be less for the other. For example its easier to talk about sex and transgender issues in English than in, say Tamil, because of the different cultures behind the languages. So there are interesting ways to approach these constraints considering different audiences and different cultural sensitivities. And the message delivered becomes different in every language. I think working around this conversation will help develop a more holistic Colombo/ Sri Lankan music scene.
Q: What advice would you give to young poets or musicians looking to start a career in Sri Lanka
A: If I could go back in time, I would spend less time trying to get educated. I used to think that education and a degree is the only way to become something  even my family used to tell me thats the only way Id amount to anything. But theres more to it than that. Choose to study something thats going to help you  for example, if youre a musician, study communication and then maybe you can apply yourself in TV and advertising. A long-shot would be if you could convince your parents to invest in creating a platform and connections, to start a series of events or workshops that can be monetized. Surround yourself with the right people, and make sure your interests are at the core of it all.
==============================
## Title: Joint Opposition, TU representatives against amalgamation of EPF, ETF
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Joint Opposition, TU representatives against amalgamation of EPF, ETF
The Joint Opposition and Trade Union representatives would stand against the amalgamation of the EPF and ETF to create a new national pension fund, said Lanka Sama Samaja Party Leader Prof. Tissa Vitharana.
This was revealed at a press conference held at the Dr.N.M. Perera Centre in Colombo 8.
Prof: Vitharana said that it was a risk to take the RPF and ETF out of the Central Bank which was a right won by the working class after the 1956 change.
Opposition Member of Parliament Vasudeva Nanayakkara said that the Prime Minister who made interesting pledges before the election are moving bitter proposals after the election.
Opposition MP Bandula Gunawardena said this massive fund is taken out of the Central Bank on instructions of the McKinsey Institute in America. He added that the working class should understand the risk before them if this proposal is implemented.
==============================
## Title: Katrina Kaif out, Jacqueline Fernandez in
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Katrina Kaif out, Jacqueline Fernandez in
If rumours mills are to be believed, an English toiletry brand has ended its contract with Katrina Kaif and is considering signing Jacqueline Fernandez as its new ambassador.
A source says, "Katrina has been associated with this particular company for the last two years. But now, they want a fresh face to take their new campaign forward.
They approached Jacqueline recently on the basis of a popularity survey."
It is said that the Bahraini-Lankan actress has given her verbal approval to the company, but is yet to sign on the dotted lines.
While both actresses were unavailable for comment, a source close to Katrina denies the buzz and says, "She is the only ambassador for the brand in India and will continue to be part of it. No one is replacing her."
However, sources close to Jacqueline confirm the story partly: "Yes, she has indeed been approached, but we are not sure if she will replace Katrina or be signed as the face of another product under the same brand."
The Midday
==============================
## Title: Master Sir...
## Supertitle: Short Story
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Short Story
Master Sir...
Perera sat at his desk in the office gazing listlessly out of the window, chewing the end of his pen. The In tray was piled high while the Out tray stared at him devoid of contents. His colleagues too were at their desks, some with legs cocked up, others with a cigarette stuck between their lips, contemplating the tendrils of smoke that formed before they vanished in the air. The younger ones were perched on the desks of the female of the species, disturbing them with their comments and jokes.
This was the humdrum section of the office where the much burdened clerks and those of their category were accommodated with a few rusty fans, walls tearing open their plaster here and there as though yearning for a bit of fresh air like the occupants therein.
In the foreground was the gleaming new storeyed, stream-lined building, replete with air-conditioning, sprawling and spacious where the favoured and privileged ones of the upper rungs worked or idled in luxurious comfort. The contrast was striking like the proximity of Wanathamulla to Cinnamon Gardens. But this was how matters stood in society. Who were they to grumble against such conditions and to what purpose They could only enviously eye that building and carry on regardless, hoping for a miracle of a transfer from here to there.
Sarath swivelled round in his chair and caught sight of the normally industrious Perera wrapped in thought, his pile of work still intact. It was not like Perera to be caught napping. He was so conscientious, performing his duties to the letter. Perera by his upbringing was one who believed that slackening in work was equivalent to defrauding his employers. Hence his meticulous attention to his work. But today! Sarath chuckled. It was good to see Perera idling. It was a salve to their conscience. After all if Perera was not worked it was something to crow about.
Here machang! Sarath called out mischievously Look over there! Perera Mahattaya too has caught the fever from us. But the look on his face shows he has caught it real hard Most heads were turned in Pereras director but he seemed hardly to be aware of it, wrinkles of worry furrowing his broad forehead. A few inquisitive young chaps sauntered over to his table.
Perera Mahattaya any problem Can we help you As he was much older, they, in deference addressed him as Perera Mahattaya. It took Perera a few moments to realize that he was being spoken to and a look of guilt came over his face as he glanced instinctively at his piled up In tray.
As he was of a normally taciturn disposition he had no desire to enlighten them on the subject. Muttering No, nothing he meddled with the files in the In tray. The youngsters were not going to be put off that easily and were joined by others too who kept on pestering him. Finally he succumbed to their pressure.
You see every evening after work I go to a private institution for classes in Accountancy. What can we do with this paltry salary we earn here in this position Its hardly enough to keep body and soul alive; and unlike most of you I have a family to maintain. Three kids have to be fed, clothed and educated on this pittance. So I thought of bettering my prospects. In two weeks I have to sit for part two of this exam and the boss has turned down my application for leave.
But you hardly take leave; he cant do that to you remonstrated one.
Why cant he chimed in another You know the old saying, if you hold the ladle how cant you dish out
That is why Perera Mahattaya we have told you not to take your work so seriously. Interrupted Sarath. See how relaxed we are! Whether you work seriously or casually you get the same deal. Deaden that miserable conscience of yours Perera Mahattaya; just deaden your conscience. Flat it co....ol like us. He drawled on the word cool pirouetted and broke into song
Theres a long, long way for us to go
Before this tug-o-war can ever end
When that day will be I dont know
Master Sir! When can I call you friend
You know this is a perennial story. This will go on. No solution. The songster broke off and continued. Im sorry if I sound pessimistic but this system will never change.
You see Perera Mahattaya you are always punctual, you never leave till your work is over, everyone including the boss knows you are efficient. But OT was given to the new hand the boss brought in. Here we are slaving but no promotions for us. The new ones get quick promotions. Must have given paga machan!
The point is our union is also defunct
The boss complains we dont work. What can he expect when he treats us so shabbily
Its a shame! Perera Mahattaya, the only thing is to take French Leave
Thus various comments from Pereras supportive and sympathetic colleagues
What! And be kicked out I cant afford to lose my job. Still have have to do the exam after having spent so much time and money rejoined Perera
But why does he object
He seems to think Im too ambitious sitting for accountancy exams.
There you are! Thats his nature. He blocks people from bettering their prospects. He expects us to slave for him while he reaps the profits.
Whats the commotion here, Id like to know rang out the stentorian voice of the boss who had entered unnoticed. Sheepishly one by one slid back to their seats and the feet on the desks were by now firmly on the floor. Why arent you people in your seats So this is what you do whiling away your time thundered the boss.
Mr. Perera Im surprised at you. The most senior man in this department rollicking with these youngsters instead of setting an example.
I have an important announcement to make. With effect from today youll have a superintendent in your department to oversee your work. He will report to men on the doings here.
Mm....a spy! muttered the irrepressible Sarath under his breath.
And Mr. Perera the boss continued as you seem to desire a couple of weeks leave I have brought in Mr. Fernando to replace you in your absence. I will be compelled to make a deduction in your salary to pay him as he is a substitute for you. You are taking leave for your personal benefit. As he is here today I have no objection whatsoever to your taking leave with effect from today.
==============================
## Title: Naga Vihara issue: Court summons both parties
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Naga Vihara issue: Court summons both parties
Nugegoda Chief Magistrate Kanishka Wijeratne yesterday ordered the Mahanayake of Kotte Sri Kalyani Sri Dhamma Maha Sangha Sabha Ven. Ittepane Dhammalankara Nayaka Thera, Ven. Udathalakande Ariyarathana Thera and Chairman and Secretary of Kotte Naga Vihara Dayaka Sabaha to appear before court today over an issue at the temple.
The court had issued an order preventing Ven.Wathuruvila Sri Sujatha Thera , the chief disciple of Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera from entering the temple on the day in which the late Ven Sobitha Thera was cremated. The Magistrate ordered that both parties appear before court over the issue today.
==============================
## Title: Obama, Putin hold coffee-table summit in Turkey
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Obama, Putin hold coffee-table summit in Turkey
TURKEY: US President Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin of Russia huddled Sunday for a coffee-table summit, breaking the ice for the first time since Moscow launched air bombardments in Syria.
Sitting in leather armchairs on opposite sides of a small table, the pair leaned forward in animated talks on the sidelines of a summit in Turkey's Mediterranean resort of Antalya, state television showed.
According to Russian news agencies, the pair met for 20 minutes.
The two heads of state held the summit in an unlikely venue, nearby a potted palm tree as other delegates wandered by and security agents partially obstructed the view of the television camera.
Obama, who was gesturing to reinforce his points, and Putin were flanked at the coffee table by White House National Security Advisor Susan Rice and another unidentified man, apparently a translator.
None of the content of the conversation was divulged to the journalists covering the summit.
Hours earlier, the former Cold War foes shook hands as they took places for a family photograph of the Group of 20 top world economies, a summit now dominated by the Paris bombing and shooting assault, which killed 129 people.
It was Obama and Putin's first meeting since Russia launched its declared anti-Islamic State air bombardment in Syria at the end of September. The West suspects the campaign is really aimed at propping up Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Relations between the two powers have deteriorated, in particular over Russia's backing for pro-Moscow rebels in Ukraine and now its air campaign in Syria, launched just after Putin's last meeting with Obama in New York in September.
But world leaders gathered in Turkey are seeking to put aside differences to deliver a united message against extremist attacks.
"We will only be able to deal with the terrorist threat... if all the international community unites its efforts," Putin said before his meeting with Obama.
Obama, moments after the Putin talks, arrived late to the main summit session just as fellow leaders were observing a moment of silence to remember the victims of terror in Paris and also Ankara last month where 102 people died.
The frosty atmosphere at Putin's previous meetings with Obama has become a symbol of the decline in Russia-US relations, with the Russian leader occasionally seen slumped in his chair legs akimbo and the US president appearing deeply uncomfortable.
Obama in 2013 had joked that Putin looked like "that bored schoolboy in the back of the classroom", adding to offence he caused in 2009 by saying the ex-KGB spy had "one foot in the old ways of doing business".- AFP
==============================
## Title: PARLIAMENT: failed to deliver its role
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
PARLIAMENT: failed to deliver its role
In Sri Lanka, it has been observed that employment in the public sector is considered to be a duty performed for the benefit of running a family  to keep the home fires burning. It is not considered as a duty towards the country to service the nation. Nevertheless, the Parliament is the most vital institution in our country. Will the staff of Parliament be able to perform their duties efficiently and effectively Could they rise up to assist the elected representatives to live up to the expectations of the citizens
The Parliament is a political institution  a complex one. Nevertheless, it is the place where conflicts are resolved and policies are framed through dialogue and compromise. The challenge facing our Parliament is one of continual evolution. Elected representatives should now respond strategically and effectively to meet the ever increasing demands in representation. Failure to meet these expectations effectively could undermine the faith in the parliamentary system.
The staff of Parliament therefore necessarily have an incredibly difficult task than ever before. They need to change their work culture to suit the challenges before them. They should primarily remember that the parliamentarians are also being pressurized heavily to be involved in evolving their role to suit the modern requirements. The staff should be aware that they should provide these services in a cost effective manner with efficiency and effectiveness. There has been severe criticism that both  Parliamentary officials and parliamentarians have failed to deliver. The diagnosis is that there is a perceived lack of creativity and innovation. Parliamentarians particularly should remember that they are publicly accountable for their actions.
Parliamentarians role
Parliamentarians role in my view is the only profession for which there is no job description. Effectiveness of parliamentarians therefore largely depend on the effectiveness of the Parliament Secretariat. Being good citizens they should learn to give strength to parliamentarians to build up a strong NATION.
In the case of Parliamentary Secretariat, it has links to a failure of leadership. Bad leaders do not produce results. They create bad successors too. Bad leaders do not know the ways to get jobs done. In addition, values such as honesty, discipline, integrity, dedication and accountability, had also not been inculcated in order to improve efficiency among the employees. Inefficiency, ineffectiveness and poor leadership had refrained the staff from being proactive. They do not like taking up responsibilities. This has potentially tarnished the good name of the institution.
In Parliament, the senior management is highly status conscious. They do not like to lose power they have over the others. They demand formality and respect. Subordinates are rigidly controlled. Decision making is one-sided and unilateral. They do not invest time and energy to prepare subordinates for participative decision making and leadership. When decision making is inappropriate, untimely and incomplete, things do not move well. If decisions are not made, problems crop up. Leadership is therefore crucial for taking the institution forward in a timely manner.
The seniors are mostly out of the country throughout the year. Are they so greedy They should give these opportunities to juniors as well. They do not therefore have time to pay sufficient attention for improvements. Their overseas exposures have not been utilized to make necessary improvements. The secretariat is lagging far behind compared to other Parliaments. It needs a fundamental shift to instilling a focus on effectiveness, efficiency and innovation. A big spender. And has always been utterly wasteful. It is heavily overstaffed, distended, bureaucratic, and inefficient. There have been serious audit queries too raised by the Auditor-General.
The staff of Parliament should therefore undoubtedly set an example to the rest of the public sector employees as well for several reasons. They are paid far better than the average public servants. They enjoy matchless perks and benefits.
The senior management is simply blind to job performance and its outcomes. Human resource management practices in staffing and performance evaluation are not given due consideration. In Parliament Secretariat loyalty, obedience, favouritism and seniority (not meritocracy) play a more important role than job-related competencies.
As I had experienced getting along is more important for getting ahead. Absenteeism is a serious problem. The employees feel entitled to absent themselves frequently from work for family-related reasons etc. Work always gets less priority to all other matters.
Sectoral Committees
Steps have already been taken to increase the cadre (by 12 more parliamentary officers) stating they need additional staff for the proposed Sectoral Committees. What a falsehood! This is illogical, unwise, inappropriate and ineffective. Why is that the government not taking steps to find out initially whether there is an excess cadre Ghost workers
Is it that the government is unable to face the difficult task of reducing the size and improving efficiency as part of a general endeavour to increase economic growth and cut fiscal deficits If so, they should begin downsizing in the first place in Parliament. If the government wants to take the country forward  the attempt should be to improve efficiency in Parliament Secretariat first. Thereafter, if needed, the extra personnel could be relocated more productively  a big saving.
The Parliament is a public sector institution with a specialized job which should ensure proper representation of citizens and free, open public spirited deliberations. It cannot be treated as just another public institution. An effective parliament shape policies and laws which respond to the needs of citizens, and support sustainable and equitable development. It is fortunate that the Speaker is ably assisted by no lesser person than Thilanga Sumathipala, the Deputy Speaker. A proven administrator. I could imagine he could do the change! It is no doubt the Deputy Speaker could face the big challenge to improve the parliamentary system not by providing more resources but by channeling constituency work by moving from:
* The specific to the strategic: finding policy solutions to common problems rather than dealing with each case on its own
* The individual to the collective: finding responses that benefit a number of people rather than individuals
* The local to the national: finding ways of bringing constituency expertise in to the parliamentary and policy process much more systematically
It has been found that democracy by itself  elections and representative institutions  does not produce good governance, rule of law and prosperity in a country. My past experience emphasizes the necessity for running the countrys Parliament with efficiency, particularly if the present government sincerely intend to achieve sustainable economic growth and development.
The fundamental issue in Parliament Secretariat, a bureaucratic organization, is to get the things right. It is imperative both Speaker and Deputy Speaker should do the needful to enhance careful supervision and proper guidance and attention. These requirements are seriously lacking.
This opportunity should not be slipped by the seniors who should now identify a process to increase performance to influence the thoughts, attitudes, and behaviours of the staff. Without proper leadership and guidance you cannot energize people towards an identified goal.
Action will have to be taken to influence the staff using necessary authority  to improve performance and create enthusiasm. The leadership will more often enhance creativity, which will make the lower ranks to follow the leader. Does this happen We must not forget that effective leadership of parents enables children to grow strong and healthy and become productive adults. Without leadership, organizations move too slowly, stagnate and lose their way.
Skills of diplomacy and negotiation
I must say that the leaders should necessarily be consultative. Consultation is normally done to demonstrate that employees suggestions are valued. Employees always will be glad if they are consulted in decision making though the decision is finally taken by the management unilaterally. It is my experience having been involved in administration that preferred leadership qualities are charisma, participation and team integration. The proverbial saying Be with them; but do not be one of them is true in present context as well. This does not however happen in the Parliament Secretariat.
Managers should be able to negotiate the basis for authority and work with the reality of multiple viewpoints. This requires the skills of diplomacy and negotiation, which in turn rely on the ability of all the players to think in to the shoes of others and to understand what counts as success for them. It must be remembered delivering the desired services efficiently and effectively should be the goal of parliamentary staff. It is necessary to identify approaches to maintaining and developing the quality and standards of service through quality and standards improvement strategies.
The failure of certain countries to grow undoubtedly relates to bad policy makers, inappropriate policy choices and due to poor policy implementation. These apply to institutions too. In addition, effective leadership and teamwork are key requirements for organizational success. It will be useful to find out in regard to the barriers to effective leadership, motivational techniques, teamwork, employee expectations and socio-cultural behaviours and attitudes prevalent in Parliament Secretariat.
Let me add that I love the Parliament so much. I had the good fortune to serve the supreme institution for over three decades. Let me also say that we Sri Lankans should firmly resolve that there is an obligation on our part as citizens to put the Parliament right so that we will be leaving a healthier, cleaner and better place for our children and future generations.
==============================
## Title: Pinkn blue solves a gender issue!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Pinkn blue solves a gender issue!
Do you think as adults we actually control the show Ask the kids. They really imagine I am a pushover and that they rule the roost Well here is a news flash. Many of them do. I realised the other day that I do not call the shots in my home at all. Actually, I will go as far to say that our 21 month old is a tyrant. Although she is extremely beautiful, funny, smart and brave she runs the house with an iron fist. It is either her way or the highway as far as she is concerned.
In fact, she didnt talk to me for 25 minutes the other morning because she did not feel like she had to wear shoes and socks to playschool. No matter how much bribing I did, or how many promises I made, she stood her ground or rather plunked her bottom on the floor looking into the distance. So we carried her out to the car shoeless.
Then there is the story about little Kingco. One morning, our then one-and-a-half-year-old opened the bottom bathroom drawer. Upon finding his grandmothers makeup, he began breathing heavily with excitement and began staggering around.
What a haul! What loot! Imagine his disappointment when, just as he was about to pry the shiny cap off a red lipstick, I picked him up and carried him out of the bathroom. I didnt congratulate him on his discovery. I didnt point him in the direction of the hallways white walls and say, My home is your canvas. Go forth and create. Instead, I ruined everything for him.
My friend Domani hates kids. And they dont take much of a fancy to him either. He must have been around about 18 when his aunt handed him her baby. Here, hold her, his aunt said as she held out her baby. No, thanks, he said. Oh, come on, she likes you! The baby smiled at him with a goofy baby grin.
No, really, shell break somehow, Domani intoned. He knew that as soon as he held the kid there would be an earthquake. He imagined the shaking ground would pop her out of his arms and out of the window into the bushes below. Come on, surely youve held a baby before his aunt said.
Mothers always want people like Domani who hate babies to hold their babies. He thinks that they think it will get him all excited about babies and that maybe hell run out of the door and propose to a beautiful woman. In his own words Domani says: The mothers think I might run to the nearest attractive woman and say: Hey, I just held a baby! It was wonderful! What do you say we have five or six of our own!
Poor old Domani. He thinks that babies arent built for holding. He says that the baby head is too big for the baby body. According to him it swivels and swings around like a tethered ball. And the hands are too small to grip on anything well. So they hold on to his ears and twist them like they are tuning a radio. He says that it would be easier if you could grab them by the back of the neck like a cat picks up a kitten. Or there should be handles on their shoulders like a bowling ball bag.
Now attempting to hold his aunts baby he was as wary as a bomb disposal expert. He held her at arms length like a bottle of nitroglycerin. Youre doing it all wrong. Hold her like this, his aunt said, taking her highly explosive baby back to demonstrate. You put your arm underneath her butt to support her.
Just then her husband chimed in,  Hey, did she go yet Domani was perplexed. Go Where is the kid going to go. For gosh sakes, shes only eight months old. Domanis aunt hoisted the kid in the air and sniffed the back end of her expensive designer label overalls. No, shes fine.
Domani was listening to this major topic of conversation about parental waste management. Did she go When was the last time she went Does she need changing Then they hold her up and smell her and thump her butt like a melon at the supermarket. Yeah, shes ripe! Just watching his aunt sniff the babys rear end gave Domani the creeps. He adamantly refused attempting to hold her again until he put on a full body eco-suit.
Domani suggested spraying the kid down with some Lysol and was tempted to ask for a pair of yellow rubber gloves. Then there was little Kingco who at three visited his twin cousins for the first time. The babies were in a single bed. Little Kingco wanted to know whether they were boys or girls. His sister Moya said she did not know.
How could you tell the difference. They are just tiny babies Moya said. Kingco answered: No Ill just climb into their bed peek under the covers and find out. He carefully manoeuvred himself into the babies bed and disappeared between the blankets. After a while he resurfaced with a big grin on his face. Well, asked Moya, did you find out
Yes, said Kingco pointing to one twin . This one is a girl and the other is a boy. Moya looked at her little brother with admiration: You are so clever. But how can you tell The little guy replied: Its quite easy really. One has got pink booties and the others booties are blue.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: President Sirisena should resign from SLFP leadership - Gammanpila
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
President Sirisena should resign from SLFP leadership - Gammanpila
Sri Lanka Freedom Party members are of the view that President Maithripala Sirisena should resign from the party leadership to protect it, said Pivithuru Hela Urumaya leader and Parliamentarian Udaya Gammanpila.
Opposition member Gammanpila said it is ambiguous as to who attempts to reverse the decision on the school students' uniform taken at the Economic Management Committee headed by the Prime Minister.
He made these observations at a press conference at the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya party office at Pita Kotte yesterday.
Gammanpila said they see the leadership of the SLFP and its General Secretary as invaders. He said they took over the power of the party by exploiting the power they gained at the elections.
"The General Secretary of the party cannot tell members not to work with sister parties. We all contested as the United People's Freedom Alliance," Gammanpila said.
He said as long as President Maithripala Sirisena is in the party, the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya would not contest
under the UPFA banner.
"If the CEPA is signed, the economy of the country would collapse. The unemployment rate would rise," Gammanpila said.
"We are ready to discuss the matter with government officials," he said.
==============================
## Title: Rex de Silva - His creativity knew no bounds
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Rex de Silva - His creativity knew no bounds
I was 19, had just put my A/Ls behind me, and was on my first job interview. Naive, inexperienced and quite unexposed to the darker facets of life, I was nevertheless bubbling with enthusiasm as I went to meet the editor of the SUN and WEEKEND. Walking in to his office, I was momentarily dazzled by the unexpected vision of a smart, trendy looking 30-ish gentleman dressed in denim and sporting bracelet and chain that matched his silver hair. He asked me many questions and one I remember well was, "If we sent you to cover a situation that involved public disorder and mayhem can you handle it" I grinned like the very green aspiring journo that I was and said yes without batting an eyelid. Deputy Editor Iqbal Athas walked in at that moment and Rex told him, "She says she isn't afraid to cover any assignment."
I think it had little to do with that display of naive I-can-do-anything optimism and more to do with the fact that the WEEKEND needed a sub pronto, but just when I returned home after a long bus ride in a CTB boneshaker, there was call from the newspaper. It was Rex asking me to report to work the next day!
That was the beginning of my long tenure at Independent Newspapers - and a sound, non-formal training by this charismatic journalist that has held me in good stead ever since.
I have told everyone who would listen that I was thrown in to the deep end to sink or swim when I joined the SUN. For, very soon after I joined, Dinoo Muthu-Krishna, the chief sub of the WEEKEND left for Australia and I was left nervously holding the shaky fort. But then as I paddled in unfamilair waters, Rex was always there with a lifeline. He taught without spoonfeeding, he gave ideas but shared the credit, and more than all, he instilled self-belief and confidence in me and all the other eager young ones who joined the SUN ranks soon after.
While the SUN was where Rex excelled in his task as Editor in Chief of a respected national newspaper, the WEEKEND was the playground where he unleashed his creative brilliance. It was as if every day he sat up thinking of new ways to make this Sunday edition of the SUN, more exciting, more dynamic, more reader-friendly, more value for money for its readers. Under his stewardship, the paper ran many competitions over the years. Each time he designed the logo himself. For the Spooky WEEKEND competition where readers were asked to send in their personal ghostly encounters, he designed a logo with the W of WEEKEND looking like an eerie bat.
Not satisfied with just coming up with this idea, he decided a prank was in order. Suddenly a mysterious envelope landed on the WEEKEND sub-desk. The other sub and I shrieked as we opened it to discover a voodoo doll of sorts made out of a candle, pins stuck on it for added effect! Rex had been hinting to us that the Rationalist Association was after us because we had started a ghost story competition so the doll was a ruse to make us believe the president of the Rationalist Association was after us! But of course we knew Rex was the mastermind because we could see him surreptitiously watching the fun through the glass in his room!
Talking of such capers, each year Rex thought up some crazy but ingenious April Fools Day prank in the newspaper that had hundreds of people fooled. His creativity knew no bounds. He wrote several columns under the names Suryakumara, Don Mithuna, Subodhini, and when regular columnist Amitha Abeysekera left to join the new rival The Island, Rex dug into his creative resources to come up with his very own Ibsen's Choice cartoon where an old tortoise dispensed nuggets of wsdom and wit!
Rex also started investigations into social ills, departmental bureaucracy and ministerial misdemeanours with the INSIGHT investigations in the WEEKEND. He also started the Action Sun column where readers wrote in with problems they faced with bureaucracy and the newspaper would talk to the relevant parties and find redress. He was the first to have an astrologer answer queries from the public and the WEEKEND desk was flooded with hundreds upon hundreds of hosroscopes and queries. At one time he discussed with me a column on the lines of Britain's Jim Will Fix It. It never got off the ground but years later when I was working at the Sunday Times and Junior Times, I 'borrowed' the idea to start 'Dreamboat' where children told us what their dream was and we turned it into reality. Soon after, I met Rex at a reception and he said, "So you took my WE (WEEKEND) will fix it idea But that's ok, at least someone did it!"
Rex was not just a brilliant journalist he was a man with a soft heart. He felt for the poor, the needy, the wronged and the disadvantaged. He also cared deeply for his staff. I remember us girls and boys putting money together to buy him a gift for his birthday. After much shopping around (we did a lot of that at the Sun!), we found a decanter and glasses on a turntable that played music. The next day we presented it to him but I got told off for "letting all these young girls and boys spend their money." But the next morning he had a story. That night, while his children slept, he had taken the gift out to show his wife and the tinkly music had played. In the morning, he said laughing, his little sons had asked, "Thaththa, eeye re fairies aawada" (Dad, did fairies visit last night)
There are so so many memories of Rex that could fill a book. Rex encouraging me to write editorials, Rex nominating me for fellowships, Rex relating hilarious yarns, Rex dropping us home late on a Friday night as we hung about waiting for an office vehicle, us WEEKEND subs having lunch every Saturday with Rex at 5 pm, Rex sending us off to Pagoda to buy pineapple gateux for his birthday.. and on a more personal note, the doorbell ringing on the morning of my wedding and a shorts-clad bride opening the door to find Rex on the doorstep with a big box!.... the memories keep flooding.
Each and every one of us who passed through the doors of Independent Newspapers and learnt our craft from Rex will feel this terrible loss. Others no doubt will share their own memories of our dear, departed boss. I'm glad however that in the last few years Rex was a big part of the Sun/Weekened facebook group where ex- SUN alumni had re-grouped and we were once again enriched by the wisdom and kindness of our Editor. Even after all these years, he continued with his encouragement. When he knew I was writing a biography of Lasantha, he sent a message giving me courage and later wrote, "I started reading your masterpiece this morning after downloading it from Amazon. I am now at Chapter 2 where you have chronicled his entre to journalism. Quite nostalgic to read about him and the old colleagues. How can you have such a photographic memory! In all, you have done a great job to fortify the memory of this magnificent journalist."
Rex was too humble to acknowledge that it was he who started off Lasantha's journey ino "magnificent" - and that of so many other SUN journalists who are doing great things with their lives.
Thank You Rex for moulding me into who I am. I will be eternally grateful. You are a boss none of us will ever forget because we are what we are because of your training! I speak for myself and all my colleagues when I say that we are so fortunate to have had our journalistic experience with you. Just as you once wrote, may you "always be born a scribe in samsara."
For us, the SUN has finally set.
==============================
## Title: Right on the DOT!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Right on the DOT!
Anuj Ranasinghe is a very confident ramp model, actor and TV presenter. He has been in the scene since 2010. He has First Class Honours from the University of Greenwich. He was the lead actor in Chandran Rutnams last movie Me Vage Aadarayak (A Love Like This) which was screened at theaters recently. He is also a familiar face in music videos, his latest being Shashika Nisansalas hit Oba Ma Hamuwunada. TnC got together with him to know a little bit more about this guy.
Q: So Anuj, do tell us how you got to be selected for this upcoming pageant
A: Prasanna Pathmanadan whos the National director nominated me for this pageant. We have known each other since I started modeling in 2010. He supported me the past two times when I represented Sri Lanka in an International pageant. So he has a high hopes for me about this pageant.
Q: What are the other two international pageants you participated in
A: First was the International Best Male Model 2010 held in Spain which I won first Runners up. Second was Mr International 2011 held in Bangkok, Thailand where I was ranked in the top 15.
Q: Who are you
A: A simple guy.
Q: How do you start you day
A: By drinking a glass of water.
Q: Three things you cant do without
A: My mobile phone, jeep and the gym.
Q: Who are the people you idolise/look up to in life
A: My Father.
Q: Motto in life
A: Success is easy when you do the right things at right time.
Q: Where do you see yourself in five years
A: I want to direct my own movie.
Q: What are your fitness rules
A: Say no to smoking and alcohol.
Q: You are thankful for
A: My parents and all my friends.
==============================
## Title: The role of scientists in development frontier
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
The role of scientists in development frontier
Professional scientists are the intellectual professionals with strong academic background and research competencies and working in the government affiliated research and development institutions. With their expertise they make an excellent contribution for research and development interventions in the efforts for the development in Sri Lanka.
The establishment of the Professional Association of Scientists of Sri Lanka (PASS) on March 10, 2015 with the participation of scientists who are serving in the government affiliated research institutions symbolizes a landmark event of the research and development sector of Sri Lanka.
Aims
Prior to independence, several public sector research institutions had been established for sectors such as plantations and fisheries. However, in parallel with the post independent socio-economic and political reforms, the existing and the newly established research and development institutions were brought under the government affiliated institutions. This enabled such institutions to function as independent institutions to a certain level for the improved functional productivity and efficiency without the direct control of the central government.
Professional scientists are the backbone of these institutions providing a devoted and a silent service for more than six decades to the nation.
The scientists who provide an enormous service in key economic sectors such as agriculture, industry and services have not been apprised properly since the commencement of these institutions. The PASS is the frontier command of the countrywide scattered professional scientists of government affiliated research institutions working under conditions of very minimum facilities and limited privileges compared with the similar categories of public sector.
Deviating from mere traditional trade unionism, a key objective of the PASS is the active participation in formulation of national research and development policies to fulfill the anticipated goals of socio-economic development of the country and providing intellectual contribution to the government through research and development interventions.
Furthermore, the PASS will directly involve in securing professional standards, privileges and rights of scientists by becoming the National Voice of the professional scientists of government affiliated research institutions. Through this effort the PASS will be able to generate contented Scientific Community and that will lead to speed up of the countrys economic development.
The PASS will be devoted to offer professional guidance to the government to bring long lasting solutions to the critical problem of brain drain which has been having adverse impacts on the development of the country for a number of decades. Moreover, the PASS will open up windows for an intellectual dialogue among the scientific community by creating coordination and communication among professional scientists to make a reality of the governments interest in making Sri Lanka the centre of fivefold power of Asia.
Challenges of the research and development sector
Research and development policy of a country is the main determinant of the socio-economic development of that country. Hence, the PASS stresses the importance of the implementation of a sustainable and updated research and development policy as of national interest for the accelerated socio-economic development of Sri Lanka. Unfortunately, no concurrent national policy on research and development had been implemented since the independence and as a result of this failure Sri Lankas dream to be the knowledge centre of the SAARC region has not become a reality as yet.
The share of GDP for research and development expenditure and the economic development of a country are correlated indispensably. This is clearly indicated by all economic indicators of developed as well as countries identified as the East Asian Miracle such as Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and South Korea. All developed countries maintain research and development expenditure as a share of more than 2% of the GDP.
Prior to 1980s, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and South Korea remained far below Sri Lanka in terms of all social and economic indicators. Now Sri Lanka is lagging behind all these countries in terms all social and economic indicators.
The secret of this unbelievable transformation is the realization of the importance of research and development (R&D) as an essential precondition for the accelerated economic development by the policy makers of those countries followed by the subsequent increase of the share of GDP on voted expenditure for research and development. For instance, South Korea, Malaysia and Singapore retained R&D expenditure as a percentage of GDP 4.04, 1.07, and 2.1 respectively.
But sadly this figure for Sri Lanka is about 0.16%. Among the SAARC countries, Sri Lanka shows the lowest and Pakistan, Nepal, and India allocate 0.33%, 0.30% and 0.81% respectively as R&D expenditure from the GDP.
Hence, the PASS strongly insists the government to increase the voted expenditure for R&D at least to 1% of GDP for a scientific and technological revolution which is the precondition for the takeoff of the economic development of Sri Lanka.
According to the new governments proposed budgetary allocation for the next year it is targeted to increase the voted expenditure on higher education to 6% of GDP. The PASS foresees this as a constructive step and requests the government to pay similar unique attention to the R& D sector of Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Samurdhi, Divi Neguma bank funds cannot be touched by politicos - SB
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Samurdhi, Divi Neguma bank funds cannot be touched by politicos - SB
Politicians cannot spend funds in Samurdhi and Divi Neguma banks. These funds belong to the public, Social Empowerment and Welfare Minister S.B. Dissanayaka said.
The minister made these observations at a ceremony held at the Matale Hotel School Complex to distribute cheques among Samurdhi lottery winners.
He said the Samurdhi Movement was started on a solid foundation.
"Anyone attempting to change this movement will face a lot of issues," Dissanayake said.
He said around Rs.1,000 million is remaining in bank funds.
"It should be utilised to promote the living conditions of the public. The Samurdhi Movement was commenced in accordance with the report of the World Health Organisation. During that period, the country's poverty rate was 26 percent. Now it is six percent. However, three percent of the population in the country do not have electricity," he said
"These people can obtain loans from Samurdhi banks to get electricity connections for their houses," the minister said.
Plantation Industry Deputy Minister Lakshman Wasantha Perera, parliamentarian Rohini Kavirathna, district secretary Neil de Alwis and Divi Neguma director of the district K.D.Wickramsuriya also spoke.
==============================
## Title: SC allows leave to proceed with SLBC FR
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
SC allows leave to proceed with SLBC FR
The Supreme Court yesterday granted leave to proceed with a Fundamental Rights petition filed by several trade unions attached to the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Cooperation (SLBC) challenging several appointments and promotions of employees made without calling for applications, contrary to the scheme of recruiting and promotion procedure.
The three-Judge-Bench comprising Justices Bewaneka Aluvihare, Sisira de Abrew and Anil Goonaratne fixed the matter for argument on April 1 next year.
The Sri Lanka Broadcasting Cooperation, the chairman of the SLBC and 62 other persons were cited as respondents. The petitioners alleged that the said promotions and salary increments have been granted to office bearers and numbers of Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya solely due to their political affiliations.
They sought an interim order to suspend the operation of the promotions in terms of the decision of directors of SLBC.
==============================
## Title: Seethawaka Ganaga hydro electricity scheme to add 20 megawatts to grid
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Seethawaka Ganaga hydro electricity scheme to add 20 megawatts to grid
The Seethawaka Ganaga hydro electricity scheme in Deraniyagala costing US $ 60 million once completed will add 20 megawatts of electricity to the national grid to facilitate the government's programme of providing low cost electricity to the people, Power and Energy Minister Ranjith Siyambalapitiya said.
The minister said so when he visited the proposed project site in Deraniyagala on an inspection tour recently.
Siyambalapitiya said under this project, a dam with a height of 42 metres would be build across Seethawaka Ganga at Dabakotuwa, Higuralakanda to feed water to an electric turbine built 1,470 metres away in the lower river basin along with this project infrastructure in Deraniayagala area would also be developed in keeping with the wishes of the people in the area including a bridge linking Dangampala and Hingurukanda.
The minister said the Seethawaka Ganaga Electricity Scheme in Deraniyagala will be Sri Lanka's last and final medium scale hydro electricity scheme.
==============================
## Title: Sing-A-Long for a Good Cause
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Sing-A-Long for a Good Cause
Heres news of a great evening for music lovers who are looking for just the right kind of relaxation sprinkled with entertainment that combines two popular concepts. For those who enjoy those golden oldies plus the evergreen hits of yesteryear, there is going to be an opportunity to hear them and to join in singing them. For those who love the beat, lilt and rhythm and are infected by it in a manner that makes them itch to dance, the bandstand is going to be inviting, tempting and simply fantastic.
Anura Palihawadana
The date for it all is fixed for Tuesday, November 24 (Pre Poya Day) at 7pm at the BMICH Banquet Hall. The two in one package which mainly comprises a Sing-A-Long and winds up with music for dancing until 11pm is tipped to go on record as an evening that will be long remembered. The song and dance exponents Nalin & the Star Combination, will belt out those popular hits that will see everyone joining in the singing with a prize on offer for the Best Singing Table. In the latter part of the evening, when the mood is right for dancing, the floor will open up to many couples who enjoy tripping the light fantastic toe until Shadow Star Anura Palihawadana who is the popular look alike and sound alike of Sunil Perera of Gypsies comes on stage for a scintillating performance that will lead up to the Baila Competition. To keep the night alive and ticking, the Award Winning and much sought after Compere, Vijaya Corea will be mike side with his wit and humour enveloped by the unique tambour of his golden voice.
The evening will be replete with rewards for those who are there. There are valuable prizes on the Entrance Ticket Draw and the Business Cards Draw. A buffet dinner coupled with no corkage and a ticket makes the evening most attractive. Naturally, there is going to be a rush on for tickets as some have already planned to gather their friends and form a table, considering that every 10 tickets purchased would entitle them to an exclusive Reserved Table.
The significance of this evening is that the money spent on every ticket will not only benefit the buyer but also suffering cancer patients for whose welfare the event is being conducted as a Fund Raiser.
The tickets, for what is anticipated to be a full house, are now selling fast at Torana, Ground Floor, Liberty Plaza and Sonata Sound, 21B - 3rd Floor, Majestic City, Bambalapitya. As the saying goes: The early bird catches the worm!
==============================
## Title: Step off Diabetes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Step off Diabetes
The true development of the humans is not the development achieved in technology, but become physically and mentally healthy humans, says President Maithripala Sirisena.
The President made these remarks at the inauguration of the exhibition and series of lectures being held at the BMICH in line with the World Diabetes Day today (Nov. 14). He participated in the walk to mark World Diabetes Day started from the Independence Square and ended at the Mihilaka Medura hall in the BMICH premises. This is the sixth consecutive year of the President Sirisenas participation in the walk on World Diabetes Day started in Sri Lanka in 2010.
President Sirisena pointed out that the countries such as America, Japan and England where they enjoy the highest technologies also face the challenges of the effects of technology over the health of the people. Hence, we cannot say the people of a country are healthy as they enjoy developed technology, he added.
When the people depend entirely on technology, the number of patients is increasing. The people who dont have enough understanding about their lives, say that they dont have time for physical exercises for a healthy life, he further stated.
Time management of the day and control of technical equipments which produces physical and mental illnesses are the steps to prevent diabetes and other illnesses, the President said. Everybody should understand that the prevention of diabetes cannot be done only by the doctors. People should follow better life styles for their healthiness, he added.
The President stated the new circular on sugar consumption gives a message to the people to reduce consumption of sugar.
Minister of Health and Nutrition Rajitha Senaratne presented the circular on sugar consumption and newspaper Arogya to the President at this occasion.
A group of doctors headed by the Chief organizer of the committee to prevent diabetes Specialist Doctor Prasad Katugampola organized this walk, under the directive of Minister Rajitha Senaratne.
==============================
## Title: Stormy emotions in focus
## Supertitle: Before the Rains
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Before the Rains
Stormy emotions in focus
Based on the film Red Roofs, part of The Desert Trilogy: Yellow Asphalt by Dany Verete, Indian director Santosh Sivans period piece Before the Rains unfolds in Kerala. The screenplay is set in 1937 by Cathy Rabin who had skillfully woven the Indian touch into the story which was originally placed in Israel.
Moores is a planter aspiring to build a road to transport spices for export. His main challenge is to complete the project before the monsoon season. However he is quite confident of building the road on time since he has the villagers at his beck and call.The key behind his success is T K Neelan, his loyal and obsequious manservant, who sees no ill behind his masters actions till it is almost too late to turn back. A part of his faith towards his master is shattered when he learns of the passionate relationship Moores shares with Sajani, his beautiful but nave housekeeper.
First glance
Moores discards Sajani once his wife and son returns from England. Sajani is herself a married woman but she genuinely loves Moores. When her husband hears of news that she is seen locked in the arms of another man, things turn ugly at home. Sajani has no choice but to go to Moores for help only to find that he wants to send her away so that his life and family is in safety while she has to live a life of an outcast. Sentimentality does not play a major role in Before the Rains. Though you do feel pity for Sajani, you are more in awe of how power acts once threatened. Moores who seemed a worthy landlord at first glance reveals his cold hearted nature by ruthlessly exercising his prerogatives.
Interestingly T K wishes for the best of both worlds. He embodies the respect that the humble villagers show towards the British as well as dwells in the simplicity and beliefs of the rural Indians. A man who has no love for conflicts, he is at ease when he bows his head for this master and is grateful for every scrap of favour that the white man offers. This is evident in his joy of receiving a pistol for Moores as a token of gratitude for serving him well.
Culture clashes
Moores and Sajani
The film deals with themes such as culture clashes, imperialist entitlement, betrayal and a forbidden liaison between master and servant.Though the pistol later serves to be a destructive weapon, T K sees only the good side of the equipment until it falls into the wrong hands and unveils itself as a deadly weapon.
These are hackneyed ideals in a film which deals with colonialism but the freshness in which the director handles the plot keeps the audience immersed. Just when your attention seems to be withering he brings out a new angle to the story like revealing a part of the Indian tradition to fascinate the viewers. One such instance comes towards the end of the film when the villagers use an age old practice to see whether T K is lying. The spirit of nationalism too is a sub theme in the play and one which is being awakened even in T Ks mind at the climax of Before the Rains.
Emotional catastrophe
Another plus point in the film is in its visually striking locations. The waterfall near which Moores and Sajani engage in intimacy displays nature in all its beauty. Nature is also used as a symbol in certain instances.
The impending stormy weather too predicts the emotional catastrophe which will follow once the true state of affairs come to light. Similarly Moores son, Peter, releasing his dragonfly from its bottled prison signifies the transition of Sajanis soul to another world. Linus Roache, Rahul Bose and Nandita Das who play the lead roles carry off their performance convincingly. Other significant characters are portrayed by Lal Paul, Jennifer Ehle, Leopold Benedict and John Standing.
==============================
## Title: Three new Commission members appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Three new Commission members appointed
President Maithripala Sirisena granted approval to the appointment of new members who have been recommended by the Constitutional Council, for three commissions.
The three commissions are National Procurement Commission , Delimitation Commission and Finance Commission.
A. M. Fonseka has been appointed as the Chairman of the National Procurement Commission while the commission includes .D. N. I. F. A. Wickremasooriya, B. E. R. C. Wedikkar, P. A, D. C. R. Perea and Niyan Wahudewan as its members.
The new Chairman of Delimitation Commission is Pavalingam Kanagaratnam while Dr. Anila Dias Bandaranayake and Prof. Sahul Hameed Hisbulla are among the members of it.
Uditha Harilal Palihakkara has been appointed as the Chairman of Finance Commission while Welupillai Kanagasabapathi and M. M. Safhulla are among the members. Central Bank Governor Arjun Mahendran and Secretary to the Finance Ministry Dr. R. H. S. Samaratunga are members of this commission in their official capacity.
==============================
## Title: The Thumb-Stopping Moment: Tips From Facebook For Advertising On Facebook
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
The Thumb-Stopping Moment: Tips From Facebook For Advertising On Facebook
The shift to mobile has already happened. Heres what you can do to make sure your mobile ads are grabbing peoples attention.
Everyones phone is personal, Carolyn Everson, vice president of global marketing solutions at Facebook, reminded the audience during a panel on mobile advertising at Fast Companys Innovation Festival on Thursday.
Because of this, the expectation for marketing on Facebook and other mobile apps is that brands show up in a delightful, useful wayotherwise you are noise; consumers want you to add value to the experience.
The panelmoderated by Fast Company executive editor Noah Robischonalso included Marc Mathieu, U.S. chief marketing officer at Samsung, which advertises on Facebook. Mathieu said the platforms personalized data can deliver ads to the right person with the right message at the right time.
For instance, Facebook can tell which users have been using a certain phone for two years and may be up for a change in contract. People dont want to be advertised at, interrupted. You want to really bring utility into peoples lives, from an information standpoint or with great moments of entertainment, Mathieu said.
So what advice did the duo have for companies wanting to improve their mobile or Facebook advertising
Dont Live in the Past
First, Everson said, accept that the shift to mobile has already happened.
Its clear we are spending more time on mobile apps than on television. You couldnt consume ads before while waiting on line at the grocery store, she said. We lived it and we know this is a big challenge for most companies, and if you were going to start a business, youd likely start it today as mobile first.
Although its early days, she says, one of the first lessons theyve taken away is that the first three seconds of an ad are crucial.
What is the thumb-stopping content is an important question, Everson said, given how people consume content on mobilelikening the process to stopping on a magazine page versus flipping past it.
Nobody Likes a Noisy Ad
The second consideration is sound.
Many people consume mobile video with sound off, initially, Everson says. If sound suddenly comes on, that can be a disruptive experience. So its important for companies to think more about arresting images or visually interesting text like title cards.
Data Unlocks Creativity
Finally, Facebooks increasingly sophisticated targeting capabilities mean a richer data set that can enhance advertising experiences.
Data becomes the unlock for creativitythats what were going to hear more about, Everson says. For instance, a recent Lexus campaign featured a thousand different variations based on 47 different demographic variables such as gender, location, and interests. If I was a woman in L.A. who surfed, I would see an ad for that Lexus SUV that had a surfboard and imagery from L.A.; if I was a male in San Francisco that had other interestsits the same vehicle, but you are showing up in a more powerful way.
- www.fastcompany.com
==============================
## Title: Tricks To Get Perfect Skin Overnight
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Tricks To Get Perfect Skin Overnight
Clear and flawless skin is a blessing in disguise and most of us wish to have such beautiful skin. Pampering the skin with love and care everyday will help achieve perfect skin soon.
Home remedies are effective and safe to use on the skin to treat any problem. Opting for chemically treated products will only add up to the damage caused to your skin. Dermatologists state that you should only use natural ingredients on your skin if affected with acne; even if you are trying to get rid of dry skin or or scars natural remedies are always safer solutions.
Home remedies are inexpensive and very effective in clearing your skin overnight.
However, certain home remedies don't agree with your skin. Therefore, one should be aware of their skin type before using any ingredient to treat the skin problem. Even though most of these natural ingredients on the list below are mild, it is necessary to do a patch test before full application. The patch test will determine whether your skin agrees with the natural ingredients.
Here are some best ways to get clear skin overnight. These simple tricks will also delay ageing. They will also make your skin look clear and appear clean to the naked eye.
Yogurt Mask
Dairy products are good for the skin. The presence of calcium and proteins in dairy foods will help make your skin look good. Refrigerate 300 gms of yogurt for 20 minutes. Apply the cold yogurt evenly on the skin. Allow it to dry and rinse after 20 minutes with lukewarm water.
Rose Water Glow
Rose water is an effective home remedy to clear skin overnight. Rinsing your face thrice a day with natural rose water along with petals helps add glow on your skin.
Berry Mask
To prepare a berry mask, you will need: 100 gms of strawberries, 50 grams of blueberries and 50 grams of raspberries. Make a paste out of these berries and apply it evenly on the skin. When dry, peel the facial mask from the skin and rinse with water.
Touch Of Citrus
To prepare a citrus facial mask, you will need: 2 oranges and 2 lemons. Juice both of these citrus fruits together (along with the peel) to make a thick paste. The effective paste is then applied evenly on the skin. This home remedy treats acne and helps lighten the scars too. www.boldsky.com
Green Juice Rinse
To get clear and flawless skin overnight, rinse your skin with spinach water. Practicing this simple remedy twice a week will aid in good looking skin over a period of time.
Turmeric Facial
Turmeric is an ancient ingredient which is used on the skin to improve complexion and get rid of scars. Applying turmeric will cleanse your skin and make it glow. However, this remedy does not work overnight. It takes approximately a week to see positive results.
Milk Rinse
Rinsing your face with cold milk helps cleanse the open pores. Milk leaves behind a thick residue on the face which contains a high amount of calcium, enabling your skin to look clear and flawless. It also soothes dry skin.
==============================
## Title: Troops assist flood affected
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Troops assist flood affected
More than 700 Army troops serving in Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu and Wanni districts provided rescue assistance, cooked meals and helped evacuate nearly 5,000 flood-affected people in Palliyaru, Vannikulam, Mandagalaru, Pannagandi and Netahaliyaru.
Most of the affected families in Kilinochchi have been provided accommodation at Umayagapuram Vidyalayam, Kumaranpuran Vidyalayam, Pottuwadu Vidyalayam, Anandakulam Vidyalayam and Sirimurukkandi Vidyalyam.
They have also been provided basic amenities such as drinking water, soap, mats, pillows, etc. Most of the families house have been submerged.
The Army supplied cooked meals to affected families while they were also provided dry rations and cooking utensils.
Meanwhile, troops in Kilinochchi also set up additional toilets and also made gully bowsers available to collect sewage at the request of the District Secretariat which had by Sunday morning undertaken the provision of dry rations to the victims.
Troops also assisted those needing medical assistance by transporting them to Army medical officers and to the Kilinochchi district hospital. Meanwhile, troops responding to the looming flood threats, evacuated many affected people and provided them shelter at the Kallapadu Primary Vidyalayam, Pandarawani church and Muthiyankattu Vidyalayam.
On Saturday night, troops distributed 100 dinner packets among victims.
More than 300 troops are engaged in rescue and relief assignments keeping a close vigil as all low coastal areas and causeways have gone under water with fast rising water levels in six major tanks.
Navy troops with their boats are on standby. Meanwhile, over 100 affected people from Kokilai, Janakapura, Welioya and Pulmodai areas have been accommodated in a school and a church.
Army Commander Lieutenant General Crishanthe de Silva spoke to Commanders in flood-ravaged areas on Sunday morning.
He also requested the Commanders to provide him with updates to coordinate and facilitate their needs at higher levels.
Meanwhile, responding to an SoS by irrigation engineer Anura Konegedara, who is in charge of the Maha Horiwila Tank in Kalaththewa, Anuradhapura on Saturday evening, 51 soldiers under training at the Non-Commissioned Officers Training School in Kalaththewa rushed to the Maha Horiwila tank spill gates area under threat from spilling water levels and averted an imminent disaster by using sandbags, etc. Farmers and villagers alerted Irrigation Department authorities of a possible breaching of the tank bund due to torrential rains on Saturday evening.
Konegedara appealed for help from the Commandant at this Army School who immediately sent the troops.

Nearly 30 houses damaged by Matale floods
A.A.L.DIAS, Matale district group corr
About 30 houses were damaged following floods in Matale. The displaced families have been provided shelter at community halls in the district. Meanwhile, Galwela town was also under water following the heavy rain experienced in the area during the past several days.
The Dambulla-Galewela main road was inundated in two places hampering the motor traffic while Galewela Moragolla road was also submerged at Dabagahamula.
Thubakaravilagama and Galvetayaya villages were affected after the spill gates of Dambulu-oya reservoir were opened. Pahalawewa and Nawapadeniya villages in Dambulla have also been affected.
The Puwakpitiya tank bund in Galewela breached displacing several families.
Galkadawala lake bund damaged
The bund of Galkadawala lake in Kebithigollewa was damaged last night following heavy rains
that lashed the area during the last few days. Villagers said the bund was damaged after water
overflowed on Saturday night. Villagers said they will be unable to cultivate their paddy lands
during the Maha season and requested the authorities to repair the damaged bund.

Picture by Janaka S. Sriyananda, kebithigollewa group correspondent
==============================
## Title: Turn heads with your festive style
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Turn heads with your festive style
Play with palazzos or go for the Boho look. Theres lots you can experiment with when it comes to your style.
You can make heads turn this festive season by donning a maxi skirt with ganji or sporting a denim look, says an expert. Carlton DSouza, Myntra LookGood Advisor, has shared some innovative styling tips:
Try the Boho look: Pair your tube top with a mirror-work jacket. To glam it up, wear it with dhoti pants.
Go with denim: You can draw even more attention to your style by wearing a kamarband on your waist. The fusion of Indo-western is sure to make you stand apart from the crowd. A tight high bun and bright red lipstick would add to the look.
Play with palazzos: Remember those palazzo pants that have come to your rescue so many times Time to sway in them yet again with another look. Use your colourful bandhani dupatta as a tube top. Wear chunky costume jewellery and look your stylish best.
Sport maxi skirt and ganji: You can even flaunt your skirts with a funky ganji or racerback top.
Opt for sarongs: Wear it as a tube dress and jazz it up with high heels and anklets for an ethnic finish. Try shararas with short kurta: Wear it with your short kurta and a colourful bandhani.
- Indian Express
==============================
## Title: Walk to remember
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Walk to remember
 The Old Boys Association of the St. Thomas College, Mount Lavinia, organized Walkathon to mark the schools 130 year celebrations.
The walk started at Havelock Park premises recently with the participation of students, old boys and parents of St. Thomas College Mount Lavinia,
Guruthalawa, Bandarawela and Kollupitiya. 
==============================
## Title: Water seepage from Eppawala tank bund threaten villages
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Water seepage from Eppawala tank bund threaten villages
A possible disaster situation has arisen following a seepage of water from the Eppawala tank bund which was under reconstruction and reinforcement, residents in the area said.
They said Mahaweli Development Authority officials reinforced the part of the bund which breached with sandbags as a temporary measure to preserve the water to ensure drinking water facilities to the people.
Now with the continuing rainfall experienced in the area and incessant water intake, the sand bags may give way to heavy water pressure.
When the tank bund breached on November 3, the Agriculture Minister promised to repair the bund and entrusted the work to the Civil Defence Force and Lanka Phosphate Ltd.
Accordingly, 100 members of the Civil Defence Force launched reconstruction work on the bund using Lanka Phosphate Ltd machinery under the supervision of the Mahaweli officials.
==============================
## Title: What Salman Khan had to say about Daisy Shahs hot avatar
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
What Salman Khan had to say about Daisy Shahs hot avatar
Actress Daisy Shah says her first movie co-star Salman Khan found her sensuous and sexy in her upcoming film Hate Story 3. Salman launched Daisy in Bollywood with Jai Ho. She will now be seen in the erotic thriller Hate Story 3.
He (Salman) has seen the trailer and he has liked it. He has said I am looking fitter, sensuous and sexy, Daisy told PTI. Daisy is in constant touch with the Dabangg star and often seeks professional advice. I made my debut with him. So, in a way I am his protege. I do talk to him regarding whatever problems I have Whenever (I am) in dilemma I go to him. I keep him in the loop. He is a great support, she said. The choreographer-turned-actress heaped praise on Salman.
He is a great human being, a gem of a person. He doesnt think before helping anyone. He is a messiah. He is truly being human. He does a great job of helping people, not only for those in this profession but for the society, she said.
According to Daisy, Salmans strength is his family.His family has been supportive, not only of him but everyone around him. I adore his family, she added. Bollywood Life
==============================
## Title: Shot on iPhone 6 photographers surprised with physical photo books from Apple
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Shot on iPhone 6 photographers surprised with physical photo books from Apple
Apples Shot on iPhone ad campaign was largely deemed a huge success, with the campaign taking home the top prize at the Cannes Grand Prix festival over the summer. Separately, a photo featured in the campaign won its own Cannes Lions award. Now, Apple is rewarding those photographers who had their iPhone-shot pictures featured in the campaign.
Apple today has surprised Shot on iPhone photographers with physical photo books featuring the images featured in the campaign. Participants in the ad campaign are receiving packages with the photo book, as well as a pair of plain white gloves, presumably meant to wear while the handle the cloth photo books. The books are all white and titled The Gallery. One photographer who received a book, Brendan  S, of Cork, Ireland, said the books were a complete surprise. It was totally out of the blue, he said. Naturally, I looked for my own photo, but seeing those of the friends Ive made over this campaign added to the surprise and thrill. (via Cult of Mac).The Shot on iPhone World Gallery showcased images from 162 users and was marketed in 73 cities in 25 countries. Images in the campaign itself were shot in 13 different countries and included videos as well. Photographs that were included in the campaign were also featured on various billboards and buildings around the world.
9to5mac.com
==============================
## Title: Airing their woes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Airing their woes
United Nations representatives probing the disappearance of persons in the Eastern provincevisited Batticaloa on Sunday. Several members of the delegation visited the UN, Batticaloa
branch office while the others met families of disappeared persons at the YMCAHall. Around 600 families from Ampara and Batticaloa districts aired their grievances. Pictureby Sivam Packiyanathan, Batticaloa Special correspondent
==============================
## Title: Applications called for Tourism and Hotel Management courses
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Applications called for Tourism and Hotel Management courses
The Colombo University Economics Department has called applications for the 2016/2017 academic year of the Postgraduate and Diploma courses in Tourism Economics and Hotel Management.
The course expects to create more competent human resources to the industry through providing theoretical, conceptual, and analytical proficiencies.
Different levels of practitioners, entrepreneurs, decision makers, planners, policy makers, marketers in the travel, tourism and hotel industry and those who are aspiring to be employed in this industry will be the target group of these programmes.
Information about qualification for each programme and the applications can be obtained from the Department of Economics, University of Colombo or downloaded through www.cmb.ac.lk/academic/arts/econ or www.uoctourism.com websites.
Applications should be forwarded to reach the Department of Economics, University of Colombo, Read Avenue, Colombo 07 on or before November 30.
Contact 0112502722 or 0112582666 or check website of www.uoctourism.com and the website of Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority www.sltda.lk for details.
==============================
## Title: BASL on appointments to Supreme Court and Court of Appeal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
BASL on appointments to Supreme Court and Court of Appeal
The Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) has consistently and constantly emphasised the critical need for an independent and impartial judiciary comprising persons of undoubted competence and integrity, the BASL stated in a statement regarding appointments to the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal.
The Bar Association has on several occasions in the past criticised the lack of transparency and the arbitrary manner in which appointments to the judiciary, especially to the superior courts, were made. This also seriously undermines the credibility of the institution of the judiciary and has serious and lasting ramifications for the rule of law and for democracy and our nation as a whole, the release added.
Excerpts from the release: "It is therefore imperative that all future appointments to the Judiciary are made in a transparent and non-arbitrary manner. This is the spirit and purpose behind the enactment of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution and the setting up thereafter of the Constitutional Council.
"With the impending vacancies in the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal, the Bar Association calls upon the President, the Members of The Constitutional Council and those responsible to act in the best interests of the nation, it's people and democracy by resort to transparent and reasonable criteria in appointing judges to the Superior Courts. The Bar Association is mindful that constant vigilance, especially on the part of civil society and professional organisations, is essential in this regard.
When making appointments to the Supreme Court from among the judges of the Court of Appeal such appointments should, ordinarily, be made in line with the seniority of the incumbent judges of the Court of Appeal commencing with the President of the Court of Appeal, unless there are manifestly good reasons for not doing so.
When appointments are made to the Court of Appeal from the High Court, such appointments should, ordinarily, be made in line with the seniority of the incumbent judges of the High Court, unless there are manifestly good reasons for not doing so.
When appointments are to be made to the Supreme Court from the Unofficial Bar such appointments should, ordinarily, be from among Attorneys at Law of over 30 years standing who have distinguished themselves in the legal profession.
When making appointments to the Court of Appeal from among the judges of the High Court such appointments should, ordinarily, be made in line with the seniority of the incumbent judges of the High Court, unless there are manifestly good reasons for not doing so.
When appointments are made to the Court of Appeal from the Official Bar, such appointments should ordinarily be, in the order of seniority, from among the the holders of the rank of Additional Solicitors General. When appointments are made to the Court of Appeal from the Unofficial Bar, such appointments should ordinarily be from among Attorneys at Law of over 20 years standing who have distinguished themselves in the legal profession.
Due consideration should be given to the fact that, appointments to the Superior Courts are made from the ranks of the judiciary, the Official Bar, the Unofficial Bar and Jurists and that, it is in the best interests of the superior courts and the legal system that, the superior courts consist of a fair representation of all these sources.
However it should be done keeping in mind the need to ensure that, career judges are given due opportunity and recognition when appointments are made to the superior courts.
The Bar Association is however also mindful that appointments to high judicial office should not be determined on seniority alone but also by taking into account efficiency, competence and integrity of the nominees concerned."
==============================
## Title: Belgium connection under spotlight after PARIS ATTACKS
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Belgium connection under spotlight after PARIS ATTACKS
BELGIUM: Prosecutors on Sunday disclosed a growing Belgian connection to the Paris attacks as Premier Charles Michel conceded that a Brussels neighbourhood is a gigantic problem, given its past links to international terrorism.
Belgian prosecutors cooperating with their French counterparts said two assailants killed in Fridays attacks were Frenchmen who had lived in Brussels, that two cars tied to the attacks found in Paris were rented in Belgium, and that Belgian police have detained seven people.
At least one of the dead assailants and five of the people arrested in raids on Saturday had spent time in the poor immigrant Brussels neighbourhood of Molenbeek, officials said.
The results of the probe so far highlight how Molenbeek has for two decades lodged Islamist extremists who have fought or supported wars in Algeria, Afghanistan and Bosnia as well as the current ones in Syria and Iraq, analyst Claude Moniquet told AFP.
Its not the only one in Belgium, it is certainly not the only one in Europe, but it is a hotbed for jihadism, Moniquet said.
Belgium as a whole has spawned nearly 500 jihadists for Syria and Iraq from a population of only 11 million, giving it the highest figure per capita in the European Union, security services said.
What is striking is that Belgium and more specifically Molenbeek remain a haven for jihadists despite the toughening of anti-terrorist legislation, as well as the dismantling of recruitment networks and militant cells since the 1990s.
Europe no longer has borders, and it is therefore logical that (militants) benefit too, Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said Sunday.
But we must stop being a base for those who make war in Europe, he said. Molenbeek, where a large Muslim community lives, including a radical minority, is more than ever in the eye of the storm.
Among this small minority, there are figures known at the European and international levels, according to Moniquet, CEO of the Brussels-based European Strategic Intelligence and Security Center.
They lure people using the Internet, he added, comparing the neighbourhoods influence to that of Finsbury Park in London about 15 years ago.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Breaking the Academy's Unwritten Rules
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Breaking the Academy's Unwritten Rules
The Academy once frowned on narrative devices like animation and re-enactments in nonfiction contenders but no longer. He Named Me Malala, Amy, Listen to Me Marlon and other strong contenders this year are defying previously obligatory conventions.
This story first appeared in a special awards season issue of The Hollywood Reporter magazine.
Something unprecedented is happening in the world of documentaries: The inmates are taking over the asylum!
For decades, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has discredited itself by celebrating, almost exclusively, documentaries that address the same important subjects (the Holocaust, dead icons, etc.) and that are presented in the same conventional style (talking heads, archival footage, etc.). Don't get me wrong: Many previous best documentary feature Oscar nominees and winners are excellent films  but they simply do not represent the full spectrum of what's out there. It's no wonder generations of people have grown up thinking of documentaries as medicinal, boring movies to be dreaded.
Part of the reason the Academy has been so conservative in its doc choices is that the people making those choices have tended to be aesthetically conservative white men. Before the creation of a documentary-specific branch in 2001, nominees were chosen by volunteers from other branches; unfortunately, most of the people who had the time and desire to participate were older Academy members who possessed a limited view of what a documentary could be and punished films that didn't conform to it. In the years since the creation of the doc branch, many of its members have harbored similar biases.
A doc featuring re-enactments Unfaithful to the genre! (That's why Errol Morris The Thin Blue Line, which got a man off of death row a year after its 1988 release, was snubbed.) A doc into which the filmmaker injects himself Not the sort of thing a real filmmaker does! (Hence the exclusion in 1985 of Ross McElwee's Sherman's March and in 1989 of Michael Moore's debut, Roger & Me.) A doc that heavily employs animation Stop trying to make it into a narrative! (This didn't help Brett Morgen's 2007 doc Chicago 10 and probably would have impeded Ari Folman's 2008 doc Waltz With Bashir, had it not been disqualified anyway for failing to meet then-new screening requirements.) A doc about nonwhite protagonists Too exotic! (Tough luck for Steve James Hoop Dreams and Jennie Livingston's Paris Is Burning.) A doc about an eccentric individual Life's too short! (Sorry, Terry Zwigoff's Crumb and Werner Herzog's Grizzly Man.)
There obviously have been exceptions to each of these rules, but they were few and far between. And the rules, as much as anything, explain why 13 of the 25 greatest documentaries ever made, according to a poll conducted by the International Documentary Association in 2007, never were nominated for an Oscar; several weren't even shortlisted.
In the eight years since that poll, though, a wide variety of factors have contributed to doc films and filmmakers becoming stronger and more diverse than ever (few are the doc winners from the 1990s that would even be nominees today), and the Academy becoming more open and receptive to them than at any other time in its history.
The advent of cheap and lightweight digital equipment enabled anyone possessing the desire to make a doc to do so, bringing into the game a wider array of filmmakers. The omnipresence of reality television changed viewing habits and made the idea of spending a couple of hours watching strangers in action seem considerably more palatable to many people who previously wouldn't have delved into documentaries. The rise of Kickstarter and other crowdfunding websites gave strapped independent filmmakers new financing channels for interesting ideas.
And the boom in the streaming of digital content  through Netflix, Amazon, iTunes and other services  provided a distribution mechanism for docs with a wider reach than any chain of art house cinemas, which only further exposed people to docs and, in so doing, created more doc viewers and creators. (It's a safe bet that infinitely more people have seen such doc gems as The King of Kong, Jiro Dreams of Sushi and Crazy Love  none of which was acknowledged by the Academy  through these outlets than ever bought tickets to see them in theaters.)
Over that same period, the Academy has embarked on a concerted effort to diversify its membership. Forcing out the old guard would have involved rocking the boat, so it instead flooded its branches with fresh blood  none more so than the doc branch, which exploded in size because of an elimination of long-standing quotas. Of the 80 people invited to join the doc branch in the past three years, more than half are female and/or not white.
Many of these people made docs and voted for docs without any deference to (or perhaps even knowledge of) the old rules. And this refreshed group's perspective began to be reflected in the branch's selections, which included re-enactments (James Marsh's Man on Wire, if not Sarah Polley's Stories We Tell), animation (Zachary Heinzerling's Cutie and the Boxer, if not Mike Myers Supermensch) and protagonists both nonwhite (Daniel Lindsay and T.J. Martin's Undefeated, if not Steve James The Interrupters or Al Hicks Keep on Keepin On) and eccentric (Malik Bendjelloul's Searching for Sugar Man, if not Sacha Gervasi's Anvil! The Story of Anvil).
- Hollywood Reporter
==============================
## Title: Centuries keep coming on flat WACA pitch
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Centuries keep coming on flat WACA pitch
Perth, Monday: Bat continued to dominate ball as Australia built a second-innings lead over New Zealand on day four of the second Test at the WACA Ground in Perth on Monday.
After Ross Taylor hit a career-best 290, the highest score ever by a visiting batsman in Australia, to steer New Zealand to a first innings lead, Steve Smith and Adam Voges posted twin centuries to help the home side recover after a shaky start.
At the close, Australia were 258 for two in their second innings, with Smith on 131 and Voges on 101, for an overall lead of 193.
It was Smith's 12th century and fifth this year, but his first in a second innings, while for 36-year-old Voges it was just his second hundred and came in his first Test on his home ground.
Voges reached his century from the penultimate over of the day.
Smith was dropped on 96 when wicketkeeper BJ Watling put down a tough chance down leg-side off paceman Matt Henry.
Although the match appeared set to be a draw on a lifeless wicket which has offered little assistance to the bowlers over the first four days, Australia will hope to declare on the final day and dismiss the Kiwis cheaply.
Voges wasn't giving much away about the final day's plan, noting the flat nature of the wicket.
"I don't think we will do them any favours," he said.
"Ultimately that will be Steve's decision but the good thing is we have some options."
Taylor said he expected Australians to set the Kiwis a target.
"The odd ball's doing a little bit to put the batter a little bit on edge," he said.
"But knowing Australia, I'm sure they'll come out tomorrow and try to score some quick runs and put us under pressure.
"I'm sure whatever they give us, we'll definitely have a go, and we'll wait and see what happens. "
Australia already lead the three-Test series 1-0 after beating New Zealand by 208 runs at the Gabba.
In reply to Australia's imposing 559 for nine declared after winning the toss, the Kiwis were dismissed for 624 just before lunch, their highest total against their trans-Tasman rivals on the back of Taylor's mammoth knock and 166 from Kane Williamson.
That made it a record combined first innings total for a Test at the WACA Ground.
Kiwi hopes were then raised when Australian openers Joe Burns (0) and David Warner (24) fell early, leaving the home side precariously placed at 46 for two, with the injured Usman Khawaja (hamstring) not taking his place at number three.
The Kiwis were still 19 runs ahead at that stage, but Smith and Voges then added 212 runs for the third wicket.
Taylor was the last man to fall in the New Zealand innings as he attempted to join captain Brendon McCullum (302 v India) as only the second Kiwi to reach a triple century in Test cricket.
However, on 290 the right-hander holed out to substitute fielder Jonathan Wells off spinner Nathan Lyon to end a 37-run 10th-wicket stand with Trent Boult (23 not out).
Former skipper Taylor passed several milestones in his innings, which was his first century since November last year, and ended a form slump that even he admitted was starting to worry him.
He broke through 5,000 Test runs and posted the highest-ever score by a visiting player in a Test in Australia, as well as becoming the first Kiwi to pass 200 against Australia.
His innings, beating the 287 of England's Reg 'Tip' Foster at the Sydney Cricket Ground in 1903, was the third-highest ever for New Zealand at Test level.
Taylor, who put on 265 for the third wicket with Williamson, faced 374 balls and hit 43 boundaries in 567 minutes at the crease. Number 10 Southee gave the Kiwis a lead which seemed impossible on the opening day when he turned Mitchell Starc off his pads for four as they became the first visiting side to reach 600 in Australia since 2011. Starc was the best of the Australian bowlers and finished with four for 119.
AFP
==============================
## Title: Costumers Kurt and Bart on Designing Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 2
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Costumers Kurt and Bart on Designing Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 2
The Hunger Games  the franchise that generated $2.3 billion at the international box office for Lionsgate, made Jennifer Lawrence a global megastar and spawned the dystopian teen drama genre (derivatives include Divergent and Maze Runner)  is coming to a close.
The fourth installment in the series, Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 2, hits theaters Nov. 20. WWD spoke with the films costumers, known simply as Kurt and Bart, about what to expect  at least in the sartorial sense. The films have become known as much for their over-the-top fashions  from Katniss flaming gown to the Willy Wonka-esque ensembles worn by Elizabeth Banks and Stanley Tucci  as their ass-kicking action.
The costume duo are behind the looks for the last two installments. The pair, who have been working together for almost 30 years  its on a trial basis, Kurt says  have worked on some impressive projects, including Dallas Buyers Club and How to Make It in America, but never films of this magnitude before. WWD spoke with them over the phone from the Auckland, New Zealand, set of their next project Ghost in the Shell, an action movie based on the Japanese Manga series that stars Scarlett Johansson.
You costumed both Mockingjay, Part 1 and Part 2. Trish Summerville did Catching Fire and Judianna Makovsky costumed the original Hunger Games. Were you at all intimidated joining the project, considering how big the franchise was
Kurt: I was kind of shocked, actually. We went from doing the Dallas Buyers Club to this. We had never done anything of this scale before. And to do both movies at the same time [the two parts were filmed concurrently] was a big undertaking. Trish and Judianna had done such an amazing job and were so lucky that we got to design this portion of the franchise.
Can you give me a sense of scale How many people did you costume for these films
Kurt: At the end, we asked our supervisor about this actually, and over the course of both films we had dressed around 10,000 extras, which is hard for me to even wrap my head around now. But with films this big, its all such a machine and you have the luxury of having pre-fittings and all that. It was also so rewarding on the days when you go to set and there are 500 or 600 people in hair and makeup and dressed in our work. It was really astounding.
This film is about the districts rising up against the capital and it seems as though you almost costumed two separate casts  the people of the district who wear muted, minimal clothes and the people of the capital who dress unapologetically over the top. Can you talk about that dichotomy
Bart: Well we loved designing this part of the story where you see District 13, which is this level of total austerity. But in MJ:2 we also get to see the capital in a completely new way  we get to see the people of the capital as refugees once it is stormed.
Kurt: The elements of flash are still there for the capital residents but this is a really new situation for them as the districts enter. We really thought about how those people would react in that situation of having to flee and having to pack up their belongings, not knowing what their future would hold. It kind of led us to think about, Well, what would they take with them Maybe they would layer themselves so they could bring more. Remember, these are very materialistic, so their possessions mean a lot to them. There was this beautiful editorial by Steven Meisel that we referenced a lot and it was all these models layered in fur coats and other things, as if they were wearing everything they owned. That was an interesting springboard for us.
Can you talk a little bit about the look of the people in District 13
Bart: When we approached this, we looked at history and looked at the austere measures that were put into place in London during World War II. There were rules in the garment industry back then about the number of buttons you could have or the number of pleats you could have in a dress just to conserve fabrics. We took that same notion in that the people of District 13 were putting all their resources into the revolution so clothes are completely for utility. So its this kind of utilitarian, normcore I guess, unisex look. Its made for a purpose. Its made to last, so we use heavyweight natural fibers and kept it very monochromatic. Theres a lot of gray in this movie.
Effie (Elizabeth Banks character) has such fun with fashion. It was so sad to see her in the District 13 jumpsuit in Mockingjay, Part 1. Does she end up back in the capital and with her fabulous clothes
Kurt: I think it was almost more interesting though for us to think about her in a new way and to strip her down. We had to think about what she would do when put in that situation  where she didnt have her fluffy skirts and McQueen corsets. She was handed five pieces of clothing when she got to District 13 and she had to figure out what shed do with them. That said, luckily, in Part 2 we do have two or three outfits for her when she gets back to the capital and theyre pretty fantastic ensembles. We thought about what Effie would do once she was able to go home and had her clothes and how shes maybe changed by the experience of 13. Theres a subtle change  a bit less fluff to her, less makeup. Its a beautiful trajectory for her.
These are the first action movies youve done. Was it difficult to weigh in stunts and movement
Bart: Jen informed a lot of the design in that sense. When we did our first draft at the first fitting, shed go running across the room with her bow and arrow so we could figure out what we needed to tweak in terms of mobility and function. Because theres so much combat and action, the functionality really needed to lead the design. We collaborated with U.K. designer Aitor Throup, who designed the star squad combat gear. Hes really innovative in terms of avant-garde, functional design.
www.wwd.com
==============================
## Title: Deshapriya Elections Commission head
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Deshapriya Elections Commission head
President Maithripala Sirisena has appointed members to the Elections Commission on the recommendations of the Constitutional Council.
Mahinda Deshapriya has been appointed as chairman of the Commission while Nalin Abeysekera,PC and Ratnajeevan Hoole have been appointed members.
==============================
## Title: Drug prevention is a social responsibility  President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, November 17, 2015 - 01:00
Drug prevention is a social responsibility  President
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday said if the government put an end to the sale of liquor and cigarettes, banning all liquor licences, the consumers could even topple the government.
From the bottom of my heart, Im ready to stop the selling of liquor and cigarettes. But the power of the people who consume liquor is extensive, the President said
The Presidentpointed out that every country, from the most developed countries and human society is faced with the scourge of drugs. Though we cant totally alleviate the drug menace from society, everybody should get together to save society from the dangers of drugs, the President said.
The President was speaking at the Mathin Nidahas Ratak (A Drug Free Country) third National Programme which concluded at St Joseph Girls College in Kegalle yesterday.
Those engaged in the drugs trade will not go scot-free, no matter what position they hold in society. Its the governments policy to mete out severe punishment to any wrongdoers, the President further stated.
The governments has paid special attention on the strict control and sale of drugs near schools, temples and towns, he said.
Though the government implements laws to raid and prevent the transportation of drugs, it is a social responsibility to minimize the use of drugs. Everybody including Maha Sangha, other religious leaders and social activists should get together in that regard, the President pointed out.
President Sirisena instructed that drug prevention units be established at every government institution to bring the message of drug prevention right to to the core of society.
The President recalled that the Presidential Task Force on Drug Prevention has already issued required circulars and instructions on drug prevention at district level. He said powers have been extended to District Secretariat Offices and Divisional Secretariats in that regard.
Everybody should work together to actively implement this programme, the President further stated.
Ministers Ranjith Siyambalapitiya, Kabir Hashim and Sabaragamuwa Province Chief Minister Maheepala Herath also participated at this occasion.
==============================