## Title: UK manufacturing sector expands for sixth month in October
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
UK manufacturing sector expands for sixth month in October
UK manufacturing output expanded for the sixth consecutive month in October, helped by record car production.
Official figures showed Britain's factories notched up the longest run of expansion for at least two decades.
Manufacturing output increased by 0.1% in October compared with the previous month, in line with expectations. Despite a relatively subdued October, Kate Davies of the Office for National Statistics said "the longer-term picture is one of strong growth".
Annual growth in factory output hit 3.9% in October - the biggest increase since December 2016.
Manufacturing is part of the broader industrial sector. The ONS's wider measure of industrial output was unchanged on in October, ending a six-month run of increases.
However, industrial output was 3.6% higher in October from a year earlier - the highest annual rise since December 2016.
Output in the construction sector unexpectedly contracted by 1.7% in October, separate ONS figures showed. Economists had expected a 0.4% rise.
Ms Davies said: "Construction output continued to fall back from its peak at the start of the year, with both new building and repair work faltering once again." BBC News

==============================
## Title: Vision for new era for China and the world: Analysis of outcome of CPC Congress
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Vision for new era for China and the world: Analysis of outcome of CPC Congress

The 19th CPC Congress which expounded the theme of socialism with Chinese characteristics declared that its foundation is based on Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory as well as Xi Jinpings Thoughts on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era.
On the basis of an analysis of the developments in the international and domestic environments and a review of the Partys work and the historic change over the past five years, the Congress forms the major political judgments that socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. It concludes that the principal contradiction in Chinese society has evolved into one between unbalanced and inadequate development and the peoples ever-growing need and desire for a better life.
The Congress has elaborated on the Partys mission in the new era and established the historical position of Xi Jinpings Thought. It sets forth the basic policy for upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era and establishes the goal of securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and then embarking on a journey to fully build a modern socialist China.
The Congress also sets out an overall plan for advancing the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the great new project of Party building in the new era.
There is no doubt that the theme expounded on in the report is of enormous importance to the Party leading the people toward a stronger China as well as the world in general and the developing countries in particular.
Declaration that every one of us in the Party must remain true to our original aspiration and keep our mission firmly in mind, hold high the banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, secure a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, strive for the great success of socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era and work tirelessly to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation should also be always added with Chinas role in uplifting the masses of the developing world.
Since the 18th National Congress, a remarkable five years in the course of the development of the Party and the country, not only with historic achievements made in reform, opening up, and socialist modernization but also sharing Chinas resources, expertise and experience with the countries all over, the Party and the country unleashed a powerful sense of mission as it has developed new thinking and new strategies which launched a host of major initiatives both domestically and internationally. It has thus solved many complicated problems that were long on the agenda but never resolved, accomplished many things that were wanted but never got done and prompted historic shifts in the cause of the Party and the country.
It is an obvious fact that President Xi Jinping at the Party core has acted with determination to confront major risks and tests facing China.
Discipline in the Party and country as a whole 
Most exemplary campaign of the Party and China which was implemented with a firm resolve was the anti-corruption drive. As a result, both the intraparty political atmosphere and the political ecosystem of the Party and the country as a whole are reported to have improved markedly. In spite of the fact that the Western Media has downplayed the anti-corruption drive and the emphasis of the rule of law, the 19th congress is a historical first in terms of scale and effectiveness.
Progress of recent past 
The achievements of the past five years have touched every area and broken new grounds; the changes in China over the past five years have been profound and fundamental. With decades of hard work, commitment and even some sacrifices by the Party and the people in China, socialism with Chinese characteristics has crossed the threshold into a new era.
These landmark achievements have brought the country into a new historic and critical juncture in its development. In order to understand the chain of remarkable achievements, I wish to quote from Graham Allisons book titled Destined for War: Can America and China Escape Thucydides Trap
In a single generation, a nation that did not appear on any of the international league tables has vaulted into the top spot. In 1980, Chinas gross domestic product (GDP) was less than $300 billion; by 2015, it was $11 trillion - making it the worlds second largest economy by market exchange rates. In 1980, Chinas trade with outside world amounted to less than $40 billion; by 2015, it had increased one hundredfold, to $4 trillion. For every two year period since 2008, the increment growth in Chinas GDP has been larger than the entire economy of India. Even at its lower growth rate in 2015, Chinas economy created a Greece every sixteen weeks and an Israel every twenty-five weeks. (Destined for War, Chapter 1, pg. 6)
Most (US) students are stunned to learn that on most indicators, China has already surpassed the United States. As the largest producer of ships, steel, aluminium, furniture, clothing, textiles, cell phones, and computers, China has become the manufacturing powerhouse of the world. Students are even more surprised to discover that China has also become the worlds largest consumer of the most products. America was the birthplace of automobile, but China is now both the auto maker and the largest auto market. Chinese consumers bought twenty million cars in 2015 - three million more than were sold in the US. China is also the worlds largest number of the internet users. China imported more oil, consumed more energy, and installed more solar power than any other nation. Perhaps most devastatingly for Americas self-con-ception, in 2016 - as it has since the 2008 worldwide financial crisis - China continued to serve as the primary engine of global economic growth.
(Destined for War, Chapter 1.pg.9) 
This is the unimaginable achievement that China led by the CPC with President Xi Jinping at its core has made during the past five years. Of course, the past five years achievements are based on the policies and actions implemented over three decades. Otherwise a generation ago, China stood at the bottom of most international ranking of the nations in education, science, technology and innovation. According to Graham Allison, due to correct policies and continuous investment in the countrys human capital, China today rivals and by some measures outperforms the United States of America. One of his examples is that in 2015, Tsinghua University passed MIT in the US News and World Report rankings to become the number one university in the world for engineering. Among the top ten schools of engineering, China and the US each had four.
Socialism with Chinese characteristics - the new era 
At the 19th Congress, the Party has been presented with the proposition that socialism with Chinese characteristics is needed to be addressed as a predominant issue. In approaching the issue of the new era, CPC has adapted an entirely new perspective to deepen its understanding of the laws that underlie governance by the Communist Party, the development of socialism, and the evolution of human society. It appears that the theoretical exposition in the final analysis has given shape to Xi Jinpings Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era.
According to the Congress reports, social theoretical foundation of this concept - Xi Jinping Thought - has been developed on Marxist, Leninist and Maoist Thoughts. Interestingly, the fourteen points the 19th Congress has highlighted as the basic policy underpinnings goes beyond Chinese domestic interest and emphasizes the need to promote the building of a community with shared future for the entire mankind.
CPC Vision for China 2020 - 2050 
The Congress sees the next three years up to 2020 as the time frame and the process of building a moderately prosperous society in China. What is critically important is the Party Congresss commitment to build on the achievement of a moderately prosperous society to embark upon a new, not so long march towards the second centenary goal of establishing a modern socialist country.
According to the Congress report, based on a comprehensive study and analysis of both local and global determinance, a two stage development plan has been formulated for the period of 30 years from year 2020 to 2050. The Congress report goes on to state:
In the first stage from 2020 to 2035, we will build on the foundation created by the moderately prosperous society with a further 15 years of hard work to see that socialist modernization is basically realized. In the second stage from 2035 to the middle of the 21st century, we will, building on having basically achieved modernization, work hard for a further 15 years and develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful.
From the point of view of developing countries what is more relevant and important is Chinas new vision of development leading to an advanced modernized economy. The report suggests that:
China must apply a new vision of development and develop a modernized economy. We should put quality first and give priority to performance, pursue supply-side structural reform as our main task, and work hard for better quality, higher efficiency, and more robust drivers of economic growth through reform. We should accelerate the building of an industrial system that promotes coordinated development of the real economy with technological innovation, modern finance, and human resources, and endeavor to develop an economy with more effective market mechanisms, dynamic micro-entities, and sound macro-regulation. With this we can steadily strengthen the innovation capacity and competitiveness of Chinas economy. We should further supply-side structural reform, move faster to make China a country of innovators, pursue a rural vitalization strategy and the strategy for coordinated regional development, accelerate efforts to improve the socialist market economy, make new ground in pursuing opening up on all fronts, and strive to achieve better quality, more efficient, fairer, and more sustainable development.
As far as the reforms towards economic and social development are concerned, the Congress stresses the need for commitment to the Chinese path of building a modern strong arm forces, taking into consideration Chinas national security needs and responding to the demands from the international community. In this regard, full implementation of Xi Jinpings ideas on strengthening all the military forces and the formulation and adaptation of military strategy to deal with new conditions are outlined in the Congress report.
Therefore the report of the 19th CPC Congress presents an undoubtedly comprehensive analysis of historical, present and future development of the party and people of China while taking into consideration the international developments and community as a whole.
Global impact of 19th CPC Congress 
Far-reaching resolutions and decisions arrived at the 19th Party Congress will undoubtedly have many implications on the international developments and behavior of other global players.
Realizing the Chinese dream, the march towards moderately prosperous, modernized, socialist economy with Chinese characteristics, addressing the principal contradiction of unbalanced growth, further opening of the Chinese economy and modernization of the military will have far reaching and hitherto unprecedented impact on the international economy, politics and more importantly balance of power in the coming decades.
Therefore it is not surprising that many of the Western-mostly American-critics have focused their statements on the 19th Congress on the personality and concentration of power in President Xi and the strengthening of the Party and such issues rather than substantive themes of the Congress resolutions. However, there are several, mostly European analysts, who have been impressed by the global vision of Xis statements.
They have been positive on several concepts relating to Chinese dream, its model of people-centered development, harmony between nature and human beings and realizing shared destiny of mankind.
Rana Mitter, Director of the Chinese Center of the Oxford University states his idea on the matter as such: 
The most significant part of Xis speech at the Congress is that the firm pledge to make China a major actor in the world. At a time of major flux in the world order, it will be increasingly important for China to play a stabilizing, responsible role when it comes to questions of trade, security and international order. As China takes on a greater role in the world, it will also have to shoulder many of the responsibilities of a great power, encouraging freer markets and a more transparent international environment. It will also have to tackle issues such as climate change and provide leadership there. The world will be watching from now on.
It is obvious that positive or negative sentiments expressed are entirely based on the ideological position of each analyst or observer. What is important and relevant to the world community as a whole is the impact on their socioeconomic development, peace, security and environment in which they live.
Let me conclude this article with a few quotations from Kevin Rudd, former Prime Minister of Australia and current close watcher of developments in China. When China does become the worlds largest economy over the next decade the global system will be led by a non-English speaking, non-Western, non-democratic state for the first time since George I ruled Great Britain and Ireland. The current rule-based international order will not remain immune from this fundamental geo-economic and geo-political change. Nor will the conceptual foundation of the West-Judea-Christian values and the Enlightenment principles of science, liberty and universal human rights be immune from challenge. To believe otherwise is willfully to ignore the deep changes.
Further Kevin Rudds article ends with the following: Since the fall of the Soviet Union, there has been little, if any, grand strategy to guide the future if the West. Instead, we find an East - particularly its twin pillars, the European Union and the US - that is increasingly self-absorbed, self-satisfied, and internationally complacent.
It is sobering to reflect on the fact that the CPCs 19th National Congress occurs on the 200th anniversary of Napoleons famous reflection of Chinas prospects and potential. China is a sleeping giant, he wrote in 1817 from the splendid isolation if his exile on Saint Helena. Let her sleep, for when she wakes she will move the world.
What are the takes of the CPC Congress for the world in general and for the developing countries in particular
The Chinese model of economic development which has brought forward enormous growth momentum to the Americans, Europeans and the people in the rest of the world will continue to benefit in the years to come as China marches towards a moderately prosperous society to and beyond.
Chinese innovations-driven future developments will result in similar progress in many other countries due to its demonstration effects or pressure to adapt competitive measures.
Logical outcome of the above two is the unsettling and irrational behavior of regional bullies whose sense of insecurity has been aggravated due to the emergence of China as a predominant force in the international theater.
As China reaches to become a leading player in the world economy, politics and security landscape, international peace and harmony will be further ensured.
Most important phenomenon of Chinas emergence as the second largest economy in the world and the most forceful driver of the global development is the dismantling of the world economic order that was established under the Bretton Woods system.
Associated with the decline of the Bretton Woods system is the relative weakening of the international hegemonic powers, most notably USA.
The entire global economy is likely to benefit from the innovative development initiatives of China such as Belt and Road, establishment of AIIB and Silk Road fund.
Emphasis at the CPC Conference on the anti-corruption drive, party discipline and the rule of law set examples for the entire world community of the need and approach for a more declined and rule based socioeconomic system that will deliver and ensure peace and prosperity to mankind.
==============================
## Title: The Walking Dead mid season finale reveals a shocking deadly twist
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 16:12
The Walking Dead mid season finale reveals a shocking deadly twist

When we predicted who might bite the bullet in tonight's midseason finale ofThe Walking Dead, Carl (Chandler Riggs) wasn't even on our list.
And yet here we find ourselves facing a future with no Carl at all, because he's been bitten. And according to executive producerScott M. GimpleonTalking Dead, "it will play out as bites play out on the show."
Typically, 90% of the time, bites play out on this show by killing whoever is in possession of them.
So bye bye Carl...eventually.
Gimple explained that he was treading lightly because Carl's not dead yet.
"It's very important to Carl's story and the entire story, what happens in the next episode," Gimple said.
"So I'm just focused on the fact that Carl, right now, is alive, and he has some business to attend to. That is a one way ticket, but I'd like to think the things that we see in the next episode are so important to his life and other character's lives..."
So for now, Carl is still alive, and he's still got things to do. But it doesn't look like there's much hope for him, especially considering that his side can't really be amputated. Plus, Riggstold THRthat "Carl is going to die."
We really should have known throughout the entire episode, as Carl took charge, even offering to die to help save the others (even though it was just a clever plan to help everyone else escape) from the terror of Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan), but we just really were not expecting to see that bite, or to see Carl die in that way.
It's an especially big twist considering that Carl, an original member of the group from all the way back in the pilot, is still alive and well in the comics. But at least we know that if anyone ever really misses him, they'll always have the comics to go back to.
==============================
## Title: Weerawansa led NFF plunge into deeper crisis: Three NFF leaders join SLFP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 15:11
Weerawansa led NFF plunge into deeper crisis: Three NFF leaders join SLFP

The National Freedom Front (NFF), led by Wimal Weerawansa MP today plunged into deeper crisis with Weerakumara Dissanayake MP, the Deputy leader of the party and NFF national organizer Piyasiri Wijenayake joining the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP).
They were joined by NFF Provincial Councilor MP P.B. Kumara.
The three members obtained the SLFP membership from President Maithripala Sirisena, a short while ago.
Several leaders of the Weerawansa led NFF vacated the party in recent times.
==============================
## Title: Worlds weirdest sports!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Worlds weirdest sports!
Pumpkin kayaking has been voted the worlds weirdest sport. The bizarre event which is most likely to be seen in Nova Scotia involves hollowing out a giant pumpkin to use as a raft to paddle across lake in a race against the clock.
The self explanatory mud-pit belly flopping - which is a much-loved sport in Athens, Texas, U.S - was second in the poll with underwater hockey making third place.
Other weird sports to make the top ten include bog snorkelling which is practiced in Llanwrtyd Wells in Wales, extreme ironing - and professional gurning.
Chess boxing which combines the mental dexterity of chess with the physical test of boxing with alternate rounds of each sport to create a bizarre hybrid sport also made the list.
Greg Tatton-Brown from Online Casino Casumo.com, who carried out the study to launch their Play Absurd ( www.aworldofplay.com/play-absurd ) campaign, said: Weve made it our mission to uncover the countrys most absurd games and celebrate the people who play them.
From bog snorkelling in Wales to egg tossing in Lincolnshire, the UK is a hotbed of inventive sporting activities which seek to test our physical endurance as well as the limits of our imagination whilst building friendships that last a lifetime.
The study also found one third of squeamish Brits are grossed out by the thought of bog snorkelling - which requires the competitor to don their snorkel and flippers and swim down a watery trench cut through a peat bog.
Underwater hockey, also known as Octopush, was considered the most dangerous of the absurd sports in the countdown It involves two teams battling it out to manoeuvre a hockey puck into their opponents goal  along the bottom of a full swimming pool.
While a number of the sports appear self-explanatory from their names, others stumped Brits with their unusual rules and equipment.
Fifty three per cent were able to identify the sport of wife carrying by a description of its objective, which challenges contestants to carry their spouse through a series of increasingly difficult obstacles. Bossaball proved even more baffling, with only 17 per cent of those surveyed able to identify the sport, which has an inflatable court and use of trampolines to score points against your opponent. Over two thirds of those surveyed had no idea what you would use a braffin for, and only five per cent linked the piece of apparatus to gurning, where participants are required to wear the item around their necks while contorting their face to its limits. Despite their prominence on UK shores, more than seven in 10 Brits are yet to try any of the top weirdest sports the world has to offer. Of the 2,000 people surveyed, only 58 have placed themselves inside a giant inflatable hamster ball to go Zorbing, and 17 have attempted Harry Potters favourite Hogwarts pastime Quidditch, though their feet and broomsticks remained firmly on the ground. However, enthusiasm for more absurd activities is growing.
One in ten would like to try their hand at egg-throwing, which originates in Swaton, Lincolnshire, and dates back to 1332. And half of those surveyed would happily go along to watch one of these weird sports if a tournament was held nearby. One in ten would like to go along to watch a dog surfing contest, and would be intrigued to see what a mud-pit bellyflop involves.
Casumos Greg Tatton-Brown added: Over the course of the next four months well take you on an episodic tour of the UK and show you just how wonderful some of these pastimes can be when people #PlayAbsurd. In our first set of videos weve sent internet funnyman Anto Sharp to Wales, to take part in a bog snorkelling contest to see how he gets on.
abaddi, which came twelfth in the list of most unusual sports, was founded in India, and is a game of tag where 14 players must hold their breath and tag out the rest of the participants before they run out of air.
Outhouse racing, which came eleventh in the countdown, requires teams of three to race their decorated toilet down a Virginia City street to reach a toilet paper finish line before their opponent.
Play Absurd have also produced a visual puzzle to raise awareness of some of the strangest sports in the UK, which tasks readers with spotting the absurd sports fans in the crowd.
Mirror
==============================
## Title: A la bark meal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
A la bark meal
Chefs have created the ultimate mouth-watering dish - for dogs .
The mega-posh meal, which has been dubbed a la bark was put together by experts at gourmet dog food brand tails.com .
While the dish looks good enough for humans to eat, the centre-piece is actually chunks of the companys lamb hotpot, cooked with vegetables and dog-friendly gravy.
Guaranteed to tickle the taste buds of any self-respecting hound, the dish also features a base of bespoke kibble blend.
It is topped off with a garnish of purple shiso and also features a swoosh of carrot puree, both of which provide beneficial nutrients for our four-legged friends. Green beans, kale, pea shoots and rosemary are also included.
The meal was unveiled to the delight of local dogs at The George pub in Wedmore, Somerset. Tails.com came up with the creation to showcase the nutritious and high-quality ingredients in their kibble and wet food recipes.
Head vet Sean McCormack said: Dogs enjoy all sorts of foods and there is no reason why they cant be treated to an a la carte dish once in a while, they are after all mans best friend.
Noodle, who is a cavapoo, loved the lamb hotpot with rosemary, carrots and green beans. He is sensitive to chicken and beef so lamb is a healthy, lean protein source important for his growth and development. Carrots and green beans were included because they are healthy vegetables, full of fibre and antioxidants. The secret to a great diet for your dog is high-quality ingredients, tailored to their individual needs and in the right amount, to keep them healthy and happy.
Sean added: Every dog in the UK deserves a great dining experience. Mirror
==============================
## Title: Anchor XMas Cake off 2017 inspires creative cakes!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Anchor XMas Cake off 2017 inspires creative cakes!
To celebrate the festive season, Fonterra hosted its first signature Anchor XMas Cake off held exclusively for Colombos speciality bakeries and cafes starring eight irresistible Christmas-inspired creations.
The competition showcased each bakers creativity, unique blend of talents andflavour combinations through their impressive creations, which are now available throughout the holiday period for cake lovers to taste and enjoy.
Kumar De Silva, Fonterra's Associate director - Food Services addressing the participants
Kumar De Silva, Fonterras Associate Director  Food Service said, We are thrilled to host this exclusive event for some of Sri Lankas much-loved speciality bakeries and cafes. There is incredible talent and passion for baking and like us, the participants wanted to create inspired, top quality cakes for their fans to indulge this Christmas.
The Anchor Xmas Cake off 2017 creations were judged by Chef Thilak Rodrigo, a well-known executive pastry chef with over 35 years in the industry;Ms. Narmada Muller, Editor  Gourmet Circle, and food and wine writer with over 20 years in the F&B sector; and Anchor Food Professionals own Chef Jaime Aserappa,a pastry chef counting over 20 years of international and local industry experience.
Each cake was made using at least one Anchor Food Professionalsdairy ingredient, including Anchor Butter, Anchor Extra Whipping Cream and Anchor Cream Cheese.
Fonterras Anchor brandissynonymous with the foodservice industry in Sri Lanka. Our high quality dairy ingredients allowpastry chefs to obtain excellent texture, toppings, rich colour and great taste on their creations  and we are delighted to see how eight of the best, creative minds in the industry have applied these ingredients to their creations, said Kumar.
Participating bakeries included Mitsis Delicacies, Divine Cakes, Skrumptious, Baguette, Coco Veranda, Tea Avenue, Mrs. Gs Delights and BreadTalk.
Anchor Food Professionals is a market-leading supplier of dairy products for more than 700 hotels, restaurants, fast food outlets, bakeries, catering and food businesses across Sri Lanka.
Its portfolio of dairy solutions includes the famous Anchor butter, cheese, creams, liquid milk and cultured products such as curd and yoghurts.
==============================
## Title: Another US$ 500-600 mn inflow for Htota Port envisaged
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Another US$ 500-600 mn inflow for Htota Port envisaged
shipping
Hambantota Port Development project will bring in an FDI inflow of US$ 1.12 billion, said Minister of Development Strategies and International Trade, Malik Samarawickrama.
There will be an immediate positive impact on our foreign inflows, as the Chinese entity brings in an immediate advance payment of 30%. The balance will be received within 6 months, he added.
Thereafter, the two new companies are likely to invest a further US$ 500-600 million for infrastructure development over the project implementation period adding more FDI inflows to the country.
The newly operational Port and surrounding industrial zone will attract new investors in bunkering and port-linked industries such as a refinery, cement plants, a dockyard etc. All of this will create new opportunities for local entrepreneurs of the area and create new and better jobs.
Minister pointed out that one of the biggest challenges the government has had to grapple was the heavy overhang of debt, due to unfeasible projects undertaken in the past and a buildup of unproductive assets and Hambantota Port is one such project.
Hambantota port was build with a loan of Rs 193 billion. To date, the Port of Hambantota has severely underperformed and recorded an accumulated loss of over Rs. 46.7 billion as at the end of 2016.
It was built with little attention to its commercial viability and with little consideration for the burden it would place on our people if it isnt operational properly. It is our poor people who have to bear this burden for generations. We had to look for ways to lift this burden off the people, while not losing this public asset. And this is what we are doing today.
The way in which this project has been structured, it brings in much needed foreign investment, but at the same time complies with all relevant international laws, and most importantly takes well into account Sri Lankas national security and national interest considerations.
An important point for us to note is that the two companies, Hambantota International Port Services and Hambantota International Port Group - are two companies that are registered in Sri Lanka, will operate by all our laws like anyone other company, and the asset remains Sri Lankan. Yes, there is majority Chinese equity, but both legal entities are Sri Lankan.
For too long now the countrys Gross Domestic Product -GDP  has been concentrated in the Western Province - 42% of the GDP is generated from, and enjoyed by, the Western Province. While the Southern Province is at just 10.8% and Uva is at 5%. Why is the Western Province so dominant A key reason is that there is a well-operational and competitive sea port and airport.
Just like what Colombo Port has become for the Western Province, an efficient and competitive port in the South can help the Southern and Uva regions connect with international trade, connect with the forthcoming new trade agreements and also the opportunities from GSP Plus.
==============================
## Title: Accepting nominations for 93 Local government bodies begins
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 11:35
Accepting nominations for 93 Local government bodies begins

Accepting of nominations for 93 Local government bodies began today. The deadline for accepting nominations is12 noon,December 14, the Elections Commission said.
The 93 Local Government bodies include seven Municipal Councils, 18 Urban Councils and 68 Pradeshiya Sabhas.
==============================
## Title: ACMA, UPA Alliance to contest Ep LG polls
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
ACMA, UPA Alliance to contest Ep LG polls
The All Ceylon Makkal Congress (ACMC) led by Industry and Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen and the United Peace Alliance (UPA) led by MP Basheer Segu Dawood have agreed to contest the upcoming LG polls together under the United Peoples Alliance (UPA) banner.
The UPA will field candidates for the Muslim dominated areas in the Eastern Province under the Peacock symbol.
SLMC Former Secretary General M.T. Hassan Ali has been appointed as the chairman of the new party.
This is a turning point in Sri Lankas Muslim political history. The ACMC I lead and the United Peace Alliance led by Basheer Segu Dawood MP are joining to form the United Peoples Alliance (UPA). The UPA we are creating today will first contest in the Eastern Province where a Muslim majority exists.
UPA will enter local politics in the Ampara District in the forthcoming LG polls. The symbol of UPA is the Peacock and its Chairperson is M.T. Hassan Ali, former Secretary General of SLMC, Bathiudeen said.
Hassan Ali, being a former Parliamentarian and a State Minister, is well positioned to start off UPAs journey. As the leader of the ACMC, my role in the UPA is to be decided later on, the minister said addressing the media in Colombo yesterday.
United Peace Alliance Secretary Ali said he appreciated the stand taken by the Minister to form an alliance to propagate the Muslim communitys interest in the east.
He could have declared himself the leader of this alliance, but he gave me the leadership of the alliance. We praise Minister Bathiudeen for his concern towards the Muslim community, Ali said.
==============================
## Title: ADB President calls for stronger efforts to fight corruption
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
ADB President calls for stronger efforts to fight corruption
Asian Development Bank (ADB) President Takehiko Nakao has called for increased efforts from ADB staff, member governments, and other development partners to help fight corruption, money laundering, and other illicit activities that derail economic development and the achievement of social equity in the Asia and Pacific region.
Nakao led the celebration of International Anticorruption Day held at ADB headquarters in Manila today. Nikos Passas, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Northeastern University in the United States, and Sayed Ikram Afzali, Executive Director of Integrity Watch Afghanistan, delivered keynote addresses.
Corruption, money laundering, and tax evasion damage economic development as well as fairness among people. There is also a growing consensus that these activities are threats to the basic fabric of society, including safety and security, said Nakao. We have a professional obligation to fight these illicit activities. This fight is necessary to advance economic development in the Asia and Pacific region and to promote social equity.
Global losses to corruption, money laundering, and tax evasion is estimated at $800 billion to $2 trillion every yearan amount that could instead be used by developing countries to achieve their Sustainable Development Goals commitments.
Corruption also breeds organized crime and terrorism and poses a serious threat to safety and security, particularly for states considered fragile and conflict-affected, several of which are in Asia and the Pacific.
To combat these activities, ADB has adhered to zero-tolerance policies to prevent corrupt practices from negatively impacting ADB-supported projects.
For instance, ADB introduced new rules in 2015 for both its sovereign and nonsovereign operations to ensure integrity due diligence for project partners and tightened controls for corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing. In 2016, ADB updated its Anticorruption Policy to include the prevention of cross-border tax evasion.
ADB is also increasing its technical assistance to enhance the capacity of developing member countries to meet international standards for tax transparency, counter tax evasion, and protect themselves against aggressive forms of tax planning. (ADB)
==============================
## Title: Alcobronz appointed agent for Ford power tools
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Alcobronz appointed agent for Ford power tools
Alcobronz (Pvt) Limited a leading Engineering Based Industry which involves Machinery Manufacturing, Importers and Distribution and a fully-owned subsidiary of Nawaloka Holdings.
Recently Alcobronz Limited was appointed as the sole agent for Ford Power Tools, Garage Tools, Hand Tools, Power Tools Accessories, and Vacuum Cleaners in Sri Lanka.
The agreement was signed directly with Ford Motors, Argentina while the Products to be made available in the Sri Lankan Market will be imported from Ford Tools, Dubai. The launch of the Ford Power Tools range took place at the Sri Lanka Wood International Expo which was held in September this year.
The Ford products will be available to customers around the country through Alcobronzs vast island wide Distribution Network. The extensive product portfolio imported and distributed will include Ford Power Tools, Garage Tools, Ford Hand Tools, Ford LED Lighting. Ford Power Tool Accessories and Ford Vacuum Cleaners.
Speaking on the distribution Chief Executive Officer and Director of Alcobronz Chandula Perera noted, Alcobronz has established a name for itself not only as a premier Woodworking and Metal Working Machinery manufacturer but also for their superior after sales service. The agency with Ford Power Tools which is a globally recognized Brand further cements our position as the Market Leader in the Woodworking Machinery supply and distribution industry in Sri Lanka.
Backed by 43 years of unmatched service, all Ford Power Tools purchased from Alcobronz will receive a One year service warranty and exceptional After Sales Service in the event of repairs and replacements.
One of the key products imported by Alcobronz form China is the range of Power Tools sold under the Brand Name Powertek. The product range includes Power Tools, Submersible Pumps, High Pressure Cleaners, Air Compressors and Accessories for both Wood and Metal Industries. All Powertek range will cover 6 months Manufacturer Warranty.
==============================
## Title: Altair celebrates topping out  interior work in full swing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Altair celebrates topping out  interior work in full swing
Altair, the 68-story luxury residential complex which fronts the Beira Lake in Colombo, recently celebrated its 'topping out' to mark the completion of structural work, an important milestone.
Going back to ancient times, the topping out ceremony marks the placement of the last structural steel beam at the final roof height. This important moment also celebrates the accomplishment of the structural construction crews and the transition to interior construction.
We are now focused on the faades and the interiors, said Architect Charu Kokate, Principal at Safdie Architects, which is overseeing the project. Designed by acclaimed international architect Moshe Safdie, Altair is composed of two slender tower blocks which are oriented to the movement of the sun to harness the tropical breezes. The units offer 270-degree breath-taking views of the Beira Lake and the Indian Ocean.
It is very exciting to see the completed building form tapering elegantly towards the sky. The diagrid structure visually accentuates the slope of the inclined stepped tower. The unique combination of a straight and a sloping stepped tower gives the building a very distinctive appearance and has become a landmark for locals and tourists, says Kokate, who visits the site regularly to ensure that Moshe Safdies design vision is fulfilled in all aspects.
The diagrid structure is highly rationalised and allows for naturally ventilated and beautifully lit units. The units are very private and with their special entrances are like little houses in the sky, Kokate explained.
The staggered stepped form of the leaning tower allows for large terraces, which provide prime city and direct ocean views.
At the ground level, an arcade of retail outlets on the west side facing the Beira Lake sets the standard for future lakefront development along the planned pedestrian promenade. Restaurants on a mezzanine level overlook the promenade onto the Lake.
Altair Director Pradeep Sureka said a generous allocation of space for public areas, a feature of high-end buildings, is even more evident in this building. Of Altairs 1.5 million square feet of space, 828,000 square feet or 55 per cent is residential space. Of the balance, 36,000 square feet is allocated for retail while 636,000 square feet, or 42.5 per cent is public space.
With the focus moving to the completion of these interior spaces, Altairs promise of redefining luxury high-rise living in Sri Lanka will soon take physical shape, Sureka said. He added that Altair has already pleasantly surprised apartment buyers with numerous value additions including Italian Botticino marble flooring, extensive home automation, chilled water air conditioning, double-glazed windows, Duravit sanitary ware from the Philippe Starck designer range, a concierge-serviced reception, central hot water and state-of-the-art high-speed fibre connectivity solutions.
A one-of-its-kind development in South Asia in terms of architectural design, structural engineering, and living experience, Altair offers its 400 apartments spectacular views of the Beira Lake, the Indian Ocean and the city of Colombo. The building is scheduled for completion in July 2018 and is already 70 per cent sold.
==============================
## Title: Annual Christmas Tree Lighting at GFH
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Annual Christmas Tree Lighting at GFH
Galle Face Hotel kicked off the holiday season last Monday night as Chairman and owner Sanjeev Gardiner and his mother Mrs. Mavis Gardiner threw the switch that lit the Christmas tree inside the hotel lobby, surrounded by in-house guests and friends of the hotel.
The annual Tree Lighting Ceremony has become a holiday tradition at the Galle Face Hotel, and is a celebration of cheer and goodwill.
A choir sang Christmas carols while the audience looked on in delight. This years event also featured the arrival of Santa Claus who greeted the children and handed out early Christmas presents.
General Manager of the Galle Face Hotel, Mr. Deni Ohlsen-Dukic invited guests to enjoy canaps and Christmas goodies such as Reindeer buns, as well as an assortment of cheeses, mulled wine and eggnog which added to the air of festivity. The hotel was decorated with beautiful Christmas trees and intricate wreaths, while the exterior was bathed in a cheerful green lighting to mark the season.
The Galle Face Hotel is testimony to both Sri Lankas colonial past and its independent present. Celebrated within the hospitality world, it blends historicalsplendour with crafted modernity to form a new model for heritage properties. International guests are immersed in the Galle Face Hotels rich traditions and compelling stories, while Colombo society perceive the hotel as the most prestigious, desirable destination in the city formemorable dining and special events. Whether at the hotel for dinner or for a month-long stay, an experience of the Galle Face Hotel is one of timeless grandeur and exceptional hospitality.
Children singingChristmas carols
==============================
## Title: [APPRECIATIONS - (11-12-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
[APPRECIATIONS - (11-12-2017)]
Dr. P.R. Anthonis
He was a liberal intellectual
The professional colossus, Dr. P.R. Anthonis, passed away peacefully on the morning of December 17, 2009, at the age of 98 years.
Born on the January 21, 1911, as the second child of a family of 16 children, Polwatearachchige Romiel Anthonis learned the Sinhala alphabet at the age of six yeas under the tutelage of Ven. Vajiragnana Thera at the Dharmasalawa, Bambalapitiya (presently Vijiraramaya). A year later, he entered the Milagiriya Sinhalese School, which is presently non-existent, where he studied up to the 4th standard. At the age of 10 years, he was admitted to St. Josephs College South, Bambalapitiya, as St. Peters College was known then. The brilliant student he was, he ended up carrying away almost all class prizes at the annual prize giving of St. Peters College; during the following years, which included General Proficiency, Latin, French, and Mathematics.
Romiel Anthonis entered the University College to do the pre-medicals, coming first in the batch, a feat that was amazing considering the fact that he had not studied Physics and Zoology before. He entered the Medial Faculty in Colombo in 1930, the only medical school in the country where too, he was always on top of the batch and carried away the Loos Gold Medal for Pathology. The Mathew Gold Medal for Forensic Medicine, the Rockwood Gold Medal for Surgery, and the Government Diploma Medal. He passed as a doctor in 1936 and took up appointment as a medical officer in government service.
Dr. Anthonis was awarded a scholarship to study surgery in the UK in 1937, but the Second World War prevented him from proceeding to UK. However, eight years later in 1945, he went to the UK. Dr. Anthonis was the first to be successful in the FRCS Primary and Final Examinations in the first sitting, thereby, not only creating a record at the Royal College of Surgeons of the UK, but also becoming the youngest Fellow of the College. He was also the first non-university officer to be appointed by the Royal College of Surgeons of the UK as the Examiner to Primary FRCS, FDS, and FFA examinations. Turning down a lucrative job in England, he returned to Sri Lanka in 1947 and was appointed Consultant Surgeon to the present National Hospital.
Since then, until his retirement from the public service in 1971, this healing angel saved he lives of thousands of people, working from the early hours of the morning, going up to the late hours of the night. After retirement from public service, he took to private practice. He had a clientele who had immense faith in his healing prowess. He has never refused to see a patient in distress.
Dr. Anthonis has been the Chairman of the Medical Council, the watch-dog of ethics and standards in the medical profession, the Founder President of the College of Surgeons, President of the Sri Lanka Medical Association, and has also been the Editor of the Ceylon Medical Journal. So much was his service to the medical community.
As a Trade Unionist, being the President of the Medical Specialists Association, he led a strike of Medical Specialists against the governments decision to abolish private practice in respect of doctors as from August 1, 1974. The strike, which was launched on February 1, 1964, had the support of the Government Medical Officers Association. The doctors, under the leadership of Dr. Anthonis, won the day. Incidentally, private practice is still to be abolished.
The busy professional was a member of the Board of Governors of the YMBA, a member of the Board of Trustees of Vajiraramaya, and the Most Senior Trustee of the Bandaranayake Memorial International Conference Hall. He was the Chancellor of the University of Colombo for 21 and a half years from 1981 to 2003. In fact, the School of Computing of the Colombo University, owes its existence to the efforts of Dr. Anthonis. He was actively interested in student and staff welfare of the University and was a loved figure among the University students and staff. He was the Founder President of the Japan International Cooperation Agency Alumni Association of Sri Lanka and was its unanimously elected President for 37 yearsa post he held until his demise. He was also the Chairman of the Sasakawa Memorial Sri Lanka Japan Cultural Centre, Vice Patron of the Lanka Japan Friendship Society, and Vice Patron of Colombo Plan International Society.
Dr. P.R. Anthonis was awarded the prestigious Order of the Sacred Treasure of Japan in 1981 by the Japanese government, in recognition of the invaluable services rendered by him in promoting the Sri Lanka-Japan cultural and friendly ties, and his links with Japan were deeply rooted.
Dr. Anthonis was bestowed the highest national honour, Deshamanya, in 1986 and has also been honoured with the Viswa Parasadini award as well. The medical profession extended him with the honour Pride of the Medical Profession, the only professional to be honoured. Dr. Anthonis treasured a plaque presented to him by medical students with the wording A Healer, a Teacher, a Mentor, an inspiration over generations, bridging the years with service and commitment. We salute you over the years, which speaks of the high-esteem with which he was held.
The surgical skill of Dr. Anthonis is amply demonstrated by a tribute paid to him by an internationally renowned counterpart. A businessman who had seriously injured his leg and who had been cured through surgery here, decided to take his case history to one of the most renowned surgeons in the Hadassah Medical Institute in Israel, famous world over for its medical advancement. The renowned surgeon examined the leg, studied the case history with utmost care and said You shouldnt be having this leg. Only a brilliant piece of surgery has saved it. Who preformed the surgical miracle on you The businessman had answered, Dr. P.R. Anthonis. The renowned surgeon added, I am not surprised. It would have taken a man of Dr. Anthonis skill to save the leg. We have heard of his capabilities over here too.
The simplicity and devotion to his work are found in a poem written by late eminent lawyer E. R. S. R. Coomaraswamy, in tribute to this great human being.
Lets salute this son of our soil
Who does his work and continues his toil
Sans vulgar pomp and needless empty sound
But achieves more than all men around
To achieve fame and honour is rare. To possess a personality uninfluenced by fame and success in unique. And that was Dr. Anthonis, the Everest among professionals.
By his demise, the country lost a liberal intellectual, a great humanist, and a citizen committed to public service. He was a good leader and gentleman par excellence The vacuum crated by his death cannot be easily filled.
May he attain the Supreme Bliss of Nibbana.
Upali S. Jayasekera
W. D. Amaradeva
Sri Lankas musical genius
Our countrys gift to the world of music. - Lester James Peiris.
Gone! One year agothe Nightingale of Sri Lanka, born and bred in Koralawella, Moratuwa, leaving behind his melodious voice and rhythmic actions.
Koralawella, although considered somewhat a backward village, is really not so. While the old Galle Road went through Koralawella with a crossing at Modara to Panadura, it was later diverted at Digarolla through Horetuduwa and Gorakana. Some of the finest mansions still remain on the Koralawella Road. One in particular is the Melville, now a Home for Elders, a palace referred to as Built in Vanity, Given to Charity.
Koralawella has produced many distinguished persons such as former Talawakelle State Council Member P. de Mel, former Moratuwa MP Merryl Fernando, Public Works former Director M. R. Fernando, Road Development Authority former Chairman B. M. de Soysa, Steel Corporation former Chairman Prof. P. A. de Silva, Ports Authority Managing Director and later RDA Chairman Sarath Fonseka (apologies to those missed) and to crown them all, W. D. Amaradeva. The news of Amaradeva receiving this honour overcame my own joy of getting the honour of Vidya Nidhi.
He was my sunday school-mate and later, my schoolmate at Sri Sumangala College, Panadura. Albert Perera and his brother Arthur were close friends of our family. I remember when the Waagwardana Society of Koralawella decided to have a concert, they selected Albert Perera and Chithrasenatwo teenagers whom they picked for a duetAlbert on the violin and Chithrasena on the tubla. This would have been the first public performance of Amaradevathen teenage schoolboy Albert.
Unfortunately, Chithrasena passed away shortly after due to typhoid.
Practices for this concert were done at our home, Sirinimal, at Mahavidana Lane, Koralawella and I remember asking Albert to teach me the violin. He agreed and showed me how, starting with sa-ri-ga-ma, and then sasa-riri-gaga-mama and that was all I could eschew. Later on, I wondered whether, professionally, I would not have done better if I had followed my good friend Albert and stuck to music rather than engineering!
Albert Perera was in the Town Branch of Sri Sumangala College, whereas myself and two others from Koralawella were in Nalluruwa. There was a weekly singing class led by Ananda Samarakoon during afternoons after school, and we used to attend this. I mentioned this to Albert and dragged him along to the singing class and that is where he first met Ananda Samarakoon. I prompted that Albert plays the violin. My good friend Tennyson Rodrigo lent his violin to Albert and he played it masterly that it astonished Ananda Samarakoon and others present.
Up to now, whenever we stand up to sing the National Anthem, my thoughts go back to that singing class where Ananda Samarakoon wrote the words on the blackboard and taught us to sing Namo, Namo, Maatha.
To return home after school, there was no train from Panadura to Egoda Uyana until 4 oclock. So sometimes, seven or eight of us get into a fit and decide to walk. Never mind the hot sun, under the shade of coconut palms, we trudged along, joking all the way, and one by one fell off at their homes and the last to be left were Albert and I. When Albert also dropped off, I used to recall John Stills essay Villager Goes to Town and trudge the last half mile home. As I entered home I, could hear the train pass and get a thorough reprimand from my mother.
Albert developed his musical talents in India and other places and later, won top awards.
One day, during an evening function at the Hotel Suise, Kandy, I ran into Amaradeva and family and I invited him home, but he said that he had already booked himself and his troupe at the Hantane University Bungalow and invited us in turn for the evening. The reverberations once again of the Hantane Range that evening still runs in me.
When the Sri Lankan Institution of Engineers was planning the opening ceremony of their 100th Anniversary, I suggested that Amaradeva be invited and there he was, singing the opening song in the introductory ballet.
Moratuwa should be proud of them and quite rightly, the Moratuwa Municipal Council has named the Moratuwa - Modara road going through Koralawella as W. D. Amaradeva Mawatha.
May he attain the Supreme Bliss of Nibbana, and on his way to Nirvana, may he be born over and over again in Sri Lanka.
Lloyd Perera, Koralawella, Moratuwa.
Nagalingam Ratnasabapathy
A jewel of a son
It has been seven years, on July 31, this year, since the demise of Nagalingam Ratnasabapathy of uptown, Louis Peiris Mawatha, Kandy, who was also known as Sri Lanka Sigamani.
He passed away on July 31, 2010 after a brief illness at the mortal dotage of 81 years.
On July 31, this year, he was remembered by his youngest sibling, son Ratnasabapathy Mohan and family, at their chateau home in Louis Peiris Mawatha, Kandy and thereafter, at their business establishment, Nagalingams Jewellers at No. 101, Colombo street, Kandy.
The memorial services were held alternately at both places.
Late Ratnasabapathy was well-known as an ethnic promoter. He was a jewel of a son.
His son Ratnasabapathy Mohan, a distinguished old boy of Trinity College, Kandy, who runs the business-house after the demise of his beloved pater, from time to time and around the year, donates materials, tomes, and books to needy children in memory of his late pater.
He moved closely with vital religious affairs of the Sri Dalada Maligawa, Kandy, though born a Hindu.
This is evident by the replica of the sacred Tooth Relic that is presently placed on the office table at his business-house.
In this appreciation, I wish to emphasise that the late Nagalingam Ratnasabapathy was born and bred in Point Pedro in the Jaffna Peninsula and was schooled at the famous soccer school, Hartley College, Pt. Pedro. He migrated to Kandy after his school career at the request of his father.
Adding some lurid details to this appreciation, that Hartleyan school boy, Nagalingam Ratnasabapathy, earned a name as a soccer player at his school and later, for club soccer in Jaffna and Pt. Pedro. He distinguished himself in soccer as a mid-fielder and later, in the full-back position.
Our sympathies go out to his four sons and their families.
May he attain Ama Maha Nivana, the Greatest Blissful Nirvana!
Ealian Abeysirigunewardena and Tharindu Daksitha Hewavitharana
Vijaya Dahanayake
Gentlman politician
Vijaya, as we all knew him in school, was born with poor eyesight, but he never showed any hesitation in meeting, chatting or behaving like one who had such a disability.
He never in his wildest dreams thought of being a politician. Perhaps his close association with his uncle, W. Dahanayake, one-time Prime Minister, and being his private secretary and the influence he had on him, made him embrace politics in the local region, not seeking parliamentary positions.
I often used to meet him at his residence whenever I visited Galle, and when he was the Mayor, when he used to travel with his wife overseas. He always had a vision to improve Galle and not his ego. He enjoyed his family life, and the closeness he had with his father, mother, and two brothers, Saranaguptha and Prakrana, certainly had some influence on his compassionate nature.
His father and mother were excellent examples of parents. I remember whilst in school, whenever we visited Vijaya and his cousin Ranjith (who later was my Police colleague), Vijays mother always ensured that we had a biscuit and a cup of tea. Vijaya certainly lived up to their expectations, maintaining principles with a great sense of compassion, love, and care, tempered with high degrees of honesty and integrity, and never forgot his friends when they were in dire need.
For him, his family and outsiders in need, were equal. Vijaya acquired his parents characters and habits. Life is full of decisions, some minor and some, life-changing, but tragically many people are the victims of their own decisions, faced with choices every day. They turn their back on what is right or what is best and decide on what is wrong, which result in bad consequences. But Vijaya, in his own imitable style, thought wisely, discussed with others, and made decisions. Probably that is why he decided to end his political career as the Mayor of Galle and not seek parliamentary elections. He, his wife, and brothers were always content and happy and he believed in the saying Happiness is the byproduct of something greater, not an end to itself. Happiness cannot be pursued and caught any more than one can pursue.
He practiced that anger must be overcome with gentleness, evil with goodness, a miser with generosity and the liar with truth. Vijaya was an avid reader while in school, but never gave up general knowledge, listening to world views and seeking the assistance of others to read to him history and world news from books, magazines, journals, and newspapers, due to his poor eyesight.
He was certainly up to date with local and foreign current events and never behind current events. He was always keen to learn more about world affairs, history, and general knowledge. It was certainly enjoyable speaking to him as he spoke fluently in English on various topics, with his authentic information and knowledge, which gave him a sound foundation. The late K. Dahanayake was his mentor. Vijaya was a gentleman politician who never cared about amassing wealth. A gentleman who was always content with what he had, he never complained about his inadequacies or illnesses. But he had wealth of knowledge and was affectionate and sincere to his friends and family.
To us as schoolmates and friends, Vijaya is in our thoughts till we leave this world.
Nihal De Alwis
==============================
## Title: Arab ministers denounce Trumps decision
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Arab ministers denounce Trumps decision
EGYPT: Arab Foreign Ministers on Saturday called on the United States to rescind its recognition of Jerusalem as Israels capital and for the international community to recognise a Palestinian state.
In a resolution after an emergency meeting in Cairo, Arab League member ministers said that the United States had withdrawn itself as a sponsor and broker of the Israel Palestinian peace process with its controversial move.
The ministers met at the leagues headquarters in Cairo to formulate a response to the US decision, which has been roundly criticised in the Arab world and internationally.
The move by US President Donald Trump is denounced and condemned, Arab League chief Ahmed Abul Gheit told the ministers at the beginning of the meeting.
The ministers agreed on demanding that the United States rescind its decision on Jerusalem...and the calling on the international community to recognise the state of Palestine...with east Jerusalem as its capital. They also said they would head to the United Nations Security Council for a resolution condemning the US decision as a violation of international law.
The decision has sparked protests and clashes in Palestinian territories since Trump announced the decision on Wednesday which drew criticism from every other member of the UN Security Council at an emergency meeting on Friday.
Palestinian Authority president Mahmud Abbas has cancelled a scheduled meeting the US Vice President Mike Pence in Ramallah later this month.
In Egypt, which Pence will also visit, the countrys top Muslim and Christian clerics have both cancelled scheduled meetings with Pence in protest at the decision. There have been fears of a much larger escalation of violence after Hamas leader Ismail Haniya called for a new Palestinian intifada, or uprising.
Hamas and the smaller Islamic Jihad militant group both renewed that call on Saturday.
Abbass Fatah organisation urged Palestinians to keep up confrontation and broaden it to all points where the Israeli army is present in the West Bank.
Israel seized Arab east Jerusalem in the 1967 Six-Day War and later annexed it in a move never recognised by the international community. The Palestinians want the eastern sector as the capital of their future state.
The international community does not recognise the ancient city as Israels capital, insisting the issue can only be resolved in negotiations.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: Aravinda Perera,  Chairman Board of Singer Finance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Aravinda Perera,  Chairman Board of Singer Finance
Appointment
M. Y. Aravinda Perera has been appointed as Chairman to the Board of Singer Finance (Lanka) PLC with effect from October 2, 2017 to fulfill the vacancy created by the demise of Dr. Saman Kelegama.
Pursuant to section 8_1 of the listing rules, Russell De Mel, John Hyun, Jagath Dissanayake and Iman Perera, Alternate Director to Janaka Mends have resigned from the board of Singer Finance with effect from October 2, 2017.
Except Iman Perera, all others have no relevant interest in the shares issued by Singer Finance (Lanka) PLC as of October 2, 2017.
Iman Perera holds 8,000 shares of the company.
Accordingly, M.P.A. Salgado, J.M.J.Perera, Ms. D.G.Talpahewa and L.S.S.Perera have been appointed as Directors to the Board of Singer Finance (Lanka) PLC with effect from October 2, 2017. J. M. J. Perera, D .G. Talpahewa, L. S.S.Perora do not hold shares or debentures of the Company as at October2017
==============================
## Title: Asia Pacific Executive Forum holds certification ceremony
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Asia Pacific Executive Forum holds certification ceremony
Asia Pacific Executive Forum 2017 and AAPM certification ceremony was held at the Hilton Colombo on November 26. It was a result of the hard work and dedication of industry professionals who fully deserved their fantastic achievements.
The Certification and Designation -Master Management Consultant (MMC) was awarded by Special Assignments Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama representing the chief guest the President of Sri Lanka.
Certification recipients for 2017 who successfully achieved higher scores from the series of exams were Rajendra Ronaal  MBA  Central America, MSc in Strategic Mkt. (MYS), FAAPM, CMA- USA, MMC - USA., Dr. Riyas Sulaima Lebbe  DBA, MBA, FAAPM, CHRPM and Dr. A. Dexter Fernando  DBA  Latin America, MBA UK, BBA  India, MPM USA, FAAPM USA, MMC USA.
Special academic certificate awarded by; Professor. Daniel Khan  OBE and CEO, NISAI group UK and Former Principal  St. Patricks  UK Iman Mutlaq  Jordanian entrepreneur and financier, Founder and CEO  Sigma Investments Dr. Tissa Jayaweera  former president American chamber of Commerce, Royal Commonwealth Society Sri Lanka Rajkumar Kanagasingam  Country Representative  AAPM Dr. Dietmar Doering  Chairman  Asian  German Sprots Chandran Rutnam  Film Maker and Entrepreneur.
The AAPM American Academy of Project Managementis the Global Leader for Graduate Professionals and is an International Board of Standards for strategic industry professionals and executives.Master Management Consultant (MCP/MMC) designation offered to those who meet highest levels of education and experience, submit client reviews, and pass an executive course and exam covering the IPMC and AAPM USAs Code of Ethics.

==============================
## Title: ASPI hits 2.5 month low
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
ASPI hits 2.5 month low
The Bourse continued to lose ground further as the ASPI decreased marginally by 36.63 points (or -0.57%) to close at 6,375.21 points, while the S&P SL20 Index also decreased by 11.81 points (or -0.32%) to close at 3,713.15 points.
Turnover and marketcapitalization 
JKH was the highest contributor to the weeks turnover value, contributing LKR0.95Bn or 20.50% of total turnover value.
Lion Brewery followed suit, accounting for 11.68% of turnover (value of LKR0.54Bn) while Sampath Bank contributed LKR0.41Bn to account for 8.74% of the weeks turnover.
Total turnover value amounted to LKR4.65Bn (cf. last weeks value of LKR1.83Bn), while daily average turnover value amounted to LKR0.93Bn (+102.81% W-o-W) compared to last weeks average of LKR 0.46Bn.
Market capitalization meanwhile, decreased by 0.45% W-o-W (or LKR 13.10Bn) to LKR2,909.56Bn cf. LKR2,922.66Bn last week.
Liquidity (in value terms) 
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector was the highest contributor to the weeks total turnover value, accounting for 27.88% (or LKR 1.30Bn) of market turnover.
Sector turnover was driven primarily by Sampath Bank, Nations Trust Bank, HNB & Commercial Bank which accounted for 84.93% of the sectors total turnover.
The Diversified Sector meanwhile accounted for 27.53% (or LKR 1.28Bn) of the total turnover value with turnover driven primarily by JKH & Hemas Holdings which accounted for 90.12% of the sector turnover.
The Beverage, Food & Tobacco Sector was also amongst the top sectorial contributors, contributing 22.11% (or LKR 1.03Bn) to the market driven by Lion Brewery & Nestle which accounted for 86.94% of the sector turnover.
Liquidity (in volume terms)
The Diversified sector dominated the market in terms of share volume, accounting for 22.83% (or 20.64Mn shares) of total volume, with a value contribution of LKR 1.28Bn.
The Banking, Finance & Insurance Sector sector followed suit, adding 20.07% to total turnover volume as 18.15Mn shares were exchanged.
The sectors volume accounted for LKR1.30Bn of total market turnover value. The Construction & Engineering Sector meanwhile, contributed 9.44Mn shares (or 10.44%), amounting to LKR0.14Bn.
Top gainers and losers
SMB Leasing[NV] was the weeks highest price gainer; increasing 50% W-o-W from LKR0.20 to LKR0.30. SMB Leasing gained 16.7% W-o-W to close at LKR0.70.
Industrial Asphalts (+14.8% W-o-W) and Amana Takaful (+14.3% W-o-W) were also amongst the gainers.
Serendib Engineering was the weeks highest price loser, declining 21.3% W-o-W to close at LKR5.90 while Renuka Hotels(-15.6% Y-o-Y), Sunshine Holdings (-13.5% W-o-W) & Madulsima(-12.5% W-o-W) were also amongst the top losers over the week.
Foreign investors closed the week in a net buying position with total net inflows amounting to LKR 0.17Bn relative to last weeks total net outflow of LKR 0.14Bn (+218.3% W-o-W).
Total foreign purchases increased by 231.7% W-o-W to LKR 2.79Bn from last weeks value of LKR 0.84Bn, while total foreign sales amounted to LKR 2.62Bn relative to LKR 0.98Bn recorded last week (+166.7% W-o-W).
In terms of volume, Commercial Credit & JKH led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka & Dialog Axiata led foreign sales. In terms of value Lion Brewery & JKH led foreign purchases while Singer Sri Lanka & Chevron led foreign sales.
Point of view
Equity markets hit a 21/2 month low in the 1st week of trading in December, reflecting lackluster sentiment ahead of the holiday season and amid ongoing concerns over political and policy uncertainty.
After holding on staunchly above the 6400-level for ~three weeks, markets dropped below this level to skirt around the higher-end of 6350 levels.
The broad-share ASPI dropped a total of 36.6 points this week, despite positive macro-economic news that the IMF approved its 3rd tranche of the EFF program with Sri Lanka.
The IMF approved the $251.4Mn disbursement citing the fact that since the 2nd program review, Sri Lankas performance under the IMF-supported program has remained broadly on track with macroeconomic and financial conditions remaining stable (despite weather-related supply shocks) and as the authorities remain committed to the economic reforms under the program. Despite this development, retail investors remained largely on the side-lines.
HNI and Institutional investors however, returned relatively strongly to the market, accounting for ~46% of total market turnover, up from last weeks 31%.
Interest was driven mainly by a broad range of mid-cap stocks, but the majority of interest stemmed from LION, NEST, LLUB and NTB which cumulatively accounted for 58% of total crossings for the week.
The higher HNI/Institutional interest helped push up daily average turnover level back upto Rs.0.93Bn from last weeks Rs.045Bn and closer to the YTD average of Rs.0.94Bn.
Foreign investors meanwhile returned to the Bourse as net buyers (Rs.167.8Mn) this week, after two consecutive weeks of remaining net sellers (cumulative net sales of Rs.1,355Mn).
Markets in the week ahead are likely to remain largely subdued ahead of the year-end holiday.
Flat performance in Sept17 corporate earnings
Corporate earnings for the total market1 remained flat over the Sept17 quarter, falling a marginal 0.2% Y-o-Y to Rs.60.0Bn relative to the Rs.60.2Bn recorded in Sept16.
Declines in sectors such as Finance (-17%), Manufacturing (-22%), Construction (-230%), Telco (-5%), Hotels (-59%), Motors (-40%) and Power & Energy (-66%) overshadowed gains in Banks (+6%), Insurance & Other (+12%), Diversified (+61%), F&B(+3%), Land & Property (+1%) and Healthcare (+53%).
Cumulative earnings2 for the 6-Months to Sept17 meanwhile, rose 5.7% Y-o-Y to Rs.112.6Bn (cf Rs. 106.5Bn in Sept16). The Y-o-Y gain is relatively flat compared to the comparable periods in 2016 and 2015, when cumulative 6M earnings rose 12.3% and 13.5% respectively.
Market earnings over the cumulative period was driven primarily by growth in the three main contributing sectors to corporate earnings; Banks, Diversified and F&B.
The gains in these sectors helped offset declines in sectors such as Manufacturing, Telco, Construction and Healthcare.
In terms of trailing 12M earnings meanwhile, corporate earnings rose 15% Y-o-Y to Rs. 264Bn (cf. Rs. 231Bn in the previous period) helped mainly by Banks, Finance & Insurance (+19%), Diversified (+47%), Construction (+15%) and Healthcare (+16%). The growth in earnings helped push the market PER down to 11.3x compared to 13.6x a year ago.
Sri Lankas PER level of 11.3x remains one of the lowest among its regional peers in Frontier and Emerging markets which currently trade between 14.5x to 15.4x.
==============================
## Title: Bangladesh appoint Shakib as Test cricket captain
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Bangladesh appoint Shakib as Test cricket captain
Dhaka: Bangladesh on Sunday appointed all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan as Test captain, removing Mushfiqur Rahim from the post ahead of the two-Test home series against Sri Lanka starting January.
Shakib, who is already the national Twenty20 captain, takes over the Test side after a disastrous tour of South Africa in a move that the cricket board said would allow Mushfiqur to focus on his batting.
We have decided to change the Test captain. Shakib will be our new Test skipper from the upcoming series and Mahmudullah will be the vice-captain of the side, Bangladesh Cricket Board president Nazmul Hasan told reporters in Dhaka following a Board of Directors meeting.
There will be no change in the other formats, he said.
Mushfiqur led Bangladesh in 34 Tests since 2011, guiding them to some remarkable wins over England, Sri Lanka and Australia since last year.
But the wicketkeeper-batsman fell from grace after a disastrous tour in South Africa where Bangladesh lost both Tests by heavy margins. Hasan said the decision to remove Mushfiqur as Test captain was taken as they wanted him to concentrate on his batting.
We want best batting service from Mushfiqur. We want him to concentrate on his batting, want to free him from pressure, he said. AFP
==============================
## Title: Bearing the unbearable pain
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Bearing the unbearable pain
This week a Consultant Community Physician attached to the National Cancer Control Programme of the Health Ministry Dr. Suraj Perera (MBBS, MSc, MD) and a Consultant Maxillo-facial Surgeon attached to Kuliyaptiya Base Hospital and Master Trainer in Palliative Care Founder and the President of the Palliative Care Association , Kuliyaptiya and the Founder of Regional Association of Palliative Care, Northern Province Consultant Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon Dr. Ranjan Mallawarachchi talk about Palliative Care, an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families who are facing problems associated with life-threatening illness. A large number of cancer patients and some other patients such as kidney patients etc. in Sri Lanka need palliative care.
Part - 1
Q  What is palliative care 
A - Palliative care is an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families who are facing problems associated with life-threatening illness. It prevents and relieves suffering through the early identification, correct assessment and treatment of pain and other problems. Palliative care is the prevention and relief of suffering of any kind  physical, psychological, social, or spiritual experienced by adults and children living with life-limiting health problems. It promotes dignity, quality of life and adjustment to progressive illnesses, using best available evidence.
Q  Who needs Palliative care 
A - Palliative care is required for patients with a wide range of life-limiting health problems. The majority of adults in need of palliative care have chronic diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, AIDS and diabetes. Patients with many other conditions may require palliative care, including kidney failure, chronic liver disease, rheumatoid arthritis, neurological disease, dementia, congenital anomalies and drug-resistant tuberculosis.
Q  What is the main issue of the patients who need Palliative care 
A - Pain is one of the most frequent and serious symptoms experienced by patients in need of palliative care. Opioid analgesics are essential for treating the pain and other common distressing physical symptoms associated with many advanced progressive conditions. For example, 80 percent of patients with cancer and 67 percent of patients with cardiovascular disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease will experience moderate-to-severe pain at the end of their lives.
Q  How should we take care of hunger and thirst of the patients who are under palliative care 
A  Such patients physical activities are limited and therefore food and beverages should be given to them only according to their hunger and thirst. Giving them more food and drinks than their requirement leads to several other problems. Food and drinks should not be given by force. If given by force, the food and drinks can be entered into windpipe and ends up in lungs. It may lead to develop Pneumonia. If the patient can swallow, soft food and drinks in small quantities should be given using a spoon or a syringe. The mouth should be kept clean by using a piece of wet cotton wool or a piece of wet cloth. Vaseline or lip balm can be used to keep the lips moisture and prevent from drying.
Q  What about the eye problems faced by such patients 
A  Usually such patients do not close their eyes completely (like healthy people) during their sleep. This can lead to dry eyes and watering eyes. The patients should be kept in a position that helps them to close their eyes easily. Saline or other eye drop (prescribed by a doctor) should be put into eyes every two hours. Wipe eyes gently if there are tears. Do not try to close the eyes completely.
Q  How can the patient handle the pain 
A  The pain can be due to the disease, due to staying in the same position for a long time and due to wounds and bruises. Change the patients position once in every two or three hours.
Keep the skin moistured and dry. Give pain killers according to the instructions of a doctor or a nurse. Do not give additional pain killers (even when the patient demands) because they can be poisonous. (To be continued).
==============================
## Title: Body of missing fisherman found
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Body of missing fisherman found
The body of a fisherman who was reported missing while engaging in fishing in the sea was found at the Oluvil beach on November 8 morning. He was identified as Abusali Ibrahiim (38) of the Oluvil division No.4, a father of four.
The deceased and another fisherman had gone on fishing in the Oluvil sea by boat on November 7 and on their return they had caught in high tidal waves and their boat had capsized in the sea. Navy, Police and residents in the area searched for the two fishermen but they were not able to find them.
==============================
## Title: BOI enterprise Cable Solutions wins intl innovation award
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
BOI enterprise Cable Solutions wins intl innovation award
The BOI enterprise Cable Solutions (Pvt) Ltd received a prestigious award at the International Innovation Summit held recently at the Hyatt Hotel in Shanghai, China.
About 30 Chief Executive Officers of companies in Asia participated at this prestigious award ceremony where a number of high profile keynote speakers were also invited. One of the recipients of the Innovation Award 2017 was BOI enterprise Cable Solutions (Pvt) Ltd for its development of electronic cable assembly units that have advanced features.
The award was formally presented to Pawan Tejwani, the Managing Director of Cable Solution. The cube shaped Trophy is inscribed with the key processes that lead to innovation namely Inspiration, Ideation, Implementation, Integration and Initialization.
The distinguished trophy award is made of aircraft aluminum and is fluorescent. The BOI actively promotes projects which have an R & D and Innovation component.
A number companies already operating under the Boards regime are engaged in Innovation and in the development of new products which in turn leads to greater export earnings for Sri Lanka.
Pawan Tejwani stated, the fact that there is such skill and engineering competence is in itself a great achievement for Sri Lanka. Kapil Kane, Director of Intel Innovation who graced the awards ceremony and was a keynote speaker, expressed his deep appreciation for the level of competence and capabilities available.
The importance of innovation awards such as this one, is that it can provide an insight into the actual competences and know-how that countries have. Innovation Awards 2017 was an event organized by Enterprise Asia, an NGO helping entrepreneurs in Asia
==============================
## Title: Books That Move Disability From the Margins to the Center
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Books That Move Disability From the Margins to the Center
As a disabled writer, Ive looked at how disability is represented in our literature for over two decades. This interest has taken me across the globe, with a special focus in disability representation in Japan, and more recently in Germany. Recently, at the behest of a writer colleague who was about to teach a class on writing with empathy (and inspired by the Bechdel Test), I came up with the Fries Test to measure the progress of disability representation. The questions of the Fries Test are purposefully basic, or as someone once commented, the bare minimum of how disability should be accurately represented in our literary culture. Here, Ive compiled a list of texts that go further than that. These books move disability from the margins to the center, where they provide a critical lens to look at how wedisabled and nondisabled alikelive, or might live, our lives.
Geek Love, Katherine Dunn (1989)
A finalist for the National Book Award, Dunns novel is the story of the Binewski family, whose offspring are purposely born with various disabilities so they can perpetuate the family businessworking in the circus. Dunn explodes what we think we know about disability. Her characters, such as Arturo the Aquaboy (who has flippers for limbs) and the conjoined twins Iphy and Elly, are incredibly complex in all their messy emotional and physical humanity. By placing disability in the historically important context of the freak show, Dunn not only gives us a startling look at humanitys imperfections, but uses disability to give an insightful, sometimes scathing, look at family dynamics familiar to us all.
Mean Little Deaf Queer, Terry Galloway (2009)
Galloways memoir is funny, poignant, and, yes, mean. As the Lambda Literary review of this memoir says, Blessedly, the disabled-child-as-hero is absent from Galloways history. Galloway writes: Passing as hearing took such a toll that passing as straight was a piece of cake. She portrays herself as both oppressed and oppressor. She writes, I might love the girls but I lusted for power. Galloway gives us what we are rarely given in literature: a fully dimensional disabled person, warts and all.
Planet of the Blind, Stephen Kussisto (1998)
This memoir follows Kussistos movement from passing as sighted to accepting his identity as a blind person. Kussisto shows both the reasons for his wanting to pass as sighted and its foolish unworkability. He also redefines blindness from its usual depiction of total darkness. And by exquisitely employing his poetic skillsKuusisto has also published books of poemshe allows the reader to imagine what it might be like if we lived in a world where being blind was no big deal:
On the planet of the blind no one needs to be cured. Blindness is another form of music, like the solo clarinet in the mind of Bartk . . . On the planet of the blind people talk about what they do not see, like Wallace Stevens who freely chased tigers in red weather. . . . The sighted are beloved visitors, their fears of blindness assuaged with fragrant reeds.
Elegy for a Disease: A Personal and Cultural History of Polio,(2010) and Call Me Ahab: A Short Story Collection, Anne Finger (2009)
Finger structures her memoir Elegy for A Disease as a dual history of a life lived with polio. By combining her personal history with that of the disease, she liberates the isolated disabled protagonist from typical narrative strictures, showing how sociopolitical myths, fears, and panic are an inextricable part of the disability experience. No longer is the heroine a lone figure fighting to survive a physical impairmenthere we have disability defined as much by physical and social barriers.
This is also at the heart of Call Me Ahab, her short story collection. In what Finger calls historical fictions of disability, she places characters with disabilities center stage in events in which they are usually peripheral. For example, in The Artist and the Dwarf, she makes Mari Barbola, the dwarf depicted in Velazquezs painting Las Meninas the protagonist of the story, giving us a truer history of Spain at that time.
The Still Point of the Turning World, Emily Rapp (2013)
In her best-selling memoir, Rapp turns the story of losing a son to Tay-Sachs disease into a thoughtful and philosophical look at parenting. The no-holds barred depiction of what it is like to have a child with a disability is distinguished not only by Rapps literary intelligence but also by her own disability experience, which she previously wrote about in Poster Child (2007). By employing the writings of C. S. Lewis, Sylvia Plath, and Hegel and drawing on works such as Mary Shelleys Frankenstein, Rapp opens up what otherwise could be a claustrophobic and deservedly myopic story of her son Ronans life. -Lit Hub
==============================
## Title: A boost for investment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
A boost for investment
The Magampura (Hambantota) Port and the Mattala International Airport were among the many grandiose projects launched by the former Mahinda Rajapaksa administration. Funded mostly through Chinese loans, none of these projects realized the grand objectives with which they were built.
The Hambantota Port did get a second life as a port of call for Roll On Roll Off (RO-RO) car carriers, mainly on a transshipment basis as our domestic car market is rather small. However, this alone was never going to make the port profitable. The Port has ended up with a Rs.47 billion cumulative loss.
The Yahapalana Government inherited this project and the debt burden that goes with it. Given the mounting losses, the question of debt repayment hung in the air. The only alternative was opting for foreign investment for the Port. The Government has now succeeded in this endeavour, after defeating the conspiracies hatched against the proposal and the many lies spread by certain sections of the Opposition.
The Government has found a committed partner in the China Merchant Group, which on Saturday made the first payment of US$293 million as an advance of the US$ 1 billion plus investment. It is no stranger to Sri Lanka, its first investment being the Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT) which has already notched 2 million TEU containers.
The China Merchant Group now has the task of efficiently managing and operating the Hambantota Port, which is strategically located on the East-West shipping route and on the Maritime Silk Road. The 21st Century Maritime Silk Road Initiative, proposed by China in 2013, aims to build trade and infrastructure networks connecting Asia with Europe and Africa along the ancient Silk Road routes. Unfortunately, the Port had not realized its potential until now and hopefully, the new management will be able to turn things around and make it a global logistics hub.
Ironically, the very same politicians who were instrumental in establishing the Port and were agreeable to hand over the port on a permanent basis to a foreign investor launched an agitation campaign to sabotage China Merchants investment. They spread many scare stories that sought to drive a wedge between the local community and the investors. However, the Government has now triumphed against all these sinister attempts.
If no foreign investor was found, even the unborn generations would have had to bear the debt burden of this Port. In this regard, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has reiterated that, as pledged when the Government assumed office in 2015, the Hambantota Port will be handed over to the future generation without turning it into a burden or debt for them. In contrast to the previous Governments plans to sell the port outright, this agreement is for a 99-year lease. Moreover, it will be a joint venture between China and Sri Lanka on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis.
The next step will be finding an investor or partner for the Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport, which has earned the dubious moniker of the worlds emptiest airport with just a couple of international flights per week. There were reports that India had evinced interest in investing in and operating the airport which cost more than US$ 200 million to build. This is a welcome move since the same debt scenario applies to this airport as well. It will be in everyones interest to make it a viable, thriving airport which can also function as a MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) and Flight Training Centre.
Both the airport and the port will be part of a greater development plan for Hambantota and indeed, the Southern Province. The previous rulers spent massively on vanity projects in Hambantota without focusing on development projects that would actually benefit the people, such as water supply schemes. To its credit, the present Government has embarked on several such projects in Hambantota.
The next step would be the setting up of the Ruhuna Industrial Development Corporation which plans to develop the Ruhuna area into an industrial zone. Hundreds of factories would be set up under the project. Among these will be an oil refinery, a dockyard and a cement factory. Negotiations on these projects have already commenced. Having an airport and a port close by would be a boon to all the export-oriented factories located in the industrial zone. With the Southern Expressway extension terminating in Hambantota, even the local investors will benefit.
Both the Airport and the Port will facilitate Sri Lankas aim of becoming an economic and logistics hub in the Indian Ocean region. Hambantota will complement Colombo and Trincomalee as the countrys main seaports, while Mattala can work in tandem with the Bandaranaike International Airport and Ratmalana which is also being upgraded. Mattala can boost the domestic flight network and increase tourist arrivals to the South. It should be a win-win situation for all. The Government has embarked on the right track to dispel the white elephant stigma attached to these two projects and make them valuable additions in the drive towards economic and social prosperity.
==============================
## Title: Budget 2018 passed with majority
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Budget 2018 passed with majority
The budget proposal for fiscal year 2018 was passed with a majority of 99 votes in Parliament on Saturday evening.
The Third Reading of the Budget proposal which was presented by Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera on November 9 received 155 votes in favour and 56 against.
The members of UNP, the SLFP faction sitting with the Government, TNA members, CWC and EPDP voted in favour while the Joint Opposition and the JVP voted against the Budget proposal. The Second Reading of the Budget was continued from November 10 to 16. The Second Reading of the Budget was passed by majority of 93 votes. It received 151 votes in favour and 58 against. The Third Reading debate of the Budget proposal which commenced on November 17 continued until December 9 (Saturday).
Following the passing of the Budget, fireworks lit up the sky above Colombo and suburbs.
==============================
## Title: CASA - Colonial Cousins in Sri Lanka Shipping
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
CASA - Colonial Cousins in Sri Lanka Shipping
The Ceylon Association of Shipping Agents  CASA in its website informs us that it is the leading voice of the shipping industry in Sri Lanka.
The committee stage proceedings on the Ports Ministry demonstrated that it is indeed an indisputable claim. CASA in Sri Lanka shipping is as powerful as the American Rifle Association in the US Senate. CASA is as dogmatic on their exclusive preserve as the Mahanayake Theras on the unitary state.
CASA wants to put asunder what geography has put together.
The Port of Colombo is mainly a transshipment port. It is the pivotal point of entry to the Indian subcontinent. If it is to be developed as a mega port and a regional maritime hub it must break out from its protective cocoon that serves the short-term interests of ships agents who are the vestigial remnants of the colonial economy.
CASA opposes the budget proposal to open the Shipping sector for foreign investment. The Ports Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe opposes it. He complains that he was not consulted before the budget proposal was presented in parliament. He agrees with the former Project Minister of Ports Rohitha Abeygunawardene that CASA represents Deshiya Viyaparikayo  indigenous entrepreneurs who have made and are making immense contributions to the nations economy. It is a fallacy that ignores the realities of contemporary global maritime commerce. It also ignores the genesis of CASA which will be discussed later on in this missive.
The idea behind liberalizing the shipping sector is to make Sri Lanka a mega portal of maritime commerce in 21st Century Asia.
There are ports that handle a lot of cargo but do not generate that much economic value. Colombo is a classic example. Colombo does not have trade clusters as in Singapore. It has no Industrial real estate as in Rotterdam. It has no thriving waterfronts as in Barcelona.
A mega port cannot survive servicing as island economy. It must rely on and serve a regional economy beyond our borders.
We must not allow CASA to put asunder what geography has put together.
A mega port according to industry experts has three dimensions; the cargo volume it handles, the economic value it represents, and the land and water surface it utilises. It is not sheer size of the port or its depth that matters. It is the economic force that it creates, that matters.
Progress and continuity are not fellow travellers.
Long years ago, this writer had his office located in the shopping arcade of the Ceylon Intercontinental hotel, the first International Chain to set up shop in Sri Lanka. The chain was owned by Pan Am Air lines. In retirement there is no need for this writer to visit that part of the city. A rare visit prompted by the desire of a visiting offspring to taste crab in an unlikely place called a Ministry allowed the writer to discover the former Intercontinental of the seventies refurbished and its faade totally altered and rebranded as the Kingsbury. A clever rebranding. Kingsbury is the manorial seat of Sir Robert Peel the Prime Minster who famously said, Public opinion is a compound of folly, weakness, prejudice, wrong feeling, right feeling, obstinacy, and newspaper paragraphs.
Colombo port has developed its facilities in a slow crawl in to modernity over the years just as the old Intercontinental has metamorphosed in to the new Kingsbury. That pace of progress will not give us a mega port. Today the Shangri-La has dwarfed the Kingsbury. Progress moves on and waits for nobody.
The analogy is made with a purpose. Recently it was the venue chosen by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority to host the 19th conference of the International Network of Affiliated Ports (INAP). Addressing the Conference Minister of Ports Mahinda Samarasinghe promised to up the ranking of the Colombo port. He also opposes the liberalization of the shipping sector.
The leap Colombo port must make to be a mega port is more less the leap that the owners of the Kingsbury has to make to match the Shangri-La!
Ports of the future
An expert in port terminal operations - Dr Oscar Pernia, makes a concise assessment of ports of the future that will thrive in the foreseeable future. He says that ports must make a quantum leap in technology. A proposition that is beyond the exaggerated capacity of CASA.
The port of the future is not only about accommodating bigger vessels. The port must be a facilitator of broader carrier alliances. It must provide a hub and spoke network and be continuously engaged in evolving systems that reduce costs through capacity consolidation.
At the same time the port must attract increased investments that improve productivity and offer higher levels of service in the firm of value addition in transshipment.
Managing and improving productivity will require significant investment in new technology. It calls for radical changes in operational mindsets and use and deployment of technology.
Port operators of the future will be managing far more information technology than in the past. Futuristic ports will leverage cloud based networks to connect with far more shipping partners. It will process vast amounts of data to improve planning, controlling and execution of their operations.
Leveraging Geography of Colombo
Making Colombo a mega port compels us to comply with a natural certitude that Anushka Wijesinghe, the Chief Economist of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce asserts with eloquent precession. In a June 2016 article in The Diplomat, he says, that we are at the doorstep of a dynamic market  India. Already, 75 percent of Colombo port volumes are transshipments from India; the Indian middle class market alone is set to expand to 10 times the islands entire population.
In addition, Sri Lanka has a free trade agreement with Pakistan, which is going to be expanded to cover services and investment, and will have an agreement with China soon. These developments together will make Sri Lanka unique in having preferential market access to India, Pakistan, and China  combined, these markets account for 2.7 billion people.
If we disregard this reality and allow ourselves to be deluded by xenophobic and purblind profiteers, we do so at our own peril.
Geography has made India and Sri Lanka neighbours. History and necessity has made us reluctant yet interdependent allies. Fate and fortune commands us to be partners in exploring and exploiting maritime commerce of the Indian Ocean in the 21st Century. Let not CASA put asunder what nature has joined together.
Genesis of CASA
We must now deal with the genesis of CASA - Ceylon Association of Ships agents.
In its 200 years history, British imperialism has created what economic historians call the grandest society of merchants in the universe  the British trading houses in their colonies.
Thrithankar Roy a Bengali born Economic Historian of the LSE, in his monumental work India in the World Economy from Antiquity to the Present says that Colonial Indian territories which included Ceylon in the period 1757 -1947 witnessed a dramatic growth in long distance trade. The shipping tonnage handled in the colonial ports in the subcontinent increased from one hundred thousand tons to over six million tons between 1798 and 1914.
This is the fertile ground on which the ancestry of CASA is rooted. They are the colonial cousins who are bent on preserving the status quo.
We call them agency houses. Their name boards proudly announce the year of their founding in the 19th Century and some even dating to the 18th Century.
These agency houses were pioneered by mostly Scottish and routinely roguish innovators who developed an imperial port first in Galle where Charles P Hayley landed in 1878 and Patrick Gordon Spence landed in 1868.
Deshiya Viyaparika Prajava - the indigenous merchant class
These agency houses dominated the political and economic geography in the Indian Ocean until the late sixties in the last century. During those years, the so called Deshiya Viyaparika Prajava - the indigenous merchant class were in the bazar areas of the Pettah. The Agency House Sahibs were in the Fort.
In India and among Chinese in the Straits Settlements there was an ancient tradition of international trade. The indigenous merchants of India and Peninsular Malaya-the Marawaris in Bombay, Bengalis of Calcutta and Chinese in Hong Kong and Singapore restructured their colonial agency houses immortalized by James Clavell in his novels Taipan and Nobel House.
In Sri Lanka the process was very different. They tycoons who came of age in post JR market economy by accessing state owned assets acquired ancient Scottish brands which they used to gain entry to the establishment.
The merchants of the Pettah bazar became the new sahibs in the Fort. Continuity of the imperial order was guaranteed. To the upstart class, business skills and innovation was less important than skills in cricket and rugby.
Their new world lingered uncertainly until T.B. Illangaratne from the village of Thumpane in Kandy infused 20th Century common sense in to the tough craniums of the brown sahibs.
He impacted all sectors but strangely left shipping to muddle along. This time, Minister Mangala Samaraweera from the village of Walpola in Matara, has decided to bring shipping in to the 21st Century.
State capture by Captor Firms
Though their antecedents differ, Mahinda Samarasinghe and Rohitha Anbeygunwardena are both adept practitioners of clientelist politics. One is an elitist and the other a populist. CASS is a cartel for all seasons.
CASS represents an entrenched business class that survives on their ability to shape rules of the game to their very substantial advantage.
The phenomenon is not new. It is the most pernicious problem encountered in the political economy of meaningful reform. It is known as state capture. The powerful lobby groups are made of captor firms. Their resources even include the Buddhist clergy. This writer noted an eminent Buddhist monk describing ship agency firms as devout institutions, generously assisting the Sasana.
Friends in high places
Such captor firms are not a symptom but the fundamental malaise that cause poor governance. Such captured economies are trapped in a vicious circle in which, reforms of institutions and changes in policy are held hostage by powerful business interests. They have friends in high places.
Policies are not good for some people and bad for other people. They are on balance, either good for society in the long term or bad. What is good for the colonial cousins of CASA in the short-term is bad for the nation now and in the long term.
==============================
## Title: Case against Nalaka Godahewa, two others fixed for further trial
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 13:44
Case against Nalaka Godahewa, two others fixed for further trial

The case filed against Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) former Chairman Nalaka Godahewa and two others, in connection with their alleged involvement in conspiring to misappropriate Rs. 5 million of funds belonging to SEC was fixed for further trial by the Colombo High Court, today.High Court Judge R. Gurusinghe fixed the case for further trial onFebruary 14.
Defense Counsel who appeared on behalf of the accused sought a further date for the trial.
Three accused had been indicted on three counts which come under Public Property Act. The Attorney General further alleged that the three accused had committed this offense between August 6 and August 18, 2013.
==============================
## Title: Central Finance  increases its  shareholding in NTB
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Central Finance  increases its  shareholding in NTB
Investment
Central Finance Company PLC (the Company) in terms of Rule 8 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, announced that it purchased 2 million two hundred and ninety nine thousand (2,299,000) shares in Nations Trust Bank PLC (NTB) from CF Growth Fund Limited (CF Growth Fund) by way of a crossing on December 8, 2017. Such shares were purchased at a consideration of Rs. 80 per share.
Pursuant to the purchase of the Rs. 2.299 million shares, the total number of shares held by the company in NTB increased from Rs. 20,715,400 million to Rs. 23,014,400 and the shareholding of the Company in NTB increased from 8.98% to 9.98%.
IT was also announced that CF Insurance Brokers (Private) Limited, which is another fully owned subsidiary of the Central Finance group of companies (CF Insurance Brokers) purchased one million shares in NTB held by CF Growth Fund by way of a crossing on December 8 at a consideration of Rs.80.00 per share. Pursuant to this purchase, the total number of shares held by CF Insurance Brokers in NTH increased to Rs. Eleven Million Five Hundred Ninety Two Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty Seven (11,592, 57) and the shareholding of CF Insurance Brokers in NTB increased from Four Decimal Five Nine percent (4.59 %)] to Five Decimal Zero Three percent ( 5.03 %).
Prior to the abovementioned transactions, the Company, together with CF Growth Fund and CF Insurance Brokers, held twenty percent (20%) of the shares in NIB and consequent to the transactions, the aggregate shareholding of the Company, CF Growth Fund and CF Insurance Brokers in NTB remains unchanged.
==============================
## Title: Chelsea stunned by West Ham, Tottenham return to form
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Chelsea stunned by West Ham, Tottenham return to form
LONDON, Saturday - Chelseas hopes of retaining the Premier League title suffered a severe blow as West Ham United upset the form book to win the London derby 1-0 on Saturday and give David Moyes his first victory since taking over as manager.
Marko Arnautovics early goal and a gritty rearguard action by the Hammers inflicted a first league defeat in eight games on third-placed Chelsea who are 11 points behind leaders Manchester City ahead of their game against second-placed Manchester United on Sunday.
Tottenham Hotspur returned to form with a first win in five league games, thrashing Stoke City 5-1 with Harry Kane scoring twice as Spurs moved back into fifth place.
Burnley are level on 28 points with Tottenham and Arsenal after beating 10-man Watford 1-0 at a wintry Turf Moor thanks to Scott Arfields goal on the stroke of halftime.
Watford were reduced to 10 men from the 39th minute after Marvin Zeegelaar was shown a straight red for a wild tackle.
Christian Benteke missed a stoppage-time penalty that would have given Crystal Palace victory over Bournemouth but they had to be content with a 2-2 draw as Jermain Defoe scored twice for the visitors at Selhurst Park.
Swansea City climbed off the bottom, above Palace, with a 1-0 home victory over West Bromwich Albion that ended a near two-month run without a victory.
With West Ham and Swansea winning only six points separate the bottom nine clubs with West Ham only in the bottom three because of an inferior goal difference to West Brom.
Huddersfield Town ended a four-game losing streak to ease into mid-table with a 2-0 victory over fellow promoted side Brighton and Hove Albion.
In the days late kickoff, Leicester City recovered from conceding early at Newcastle United to triumph 3-2 with their late winner coming from an own goal by Ayoze Perez.
Newcastle are two points above the drop zone while improving Leicester moved into the top eight.
Chelsea fell behind after six minutes at the London Stadium as former Stoke midfielder Arnautovic curled a shot past Thibaut Courtois for his first West Ham strike.
With Adrian in goal, rather than England keeper Joe Hart who was dropped, West Ham dug deep and restrained Chelsea, although they did breathe a sigh of relief when Alvaro Morata wasted a late chance to equalise for Antonio Contes side.
Conte wrote off his sides title hopes.
To talk about the title race after a defeat is a bit strange, especially if this is the fourth defeat of the season in 16 games, Conte said. When you have this start, it is impossible to think you are in the title race.
Moyes has steadied the West Ham ship and while they are still in the bottom three, last weeks narrow defeat at Manchester City and victory over Chelsea offers renewed hope.
We need our season to turn now. Weve beaten the champions today, its a great achievement for us and a great three points, Moyes said.
Tottenham led at halftime through a Ryan Shawcross own goal but cut loose after the break with Kanes double taking his Premier League tally for the calendar year to 33, three less than the record 36 scored by Alan Shearer in 1996.
Palace could have moved level on points with fourth-from-bottom West Brom but Bentekes weak penalty denied them the three points, much to his manager Roy Hodgsons annoyance as Benteke was not allocated to take spot-kicks.
If you do that you really have to score or you face the wrath of your manager, the coaches and your team mates, said Hodgson, whose side have drawn four of their last five.
==============================
## Title: Christmas With The Star at Ladies College Auditorium
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Christmas With The Star at Ladies College Auditorium
The Peoples Church, Narahenpita presents Christmas With The Star,offering just the kind of festive cheer Colombo waits for all year. The event will be held on December 12 and 13 at 7 pm at the Ladies College Auditorium, Colombo - 7.
Christmas With The Star promises an elegant evening of Christmas melodies, with music directed by Soundarie David Rodrigo and starring Dinushka Jayawickrame, Maxie Rozairo, Noeline Honter, Sunil and Piyal Perera, Rukshan Pereira and Umara along with the Peoples Church Vocal Ensemble as well as its own award-winning soloists.
Not only does the event, promise to be exciting, it is held, this year, in support of the thousands of vulnerable children served by the Peoples Church compassion arm Center of Hope. The programme will include an impact message of Christmas which will inspire you for the season.
All proceeds of this event will go towards Center of Hope initiatives which means your decision to attend this event has the potential to change the destiny of a generation.
==============================
## Title: CICT promotes Port of Colombo at maritime forum in Hong Kong
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
CICT promotes Port of Colombo at maritime forum in Hong Kong
The role of the Port of Colombo in facilitating imports and exports and supporting trade with India and other subcontinent countries was expounded upon by Colombo International Container Terminals (CICT) in a recent presentation to the 2017 Asian Logistics and Maritime Conference (ALMC).
The presentation was made by Tissa Wickramasinghe, Chief Business Development Officer of CICT, during a panel discussion of the conference, which was part of the Hong Kong Maritime Week programme.
Wickramasinghe's presentation explored aspects of the Port Value Chain and the importance of the Port of Colombo to its stakeholders including clients, other users, the industry, and to the entire South Asian region.At the panel discussion, CICT identified the Port as a transshipment hub located strategically in the Indian Subcontinent (ISC), East Africa and Middle East regions serving specific markets and supply chains. Wickramasinghe's presentation drew similarities between the role played by Sri Lanka to the Indian Subcontinent and the role played by Hong Kong to China.
He also stressed on the importance of establishing green supply chains for the South Asian region and how the Port of Colombo and CICT contribute to this goal.
Known as Asia's largest conference for logistics and maritime services users and providers, the ALMC forum hosted more than 2,000 industry elites and eminent speakers from over 30 countries and regions this year.
The Conference focused on three timely topics including China's One Belt, One Road initiative, e-commerce, and big data. Four distinctive forums to examine subjects on logistics, supply chain management, maritime, and air freight were part of the agenda.
The keynote speakers at the forum were the Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, GBM, GBS, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China; Margaret Fong, Executive Director of Hong Kong Trade Development Council; and Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, the Minister of Transport, Thailand.
Other panelists included Sunny Ho, JP, FCILT, the Executive Director of Hong Kong Shippers Council; Daniele Testi, Marketing & Corporate Communication Director at Contship Italia Group; Carman Leung, General Manager of Commercial Department of Hutchison Ports, Yantian; Eric Ip, Group Managing Director of Hutchison Port Holdings Limited; Alan Murphy, CEO and Partner of SeaIntel Maritime Analysis; Jeremy Nixon, CEO of Ocean Network Express; and Peter Sand, Chief Shipping Analyst at BIMCO.
An exhibition was held alongside the conference, featuring more than 120 exhibitors, showcasing professional and comprehensive logistics and maritime services and solutions.
The ALMC forum held for the seventh time this year is a platform for authorities on Logistics & Transportation and Marine to examine perceptions and theories to advance expertise on transportation, logistics, cargo, maritime and shipping.CICT, which commenced operations in July 2013, manages the Colombo South Terminal of the Port of Colombo, the first and currently the only deep water terminal in South Asia equipped with facilities to handle the largest vessels afloat. The commencement of CICT's operations is widely credited as the factor in the Port of Colombo achieving double digit growth in 2014 after a lapse of over ten years.
In just three years of operation, CICT has brought some of the largest vessels plying the Asia-Europe routes to Colombo. Of these, Milan Maersk (20,568 TEU), MSC Maya (19,224 TEU), Mogens Maersk (18,300 TEU), MSC New York (16,652 TEU), CMA CGM Marco Polo (16,020 TEU), Edith Maersk and EMC Thalassa Hellas (each 14,000 plus TEUs) and their sister vessels are now regular callers at CICT.
==============================
## Title: [CITIZENS' Mail - (11-12-2017)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
[CITIZENS' Mail - (11-12-2017)]
Creating a respectful workplace
Generally good behaviours are given due respect everywhere, but the workplace behaviour is different from the common behaviour of the people and when someone working in an office or company they should adhere to certain behaviour patterns in order to survive in a particular company. The following list of behaviours has been considered as respectful workplace behaviour and it will be useful to everyone who is already working in companies and whoever is going to work in a company in the future.
* Be punctual to meetings and considerate of others time
* Give credit to those who deserve it
* Be supportive of others ideas during meetings
* Encourage your fellow team members to share their suggestions and opinions
* Give your full attention to others when they are speaking
* Ask people if they would like to be put on or remain on an e-mail distribution list
* Ask team members appropriate questions about their personal lives for example, How old are your children
* Ask another team member for advice
* Ask a team member how you could help him or her
* Invite someone you dont know well out for lunch
* Be patient and give others the time they need to reflect on an issue, ask questions, share their thoughts, or come to a decision
* Give straight feedback in a supportive and constructive manner
* Give people as much advice advance notice as possible when assignments are due or meetings are to take place
* Leave an appreciative or congratulatory note on someones desk
* Let other meeting participants know in advance if you will be late, if you will have to leave early, or if you will have to take an urgent call
* Introduce yourself to someone from another team
* Ask a team member to give you feedback on your performance
* Apologize when youve made a mistake
* Seek to understand others perspectives especially when you disagree
* When presenting your ideas, say, Id like to offer my perspective.
* Let others know that youve been actively listening by saying, Let me be sure I understand your point of view
* Respect promptly to e-mail and phone calls
* Ask people their preferred mode of communication - for example, in person, by telephone, or by e-mail
* Talk to people not about people
* The basics: hold the door open; say please and thank you; say good morning, have a nice evening, and I hope you have a nice weekend; look people in the eye when you speak to them; and clean up after yourself. If anyone practices these behaviours in workplace that will pave the way for successful, friendly and respectful workplace atmosphere.
M. Jalaldeen Isfan
Potkerny
==============================
## Title: Colours Award ceremony of Prince of Wales
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Colours Award ceremony of Prince of Wales
The Colours awarding ceremony of Prince of Wales College Moratuwa for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 was held recently at the College Main hall. The chief Guest was the State Minister of Finance Eran Wickramaratne and the guest of honour was a distinguished and a very loyal Cambrian Kishu Gomes.
==============================
## Title: Colts and BRC record wins
## Supertitle: Premier League Inter Club Cricket Tournament
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Premier League Inter Club Cricket Tournament
Colts and BRC record wins
Colts CC and BRC recorded wins over Bloomfiled C & AC and Ports Authority CC respectively in their SLC Premier League Inter Club Cricket tournament first week fixtures in Colombo yesterday. Colts CC beat Bloomfield C & AC by innings and 55 runs at Colts and BRC beat Ports Authority CC by 35 runs at BRC. Other matches were drawn.
Middle order batsman Dasun Shanaka (SSC) scored unbeaten 114 runs in 150 balls with 7 fours and 5 sixes against Ragama CC at Welagedara Stadium, Kurunegala. Prabath Jayasooriya, spinner of Colts CC took 11 wickets for 82 runs against Bloomfield C & AC. He took 7 wickets for 26 runs in the first inning.
* At Colts. Colts CC won by innings and 55 runs.
Colts CC: 400 in 148.5 overs (Hashan Dumindu 168 n.o., Dilruwan Perera 60, Sangeeth Cooray 37, Angelo Jayasinghe 26, Malith de Silva 5/105, Lahiru Fernando 3/92)
Bloomfield C & AC: 151 (105/6 o/n) in 54.3 overs (Nisal Frnacisco 33, Nipun Karunanayake 28, Prabath Jayasooriya 7/26) and 194 in 56.5 overs (Ramesh Mendis 52, Nipun Haggalla 51,Dilruwan Perera 4/69, Prabath Jayasuriya 4/56)
* At BRC. BRC won by 35 runs.
BRC: 187
Ports Authority CC: 192 and 86 in 38.5 overs (Yashoda Lanka 24, Adeel Malik 19, T.M. Sampath 3/18, Vikum Sanjaya 2/19, Chamika Edirisinghe 2/24)
* At Surrey Village Maggona. Match drawn.
Tamil Union C & AC: 332 and 182/5 decl. (45/1 o/n) in 48.4 overs (Dineth Thimodya 68, Binura Fernando 54, Dilesh Gunarathne 2/55) Badureliya CC: 196
* At Moors.
Saracens SC: 432 in 102.3 overs (Andy Solomons 152, Gamindu Kanishka 108, Chatura Randunu 41, Sachithra Perera 33, Tharindu Rathnayake 5/156, Shiran Fernando 4/114) and 208/7 in 57 overs (Navindu Withanage 70 n.o., Sachithra Perera 50, Saliya Saman 34, Shiran Fernando 2/21, Supeshala Jayathilake 2/37, Tharindu Rathnayake 2/105)
Moors SC: 375 (288/3 o/n) in 103.2 overs (Primosh Perera 142, Irosh Samarasuriya 111, Sahan Wijerathne 43, Roshan Jayathissa 4/53, Sachithra Perera 3/67, Chatura Randunu 2/92)
* At Welagedara. Match drawn.
Ragama CC: 187 and 156/5 in 52 overs (Lahiru Milantha 61, Shehan Fernando 50, Charith Asalanka 3/26)
SSC: 307/6 decl. (76/2 o/n) in 76 overs (Dasun Shanaka 114 n.o., Milinda Siriwardane 60, Kaushal Silva 45, Sammu Ashan 23, Minod Bhanuka 21, Amila Aponso 4/129). YK
==============================
## Title: Commercial Bank opens branch in Yatiyantota
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Commercial Bank opens branch in Yatiyantota
The Commercial Bank has extended its services to Yatiyantota in the Kegalle District, with the opening of the Banks 259th branch in this riverside town.
Located at Colombo Road, Yatiyantota, the fully-fledged branch also has an automated banking centre featuring an Automated Teller Machine (ATM), a Cash Recycler Machine (CRM),a Cheque deposit machine and an Online Banking Machine, making services accessible any time of the night or day.
Dharma Dheerasinghe, the Chairman of the Commercial Bank of Ceylon was Chief Guest at the opening of the new branch. With the opening of the Yatiyantota branch, Commercial Banks network of ATMs in Sri Lanka grows to 720 terminals.

==============================
## Title: COSLAM launches book for Lankan Malays
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
COSLAM launches book for Lankan Malays
The Conference of Sri Lankan Malays (COSLAM) launched a book Racing Against the Odds Dynamics of Identity Formation of Sri Lankan Malays, at the J.R. Jayawardene Centre in Colombo, recently. The author of the book, South Eastern University Sociology Senior Lecturer Dr. A. Rameez said that the book is useful for the Malay Community in Sri Lanka, and that he also appreciates many Malay organizations contributing to various events.
COSLAM President Attorney-at-Law T. K. Azoor said in his welcome speech that there needs to be a representative for the Malay Community, in the Parliament, requesting Muslim Congress Leader Minister Rauff Hakeem to consider it in the future. He pointed out that the Malay Community in Sri Lanka currently faces many problems.
Chief guest Malaysian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Wan Zaidi Wan Abdullah,Urban Development, Water Supply and Drainage Minister Rauff Hakeem, and Kelaniya Teaching University English Language Senior Lecturer Dr. Romola Rassool also addresses the gathering.Independent Television Network former Director Hashim Omar received the first copy of the book from the Malaysian High Commissioner at the ceremony.
==============================
## Title: Currency smuggler in Customs net
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Currency smuggler in Customs net
A Chinese national who tried to smuggle foreign currency was arrested by Customs officials at the Bandaranaike International Airport. The suspect was arrested on a tip off. The suspect was arrested while attempting to smuggle out foreign currency valued at Rs.11.5 million to Singapore.
The suspect, who was on tourist visa, had in his possession 100,000 currency bills of Singapore Dollars.
He was released after the Customs seized the currency.
==============================
## Title: Derby keep up pressure on leaders Wolves
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Derby keep up pressure on leaders Wolves
LONDON, Saturday - Derby County took advantage of Wolverhampton Wanderers goalless draw with Sunderland to close the gap at the top of the Championship after winning 3-0 at Barnsley.
Goals from Tom Lawrence, Matej Vydra and Andi Weimann moved Derby up two places to fourth, above Aston Villa and 10 points behind the leaders who could not break down Sunderland even though the visitors had Lee Cattermole dismissed in the 62nd minute.
Derby manager Gary Rowett was delighted at his sides performance. Weve had a little bit of criticism at times for not playing as fluidly as we want. There were some real moments of quality, he said.
This week marks a year since Rowett was sacked by Birmingham City, even though the Blues were seventh in the table. Saturdays 1-0 defeat at Fulham means Birmingham, for whom Jeremie Boga missed a penalty, remain deep in relegation trouble in 22nd place.
Above them, Hull Citys plight was eased by a 3-2 win over Brentford in new manager Nigel Adkins first game in charge at the KC stadium while Leeds United and Middlesbrough reignited their playoff challenges with comfortable victories over Queens Park Rangers and Ipswich Town, respectively.
Joe Worrall scored his first senior goal as Nottingham Forest bounced back from successive defeats to beat Bolton Wanderers 3-2 while, in Saturdays late game, Norwich City ended a run of seven games without a win to come from behind to beat Sheffield Wednesday 3-1.
==============================
## Title: Destructive aquatic plant invades Anuradhapura
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Destructive aquatic plant invades Anuradhapura
A unidentified aquatic plant is invading the Anuradhapura Mahakanadarawa reservoir. The Mahakanadawara Integrated Farmer Organisation has submitted a report on the situation to Anuradhapura Government Agent R.M. Wanninayake and to the district agriculture committee in this regard.
The plant could block the reservoir and other water sources in the area, the report warns.
The Daily News reported its invasion with photos in its November 24 issue.
A three-day operation to remove the plant was carried out initiated by the Government Agent. Army, Police and staff of the Anuradhapura District Disaster Management Centre participated in the programme.
Wanninayake told the Daily News the initiative is a temporary measure taken to prevent the plant from spreading. Well-organized large scale programme would be conducted assisted by the Zonal Irrigation Director and universities to destroy the plant in the near future, he said.
==============================
## Title: Dilshan Wirasekara elected to CSE Board
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Dilshan Wirasekara elected to CSE Board
Appointment
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) has appointed Dilshan Wirasekara as a Director of the CSE Board with effect from November 21, 2017.
Wirasekara is an investment banker and the Director, Chief Executive Officer of First Capital Holdings PLC. He is an experienced professional with a career spanning over 22 years, comprising diversified expertise in financial services including, treasury and investment management, capital market strategy and corporate finance advisory. Having joined First Capital in 2013, Wirasekara steered the Company to establish itself as a key contributor to the local capital market industry.
He was the former General Manager of Softlogic Capital PLC guiding investment and trading portfolio management across subsidiaries inclusive of the Groups Licensed Finance Company, Composite Insurer and Equity Brokerage; prior to which he was Head of Treasury at Nations Trust Bank PLC.
He is an Alumnus of INSEAD having successfully completed his Executive Professional Education at INSEAD Business School in Fontainebleau, France.
==============================
## Title: Emirates Boeing 777 cabins wow customers
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Emirates Boeing 777 cabins wow customers
Emirates new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft fitted with its game changing fully enclosed private suites in First Class, as well as refreshed Business and Economy Class cabins, has now entered service, to the customers.
The new Emirates cabins were unveiled for the first time at the Dubai Airshow last month, to positive acclaim from visitors at the show who had the opportunity to view the product. It also generated international excitement as consumers around the world viewed the first images, videos, and reviews of Emirates latest inflight offering.
Following its Dubai Airshow debut, Emirates first 777-300ER with the new cabin products has now begun operating on the Dubai to Brussels route. The first flight EK183 landed in Brussels on December 1, with 288 passengers onboard, including a full First Class cabin.
While on the ground at Brussels airport yesterday, Emirates organised special guided tours to provide its trade and airport partners, VIP guests, and members of the media with a first-hand look at the innovative amenities that the airline provides in all three cabins for its customers.
Emirates has a track record of successful innovations that have raised the bar for the industry in terms of inflight customer experience since its launch in 1985. Its fleet of Boeing 777 and Airbus A380s boasts unparalleled entertainment on demand in all classes with its award-winningicesystem, and inflight connectivity through in-seat text, email and telephone services, as well as mobile and wi-fi services.
==============================
## Title: England draw Ashes warm-up match with CA XI
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
England draw Ashes warm-up match with CA XI
Perth: Captain Travis Dean slammed a 68-ball century as a Cricket Australia XI frustrated England on the final day of the drawn two-day tour game in Perth on Sunday.
Dean (100) and Will Bosisto (50) shared a 152-run opening stand in 21 overs as the CA XI made a big effort to chase down a victory target of 294 runs in 37 overs.
When the match was called a draw late in the day, CA XI had reached 269 for eight from 36.5 overs.
The CA XI went after spinners Jack Leach and Mason Crane while seamer Mark Wood, touted as a potential inclusion for this weeks third Ashes Test against Australia in Perth, conceded more than six an over.
Wood had struck twice early on the final day as the CA XI slipped from their overnight 69 for one to 77 for four, before an unbroken 74-run stand between Clint Hinchcliffe (35 not out) and Mac Wright (36 not out) enabled the home side to declare on 115 for four in their first innings.
England knocked up 130 for three in 20 overs before a declaration in their second innings, with skipper Moeen Ali (47) and Gary Ballance (45 not out) sharing in a 68-run partnership.
Dean then took over, crashing 16 fours and two sixes before he was caught off Tom Curran, who went on to claim three for 28 after his two for 28 in the CA XIs first innings.
Hinchcliffe (49 off 32) punished England after Deans dismissal, lashing three sixes and six fours before becoming falling to Leach (4-104).
The third Ashes Test gets underway at the WACA Ground on Thursday, with Australia just a win away from regaining the urn, following their comprehensive victories in Brisbane and Adelaide. AFP
==============================
## Title: From Eternity to Here: Remembering Pearl Harbor
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
From Eternity to Here: Remembering Pearl Harbor
Summoning Pearl Harbor is a slim, unique work by the renowned art historian Alexander Nemerov that delves into what it means to recall a significant eventPearl Harborand redefines remembering in the process. How do words make the past appear In what way does the historian summon bygone events What is this kind of remembering, and for whom do we recall the dead, or the past Nemerov raises fundamental questions about how we communicate with each other, and how the past continues in our collective consciousness, not merely as facts but as stories that shape us. Below, an excerpt:
When I finally went to Pearl Harbor for the first time, I noticed the most famous fact about being there. From the memorial directly above the submerged USS Arizona and the entombed remains of its crew, I observed that the ship is still leaking oil. Silvery-blue and orange tie-dye pools spread on the waters surface, floating all around the crusty turrets creaking in the air and the pale patterns of battleship steel shimmering a few feet under.
Ectoplasmic leak
Here was the past still emerging in the present, taking an aquatic form like breath spooling up from below, a psychedelic exhalation as though the state of being dead, and being dead right under a never-ending stream of tourists, required a streak of showmanship, a never-ending colorful wound, extending in a slow ectoplasmic leak, a kind of never-ending guitar solo, that would play out the souls of the chiseled dead in incremental liters until the end of time.
Maybe what went on down there below decks was a party that tourists like me on the beautiful white memorial might only begin to guess. The good cheer of my fellow visitors was being repaid in kind, with interest, by the raucous celebration taking place below. The deads revenge on the living would be to refuse the gloom, to enliven the oceanography of the sunken metal corridors and common rooms with hats and streamers, all so that the pious rituals of commemorationof never forgettingwould get their comeuppance.
In those oil smears on the water, the dead began to take shape for me as a group difficult to please. They were rowdy, unruly, not only in their sailor patois gurgling up in halting, half-strangled offensive phrases. They were unruly in their unwillingness to be helped or honored or remembered. ET IN ARCADIA EGO the tomb says to the shepherds, but it was the great fuck you of the past to the kindhearted present that I thought I heard in the oil.
Heartbreak Hotel
I learned that Elvis Presley had staged a benefit concert for the Arizona Memorial on March 25, 1961, in Honolulus Bloch Arena, raising sixty-two thousand dollars to ensure that the memorial, designed by the architect Alfred Preis, would be finished and dedicated the following year. The kings songs that nightopening with Heartbreak Hotel and then All Shook Up, and concluding with Hound Dogmust have roused the sleeping crew of December 7, 1941, enough to remind them of a world they never knew.
Something of those glossy tones glugging down beneath the waves, battering around the corridors like stray sonar or the pinging language of beluga whales, must have played loudly enough to hint to the stronger men on board, the leaders of the dead, that something new was afoot, from which they were all supposed to benefit. On that night, emanating from Elvis, the sounds rang down into the bunks of even the dead-most of the dead. Maybe the sailors misunderstood, but the songs seemed like a call to arms they might heed and use as the model, the template, for their own voices.
It was a way for them to do away with their doom, to spread good cheer in the only way the dead men knew: by echoing the bubbling flow of the voice they heard from above. Funny how it was that the pastto pay back the present for its sentimental attentionneeded to draw on this same sentiment for its own lifeblood. The oil that had always leaked now became their song.
Smoky skies
I saw myself in a theaterback then, or was it now The black-and-white film of the aftermath of Pearl Harbor was spooling out, showing the listing battleships and smoky skies, but back in a corner of the theater I was looking at the floor, examining the stains there, the grounds of popcorn and the gum darkly blooming on the great flowers of the carpet, the usherettes flashlight beam bobbing on the steps.
A Zero flew on the screen, even as another appeared in my inspection of the floor. Intrigued, I bent down to see what the tiny airplane was made of. I seemed to see in it all things, like it was an encyclopedia of its time. I found it was made of gum wrappers and lipstick and of the darkness itself. I wondered if, over time, the days of Pearl Harbor had gotten so mixed up that the past had become one enormous headcheese, a great kaleidoscopic pt, things great and small now mosaicked together.
Senile, these long-ago things had forgotten their proper functions and now were helping each other as best they could to resemble their just duties and purposes, to approximate their official heraldry of appearance, just on the off chance that someone like me might come along and, peeping in, hope to find everything in order.
But they could not remember what they had been about. So it was that the airplanes wings were made of a young womans sneakers and the sneakers were made of the wings. So it was that if you pressed your finger against the metal fuselage you would find that it gave like a belly, or the fleshy part of an arm; whereas if you could somehow reach out to touch a womans body from that time, or a mans, you would find it curiously hard, metallic, like it was riveted together.
So it was that the soul of things evaded me.
-Paris Review
==============================
## Title: Exciting promotions at Hilton Colombo Residences
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Exciting promotions at Hilton Colombo Residences
Hilton Colombo Residences announced exciting promotions commencing from Christmas through New Year. Nations Trust American Express Credit Card members receive 25% off on their Food Bills on selected days at FLOW.
They can also enjoy 10% off on dining in and take away until January 31, 2018 for Sunday Brunch and Dinner Buffet.
Enjoy delicious Christmas Goodies at BASICO Bar Lounge to make your seasonal celebrations more festive. Place your orders for Christmas cake, Christmas pudding, Chocolate Yule Log, Stollen and Mince Pies. Seasonal Roasts from the kitchen are available until December 31. Christmas Poolside Barbecue Dinner is available every Thursday during the month of December with Live Entertainment and exclusive beverage deals from 6 pm until 10 pm.
The Splash Pool Party will be held on December 31 from 7 pm until Midnight, with a DJ and A La Carte Barbecue Dinner.
The hotel will host a night of Glitz & Glamour - New Year Dinner Dance for at the Union Ballroom featuring Wildfire, international dinner buffet, raffle draws and entertainment throughout the night. Guests enjoy a free flow of beverages throughout the night, traditional breakfast.
==============================
## Title: Fifth Chairman of Lanka Sathosa resigns
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Fifth Chairman of Lanka Sathosa resigns
Resignation
The Chairman of Lanka Sathosa T. M. K. B. Tennakoon is speculated to have resigned last week.
He was the fifth Chairman to resign since January 2015 after the change of government.
The first Chairman to serve under Minister of Industry and Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen was Kiran Attapattu who also is a shareholder of MTD Walkers and Chairman, Colombo Engineering.
He created a unique record by winning 50 national-level awards for his enterpreneurial skills.
He also became the first corporate sector personality to be employed at Lanka Sathosa and he resigned after serving six months.
S. S. Miyanwila then took over this position and he served in this post for less than three months.
Veteran government servant, Dr. R. M. K. Ratnayake was then appointed Chairman and he too resigned in two months. Former Chairman Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau, Dr. Rohantha Athukorala succeeded him.
Atukorale who is a multiple award-winning Chartered Marketer and business leader was in office for one year and left early this year.
Atukorale has also served the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) as Head of Portfolio Development.
He was succeeded by T. M. K. B. Tennakoon who has also served for one year before speculation that he has relinquished his duties.
==============================
## Title: First EU GSP+ guide for  exporters published
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
First EU GSP+ guide for  exporters published
The first comprehensive and almost step by step guide for Lankan exporters to export under EU GSP Plus scheme has been released.
Titled the EU GSP+ Business Guide for Sri Lankan Exporters manual is produced by Genevas International Trade Centre (ITC) in collaboration with the Government of Sri Lanka and funded by the EU, and is now available online.
Minister of Industry and Commerce, Rishad Bathiudeen welcomed the publication of the comprehensive manual on 7 December. This is another proof of our unity governments transparent approach to international trade. We thank the International Trade Centre, and the EU for their ongoing support to us he said during one of his meetings with his top officials at the Ministry.
The information in the guide was collected very recently-in June 2017. Though the guide says it is an overview of relevant information for exporters from Sri Lanka it appears to be even more comprehensive in its coverage.
It highlights the GSP Regulation enumerating the 27 conventions mentioned in Article 9 of the GSP Regulation including the core human and labour rights UN/ILO Conventions. The Guide does not constitute legal advice and does not provide exhaustive information on all sectors saying it is the responsibility of exporters from Sri Lanka to ensure compliance with all relevant EU rules.
It stresses that the exporters need to register with the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Commerce (DoC) under it-Exporters wishing to export under a preferential agreement/scheme that Sri Lanka benefits from, need to apply for a Certificate of Origin and are required to register with the DoC.
The documents required for registration are duly completed application form34 along with Original Business/company Registration Certificate with a copy, VAT/TIN Registration certificate issued by the Department of Inland Revenue, Export Development Board (EDB) Registration Certificate (if registered), Membership/Registrations with other Trade Promotion Organisations/Associations/Trade Chambers (e.g., Sri Lanka Tea Board, Trade Chambers, etc.) and production process flowchart if applicable. The registration fee is a one-time payment at SL Rs 10,000.00.
The guide explains relevant rules of origin applicable to apparel under GSP+, relevant institutions in EU and additional resources such as web portals where Lankan exporters can obtain more info. It also lists requirements for Lankan apparel exporters to secure GSP+ such as the Cost statement35 or affidavit36, the Material Sheet for garment/apparel products37 and Material sheet for other products than garment38.
The manual is now available online.
==============================
## Title: The game of life
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
The game of life
We cannot ignore the fact that we as citizens of this world are in genuine danger. The human civilization is under threat due to problems both in South Asia and in the rest of the world. We cannot continue to lie to ourselves and pretend that everything is fine.
Jean Gough
The UNICEF, State of the World Children Report, 2015, states that 45 percent of adolescents aged 15  19 in South Asia think a husband is justified in hitting his wife for reasons as trivial as if the wife burns food while cooking!. The child sees his mother being beaten and then turns into the oppressor when he grows up.
According to UNICEF, State of the Worlds Children 2015, only one in three adolescents in South Asia have comprehensive knowledge of HIV, a Health Care issue, a Social disease.
UNESCO Institute for Statistics Date Centre says that more than 20.6 million adolescents in South Asia are not attending lower secondary school, of which 11.7 million are boys and 8.9 million are girls. This is a grave issue indeed. Without education the youth become victims. They lack the necessary knowledge to survive.
These are hard facts that are undeniable. The question we must ask ourselves is, how do we empower adolescents Because they are the one group of humans, that can save this world from complete deterioration. The rest of the world has its own problems, but as South Asians we need to solve our own problems.
UNICEF has identified that Sports can be a savior. It is also vital that we give adolescents a voice. They have to be heard. They need to be given the opportunity to express themselves. UNICEF believes in the power of sports to transform lives and communities. This is because UNICEF believes that Sports play an important role in imparting the values of Team Work, Fairness, Discipline and Respect for the opponent.
The Daily News attended a panel discussion attended by cricket sensation Yuvraj Singh. The panel also featured under 19 cricket future stars from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka who will be taking part in the Under 19 cricket World Cup in New Zealand next year. The panel discussion was organized by UNICEF South Asia and the ICC (International Cricket Council)
Making the world a better place
Yuvraj Singh and Jean Gough
Here Yuvraj Singh shared his thoughts on adolescence and how we can make the world a better place to live in. UNICEF South Asia, Regional Director, Jean Gough who made the opening statement, shared how the event brought to her mind, her own relationship with her son.
This event brings me a lot of memories. I come from a country called Honduras. I have an only child, my son, and I want to share with you what it takes to raise an adolescent. I remember when my son was a teenager, one day he turned up with his hair completely shaved, and this was when he was 15. I was shocked because this was not part of my culture or expectations. Then he adopted more styles, said Gough.
Gough then realized that it took a lot of courage to listen to your own children. It takes courage for a parent to listen. It takes courage to make children see the world from a different angle.
To me that was a turning point. So I decided to listen more because that is the age, when the transition from childhood to adulthood happens. And at that age, young people are trying to find their identity. It is an age of exploration and an age of dreaming. It took me some time to understand the power a young person has. This is why today this event is very important. It is very close to my heart. Sometimes we do not listen enough or hear enough. I want to tell parents to listen more. I want to request young people to speak more. Sometimes you dont share enough with your parents. You think your parents do not know enough and that they do not belong to your generation. Adolescence is an age of transformation. It is an age of change. An age of finding your identity, stated Gough.
According to the UN, Adolescence is the age of 10  19. There are 340 million adolescents in South Asia. This is almost 30 percent of the total adolescents in the world.
What I say is, use the opportunities given to you to share your thoughts, ideas and dreams, and use your energy positively to transform this region. In this region 45 percent of girls between 20  24 get married with children. One in five girls have a child before they are 18. How do we understand these issues By listening more. But why Sports How can sports help On the field you are all players. You understand each one has a role to play. Sports builds up team spirit. You learn values through sports. Players come from all kinds of backgrounds. But on the field you are equal. It does not matter if you are a boy or girl. That is the power of sports. This partnership with the ICC brings us together. Our common objective is to reach out to young people, explained Gough.
Courage
Yuvraj Singh is one of the greatest batsmen in cricket history. He is an overcomer. At the peak of his career he was diagnosed with a rare germ cell cancer for which he underwent chemotherapy treatment in the US. But he returned to the game and is a vital member of the Indian team.
Dont be afraid to express yourself, because what follows will be a wonderful journey- Yuvraj Singh. Pictures by Sarath Peiris
I think it is very important to give the message that adolescents can change the world. 10  19 is a very vulnerable age where you can shift anywhere. I grew up in an environment where I was very lucky to have a father who was a sporting icon himself. My mother and father helped me focus on the sport. Of course there were adversities. My adolescence was a very important time in my career. My father saw I had the talent to play cricket and encouraged me. My father was keen on me taking up sports. I took an interest in many sports such as football, ice skating and Athletics. Bishan Singh Bedi was a huge motivator. When growing up you make a lot of mistakes, but my parents were always there to guide me along the right path. You dont see a lot of things coming your way, but they see it for you. If my parents had not made those sacrifices I would have been in a different position today. They gave their time for me which was very important, said Singh.
Singh feels that sports is a great confidence builder as well as an empowering agent. Something he always says is that you should not be afraid to express yourself and Sports gives one the opportunity to express oneself.
Equality is something I believe in, be it a girl child or boy child. You just go out there and make a difference in your chosen sport. I think through sport we have the power to change this world. Through sports you can bring happiness and support people. The more we talk about Sports and Equality, the more we can make a change. Dont be shy to express yourself and dont be afraid of making mistakes. Believe in yourself and believe in your dreams. Positivity will bring out the best in you. Make sure you focus on your dream no matter what. Go ahead and achieve your goals, pointed out Singh.
Unfogettable moment
Singh had a wonderful time in Sri Lanka when he came here as an under 19 player. The under 19 world cup in Sri Lanka was one of the biggest moments in his life. It was his first big tournament. Under 19 is a big stage because it affects your future.
My advice is dont be afraid to express yourself, because what follows will be a wonderful journey. I enjoy playing my sport and I believe in myself. What is going to happen is going to happen, so dont worry about the future. As you grow up and find your own identity, it is very hard to know what you want to do in life. The obstacles I faced when growing up was not being able to fit in, not being able to express myself and not having the right friends. But I benefited from my parenting and teaching. I think it is important for us to listen to our parents and for our parents to listen to us, explained Singh.
Singh pointed out that adolescents can play whatever sport they choose to play because a sport can bring out those abilities within you, that you have not discovered. The more you express yourself, the more you play, the more you are out there, the more it is a confidence builder. If you have not faced defeat, you will never understand what success means to you. I am not afraid of failure, I have gone through a lot of ups and downs and I have seen defeat. For me failures are the pillars of success, added Singh.
Singh further added that when he sees the energy, passion and determination in young people, he feels so much hope. While admitting the challenges in the region are vast, he hopes their energy can be harnessed to create a better tomorrow for all adolescents in South Asia.
==============================
## Title: Giant co-sleeping bed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Giant co-sleeping bed
There were ten in this bed, and the little one said, roll over! roll over!, so they all rolled over, but one didnt fall out, because the bed was so flippin massive.
Look at the size of it. It sleeps a whole family  a considerably busy one at that.
The bed, made by The Ace Collection, is 12ft wide and 6.6ft tall. So, yes, Peter Crouch would still possibly have cold toes. But he could roll for some distance before falling off either side.
People have been enjoying the design on Facebook. A regular king size, by contrast, is just 6.3ft, which is large, of course, but dwarfed by the monster bed.
Unfortunately, given the scale, the bed isnt cheap. The mattress costs 2,048, while the box spring frame, fitted sheets and so on would all set you back about 3,019.
hen theres the duvet. Not sure anywhere makes one big enough! Mirror
==============================
## Title: Gold prices tumble to four-month low
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Gold prices tumble to four-month low
gold
Gold prices tumbled to their lowest in over four months yesterday after extending their decline in the wake of sweeping US tax cuts but the worst could be yet to come for the precious metal.
Its price slipped to $1,251.68 per ounce, its lowest since July, as the dollar strengthened and investors pulled out of the safe haven on growing optimism over Donald Trumps corporate tax cuts.
After sliding 2.3pc this week, todays US labour report and the US Federal Reserves monetary policy meeting next Wednesday could ramp up the pressure further on the precious metal. Loose monetary policy among the central banking elite since the financial crisis have kept gold prices inflated but tightening policy at the Fed, ECB and Bank of England has started to crank up the pressure on gold.
Traders have almost completely priced in an interest rate rise to 1.5pc at the Feds next meeting but gold could sink further if the central banks policymakers send hawkish signals to the markets and boost the probability of a quickening pace of rate rises.
The rout in prices could also be exacerbated by the prospect of a Santa rally over the festive period increasing the demand for riskier assets, IG market analyst Chris Beauchamp argued.
Elsewhere, gambling software firm Playtech plunged as much as 8.3pc on fears that its revenues could be knocked by GVCs takeover of Ladbrokes Coral. BBC
==============================
## Title: Hambantota to become a world class port - Mangala
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:04
Hambantota to become a world class port - Mangala
The worlds largest and emptiest pool in Hambantota could become a world class port bringing prosperity and development to the country, Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera said in Parliament on Saturday.
This is with the joint venture PPP partnership with the China Merchant Port Holdings (CMPH) that this government entered into after seven years, the Minister said.
The Finance Minister made this observations making the concluding speech of the third reading debate of the budget proposal for financial year 2018 which was passed with a majority of 99 votes.
The Budget proposals received 155 votes in favour while 56 against on Saturday evening following the Second Reading and Third Reading debates that lasted until December 9 since the presentation of the proposal on November 9 by Minister Samaraweera.
Minister Samaraweera said the CMPH is a member of the China Merchant Group which also a network of 49 ports across the country would enable Hambantota Port to benefit from the boarder trade and shipping network that CMPH will provide access to making the country an economic hub in the Indian Ocean.
The venture would create job opportunities to the youth and export. He added that the government received USD 292 million as the first tranche of the Hambantota PPP venture.
The Minister said that based on a concept of President Maithripala Sirisena, 2017 had been dedicated to alleviate poverty and to continue the project to achieve the goal of another sum of Rs.2000 million has been allocated through the budget and the this project would be implemented in 1000 Grama Seva Niladari divisions. Later on the project would be implemented in all the GS divisions. Then those villages that could be developed as production villages would be given technical assistance.
He also said that there is a plan to develop and enhance the capacity of reservoirs such as Kolombuwa and several others to minimize the natural disasters.
Queried by Kegalle district JO MP Kanaka Herath on the project charging that the people in his area were puzzled, the Finance Minister said that no body needs to worry as it is done with the consent of the people.
Minister Samaraweera said that investments above USD 200 million would exempt the Ports and Airports Development Levy on the machinery that is imported during the implementation period.
The Minister added that as the due tax on vehicle imports is not paid properly, the tax imposition on CIF rate has been amended and tax would be imposed on engine capacity hereafter. Due to this reason prices of some luxury vehicles would be reduced but a luxury tax would be imposed on them. He added however that the government servants who are entitled for a vehicle permit on their retirement would be given relief if they face a loss due to this move. He also said that the VAT would not be imposed on the Condominium Housing Units worth less than Rs 10 million. He added that move is taken based on the requests of the people.
The Minister also said the Government maintains a close rapport with private media institutions though they are highly critical of the President, the Prime Minister and Government Ministers.
He added that the government provides advertisements even in some newspapers which are even critical of the government too.
Minister Samaraweera also invited the media to join hands in promoting peace and reconciliation in Sri Lanka.
The Minister also said the government would consider opposition membersproposals and answer all their queries in future.
==============================
## Title: HC calls for original case recording regarding case against Wimal
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 16:03
HC calls for original case recording regarding case against Wimal

The Colombo High Court issued an order directing the registrar of Gangodawila Magistrate's Court that the original case record pertaining to magisterial inquiry against former Minister and National Freedom Front (NFF) leader Wimal Weerawansa to be handed over to the Colombo High Court, today.
High Court Judge Vikum Kaluarachchimade this order regarding an indictment filed against Wimal Weerawansa for the alleged unlawful acquisition of money and assets, estimated at Rs.75 million within a period of six years while serving as a Minister, during the former regime.
This case is to be taken up against onJanuary 11.
The Director General of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption alleged that the former Minister had committed this offence by way of undeclared assets between January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2014.
The indictments were filed under 39 counts based on monitory and property transactions estimated at Rs.75 million.The Director General alleged that the former Minister had unlawfully made 26 monitory transactions, constructed a house and purchased lands and vehicles in contravention of section 23(a) of the Bribery Act.
The Director General further alleged that former Minister Weerawansa had owned these properties-deemed under the provision of the Act to be property acquired through bribery.
==============================
## Title: HNB installs ATM machine at Addalaichenai
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
HNB installs ATM machine at Addalaichenai
The Hatton National Bank (HNB) installed off-site ATM machine at Addalaichenai for the convenience of the customers recently.
The HNB ATM centre, is located at the Mashoor Sinnalebbe Memorial Arcade building complex in the Addalaichenai DS division.
A long felt need for an ATM facilitie was rectified by HNB, as there is a shortage of a branch of the bank at Addalaichenai.
==============================
## Title: Hong Kong U-20 thrashes Sri Lanka 37-8
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Hong Kong U-20 thrashes Sri Lanka 37-8
Hong Kong under 19 national rugby team dished out a superb brand of open rugby where they dominated from the start to thrash hapless Sri Lankan national under 20 team 37 points (7 tries, 1 conversion) to 8 ( 1 try, 1 penalty) in their Junior Rugby Asiad first leg match at Race Course grounds in Reid Avenue yesterday. The winners were leading 22-3 at half time.
Hong Kong drew first blood in the 7th minute of play when their winger Markus Ramage scored a try off a fine three quarter move with their reliable fly half Paul Altier slotting in the conversion to go into a 7-nil lead.
In the 16th minute fly half Chathura Seneviratne fired across a 30 metre penalty to cut down the lead to 3 points to 7.
Hong Kong scored again in the 25th minute when their centre Alex Nisbet joined the line off a sweeping three quarter move and darted down to score a try. Altier missed the conversion and Hong Kong led 12-3.
Just before half time Hong Kong scored back-to-back tries in the 33rd and the 39th minutes through wingers Markus Ramage and Shun Hong Chong but surprisingly Altier missed both the conversions.
At half time Hong Kong led 22 points to 3.
Soon after the break in the 41st minute Sri Lanka cut down the lead when a fine three quarter move delivered the ball to centre Antonian Dinuk Amarasinghe who gave a timely off load to his co-centre Peterite Theekshana Dassanayaka who went through the Hong Kong defence and dived over for a superb try but Seneviratne missed the conversion. The score board read 22-8 in favour of Hong Kong.
Flanker Gregar Ramage scored again in the 44th minute after going through the entire Tuskers defence. Altier missed the conversion and Hong Kong led 27-8
In the 46th minute Hong Kong increased their lead when their winger Markus Ramage went over the line for his third try after number eight Max Denmark made a break and burst through nearly 45 meaters bebore off loding it to Ramage. Altier missed the conversion. Hong Kong went into a 32 points to 8 lead.
Hong Kong sealed the match in style when prop forward Jay Cook collected a lose ball from a line out which Sri Lanka won but failed to secure the position and crashed through for a try near the right corner flag and Altier missed the conversion but Hong Kong won 37 points to 8 in the end.
==============================
## Title: IFS MEASA Regional Conference  ends on a high note
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
IFS MEASA Regional Conference  ends on a high note
IFS, the global enterprise applications company recently concluded the IFS MEASA Regional Conference at the Taj Samudra Hotel Colombo.
The annual event featured IFS speakers from across the MEASA region (Middle East, Africa, and South Asia) who came together to discuss and share knowledge of market dynamics, opportunities and regional collaboration in the MEASA region.
Over 110 participants attended the conference which offered informative presentations and great networking opportunities.
IFS CEO Alastair Sorbie provided an update on IFSs global operations which was followed by country presentations by respective country leaders. Afterwards, a regional outlook was provided by Jan Bruenas  President of IFS Asia Pacific, followed by an Industry Update by Antony Bourne - Vice President of Global Industry Solutions.
An update from the Aviation and Defence Business Unit was provided by Andrew Stimpson - Senior Project Manager IFS Middle East and with a similar session on Field Service Management was provided by Riafi Wahid  Programe Manager Middle East.
In addition, a session on IFSs Global Supprt Operations (GSO) was delivered by Steve Boreham - Director Global Support.
The rest of the day was spent in breakout sessions focusing on Sales and Marketing, Consultancy Services, Finance, HR and Admin.
Commenting on this initiative Jayantha De Silva, President and CEO of IFS in Sri Lanka stated: 2017 is a significant year for IFS Sri Lanka, as we celebrate 20 years of partnering innovation in Sri Lanka. The MEASA conference is an ideal opportunity for our regional representatives to network, share insights and successful case studies from their own regions and I am happy that IFS Sri Lanka is able to host this year's MEASA Conference as we celebrate our 20th Anniversary in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: IMF commends SLs economic  reform efforts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
IMF commends SLs economic  reform efforts
IMF loan
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has commended the commitment of the authorities towards implementing economic reforms while undertaking fiscal measures to improve government revenue, the Central Bank said in a statement on Friday.
The IMF has further appreciated the efforts of the authorities to deepen the foreign exchange market while building up reserves and achieving enhanced exchange rate flexibility, the statement said.
The IMF has also maintained the view that the monetary policy must be focused on easing inflationary pressures and high credit growth.
Furthermore, the IMF has recognised the efforts taken by the authorities to achieve quantitative performance criteria set under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The EFF supported economic programme is expected to improve macroeconomic stability of the country and bolster market confidence while strengthening external resilience in a challenging global environment.
The main objective of the EFF is to strengthen the Balance of Payments position of Sri Lanka while supporting the governments economic reform agenda. Following the Executive Boards discussion of the third review, the IMF acknowledged the stable macroeconomic and financial conditions of Sri Lanka, despite continuous weather related supply shocks.
The Executive Board of the IMF completed the third review of the three-year (EFF) obtained by Sri Lanka, enabling the disbursement of the fourth tranche to the value of SDR 177.774 million (approximately US$ 251.4 million).
With the disbursement of the fourth tranche, a total of US$ 759.9 million has been received thus far by Sri Lanka on account of the EFF.
==============================
## Title: Indias plural soul
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Indias plural soul
The partitioning of India broke us, shamed us. It is estimated that nearly two million were slaughtered during the weeks around Partition, almost no Muslim surviving in East Punjab and no Hindu or Sikh in West Punjab. About 7.5 million Muslims left India for the newly formed state of Pakistan and about 7.5 million Hindus trekked to the new India from Pakistan. Both sets of displaced persons were seeking the security of a religious majority, their majority.
Gandhis scorching presence, the new governments unwavering commitment to pluralism and the humanity of millions of ordinary people saved the tragedy from becoming a cataclysm.
The triptych of an agenda
After that traumatic year, three dates, three events, shook Indian pluralism again. Gandhis assassination  January 30, 1948; the Babri Masjid demolition  December 6, 1992, and the unveiling of V.D. Savarkars portrait in Parliament House  February 26, 2003
The first of these three saw a believer in the criticality of Indias pluralism being put to death. The second witnessed a pre-eminent Islamic monument reduced to rubble. The third valorised a man who believed India was meant to be a Hindu Rashtra. The first was murder, the second vandalism, the third a celebration.
Those three form a triptych.
All three occurrences singed Indias plural soul.
Their work is still on. It is still affecting ways of thinking, acting, reacting.
The assassination was a carefully planned plot by people who owed allegiance to the concept of a Hindu Rashtra. Its aim was threefold: punish, by murder, one who believed India to be the home of all the faith traditions in it, reverse Gandhis idea of Ishvar Allah Tere Naam, pronounce the primacy and power of Hinduism in India. It was meant to tell the Muslims of India that they were here by leave of the Hindus and that all talk of Hindu-Muslim unity and equality was sentimental and meaningless.
Gandhis killing traumatised the country. It devastated Muslims in India. Who would, hereafter, be its rakhvala (protector) Nehru said that evening: The light has gone out of our lives and there is darkness everywhere. For Indias Muslims who had said no to Pakistan and stayed back in India because they had faith in Gandhis India, that darkness was real. Along with the light, the oxygen of confidence in the air fled, too.
Several years and countless Hindu-Muslim riots later, the unhealed wound on Indias plural ethos was violently cut open once again.
Another dateline
Ayodhya, December 6, 1992 is a dateline, a hate-line, a fate-line.
Babri Masjid, the 16th Century mosque was built spitefully, it is said, on the exact spot in Ayodhya, where Rama was born. In fact, the pious say, a temple stood where the mosque came up. The mosque had, over the years, become a contested site, a Hindu v Muslim akhara. And on that day, Hindu muscle power asserted itself. Watched by unwitting, unsure or captive seniors of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and with a police force unable or unwilling to intervene, 150,000 delirious Hindu kar sevaks brought the mosque down.
In the rubble lay all hope for Hindu-Muslim concord. In it lay shattered Muslim trust in Indias secular future. And in it lay tattered, the Constitutions guarantees about the freedom of religious belief.
The broken stones said more: Here rises, at long last, they proclaimed, Veer Savarkars dream of a Hindu Rashtra.
India partitioned was now India polarised.
Savarkars spirit must have felt more than fulfilled.
Moving over to Parliament
A decade later, the BJP in power at the Centre, decided that for Savarkars fulfilment to be complete, due ceremony was in order. It decided to place in Parliament Houses Central Hall, along with portraits of the Greats of Indias freedom struggle, a portrait of this freedom fighter as well. Savarkar was, of course, a fighter for Indias freedom. On his terms, in his own light. With Mohammed Ali Jinnah, also a freedom fighter according to his own terms and his own lights, Savarkar believed that Hindus and Muslims formed Two Nations. Jinnah realised his goal with Partition. Savarkar did not, could not, for India insisted, through its Constitution, its laws and public policy pronouncements, that it was secular. Asokas Lion Capital was, after all, the Republic of Indias new emblem.
Savarkar dream remained un-realised until the unveiling of the portrait. That completed the triptych.
The unveiling in Parliament House did three things. First, it placed against the Indian Republic a conceptual alternative  Hindu Rashtra. Second, it made demolition the exact co-relative of construction. Third, it made Veer Savarkar, the precise opposite number of Mahatma Gandhi. And thereby, his peer, alternative and equal. It juxtaposed the Two Nations theorist against the One Nation preceptor.
An agenda at work
The assassination, the demolition and the portraits unveiling, together, go to spell a long word with a short agenda: polarisation.
The ghastly terrorist attacks in Mumbai of 1993, in Parliament House of 2001 and again in Mumbai in 2008 may or may not have been retaliatory for Ayodhya. I believe the attacks would have happened, Ayodhya or no Ayodhya. For such is the blind bloodlust of terror, such the radicalisation of unemployed, callow youth in Pakistan. And such the mutually nourishing agenda of polarisation.
That agenda, as I said, remains at work. The Ayodhya dateline etched hate, stretched fate  the fate of secularism  to its limits. It continues to do so.
The demolition in Ayodhya was the first step. Like a bhumi-puja. The second step is the building of the temple. The third, its consecration. And there will be as many more steps as the rites of polarisation require.
(The writer is a former administrator, diplomat and Governor)
- The Hindu
==============================
## Title: ISM APAC adjudged one of the best  companies to work for in SL
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
ISM APAC adjudged one of the best  companies to work for in SL
ISM APAC, one of the top global e-commerce companies established three years back in Sri Lanka took home the prestigious Great Place to Work Award recently at Cinnamon Grand Hotel Colombo.
ISM APAC was given the honour as one of the top 25 Best Companies to Work for, recognized by Great Place to Work Institute in partnership with the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and LMD.
ISM APAC is an innovative firm that is part of ISM, e-company in the Netherlands e-commerce agency which offers total e-commerce solutions.
The company has grown rapidly since it began operations in September 2014 with offices spanning the Netherlands, Australia, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Germany, Austria, USA, Colombia and Sri Lanka. The company provides Web Store Design, e-Commerce Strategy, Online Marketing, and Web Store Development services using an in-house platform named Sana Commerce and open-source platform named Magento Commerce.
ISM APAC, as an innovative organization in Sri Lanka, has reached an enormous achievement during the past three years. The challenge was to set up an office in the country which had to be operational from the beginning in an existing international environment.
In the international setup, where cross cultural differences, knowledge transfer and communication are important factors, ISM APAC succeeded in achieving an excellent international working environment.
At ISM APAC, employees are treated as one family as the company believes that human resources are its most important strength. The company advocates a transparent communication process to foster employee relations.
Core values of team spirit and entrepreneurship among employees are encouraged.
The company also believes that a healthy work-life balance enhances employee productivity in the workplace. The company is part of one of the fastest scale ups in the Netherlands. This provides unique international challenges and opportunities. The company tackles new and unforeseen challenges daily basis. The key differentiator is the existing fun culture.
The company truly deserves to be awarded as a great company.
ISM APAC team

==============================
## Title: Jaffna Grade 5 Exam achievers felicitated
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Jaffna Grade 5 Exam achievers felicitated
Security Force Headquarters - Jaffna (SFHQ-J) recently appreciated achievements, made by students in the recent Grade 5 Scholarship examination in a special ceremony that awarded more financial grants for their higher studies.
In the SFHQ-J ceremony two scholarships were awarded to those who achieved best results in the recent examination for their further studies. SFHQ-J sponsored those scholarships, together with a stock of special gifts for those achievers.
Islandwide Grade 5 Scholarship examination results confirmed that a large number of Jaffna students became well qualified in the recent exam. Annathika Udayakumar from St. John Bosco College, Jaffna who was ranked 17th at island ranks with 194 marks (First place in Tamil medium in Jaffna district) and Maythree Rei from St. Bosco College, Jaffna and Padeesvaran Abhishik from Madagal Vignesvara Vidyalaya who secured 18th place in all island ranks (2nd places in Tamil medium in Jaffna District) with 193 marks respectively.
==============================
## Title: Jetwing Symphony  announces IPO
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Jetwing Symphony  announces IPO
Jetwing Symphony Limited (JSL) announced the opening of its Initial Public Offering (IPO) on December 14 in a bid to raise between Rs. 753 million to Rs. 904 million. JSL intends to offer 50, 218, 856 ordinary voting shares to the public (a 10% stake) at a price range of Rs. 15.00, Rs. 16.00, Rs. 17.00 and Rs. 18.00 per share. Capital Alliance Partners Limited (CAL) is the Manager to the Issue.
Incorporated in 2007, JSL will function as the Jetwing Groups investment arm for the future. Its current portfolio includes Jetwing Yala (Yala), Jetwing Kaduruketha (Wellawaya), Jetwing Lake (Dambulla), Jetwing Surf (Pottuvil Point) and Jetwing Colombo Seven (Colombo).
Funds raised from the IPO will go towards adding a property in Kandy - Jetwing Kandy Gallery - and towards rebalancing the overall gearing mix in some of its properties.
JSLs current portfolio of hospitality properties offer eco-friendly and locally enriched experiences to Sri Lankas booming tourism industry. Its properties are also strategically located across the island to take advantage of the newest travel demands whilst providing travellers a holistic and truly Sri Lankan experience.
Jetwings footprint in tourism has been recognized since the early 1970s  a vision transpired by my father Herbert Cooray to build Sri Lanka as an attractive tourist destination, said Jetwing Hotels Chairman Hiran Cooray. "We are known for our core values of world-class service and our commitment to responsible and sustainable tourism, with many environmental and sustainable initiatives introduced that include reducing our carbon footprint and projects designed for youth and community development such as the Jetwing Youth Development Project, which is a multiple PATA Grand Award winner."
"We take great pride in nurturing the local community and its landscape, to uplift their livelihood and foster their growth. Our expansion drive will continue to focus on several developments within Sri Lanka and we will also look to establish our presence in regional Asian economies. Announcing JSLs IPO is a significant milestone for the Jetwing family and in establishing the future of the Company to grow the local hospitality sector, beyond our shores.
Jetwing Surf bagged the Best Hotel Architecture Design Award at the recently concluded Property Guru - Asia Property Awards 2017 even before its opening and is also the countrys first eco-luxury surf resort located in the East of the island.
Commenting on JSLs IPO, Managing Director for Global Markets and Investment Banking from Capital Alliance Partners Limited, Deshan Pushparajah said, We are pleased to invite the public to participate in a hitherto extremely successful family enterprise. The Jetwing family and its leadership team are fully invested in Sri Lankas tourism sector across disciplines of tours, experiential tourism and hotel management. This breadth of exposure adds significant synergies to JSL.
Jetwing Symphony recorded a commendable revenue growth of 44.5% to Rs. 734.7 million during the financial year 2016/17 in comparison to the Rs. 508.4 million earned during the previous financial year.

==============================
## Title: JO MP Sriyani to back President
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:01
JO MP Sriyani to back President
Digamadulla district UPFA MP Sriyani Wijewickrama who represents the Joint Opposition met President Maithripala Sirisena to extend her support to the President when she met the President at his official residence,yesterday. The President assured her of assistance to carry out development activities in the Digamadulla district. Picture by Sandaruwan Amerasinghe
==============================
## Title: A joyful holiday season with Amagi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
A joyful holiday season with Amagi
Revel in the joy of this holiday season with Amagi Aria, Negombos thoughtful selection of weekly activities be it with your friends or family.
The week starts on a Tuesday entirely dedicated to mums, with a special treat at the Moya Mothers Club. Every Tuesday from 10 am to 12 noon, mums are given special attention amidst a memorable rendezvous and the perfect setting over the Negombo lagoon. Savour a perfect cup of tea and scrumptious treats too. On Wednesdays, it is time for the kids to make a splash in the hotel pool whilst snacking on some mouthwatering treats at the Treehouse. What is more, Amagi Arias dedicated swimming coaches will make sure your little one learns how to swim too on Wednesdays from 9 am to 11 am and will be awarded a swim certificate at the end of the month.
Thursdays are for the vino lovers; take the art of vino appreciation to new heights whilst you enjoy the cozy side of luxury at Amagi Aria this festive season. Savour not just one, but three glasses of Red or White with a serving of fresh fruit to amplify your palate. On Fridays, bite into succulent gourmet burgers and fresh salad, all flavoured to perfection to give you a wholesome feast, from 7 pm to 10.30 pm.
The weekends take on a culinary twist with local spices and Chinese flavours. Tease and please your taste buds with the most mouthwatering culinary affair every Saturday from 7 pm to 10.30 pm. Hoppers, roti, pittu and many more of Sri Lankas favourites await you. Sundays are a culinary getaway to the flavour some flair of Chinese cuisine. Celebrate the authentic goodness of a Sunday night feast, with six Chinese dishes, salads and dessert, every Sunday from 7 pm to 11 pm.
==============================
## Title: Kadalana Antonians win on first innings
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Kadalana Antonians win on first innings
St. Anthonys School Kadalana Moratuwa beat formidable St. Anthonys College Wattala on first innings by 73 runs in their inter-school under 13 division three tournament second round first match played at Moratuwa.
Batting first homesters were all out for 162 runs with Shivanka Chatura scoring 59 runs and Maheesha Lakshan Captured 5 for 53 and in reply visitors collapsed for 89 runs with Shivanka Chatura Claiming 5 for 56 and in their second essay homesters were all out for 80 runs with Maleesha Lakshan bagging 7 for 35 let to make 154 runs for victory at stumps visitors were 14 for 6.
St. Anthonys Kadalana 162 overs 28 Shivantha Chatura 59, Sujan Angelo 29, Lakshan Rasanga 29, Maleesha Lakshan 3/53 Daham Naveen 2/24, Janith Chatuka 2/22 and 80 Maleesha Lakshan.
St. Anthonys Wattala 89 in 16 overs (Ganith Kanishka 27, Shivanka Chatura 5.56, Sahan Dulnada 3/16, Ravindu Madushanka 2/10 and 144/6 Samindu Eshara 40, Vismitha Nirodha 36, Daham Naveen 22, Najith Charuka 20, Shivanka Chatura 3/63, Sahan Dulanda 3/63.
==============================
## Title: Kalutara displaced housed in 13 locations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Kalutara displaced housed in 13 locations
Over 1,320 persons of 355 families have been housed at 13 locations in the Kalutara district, as a result of the inclement weather and the recent depression.
Over sixty one thousand and one hundred eighty eight (61,188) persons belonging to 15,729 families in 603 Grama Niladhari Divisions in the Kalutara district were affected due to the adverse weather and gusty winds that engulfed the Western coast.
Kalutara District Disaster Management Co-ordinator Col. Prasad Jayasinghe told the Daily News that 35 persons were injured while minor damages occured to 3,870 houses with 11,364 houses being partly damaged and 495 houses were completely damaged.
==============================
## Title: Kicking back at kick-backs and corruption
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Kicking back at kick-backs and corruption
The world celebrated International Anti-Corruption Day on Saturday, December 9. The United NationsGeneral Assembly designated in 2003 as the day to raise awareness about this insidious crime and ways of combating it.
Corruption is a complex social, political and economic phenomenon that affects all countries. It undermines democratic institutions, slows economic development and contributes to governmental instability. In addition, it attacks the foundation of democratic institutions by distorting electoral processes, perverting the rule of law and creating bureaucratic quagmires whose only reason for existing is the soliciting of bribes. Economic development is stunted because foreign direct investment is discouraged and small businesses within the country often find it impossible to overcome the start-up costs required because of corruption.
Long-term effects
Governments, the private sector, non-governmental organisations, the media and citizens around the world are joining forces to fight this crime. The world has allowed the ugly and sinister head of corruption to creep into our daily lives. Stories of scandals, kickbacks, greed and moral laxity have been capturing media attention of late, proving that it is becoming part of our national heritage.
Corruption is deemed one of the biggest tragedies of mankind for the simple reason that it is ongoing and extremely difficult to combat, forcing the poor into ever more hopeless conditions while the select few in power get ever richer and more powerful. Bribes prevent chosen criminals from ever having to take responsibility for what they have done. The fact is that the line between right and wrong has become so blurred today that many people wonder if there is a difference anymore. I believe it is time we examine the moral and ethical problems facing society.
Everyone, even the most dishonest among us, it seems, agrees that honesty is an ideal to live by. Every major religion preaches honesty. Civil laws exist to enforce it. Individuals and governments claim to want to practice it. But is this only mealy-mouthed lip-service we are paying And how many people are really committed to dealing honestly as an ongoing, constant way of life Lamentably, the corrupt are getting bolder and their operations border on the reckless. This is because graft and kickbacks have become an accepted norm in our society.
Intelligent people who thoughtfully look at the long-term effects of honesty and dishonesty must come to the logical conclusion that honesty is the only way that ultimately pays off in success. But trapped in the rat race for material success we all too often tend to forget that such crime expands because of our willingness to put up with it. There was a time when Sri Lankans reserved their greatest admiration for people of integrity and moral rectitude.
Material prosperity
But sadly, this does not seem the attitude anymore. Most will argue that nobody is perfect. Everyone has their faults. So why should one get worked up about good and evil They argue that they are not big-time swindlers, drug barons, mass murderers or genocidal dictators. We claim to be petty sinners compared to these ruthless individuals. We see ourselves as not that bad when compared with the big-timers. Therefore there is really nothing to worry about.
Various measures have been suggested to exorcise the devil of corruption such as transparency in public life, stringent laws to deal with the corruption cases, electoral reforms to check the misuse of money and muscle powers, reform in the judiciary system, to quicken the disposal of cases of corruption among others. Let us face it. We all want success and the sense of satisfaction that comes from achievement. But is it honest achievement Our religion endorses education, diligence and the value of making sound investments. No one denies those who work hard and honestly the fruits of their labours. But this is an era when material prosperity becomes a measure of ones success. Conversely, we see the absence of material prosperity as evidence of moral failure. I repeat that no one should condemn worldly success, brought about by solid, down-to-earth honest principles.
But the corruption syndrome is having an effect on our community and our nation. It will ultimately pose the chilling danger of trickling down to our children who no doubt are perceptive enough to observe our moral laxity. Which poses the relevant question: Are we as responsible adults teaching our children about the importance of good practices in a practical way Most children who are entering prestigious schools know in practice that they got this opportunity by their parents giving bribes to the school authorities.
Generation after generation
Overwhelming evidence has surfaced of widespread and deeply ingrained practice of accepting bribes and corruption as part of everyday life. Politicians, bureaucrats and clerks unethically and shamefully use taxpayers money without any hesitation. These unacceptable practices seep into the minds of our children, who will grow up to do the same in the future. Certainly, tougher anti-corruption laws and stricter law enforcement are necessary to prevent people of upper ranks from helping themselves to public funds. However, we must place greater focus on instilling civic ethics, values and sense of duty and responsibility in our childrens minds. Unless we strengthen values and teach our children why bribery and abusing power are unacceptable personally and socially, the insidious cancer of corruption and exploiting public wealth for personal benefit will continue, being reproduced generation after generation.
It would certainly be a great lesson to our children to note that deterrent punishment is meted out to offenders whoever they are. For as long as we fail to address the disease where it takes root - in the youngest members of our society - we will be condemning ourselves to a future in which our collective wealth will continue to be plundered and related social problems helped to flourish.
Through all this the entire nation seems to be running away from what had once been its conventionally honest shadow. Our peoples hopelessness becomes even greater when such issues and blatant injustices are ignored, conveniently misinterpreted or totally blown out of proportion.
In a larger sense some of the blame has to be apportioned to us by encouraging such a virulent malaise by our very acquiescence. Today we must be more sensitive to moral issues and must regard bribery and dishonesty in its varied forms as crimes against society. It can be done with your help.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Kohli-Sharma set to marry in Italy: reports
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Kohli-Sharma set to marry in Italy: reports
New Delhi: India cricket captain Virat Kohli is set to marry long-time girlfriend and Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma in a much-anticipated wedding in Italy this week, according to media reports on Sunday.
Rumours started swirling when Kohli pulled out of Indias limited-overs matches against Sri Lanka and Sharma also ducked out of her busy acting schedule in December.
Indian TV channels have gone into overdrive over what they have billed as the wedding of the year.
A heritage property within a resort in Tuscany is being decked up for the wedding, the Hindustan Times said on Sunday.
Arrangements for a typically Punjabi wedding are reportedly being made by the wedding planner, the newspaper added, citing unnamed sources.
The celebrity couple and their families have reportedly flown out of India for the week-long celebrations. A grand reception is also planned in Mumbai on December 26.
There has been no confirmation from the couple.
The Indian captain has said he needed to rest because of his massive workload, ahead of the national sides tour of South Africa in January. Kohli and Sharma, both 29, started dating in 2013 after they met during the filming of a shampoo advert.
The high-profile couple made their first public appearance a year later during a football match.
Kohli is one of the worlds highest-paid athletes and a huge star in cricket-crazy India, and Sharma is one of the top actresses in the multi-billion-dollar Indian film industry. AFP
==============================
## Title: Low interest housing loans for Middle Class
## Supertitle: Twenty thousand homes for slum dwellers
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:03
Twenty thousand homes for slum dwellers
Low interest housing loans for Middle Class
Slum dwellers will be given 20,000 new houses in the Colombo Municipal area under the first stage of the housing development programme, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.
Middle class people will be granted housing loans at low interest rates for a five year period to build houses of their own.
The National Savings Bank has allocated Rs.7,500 million to grant these loans, the Prime Minister said.
The Premier was addressing a meeting of the Colombo Central electorate UNP Central Committee (Bala Mandalaya) meeting at the Sri Sucharitha Hall, Hulftsdorp, Colombo recently.
The Prime Minister said Middle class families need at least Rs.5 to 6 million to purchase a house. Therefore,additional loans would be given to them for this purpose if needed.
The Prime Minister and the government would launch a massive Housing Development programme throughout the country during the next three years. Four Ministries would be involved in this programme.
Several flats were planed for construction for low income families when the government assumed power. However, financial allocations had not been made for these projects. These projects would have come to a standstill if funds were not forthcoming.
Former Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake provided the necessary funds to the NHDA for work on these projects to continue. Whoever had launched these projects, it was the present government which prevented the halting of them by allocating the required funds for them, the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister said another 50,000 houses would be built under the Northern Rehabilitation Programme, while another 10,000 houses will be constructed in the plantation sector. The number of houses would be further increased if needed.
Housing and Construction Minister Sajith Premadasa had accelerated the housing development programme and the government had allocated funds to build about 200,000 houses under the rural housing development programme.
The Prime Minister said not withstanding the financial borders left over by the Rajapakse regime, the present government would take all possible measures to provide relief to the people.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said the Colombo Central area will be given prominence in the governments Urban Development programme. Discussion had already been held with Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka in this connection. Steps would be taken to establish a national school in Colombo Central area. An access road to Colombo Fort would be built from the Kelaniya bridge through the Colombo Port area. The government would also launch a city beautification programme in Colombo. It was being done to benefit all people rather than a selected few. The Prime Minister said the city could not be spruced up if residents did not possess houses of their own. So they should all strive hard to ensure a convincing victory for the UNP at the forthcoming local elections both at the Colombo Municipal Council but also other councils in the rest of the country it was important for people to vote for the UNP at the forthcoming election in order to steer the country on the correct path.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said when the government came to power the Mahinda Rajapaksa group expected the government to fall. But, the government devoted the last two years to stabilise itself. Now, it was now marching forward with great strength. The economy had been strengthened and the countrys international image had been stabilised by winning over the confidence of foreign nations and governments.
The UNP had appointed very active and promising organisers for the Colombo Central Electorate in Parliamentarian Mujibur Rahman and Fairooz Haji. They were conducting their work efficiently offering great strength to the party. This has resulted in a large number of people flocking round the party.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said people who voted for the UNP may have personal hopes and aspirations. Every effort would be made to fulfil their hopes and aspirations and resolve their problems. Justice would be done to party supporters who had been subjected to political victimisation by raising their issues at Cabinet level.More jobs will be created for youth.
While thanking the UNP membership and supporters who rendered dedicated service to ensure the partys victory at the forthcoming elections, the Prime Minister said the party would never lose track of late President Ranasinghe Premadasas vision of providing houses to the countrys homeless people.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said the benefits of the good work rendred by the government would not be felt instantly, as it would take a little time to filter down to the people.
Parliamentarian S.M. Marikkar, Colombo Central UNP Co-organiser Fairooz Haji and Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya Media Secretary Sunil de Silva were also present.
==============================
## Title: Malwatte Chief Prelate praises Govt. for reducing essential drug prices
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:02
Malwatte Chief Prelate praises Govt. for reducing essential drug prices
The steps taken by the government to reduce the prices of several essential drugs by breaking the back of the drug mafia is highly commendable, Most Ven. Thibbotuwawe Sri Siddartha Sumangala Mahanayake Thera of the Malwatte Chapter said.
The measures taken on the initiative of the Health Minister has helped innocent patients save a lot of money when purchasing essential drugs, the Malwatte Mahanayake Thera said.
The Chief Prelate made this observation delivering an Anusasana when the newly appointed Director General of Health Services Dr.Anil Jasinghe called on him at the Malwatte Maha Viharaya and received his blessings last morning.
The Malwatte Chief Prelate added that he also appreciated the measures taken by the government to set up a new kidney treatment hospital in the North Ccentral Province (NCP) for the benefit of the large number of kidney patients in the NCP and the North and East.
The Malwatte Maha Nayake who said that wild cat strikes launched by doctors greatly inconvenienced the innocent patients, added that medical practitioners should think about the plight of the poor patients before deciding to go on strike at every turn.
The prelate also highlighted the need for a concerted program to uplift rural hospitals by attending to staff vacancies and drug shortages emphasised that such a program would help to prevent congestion in city hospitals.
Director General of Health Services Dr. Anil Jasinghe said a program was now underway to develop and upgrade the rural hospital network by assigning more staff and providing all other facilities including building equipment, drugs and other facilities.
==============================
## Title: Man with fake notes arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Man with fake notes arrested
A suspect who kept fake Rs. 500 notes was arrested by police. The suspect was identified as a resident of Valaichchenai, Jaffna. He was arrested with nine Rs. 500 fake notes.
The suspect (31) was arrested in Manipay at around 6.35 pm following a tip-off received by the police.
He was produced before the Mallakam Magistrate's Court .
==============================
## Title: Man shot in Modera
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Man shot in Modera
A 42-year-old person was critically injured in a shooting at Modera last Friday.
The victim is a resident of Kadiranawatte. A group of persons who had arrived in a three-wheeler opened fire at the victim when he was returning home after visiting a nearby house to attend a funeral.
The suspects have been identified and investigations are underway to arrest them.
==============================
## Title: Match drawn at Campbel Place
## Supertitle: Singer U-19 Cricket
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Singer U-19 Cricket
Match drawn at Campbel Place
St. Sebastians College Moratuwa drew with Nalanda College, Colombo in their Singer Cup Under 19 inter Schools Cricket tournament match at Campbel Place yesterday.
* At Campbel place.
St. Sebastians: 182 in 64.4 overs (Dulaj Silva 58 n.o., Tashik Perera 43, Gihan Senanayake 22, Chamindu Wijesinghe 5/42, Raveen de Silva 3/51) and 192/9 in 48 overs (Tharusha Fernando 73, Ravindu Madushanka 33 n.o., Sukitha Prsaanna 23, Kaveesh Madhurapperuma 4/51, Nipun Devinda 3/18)
Nalanda: 191 (58/4 o/n) in 68.2 overs (Kaveesh Madhurappaeruam 47 n.o., Mahima Weerakoon 40, Nipun Devinda 20, Gihan Senanayaka 3/62,Praveen Cooray 2/16, Tashik Perera 2/31, Praveen Cooray 2/35). YK
==============================
## Title: The metamorphosis of Bob Dylan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
The metamorphosis of Bob Dylan
On October 13, 2016, Sara Danius, Permanent Secretary of the Nobel Committee of the Swedish Academy, delivered the news to applause and acclamation: The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2016 is awarded to Bob Dylan for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition. Speaking on behalf of the Committee, Danius invoked the poets of ancient Greece:
If you look back, far back, 2,500 years or so . . . you discover Homer and Sappho, and they wrote poetic texts that were meant to be listened to, they were meant to be performed, often together with instruments, and its the same way with Bob Dylan. But we still read Homer and Sappho . . . and we enjoy it, and same thing with Bob Dylan. He can be read, and should be read.
In his Nobel Lecture, however, delivered on June 5, 2017, Dylan gently and allusively corrected Danius: songs are unlike literature. Theyre meant to be sung, not read.
Homeric poem
That lecture, now published as a slim elegant book, is Dylans account of where his art came from. The bulk of it focuses on three books out of many, read back in grammar school, from which Dylan acquired principles and sensibilities and an informed view of the world. He names Herman Melvilles Moby-Dick (1851), Erich Maria Remarques All Quiet on the Western Front (1929), and Homers Odyssey. Here we find Dylans acknowledgement for the first time of what his fans have realized since 2012, when they googled Dylans new lyrics and got fragments of Robert Fagless 1996 translation of the Homeric poem. The first paragraph, below, taken from the Nobel Lecture, is about Odysseus; the second, about Dylan himself:
Hes always being warned of things to come. Touching things hes told not to. Theres two roads to take, and theyre both bad. Both hazardous. On one you could drown and on the other you could starve. He goes into the narrow straits with foaming whirlpools that swallow him. Meets six-headed monsters with sharp fangs. Thunderbolts strike at him. Overhanging branches that he makes a leap to reach for to save himself from a raging river. Goddesses and gods protect him, but some others want to kill him. He changes identities. Hes exhausted. He falls asleep, and hes woken up by the sound of laughter. He tells his story to strangers. Hes been gone twenty years. He was carried off somewhere and left there. Drugs have been dropped into his wine. Its been a hard road to travel.
In a lot of ways, some of these same things have happened to you. You too have had drugs dropped into your wine. You too have shared a bed with the wrong woman. You too have been spellbound by magical voices, sweet voices with strange melodies. You too have come so far and have been so far blown back. And youve had close calls as well. You have angered people you should not have. And you too have rambled this country all around. And youve also felt that ill wind, the one that blows you no good. And thats still not all of it.
Deep winters
Ancient Rome has always mattered to Bob Dylan, from his teenage years when he saw films such as The Robe, Demetrius and the Gladiators, and Joseph L. Mankiewiczs Julius Caesar starring Marlon Brando as Mark Antony. Dylan went for free to the cinema owned by his uncle: there wasnt much else to do in the deep winters of Hibbing up on the iron range in the far north country of Minnesota. The fifteen-year-old Dylan, then Robert (or Bobby) Zimmerman, studied Latin and joined the Latin Club in his sophomore year. A column in the Hibbing High School newspaper, dated November 30, 1956, provides the only trustworthy detail of a day in the life of Bob Zimmerman, the future Nobel laureate, whose record disappeared from the schools office many years ago:
Societas Latina [Latin Club] held its annual initiation party and ceremony for new members recently in the high school cafeteria. Several associated members of the club were present also.
Second-year students vied on a mock TV program, answering questions on Roman gods and goddesses and identifying words dealing with various phases of Roman life . . . . After the formal pledge of allegiance by new members, initiates received badges and were raised from the status of slave to that of plebeians. Members then adjourned to the punch bowl . . .
Ancient footprints
Consul Joe Perpich, assisted by Dennis Wickman, Bob Zimmerman, and John Milinovich, was in charge of the formal induction and radio program.
Dylan, following his first trip out of the US in 1962 to London and Rome, wrote and sang a song, Goin Back to Rome, once and only once, on February 8, 1963, at Gerdes Folk City, Greenwich Village. It can be heard on the bootleg Banjo Tape, the end of the songs first verse suggesting that the Eternal City had made its mark: Im goin back to Rome / Thats where I was born. Seven years later came the outtake from New Morning (1970), When I Paint My Masterpiece, whose opening lines show Dylan in his mind back in the Rome of yesteryear: Oh, the streets of Rome are filled with rubble / Ancient footprints are everywhere.
Thirty-one years after that he held a press conference in Rome (July 23, 2001), in which it was quite clear his thoughts were still with the ancient authors, particularly the greatest of the Roman poets, Virgil, whose words would be woven into Lonesome Day Blues from Love and Theft. And finally, fifty years after the single performance of Goin Back to Rome, Dylan put on two remarkable shows in Rome on November 6 and 7, 2013, in which he delivered the swansong for fifteen of his greatest songs, including Boots of Spanish Leather, Positively 4th Street, Like a Rolling Stone and Every Grain of Sand. Rome, where he was born, is the city in which he chose to put to rest some of the greatest songs ever written.
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Ministers have no moral right to oppose LG (Amendment) draft bill: Musthapha
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Ministers have no moral right to oppose LG (Amendment) draft bill: Musthapha
"No Cabinet Minister in the consensus government has a moral right to oppose the Local Government Institutions Amendment Draft Bill tabled in Parliament," Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faiszer Musthapha said.
He was addressing a press conference held on Saturday night after the draft bill was adopted in Parliament.
The bill was adopted in Parliament with 138 members voting for, 49 against and eight abstaining.
Minister Musthapha said politics with a communal face should be halted forthwith. "It was not morally correct on the part of a politician to behave in a manner that would create wrong attitudes among the people during our forward march as Sri Lankans by saying that they are working on behalf of their own community," Minister Musthapha said.
"We tabled a draft bill concerning women representation. No Cabinet member has a moral right to oppose the amendments brought before the Select Committee.
The reason is that the President and the Prime Minister appointed a Cabinet Sub Committee headed by me comprising Ministers Rauff Hakeem, Rishad Bathiudeen, Mano Ganeshan, Mahinda Amaraweera, and Duminda Disssanayke as its members," he said.
"I regretted the opposition going against the Bill in Parliament without attending the Cabinet Sub Committee meeting. A member of a Cabinet Sub Committee was bound by a decision made by the Committee whether he or she participated in its deliberations," the Minister said.
"All members of the Cabient were made aware of the policy decisions of the government regarding multi-member constituencies.
"Therefore, no minister can oppose that process. The party which received the highest number of votes in multi-member seat is entitled to get the first member while the party receiving the second highest is entitled to the second member. The SLFP too opposed the granting of all the wards to the party which won a multi-member seat. But being in a consensus government, they had agree to some sort of consensus," the Minister said.
"One cannot do everything he wants all the time while being in a consensus government. We should put a full stop to communal politics.
I am against parties named after communities. I believe that I am a Sri Lankan. People should reject politicians who engage in political deceit. All should stand firmly together if they are in the government," the Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Mr.England visits Adidas flagship store
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Mr.England visits Adidas flagship store
Jack Eyers, holder of the 2017/2018 Mr.England title, recently visited the Adidas flagship store at the Racecourse Shopping Complex in Colombo. He was accompanied by Jack HeslewoodandZachary Oldershaw, first and second runners-up of the Mr.England competition.
Jack Eyers became the first amputee to win the prestigious Mr.England title, and has become an international icon for his support of disability rights and showcasing positive living in the face of adversity. A sought-after international male model, Eyers made history in 2015 when he became the first disabled male model to take the catwalk at New York Fashion Week, and more recently at the 2017 London Fashion Week.
The Adidas brand is all about pushing the boundaries and not being constrained by perceptions, and believing that sports  and any passion  can change your life, says Fouzul Hameed, Managing Director of Hameedia, holder for franchisein Sri Lanka. Jack Eyers, both as a leading international male model and as Mr.England, has pushed the boundaries of what people with disabilities can do. He has made the world see that you dont have to limit yourself because of disabilities, and that there are no boundaries to what can be achieved if you have the passion and the drive. That passion complements the Adidas philosophy very well.
Eyers, Heslewoodand Oldershaw spent time at the Adidas store, browsing the latest collection of Adidas shoes, apparels and accessories that are trending around the world. They also enjoyed meeting withsome of the customers who were around shopping to join the special visit of Mr.England trio.
==============================
## Title: MTI insights on employee engagement in Spain
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
MTI insights on employee engagement in Spain
MTIs HR Thought Leadership Team, led by Darshan Singh, was selected by the CMAE European Conference in Spain, to share learnings and research findings to 135 leaders and managers from 23 countries around the world.
The session recognized the importance of employee engagement in achieving a sustainable competitive advantage in any business and even more so in the service-orientated golf industry.
While every golf club manager dreams of passionate, engaged employees who come into work every day ready for the challenges that lie ahead, the session addressed the fact that the reality is more complicated. Many different factors in<U+FB02>uence how employees approach their work and this can make instilling passion a dif<U+FB01>cult challenge. A workforce that lacks passion will miss out on valuable business opportunities for the club on a daily basis.
Hence the presentation emphasized that in order to create employee passion, golf club managers need to care about their employees work environment, what they do and their relationships. Creating a sense of pride towards their job is an important step towards building employee passion. Employees should feel as if they are a vital part of the team in order to create an atmosphere where everyone works hard and smart for the club.
The intended outcome of the session by Singh, whose passion lies in developing people to reach their full potential, was to enable the participants to have employees who are highly passionate and motivated about their jobs.
Singhs presentation was met with excellent feedback from organizers and participants alike, with Singh being requested to present at next years conference as well.
==============================
## Title: Nalini Indatissas funeral today
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Nalini Indatissas funeral today
The funeral of Nalini Indatissa, wife of the late Sarath Indatissa, will take place today.
She was the former Director of Education, former Principal Tholangamuwa Central College, Pinnawala Central College, and Royal International School, Kegalle. She was the mother of Kalinga Indatissa (Presidents Counsel and Nalinda Indatissa (Attorney-at-law). Her remains lie at No. 20, 1st lane, Epitamulla Road, Pita Kotte.
==============================
## Title: New Sinha Regiment Commandant assumes office
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
New Sinha Regiment Commandant assumes office
The newly appointed Colonel of the Sri Lanka Sinha Regiment (SLSR) , Major General Piyal Wickramaratne, assumed office last Friday at a military ceremony, held at the SLSR Headquarters in Ambepussa.A Guard Turnout and a Guard of Honour saluted the tenth Colonel Commandant of SLSR in accordance with military formalities.Major General Wickramaratne petting the SLSR mascot, a young lion cub at the ceremony.
(Picture courtesy SL Army Media)
==============================
## Title: New WP Economic Development Bureau chairman
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
New WP Economic Development Bureau chairman
The newly-appointed chairman of the Western Province Economic Development Bureau, E. W. Harischandra, assumed duties recently at the Economic Development Bureau at Jayatilleka Place, Colombo 10.
Chief Executive officer of the Bureau Janaka Kollonage, Directors Nalinda Jayamanne, Nanda Dissanayake, and North Central Provincial Council former Chief Secretary W. G. Dayananda also attended this event.
E. W. Harishchandra is the present chairman of the Regional Industrial Service Committee and Managing Director of Leela Jewellers and Umaya Enterprises. He was also the Lions International 306C Governor during the years of 2014 and 2015.
E.W. Harishcandra is a old boy of Mahanama College, Colombo.
==============================
## Title: New Zealand bowlers enjoy fun day out against Windies
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
New Zealand bowlers enjoy fun day out against Windies
HAMILTON: New Zealand enjoyed a fun day out as Tim Southee and Trent Boult ensured they seized command on a rain-affected day two of the second Test against the West Indies in Hamilton on Sunday.
Southee and Boult starred with bat and ball as the West Indies were left struggling 158 runs behind on the first innings with only two wickets remaining.
The tail-end batsmen boosted New Zealand to 373 in their first innings with a 61-run last wicket stand.
The new ball pair then bagged four wickets between them on a benign pitch as the West Indies plummeted to 215 for eight at stumps.
Southee has two for 34 and Boult two for 67.
That was good fun, in terms of the game, said Boult who smacked an unbeaten 37 off 27 balls to lift his average to 16.03.
Obviously in a first innings where we want to go big and get as many on the board as we can so a combination of runs and keeping their bowlers out there and their fielders and batsmen was pretty important.
Believe it or not I take a lot of pride in my batting. Any contribution, not just myself but the lower order, is very pivotal. But to see the West Indies run chase fall apart after they were off the field for 90 minutes because of rain came as a surprise.
There wasn't much swing, in terms of the wicket it was a bit slow ... I'll tell you for free they're not too happy losing eight wickets, Boult said.
Raymon Reifer, 22 not out at stumps in his debut Test innings, accepted it was a good batting strip and a few of the guys will be disappointed.
Today didn't go the way we wanted it to go but we're still going to fight to try and get in a good position. New Zealand added 87 runs at the start of the day, the bulk of them in the Boult-Southee partnership with the innings ending on Southee's dismissal.
But 10 minutes later he was bowling the first over of the West Indies' reply and took the wicket of Kieran Powell without scoring.
He also had Shai Hope for 15 and pulled off a stunning catch to remove Kraigg Braithwaite, the West Indies' top scorer with 66.
The 1.93-metre (6ft 4in) Southee leapt to get a hand to block an edge off Colin de Grandhomme, and then dived to get a hand under the ball just as it was about to hit the ground.
Boult took the wickets of Shimron Hetmyer for 28 and the luckless Sunil Ambris for two.
Play was interrupted for nearly 90 minutes by rain when the West Indies were 87 for two with Brathwaite and Hope laying the foundations for a solid partnership.
But when play resumed, 20 minutes after the scheduled tea break, Hope only lasted six more balls before he was gone to end a 44-run stand and put the tourists into a tailspin that saw six wickets fall in the final session.
==============================
## Title: Nose hair extensions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Nose hair extensions
It may not be for all, but what is beauty really
Nose hair extensions are the latest beauty trend taking the internet by storm. Instagram user @gret_chen_chen is the creator of the unusual accessory. They are made up of false eye lashes that are stuck around the rim of each nostril to get the effect of hair growing out of the nose. White it may not be an everyday wear; it is a form of artistic expression.
The trend is catching on and gaining a lot of attention. As you would expect not everyone is a fan and some are even grossed out by the idea, but others seem to be keen on giving it a try.
Deccan Chronicle
==============================
## Title: Obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Obituaries
DASANAYAKE - Mrs. D.M. Beloved wife of late Mr. W.D.P. Dasanayake, retired school teacher, Mrs. D.M. Dasanayake of Rathsara, Hirana, Panadura has expired. Cremation will take place at Panadura Minuwanpitiya Crematorium at 6.00 p.m. on 11.12.2017. Lovingly remembered by sons, daughters and relatives. Birth 12.12.1922, Death 08.12.2017.154869
DE SILVA - MARIE. Loving daughter of late Mr/Mrs Francis Perera, beloved wife of late Joseph (Joy), mother of Sanjay, Rajiev and Kumar, mother-in-law of Amali and Shamindri, grandmother of Anushka, Dian, Joshua, Alina and Kevan, sister of Annette, Emil, Yvonne, Kenneth, Mignonne and Mohan. Remains lie at A.F. Raymond Funeral Parlour. Cortege leaves parlour on Monday 11th December at 3.30 p.m. for burial at General Cemetery, Borella (R.C. Section).154872
DIAS - SHELTON PETER - (Retired Superintendent of Audit). Beloved husband of late Muriel, precious father of Prinath (formerly of University of Moratuwa) and Kusum, late Jayasiri (formerly of World Vision) and of Indrani, grandfather of Jaindu and Sri Kanth, Keshika and Sudila and Praveen, great grandfather of Kimaya, Shenaya, Yaran, Kiyan and Shayana, expired. Cortege leaves residence 120/1, De Soysa Road, Rawatawatta, Moratuwa at 4.00 p.m. on 11th December for Interment after service at Moratumulla Mehtodist Church. TN - 011-2653181, 077-7305628.154865
FERNANDO - SANATH (C.S.L.) Ex Ceylon Government Railway and Textile Coperation, Veyangoda. Husband of the late Kusuma, father of Gehan (UK), father-in-law of Laura (UK), grandfather of Amelie and Lily, son of the late Paulis and Seelawathie Fernando, brother of late Shelton, late Sirima, Neil, Nihal, late Jayantha, late Tissa and Ronald, brother-in-law of late Margaret, late Diamond Ariyawardena, Chandra, late Cecil Fernando, Lalitha, Ramani, late Padma, Rohini, Lloyd and late Mahendra, expired. Remains lie at Mahinda Funeral Parlour, Mount Lavinia. Cortege leaves at 4.30 p.m. on 11 December 2017, for cremation at General Cemetery, Mount Lavinia at 5.00 p.m. No. 17, Watarappala Road, Mount Lavinia.154871
Indatissa - Nalini beloved wife of the late Sarath Indatissa, former Director of Education, former Principal, Tholangamuwa Central College, Pinnawala Central College, Royal International School- Kegalle, beloved mother of Kalinga Indatissa-Presidents Counsel and Nalinda Indatissa - Attorney-at-Law, mother-in-law of Samanthee and Nadeera, beloved grandmother of Dinendri, Rashmini, Kavindu and Jhanvi and beloved great-grandmother of Dhaavye expired. Remains will be at No 20, 1st Lane, Epitamulla Road, Pita Kotte. Cremation at Borella Kanatte at 5.00 p.m. on Monday the 11th of December.154873
RANASINGHE - THAKSHAN KUMARA GAMINI (former UNIDO Consultant). Son of late Professor D.A. Ranasinghe, late Beatrice and step son of late Anne, loving father of Lohit, Ruan and Mevan, loving brother of late Rohini, Kushlani, Ananda, Shanti, Nihal and Renuka and brother-in-law of late Sarath Jayasinghe and Mahendra Amarasuriya and Niela, father-in-law of Sanjula and grandfather of Lomaani and Suvaani. Viewing at A.F. Raymond Funeral Parlour from 8.00 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. on 12th December 2017. Cortege leaves parlour at 2.30 p.m. for cremation at General Cemetery, Borella at 3.00 p.m. No flowers by request.154874
RATNAYAKE - DULEEP. Dearly beloved husband of Soma, loving father of Ravi, Pradeep, Dilhani and Amendra, son of late Mudliyar and Mrs. F.W. Ratnayake, brother of late Ralph and of Audrey, Carl, Nannette and Neville, father-in-law of Renu, Pradeep Pieris and Amita, grandfather of Supun, Nuwan, Chethana, Dilan and Ryan. Cortege leaves A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour on Monday 11th December at 4.00 p.m. Cremation at General Cemetery, Borella at 4.30 p.m.154875

==============================
## Title: Open forum on Commercialization of Christmas
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Open forum on Commercialization of Christmas
The Journalists' Movement for Media Ethics and Social Justice, (JMMESJ) together with the National Christian Council of Sri Lanka will conduct an open forum on, 'The Commercialization of Christmas', on December 14 at 5.00 pm at the boardroom of the National Christian Council of Sri Lanka, 368/6 Sarana Road, off Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7.
The panel comprises several JMMESJ members, Rev. W.P. Ebenezer Joseph, and the NCCSL General Secretary. Discussions will be held in English, Sinhala and Tamil.
The JMMESJ works with a vision to raise awareness among journalists and all relevant parties in the media, including media proprietors and the public, on the need for a value-based and socially responsible national media. Ensuring that these parties' media practice is informed by humanitarian values, respect for Sri Lanka's plurality in its numerous strands, guided by decency and fairness and inculcating in them a deference to and respect for the sensitivities of communities, religions and vulnerable groups, such as, women, children, the oppressed and the disabled is part of the Movement's mission.The National Christian Council of Sri Lanka, identifying the need to enlighten the communities on the heavy commercialisation of the birth of Christ, supports the timely efforts of the Movement.
==============================
## Title: OPPO partners with Victorias Secret Fashion Show 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
OPPO partners with Victorias Secret Fashion Show 2017
OPPO, partnered with Victoria's Secret for its annual fashion show  Victorias Secret Fashion Show 2017 as the Official Smartphone Partner. This is the first time, the Victorias Secret Angels were in Shanghai, China.
OPPO started the selfie beautification trend and continues to be synonymous with the best camera phones while Victorias Secret is known for being sophisticated and desired by women around the world. OPPO is also delighted to announce Victorias Secret Angels at the show - Lily Aldridge and Candice Swanepoel as International ambassadors of OPPO.OPPO F5 shared the glamorous stage with the Victorias Secret Angels in Shanghai.
Fans can still follow OPPO social media for the latest updates while Victorias Secret Angels had shared selfies and video with their millions of fans across the world. -NM
==============================
## Title: Palestinian Ambassador gifted land deed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Palestinian Ambassador gifted land deed
Foreign Affairs Minister Tilak Marapana handed over the deed of a land at Hewa Avenue, Colombo 7, to Palestinian Ambassador to Sri Lanka Zuhair M. H. Zaid.
The Foreign Affairs minister was joined on the occasion by Health and Indigenous Medicine Minister and Sri Lanka-Palestine Parliamentary Friendship Association President Dr. Rajitha Senaratne, Sri Lankan Ambassador for Palestine Fawzan Anverm, Foreign Affairs Ministry Secretary Prasad Kariyawasam, parliamentarians, Sri Lanka-Palestine Friendship Association Secretary Bimal Rathnayake, and Diplomatic Corps Dean Ambassador Abdulhamid A. K. Al Mulla of the United Arab Emirates.
Recalling that Sri Lanka had recognised the State of Palestine in 1988, and had supported Palestine for a non-member observer status in the United Nations, Foreign Minister Marapana assured Ambassador Zaid that Sri Lanka will continue to support Palestine for full membership in the United Nations. Referring to the foreign ministry-level consultations held this year, the Minister expressed commitment to expand cooperation between Palestine and Sri Lanka.
Ambassador Zaid remarked that this gesture demonstrates Sri Lankas conviction in supporting the just cause that the Palestinian issue represents.
Sri Lankan Ambassador for Palestine Fawzan Anver told the Daily News that the decision to gift the land was initiated by President Maithripala Sirisena.
==============================
## Title: PARLIAMENT
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
PARLIAMENT
PM promises safe and secure future for all
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said a safe and secure country would be ensured for all, especially the younger generation to forge ahead without fear.
The Prime Minister was speaking in Parliament on Saturday.
He said so, during the ceremony to accept the initial payment of $300 million by China Merchant, in handing over of the Hambantota Port.
He said that this was the first time that such a large sum has been received into the countrys monetary reserve, while this sum would be placed as a fixed deposit in the countrys special monetary reserve. Accordingly, the cheque was handed over to the Ministry Secretary.
The ceremony was attended by Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera, Strategic Development Minister Malik Samaraweera, Ministers Mahinda Samarasinghe and Sarath Amunugama, Port s Authority Chairman and several Chinese Government members and representatives of the China Merchant.
The Prime Minister noted that the Hambantota Harbour would be developed into a thriving harbour without burdening the country, adding that the $300 million was only an initial payment the country had received. He said that through this investment, the government aimed to develop the harbour without leaving not only the present generation, but also future generations of the debt burden.
No matter how much criticism is levelled to the government with regard to the Hambantota deal, this is a huge profit making venture that is a welcome sign for the debt ridden country, the Prime Minister noted.
This is a significant juncture for the countrys economy and the Hambantota Harbour which would be made into a thriving shipping hub under the China Merchant Company and the Ports Authority of Sri Lanka. The Hambantota Harbour was just idling all this time, but under this initiative taken by the government, it would be transformed into a strategic harbour in the Indian Ocean, the Prime Minister noted.
The Premier said that with the development of the Hambantota Harbour and its surrounding area would also see the development of the Economic zone, Industrial zone, Tourist zone and even the Naval industry. A separate Dock Yard, Cement Factory and Refinery would also be established in the Industrial zone in the vicinity of the Hambantota Harbour.
The Prime Minister said that for the first time in history, the Ruhuna region would witness an economic boost.
Local Govt. Elections Amendment Bill passed
The Local Government Elections Amendment Bill was passed in Parliament on Saturday evening, following the passing of the budget proposal.
The Bill was passed with 137 voting for, while 49 voting against the proposed Amendment Bill. Eight Members of the Parliament abstained from voting.
Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faiszer Musthapha, commencing the Second Reading debate of the Amendment Bill , said that the reason for the amendment was that there were two technical errors that needed to be corrected.
The first one is Minister Musthapha said, If any party receives less that 25 percent of votes and has three members to be elected that the mandatory requirement of electing a female will not have to be done. However, when I read this at the Bills stage, I read it correctly. But in the Sinhala translation, it was not correctly included. He added that it should be correctly included.
The second issue relates to multi member votes, Minister Musthapha said. As you know there was a policy decision that if a party wins a multi members seat, both seats would be awarded to that political party.
These are errors to be corrected. As the Election Commission needed those errors to be brought about before the election was held. There is an issue with Enderamulla in the Mahara division.
I have instructed my secretary to solve it too.
Joint Opposition Parliamentary Group Leader Dinesh Gunawardena said that the Amendment Act had been issued on November 8, 2017.
This is to correct a mistake which had happened due to a language flaw. This could be done by a resolution in Parliament.
Minister Musthapha said he could not take responsibility for a mistake that he had not done.
Minister Musthapha asked permission to amend one mistake, MP Gunawardena said.
This is wrong and an attempt to include clauses while an election process is in progress. That is not legal and I request that the motion be over ruled.
Minister Rauf Hakeem said that MP Dinesh Gunawardena had raised a very valuable argument. This amendment is not Gazetted, so it is wrong, Minister Hakeem said. This is against the Constitution.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said the country was trying a novel method. Our objective is to hold elections on one day, the Premier said.
My point is that what ever law we make, we have to be cautious not to go before Courts. The best way is lets try this out. There could be issues. Later, we could correct the flaws before the Provincial Council election. There is suspicion in the minds of some members. But, when we Gazette the nominations, they would be cleared. We should all get together after the results of the elections and discuss, investigate and take corrective measures concerning the flaws in the act.
Chief Oppostion Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake said that there were flaws in the Act, since the Sinhala Language translation was different from the English Language translation.
The Attorney General has instructed that it should be corrected by way of an Amendment. The Election Commission Chairman said that he could accept the changes if the Attorney General approved. So this amendment is a must, MP Anura Dissanayake said.
However, following the lengthy debate between the Government and Opposition members, the motion was passed at its Second Stage reading following a vote with 146 votes in favour, while 56 voted against. The Third Reading was passed.
Ministry vacancies filled in just manner - Kiriella
Higher Education and Highways Minister Lakshman Kiriella said in filling vacancies in institutions under the Higher Education Ministry, it was seen that no injustice was caused to the residents of those areas.
He said this in Parliament on Saturday, in response to an allegation that the government was filling these posts in the North and East with residents of other areas.
The Minister noted that based on the applications received, the applicants were subjected to a written test and interview and the most suitable candidates were selected and given appointments.
Accordingly, 40 vacancies were filled in the Jaffna University, 74 to the Eastern University, 27 to the South Eastern University, to the Road Development Authority, 80 to the North and 151 to the RDA East, according to the Minister.
Role of media needs to be re-examined
Deputy Media Minister Lasantha Alagiyawanna said the medias responsibility in the development of the country needs to be re-examined and assured that measures would be taken to invest the revenue earned through tele dramas for the betterment of the tele drama industry.
He was speaking in Parliament on Saturday, joining the debate on the expenditure heads of the Ministry of Finance and Media.
The Minister added that the media should ask themselves whether they have identified their responsibility to society and are conducting their operations accordingly.
The media needs to re-examine themselves and see whether they are carrying out their role in an ethical manner. The need has now arisen to implement certain controls on the media. What we mean by controls is certain not the repression of the media. But, the need has arisen and it is timely that certain boundaries be enforced as certain media programmes are leading to the erosion of our values and encourages myth, which is a stumbling block for the future progress of this country, he said.
Alagiyawanna said the people have been given the Right to Information and measures have been taken to mitigate the losses incurred by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and Independent Television Network. However, he noted that Telecine is making profits but added that the success of an establishment cannot be measured by profits alone. Media institutions should also be mindful of the task they have to perform. Therefore, the Deputy Minister noted that his ministry intends to introduce quality programmes through the state channels and serve the people better in the future.
He also noted that the SLBC and ANCL were in the process of minimising their losses. But,added that although there were certain regulatory bodies, television programmes are not properly regulated.
We intend to tax these institutions and utilise these funds for the uplift of the industry. Meanwhile, we need to intervene immediately in the media rating issue. Media reporting is not done practically and it is currently at a low standard. Decisions are taken based on false ratings. Around 95% of state media is covered and as such the government has to intervene in rectifying this situation, Deputy Minister Alagiyawanna added.
PM will enforce the code of conduct  Eran
Minister Eran Wickremeratne said his party had tabled a Code of Conduct on August 8 this year, which is yet to be passed. But he said he was certain that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe would take leadership in seeing the Code of Conduct enforced.
Minister Wickremeratne called on the government to set an example and prove to the masses that the government was working for their welfare.
The Minister was speaking in Parliament yesterday, joining the Committee Stage debate of the Budget 2018 under the expenditure heads of the Finance and Media Ministry.
With Saturday being the last day of the budget debate, Minister Wickramaratne noted that it was significant as it was also Anti Corruption Day.
It is incumbent on us that each and every member of the Assembly decide on the course of our nation. Therefore, we must influence the course of our nation. Corruption has been eating into the very fabric of our government institutions and it has caught on deep into the soul of our administrative machinery. It has come to a point where it is difficult to differentiate between a corrupt practice and a usual government business transaction.
Corruption has become a part of our culture. A culture that has replaced the lofty ideals of the nation once held with pride without prejudice. The government that came into power in 2015 was bogged down by the vagaries of politics and corruption, because we inherited an extremely corrupt system, a system that was made a tool by the practitioners of these corrupt practices. Those who held political power made every attempt to turn this into a bottomless pit from which they could steal and plunder the country. But, this culture needs to be dispensed with, added Minister Wickremaratne.
He pointed out that while the private sector was accountable to its shareholders, the state sector including the government was accountable to the people of this country.
We are answerable to all our shareholders, the people and in that act of being accountable, we should fulfil our responsibility in a serious manner. No member of this House, be it the Prime Minister or Cabinet members, junior MP or Opposition Members, should be spared of this responsibility, even if the President is not spared of this notion of accountability and answerability. It is where the responsibility lies. A culture that has embraced and desecrated our day-to-day lives, he said, adding that the government must enforce at least the code of conduct that is applicable to all in Assembly.
Our shareholders are watching us and they are sick of a prolongation of a corrupt system and they are disaffected by the blatant abuse of power by politicians to such an extent that where every practice of governance hinges on this exercise. Isnt it a disgusting spectacle that we are all being looked upon as a set of corrupt, greedy merchants because of the behaviour of a few Hence, we need to change this This is not an impossible task, but it is a long journey, he said.
The people voted for a change. This budget has been proposed to fulfil the economic promises made. The budget is focused on a better tomorrow, which has paid greater consideration to the low income groups. Prior to the budget, we reduced the price of many essential commodities. We have also made the DIMO Batta more affordable by reducing its price by Rs. 300,000.
He said unlike the previous government, the good governance government had generated 300,000 jobs in 2015. These are real jobs. Unlike the previous regime, we will not simply provide jobs during election time alone. This is a journey and we have laid the foundation for a strong future.
The Minister said that the most valuable asset the country has is its youth and the government has increased allocations for youth activities.
We intend to provide our children higher education as we dont want to create a culture of slaves to be sent to the Middle East, he said.
Constitutional Assembly convenes today
The Constitutional Assembly will convene today (11). The assembly will debate the interim report on the proposed new constitution submitted by the constitutional steering committee. National Co-existence,Dialogue and Official Languages Minister Mano Ganeshan said the debate will be held to hear arguments presented by members who are yet to speak on the report.
==============================
## Title: Perera lauds Lakmal after emphatic ODI win
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Perera lauds Lakmal after emphatic ODI win
Dharamsala: New captain Thisara Perera Sunday hailed Suranga Lakmal as Sri Lankas premier fast bowler after he led the visitors to a seven-wicket win over India in the first one-day international.
Lakmal returned career-best ODI figures of 4-13 to help dismiss India for just 112, with Sri Lanka achieving the target in 20.4 overs and taking a 1-0 lead in the three-match series.
The visitors lost two early wickets in their chase before opening batsman Upul Tharanga made a 46-ball 49 to help his team end a 12-match losing streak.
First of all we have to give 200 percent credit to our bowlers. They were disciplined, and bowled the right length and the right areas, Perera said.
Sri Lankan cricketer Upul Tharanga looks on after playing a shot during the first One day international (ODI) cricket match between India and Sri Lanka. AFP
This is an unplayable wicket. We didnt expect that. We expected 250-260, but after that Suranga and Angelo (Mathews) bowled very well.
At the moment, (Lakmal) is our first fast bowler. Hes done very well in the Test series as well, Perera said of Lakmal, who took eight wickets in the three Tests against India. Tharanga, who lost his limited-overs captaincy to Perera ahead of the series, was denied his fifty by Hardik Pandya who had the left-handed batsman caught at first slip.
Angelo Mathews, 25 not out, and Niroshan Dickwella, on 26, then steered their team home for a win savoured by the visitors after losing the Test series 1-0 last week.
I have to mention that Upul gave a good start and hes one of our best openers, Perera said of Tharanga, who had opted out of his teams Twenty20 match in Lahore and was subsequently removed as captain last month.
Pace spearhead Lakmal set up victory for the islanders after Perera won the toss and elected to bowl first at the picturesque ground overlooking the Himalayas.
The lanky paceman rattled the Indian batting during his extended spell of 10 overs as India collapsed to 29-7 before Mahendra Singh Dhoni fought back with a gritty 65 to take the total past 100. With India in danger of being bowled out for an historic low -- Zimbabwes 35 in 2004 versus Sri Lanka is the all-time record -- Dhoni put on a crucial 41-run partnership with Kuldeep Yadav for the eighth wicket.
The pair took India past 54, their own lowest total, which was set against Sri Lanka in 2000.
Dhoni hit 10 fours and two sixes in his 87-ball stay, getting his 67th ODI half-century before he was finally dismissed by Perera to wrap up the Indian innings.
It was a horror start for skipper Rohit Sharma, named captain in place of the absent Virat Kohli who is officially resting ahead of the South Africa tour.
Mathews -- who returned to bowl after recovering from a calf injury -- drew first blood, trapping Indian opener Shikhar Dhawan for nought in the second over of the innings. Lakmal soon got Sharma caught behind for two as the Indian top-order found it hard to counter the bounce and swing at the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association Stadium.
Today was not the ideal day for all our batters. It was an eye-opener. Hopefully we can regroup and come back in the next two matches, said Sharma.
Not such a great experience (to lead for the first time), because we lost, but weve got to forget what happened, he added.
The action now moves to the second ODI in Mohali on Wednesday. AFP
==============================
## Title: Police hunt for prison escapees
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Police hunt for prison escapees
A special operation has been launched by the Police, to arrest two criminals who escaped while being taken to the Siyambalanduwa Magistrates Courts last Friday. The two suspects, Gandara Billa and Gandara Amila had escaped while they were being taken to the Siyambalanduwa Magistrates Courts from the Moneragala prison.
The prison officers had opened fire at them and Gandara Billa was shot, but he had managed to flee with the gun wound.
The two suspects according to police are responsible for house breakings and stealing vehicles and other burglaries throughout the country. Further investigations are continuing
==============================
## Title: President recalls pleasant memories
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
President recalls pleasant memories
President Maithripala Sirisena, who was on his way to Polonnaruwa on Saturday afternoon, made an unscheduled stopover at Kegalle to attend a meeting of the Polonnaruwa Royal College OBA Colombo Branch held there.
After talking to his former school colleagues and exchanging pleasant memories of their schooldays, the President posed for a group photograph with them before resuming his journey to Polonnaruwa.
==============================
## Title: Protest march in Batticaloa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Protest march in Batticaloa
People in the Eastern Province staged a demonstration in Batticaloa yesterday marking the International Human Rights Day and protested demanding authorities to take steps to find out their missing loved ones.
Relatives of the disappeared from the Trincomalee, Ampara and Batticaloa districts joined a procession which began from the Kallady bridge, and marched along New Kalmunai Road, Bar Road and Trinco Road up to the Gandhi Park.
They carried placards depicting their demands and asked the authorities to take steps to find out whereabouts of their missing loved ones.
They handed over a document with their demands to Additional Government Agent S. Sutharsini and Batticaloa District Human Rights Commissioner A.C.M. Azeez. The document was addrested to the U N High Commissioner for Human Rights, OHCIR, Geneva.
==============================
## Title: The Question of harassment
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
The Question of harassment
Harvey Weinstein was publicly accused, in well-documented news reports, of sexually abusing young women compounded by intimidation. It has led to a stream of allegations resulting in several well known public figures being names, some apologising, resigning from office, staying put or fighting back.
Harvey Weinstein
When should politicians accused of sexual misconduct resign
Calling for someones resignation is not something anyone should take lightly. Indeed, such a call should be made with great care and context as the Detroit Free Press Editorial Board showed last week in a thorough, thoughtful editorial calling on Conyers to leave his long and complicated legacy behind and immediately step down. Instead, Conyers said Sunday he would step aside as the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee to allow due process during an ethics panel investigation while denying he acted inappropriately.
Meanwhile, in Sacramento, Assemblyman Raul Bocanegra, D-Pacoima, resigned amid sexual harassment allegations and Sen. Tony Mendoza, D-Artesia, facing his own sexual harassment scandal, was stripped of his leadership positions, including chairmanship of the banking committee, pending an investigation.
This quartet has little in common except that all four men are Democratic officials entrusted with power by the public. Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore in Alabama stands accused of sexual misconduct, and President Donald Trump faced allegations as a candidate. Like Trump, Moore denied allegations, resisted calls to withdraw and called accusers liars.
Ultimately, voters decide who to elect or re-elect. But if the threshold for resignation isnt universal because of the variables in every case and political parties reluctance to reject their own, there are still policies everyone might support: Harassment claims should be handled as consistently, quickly and publicly as possible, protecting the rights of all, starting with victims.
Eight questions we need to ask ourselves in the wake of Americas sexual assault reckoning
1. What are appropriate consequences for sexual predation Assuming a harasser isnt famous, what form of justice can his victim expect So far, the tacit consensus seems to be that they shouldnt get to work in their chosen careers. For how long If the victim is tasked with publicly judging an apology (or otherwise absolving her harasser), doesnt that just open her up to being pressured behind the scenes What do we as a society want from this process were being forced to collectively improvise Punishment Rehabilitation Restitution
2. What are the hierarchies of harm This is tough; sexual assault and sexual harassment exist on a worryingly wide spectrum, and the damage is hard to objectively measure. But it must at least be attempted. As Michelle Goldberg says at The New York Times, Weinsteins sadistic serial predation isnt comparable to Louis C.K.s exhibitionism. The groping Franken has been accused of isnt in the same moral universe as Moores alleged sexual abuse of minors. The terms we have  sexual harassment, sexual misconduct  are such blunt instruments that they practically force false equivalences. If were going to take this seriously, lets take it seriously. We need to radically expand our glossary for sexual misbehaviour so that we may precisely address the sheer range of sexualized abuse to which people are routinely subjected.
3. What should men who know theyre guilty of sexual misconduct do The Establishments IjeomaOluo suggests that, rather than wait to be denounced, they should come forward and face the music. Its the right thing to do. Others have suggested some kind of truth and reconciliation committee  complete with amnesties  whereby harassers could confess to all the reprehensible things theyve done. The merits of this are largely academic: It would be useful to have as complete a picture of exactly what our workplace culture has been, and it might be validating to victims. On the other hand, this robs people whose entire careers have been derailed of more forceful remedies. Are there other solutions
4. How does a culture standardize its approach across industrial and political divides Is this even possible, given how different the incentives and power structures are Mike Allen at Axios points out that certain industries have remained hitherto untouched: The wave has yet to hit the New York corporate suites. Im told theyre hardly immune, he writes. Its possible there simply arent any allegations; its also possible that some industries are still managing to pressure victims into keeping quiet. Academia, for instance, has shown itself to be remarkably resistant to addressing sexual misconduct. The restaurant industry is just barely starting to take this stuff seriously. Politically, too, there are splits emerging between those who are ethical and those who are tactically-minded.
5. Why havent past solutions worked Why, in particular, have HR solutions failed
6. Now that so many people finally see the scope of the problem, how do we deal with how repugnant our beliefs were
While there were no social or professional repercussions for men who violated their female employees, there isnt a single man in the world who thought groping his secretary was good, upstanding behaviour. As CBS News president David Rhodes said in the internal memo announcing Charlie Roses termination, what may have once been accepted should not ever have been acceptable. We all knew sexual harassment was wrong. We tolerated it anyway. Why More importantly: How do we stop
7. How do we come to terms with how awful so many people seem to have been When someone you love is accused of doing a terrible thing, how will you reconcile your ethics with your affection
8. How do we move toward a truly equitable society
Its possible if we keep asking careful questions and try to answer them while fully acknowledging their difficulties and contradictions, theres a small but real chance we might channel all that fear and anger into change that lasts.
==============================
## Title: Retired railway workers requested to report for work
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 12:40
Retired railway workers requested to report for work

Railway Additional General Manager, Vijaya Samarasinghe today requested retired engine drivers, railway guards, station masters and controllers to report for duty with immediate effect.
Retired workers who are willing to come back should report to Additional General Manager (Operations)
Samarasinghe also ordered stationmasters, engine drivers and railway controllers working on contract basis to report for duty immediately as railway service has been declared as an essential service by the government.
The department will be compelled to terminate the employment of those who fail to heed the orders, he added.
==============================
## Title: Russian national drowns
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Russian national drowns
A Russian national drowned in the sea off the Tiranagama beach while he was bathing with his Ukranian wife on Saturday afternoon. His body was retrieved by area residents who rushed to help them out.
He was identified as Naramenko Igo (52).
The body is at the Karapitiya Hospital morgue for post-mortem.
Hikkaduwa police is investigating.
==============================
## Title: Screening for diabetes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Screening for diabetes
MyDoctor.lk recently organized a free event in partnership with Diabetasol parallel to the World Diabetes Day at the Bambalapitiya flats- Community Center, to screen, educate the participants and to address the common problems related to diabetes.
The purpose of screening was to identify asymptomatic individuals who are likely to have diabetes. MyDoctor conducted blood sugar test, BMI assessment, blood pressure assessment and arranged consultation with a doctor to review the results and advice the patients. Physiotherapists and Nutritionists were invited to provide counselling for patients. Assessment for Diabetes Neuropathy (nerve damage), Diabetes Retinopathy (Damages in Eyes due to Diabetes) and assessment for spectacles were also comprehensively arranged.
MyDoctor facilitated On site video conferencing for individuals who were detected to have serious issues, enabling them to speak to a Diabetes specialist, who was not at the location.
Healthy foods were introduced as exhibits and ways to prepare them in a hygienic manner was demonstrated by dietitians.The event concluded by rewarding competition winners from the MyDoctor diabetes day facebook competition.
==============================
## Title: SLIIT in partnership with Liverpool John Moores University
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
SLIIT in partnership with Liverpool John Moores University
SLIIT has extended its partnerships with overseas universities to include UKs Liverpool John Moores University and has launched a three-year business degree course - BBA (Hons) Business Administration - in collaboration with the Liverpool John Moores University, renowned as one of the largest, most dynamic and forward thinking universities in the United Kingdom.
The university was originally named Liverpool Mechanics Institute and was followed by the Liverpool Institute, School of Art and the Liverpool Nautical College. In 1900 a campus was opened by Irene Mabel Marsh. These institutes combined to lay the foundation for Liverpool John Moores University which has grown and flourished over the years to provide opportunities for all those who aspired to obtain a quality higher education. Today it is a vibrant community of 25,000 students from over 100 countries worldwide with 2500 staff and 250 degree courses.
Students aspiring for admission to the SLIIT Business degree course from Liverpool John Moores University are required to have 3 passes at GCE A/L or equivalent qualification. Lateral entry to the third year is available for HND holders for a duration of one year. The degree courses offered by SLIIT are approved by the University Grants Commission under the Universities Act.
SLIIT has maintained the highest academic standards over the past decade, enabling students to achieve international level qualifications. To be eligible to be admitted to SLIITs degree programmes, students also have to pass an aptitude test conducted by SLIIT.
SLIIT students benefit from a blend of theory and practical knowledge that gives them a competitive edge in todays world explained Professor Lalith Gamage, Vice Chancellor and CEO of SLIIT. SLIIT students can transfer to any of our high ranking partner universities in the United Kingdom, Australia, United States and Canada he added.
More information could be obtained from www.sliit.lk

==============================
## Title: SLSR Colonel appointed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
SLSR Colonel appointed
Newly appointed Colonel of the Sri Lanka Sinha Regiment (SLSR) Major General Piyal Wickramaratne, assumed office Friday (8) morning, during a simple and charming military ceremony, held at the SLSR Headquarters in Ambepussa.
A Guard Turnout and a Guard of Honour saluted the 10th Colonel Commandant of the SLSR in accordance with military formalities after he was welcomed by SLSR Centre Commandant Brigadier Kithsiri Liyanage, on arrival at the premises.
A brief religious ceremony invoked blessings on the new appointment before he was invited to plant a Naa sapling in the SLSR premises to mark the occasion. Minutes after that, he paid a floral tribute to the SLSR war heroes monument in memory of fallen SLSR war heroes and recalled memories.
==============================
## Title: SLTB adds 650 more buses for daily operations to help commuters affected by the train strike
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 13:01
SLTB adds 650 more buses for daily operations to help commuters affected by the train strike

The Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) said it has added 650 more buses for daily operations to help commuters affected by the ongoing train strike.
The Deputy General Manager R.R.T Chandrasiri said that buses have been deployed within Colombo and outstations as well.
The SLTB said buses used for daily school services have been diverted for normal services as it is School holidays.
==============================
## Title: South Asian Travel Awards for two Uga Bay boutique hotels
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
South Asian Travel Awards for two Uga Bay boutique hotels
Uga Bay and Chena Huts, part of Sri Lankas leading boutique hotel chain Uga Escapes,recently brought home two South Asian travel awards at the South Asian Travel Awards, 2017
The Uga Escapes hotel chain, one of the islands most diverse, exclusive and opulent, swept away two awards at the South Asian Travel Awards held recently in Male, Maldives. Both Uga Bay and Chena Huts, two of their star properties,were recognised and honoured at the event for their superior hospitality efforts, not just with regards to their exceptional customer service, but also vigilance in the awareness and implementation of sustainable business practices whenever and wherever possible. Chena Huts and Uga Bay were respectively awarded the Leading Wildlife Resort in Sri Lanka, and the Leading Boutique Resort in Sri Lanka/ Leading Luxury Resort in Sri Lanka.
Uga Bay which is perched on the edge of sunny, resplendent Passikudah, is a tropical haven all of its own, and has enamoured many a tourist over the years. Overlooking some of the most stunning beaches strung along a palm-fringed coastline, the setting is captivatingly idyllic, and in some ways surreal especially when backed with acute customer care. Elegant, luxurious, exceedingly comfortable and a true escape, Uga Bay also offers an underground spa and sumptuous cuisine, prepared from locally sourced ingredients whenever and wherever possible. With 46 expansive, well-decked out rooms and 2 plush suites on offer, Uga Bay is ideal for travellers from all walks of life, be they solo, honeymooners or families. Each of the rooms and suites also offer panoramic views of Passikudah Bay just beyond.
Chena Huts, one of their more recent additions,takes you to the heart of Sri Lankas diverse wilderness without compromising on luxury. Guests are given a glimpse of Yala, world renowned for its spectacular array of wildlife, particularly the Sri Lankan leopard. Uga Escapes helps its clients explore the islands second-largest nature reserve up-close, whilst indulging in contemporary facilities, including detached private pavilions, irresistible cocktails, delectable food, and climate-controlled living spaces. With just fourteen1130sqft cabins to choose from and built-in 5m private plunge pools, utmost privacy and tranquillity is assured to all guests. Each of the cabins have been inspired by and designed based on the traditional concept of chena cultivation, a practice deeply seeped in the roots of local tradition. This allows Chena Huts to effortlessly blend into the background and culture, morphing with the jungle surroundings all round for a seamless experience.
Certifications for Uga Resorts
==============================
## Title: SPC presents budget 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
SPC presents budget 2018
The fourth annual Financial Statement of the seventh Southern Provincial Council was presented to the council on Friday by Southern Province Chief Minister Shan Wijayalal De Silva. It was the 14th submitted by the Chief Minister.
Presenting the Financial Statement, the chief Minister said the budget of the government of President Maitripala Sirisena aimed at finding sustainable solutions for economic issues.
He said the total expenditure for 2018 was Rs. 33911.5 million. "Rs. 28,950 million of the budget covers recurrent expenditure," he said.
"The Council will earn Rs. 8258.5 million from taxes that include the Nation Building Tax and stamp duties. The Central Government is expected to provide Rs. 25,652.9 as grants, he said. The Chief Minister said the total capital expenditure was Rs. 4,762 million and 14 percent of it was spent on maintaining the council.
SP Opposition Leader Tennakoon Nilame proposed the vote of thanks. The debate will be held today and tomorrow.
==============================
## Title: Splendid 137 by Pasindu
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Splendid 137 by Pasindu
M.P. Pasindu Sumeera Perera scored a splendid 137 runs against Science College in their inter-school under 13 division three tournament cricket match played at Moratuwa.
Pasindu is a third year player and he is a right hand bat and a right arm leg spinner. In the just concluded first round in four matches he has scored 205 runs and claimed 12 wickets.
During his knock he hit 19 fours and three sixes and faced 114 balls. He is coached by Sandun Ruwanka.
==============================
## Title: Split averted, says Tna
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Split averted, says Tna
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) yesterday said its coalition members had settled their differences and would contest the upcoming local government elections under the ITAK banner.
Constituent party leaders Mavai Senathirajah (ITAK), Selvam Adikkalanathan (TELO) and Dharmalingham Siddarththan (PLOTE) met with Parliamentarians and party representatives on Saturday and discussed the forthcoming elections and resolved all connected issues, a statement from the TNA said. Nominations will be submitted with the House symbol of the ITAK. Voters in the North and the East were asked to support the Tamil National Alliance contesting under the ITAK and the House symbol, the statement said.
The TELO and PLOTE had recently stated that they will contest separately at the LG polls.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan wins again at World Travel Awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
SriLankan wins again at World Travel Awards
SriLankan Airlines, the national carrier of Sri Lanka and a member of the oneworld alliance, proving its consolidated presence in the Indian Sub-Continent has been awarded the Worlds Leading Airline to the Indian Ocean title at the World Travel Awards World Ceremony, in Phu Quoc, Vitenman. Thirteen other leading airlines were nominated for the award.
The Award proves SriLankans strong presence in the South Asian region, strongly supported by its connectivity of 133 flights to 14 Indian cities (including seasonal operations to Bodh Gaya and Varanasi).
The Airline also operates to other popular cities such as Dhaka, Karachi and Lahore. The Maldives has been Sri Lankas extended home market with its connectivity of 31 flights a week, facilitating leisure-seekers from its extensive network of Middle East, the Europe, the Far East and Australia.
SriLankan also became the first Airline to connect Gan Island of South Maldives with the world, thus becoming the only airline that operates out of two points in the Maldives.
This year, SriLankan also won Asias Leading Cultural Airline at WTA Asia Ceremony and Asias Leading Airline to the Indian Ocean at the WTA Indian Ocean Ceremony.
==============================
## Title: Suspect further remanded
## Supertitle: Attack on lawyer in Galle
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Attack on lawyer in Galle
Suspect further remanded
A lawyer was attacked in Galle recently while she was mending the roof of her office during the recent heavy rainfalls.
She has told police that she was attacked by a person who had come there along with another two persons since she opposed them when they attempted to video her repairing the roof.
Police arrested the suspect and produced him before the Galle Additional Magistrate Asanga Hettiwatte on the same day.
He was further remanded till December 15 when the case was taken for the second day for hearing.
The Magistrate ordered an identification parade on the next trial date.
The lawyer was admitted to the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital. Police said she was still under treatment.
Investigations are continuing to arrest the other suspects.
==============================
## Title: Symptoms of a greater disease
## Supertitle: Discrimination and violence
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Discrimination and violence
Symptoms of a greater disease
Leslee Udwin, film-maker and director of the controversial documentary Indias Daughter, which depicted the gang rape and murder of 23-year-old Jyoti Singh in 2012, now travels the world as an education human rights activist.
She was able to convince the Sri Lankan government to be the first in the world to implement her Think Equal programme in schoolsto teach children at an early age about discrimination, and how to avoid it.
Excerpts follow:
Q : Would you like tell me about your childhood
A: I was born in Israel, but when I was nine, my father took the family to South Africa. My father is a South African and my mother is an Israeli Palestinian (for seven generations). From South Africa, I decided to move to London for the sake of my career. Thereafter, I lived for eight years in Denmark and now I am back in Londonit is my home now. The reason I mentioned these places specifically, was to emphasise that I am a global citizen. I have chosen my home and it is London. Particularly, what is significant about my background is, it comes from three places in the world where there is very serious discrimination. When I was in Israel, there was discrimination both ways between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Completely futile, unjustified, and destructive. Because we are like cousins, we think alike, look alike and act alike, and it is utterly ridiculous that there should be this divide between us.
Then, as a nine-year-old, I was taken to a place which was inhumane for the way they treated people on the basis of colour. What is important in my past is that I, as a child and as a young adult, was absolutely shocked. I was mystified by why these people were treated so badly and differently. I think that part of my background really informed and prepared me for the kind of work I did as an adult.
Q : You rebelled against a religious view at the age of 13. Could you share that story
A: What I rebelled against was discrimination, not religious values. I went to a religious Jewish school as a child because my father was also a religious Jew. In a religious education class, one day I learnt that there is a morning prayer called the dawn prayer, that Jewish men say "I thank God who did not make me a woman," every morning. When I heard that, I was so hurt and angry. I ran in search of the Rabbi of the school to object to it, and they expelled me from school.
I respect people for having their religions, but they cannot and must not be discriminatory. They must be tolerant of other religions.
In Think Equal, we teach children that every single religion is beautiful and justifiable in the way of being grateful. We teach them that they are global citizens all over the world, though we have our own differences. So we teach them to celebrate these differences.
Q : What is the Think Equal project all about
A: Think Equal is a global initiative that constructs and delivers an equality studies curriculum. We started a pilot project, and teachers have been trained for about a year now. We have reports from teachers and our hearts soar with joy. It is a transformational programmeme, it's really changing discrimination in children. There are four lessons a week and the children are looking forward to it. Think Equal was started two years ago and Sri Lanka is the first country in the world to commit to fully rolling this out, and we have other countries which have committed as well. We are really proud that Sri Lanka has taken this leading and exemplary start in the world.
Rosy Senanayake was the one who brought this project to Sri Lanka. She has given everything; her passion and commitment.
This programme was of a logical analysis; if its the mindset that is the cause of violence, then how do you change mindsets Its possible only through education. But if you could change mindsets through education, that would imply that very educated people do not do bad things, but they clearly do. Because, in the documentary I interviewed not just the rapists, but lawyers as well. The lawyers were much worse than the rapists. The deductive logic tells me then, that this is not about access to education, how many degrees you have or how long you have gone to school. If you are not taught the right things at school, you would go to school your whole life and still become a rapist or a murderer. Children have to be taught the right things, and therefore, Think Equal teaches them this during a time when we can change their attitudes and behaviour.
Q : You were an actress, then a film director and producer, and now an activist. Could you explain these changes in your life
A: I was a filmmaker until two years ago, one of the films I made was called East to East, and it won the British Oscar. That was a film about tolerance. When I made a sequel to that movie called West is West, it did incredibly in many countries. In West is West, it depicted the world where there is discrimination on the basis of religion and on the basis of colour. It was a plea for all forms of tolerance. What I had been doing in my feature film also prepared me for this work. Then I made this one film called India's Daughter, which was my first documentary. In that film, I understood on a profound level, what the root cause of violence in our world was.
We as a world, treat violence as a disease. Where we are wrong is, the disease is not the violence, but violence is the symptom of the disease. The disease is the mindset of discrimination which causes violencegender based violence, racial violence, religious violence, caste based violence, tribal violence. At the end of the day, it's discrimination that needs to be rooted out, if we are to stop violence in our world.
Through the 31 hours of interviewing rapists, I could clearly see that they were reportedly programmemed by their sincere cultural thinking to do what they did.
What are parents teaching their children What do they see at home that makes them think that this is the way I should behave If a girl is not obedient and does not do what I tell her to do, smack her because that's what I have seen. Because in our community, you can be violent with someone who is accorded a lesser or no value.
"Oh, that person is dark, do not play with him," or "That person is Christian, he is an infidel. Take his head off," or "That person is a Muslim, he might be a terrorist." These means of discrimination lead to violence and that's what we need to stamp out as a world.
Neuroscience is very clear about when the window of opportunity is to change human beings' attitudes and behaviour. It is a narrow window and its when kids are between the ages of 3 to 5 years. That is why we want to start the Think Equal programmeme in Sri Lanka during those years.
Q : Do you think movies make an impact in society
A: They do, but the impact will not stay for long. It usually fades away and is soon forgotten.
It is like the Me Too campaign. How long do you think that thing will last It comes and goes. Look at that amazing protests on the streets of Indian cities in response to that tragic and brutal gang rape.
All forgotten. Did they come out when the five-year-old girl suffered the same fate They did not come out on street because they had done it already.
Films are very powerful tools for change, but they can only create awareness; they cannot actually lead to real change. And if they do, it's a very slow process. No amount of films are going to put certain things right. You need to start with the root cause of the problem, and you need to teach children, lay the foundation for a new generation who will become politicians, lawyers, and teachers. That is the only way to see change in the world.
Q : You were a victim of rape. How did that have an impact on your work
A: It happened when I was 18, in South Africa. This was on a weekend when I went to a barbecue party and he told me that he had invited a number of people but when I got there, nobody was there.
It was only him. I remember thinking "This is strange. Why am I here" I actually asked him and he said, "Come in. We are late." Because I stayed and trusted him, he then dragged me into the house and raped me.
I felt guilty, I felt that I should have known betterwhich is ridiculous. How do we blame ourselves for trusting another human being It is tragic that I was so scared by what happened, and the forcefulness of it was so bad that I thought he was going to kill me. When he didn't kill me, I felt relieved that I got away with my life.
I basically didn't tell anybody about it for 20 years. I am very ashamed of that, for twenty years I kept it silent. My husband was the first person I told about it.
I understand more than anybody that in my culture, there is no shame associated with rape. I should have asked for help and reported him. But I was so frightened that people would blame me for believing in him.
I even shut up about it for 20 years. Therefore, nobody can tell that rape-reporting statistics are real; they are massively under-reported.
Even I, being strong and intelligent and not having to face the social stigma, didn't open my mouth. Therefore, rape reporting is likely three times than what they say it is.
Q : Did your past have an impact on the movie or the documentary you made
A: No, genuinely, it didn't. The documentary was pure, incisive, and a careful analysis of the mindset of a rapist. It was a very loving and passionate portrait of the girl who was destroyed by this act. Because she could not have been named, what kind of a life was snatched from her What were her thoughts What did she wanted to be What were her aspirations In the media, she is just a fictional name.
One statistic on a mountain of statistics. I wanted her to be a real human being.
This was nothing to do with me and my past experience. In fact, my experience did not even surface for me, the only way it did was that I was terrified that when I sat facing rapists, I might hit one of them. I thought this anger that I suppressed for 20 years, might just wind me up. Therefore, I practiced. Before I interviewed these rapists, I interviewed others, and I never felt angry with anyone of them. Because these men were programmemed to behave and think, and they were encouraged to rape by society. I felt that we have to take responsibility for that.
Q : What would you like tell all young men and women out there
A: Anyone can be me. Honestly, I am not a person who is trained to do what I am doing now. I have just been compelled to do it, because I believe with all my heart that this is how I am going to leave the world a better place.
I do not have any religion to rely on, so for me, it is not about going to heaven. For me, it's all about how I leave Earth.
==============================
## Title: Take care of your heart
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Take care of your heart
Being obese in old age will not help you survive cardiovascular disease, contrary to widely-held beliefs, a new study reveals
In recent years, research has popularized the notion of an obesity paradox, which suggests that being overweight can help to insulate older people with chronic diseases, helping them to outlive their trimmer counterparts.
But the new study took aim at debunking that notion, and showed that the paradox was based on a number of biases.
It is well documented that obesity increases the risk of developing heart diseases and the new research demonstrates that the condition does not improve the resilience of older people against these diseases either.
The American obesity epidemic is so threatening because obesity increases the risks of innumerable often fatal diseases, including 40 per cent of cancers, diabetes, and stroke, as well as heart diseases.
Yet, the obesity paradox has created a - perhaps misleading - impression that while obese people may be more likely to get these diseases they are also more likely to survive them.
Previous research has particularly looked at the chances for survival of events like heart attacks and major surgery, as well as more long-standing conditions like heart failure and high blood pressure.
The clearest finding from those studies was that people who were underweight had the worst survival rates.
Both the new study from New York University (NYU) and previous work, recognize that diseases and general declining health can lead to wasting or the deterioration of muscle and fat tissue as people get sicker.
The underlying assumption, then, is that overweight and obese people have more tissue to lose, and, therefore, more time to live. The paradox is akin to starvation survival principles that suggest that more fat means more calories to burn for energy, and more energy means better survival rates.
Given that many diseases result in wasting at the end of life, the notion that extra catabolic reserve can prolong survival makes intuitive sense, said Dr Chang.
But according to the new study, the theory doesnt really hold water.
Previous studies have looked at the weights and conditions of people with existing cardiovascular diseases, categorizing subjects as obese or not based only on their reporting of their weights and body mass indexes after diagnosis.
Because disease can lead to both wasting and death, the NYU researchers figured that these categories might be misleading.
Obesity is also known to force the heart to work harder, meaning that overweight and obese people who have very serious conditions are more likely to die shortly after diagnosis, missing the window for study, while more robust obese people are more likely to live long enough to be signed up for research.
So Chang and her team looked at data collected since 1992 on more than 30,000 people over 50.
To account for wasting and a selection bias, they compared pre-diagnosis weights to survival outcomes for recently diagnosed people, and current weights to survival outcomes for people who had been living with chronic heart diseases for some time.
Just as in previous research, the NYU study found that obese people who had long had pre-existing heart conditions had between 18 and 36 per cent lower risks of death than people of other weights.
But, when the compared survival rates for the same conditions using pre-diagnosis weights, the obesity paradox disappeared, and being overweight provided no survival advantage.
In other words, those who were obese and then got diagnosed with a chronic heart disease were no more likely to survive than others. Those whose current weights were normal after their diagnosis may well have been obese to begin with and simply were declining.
Removing the long-term disease and current weight comparison essentially leveled the playing field, according to the authors.
The loss of an obesity paradox when switching from prevalent to incident cases and pre-diagnosis weight in the same dataset suggests that prevalent models are likely biased by factors such as disease-related weight loss and selective survival, Dr Chang said.
-dailymail.co.uk
==============================
## Title: Is the Test series the making for Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: TEST SERIES REVIEW
## Section: Sports
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
TEST SERIES REVIEW
Is the Test series the making for Sri Lanka
DELHI, Saturday  Having suffered an ignominious 3-0 whitewash at home against India, Sri Lanka somewhat improved on that record to hold the number one ranked Test side to a 1-0 margin when the two sides met for the second time in three months in back to back series.
Virat Kohli Man of the Series with 610 runs.
The timing of the series so quickly did not seem a good advertisement for cricket in India and it was expressed in no uncertain terms by their captain Virat Kohli who called for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to give his players some breathing space when scheduling international cricket fixtures.
In fact this Test series was originally scheduled to take place in around March next year but Sri Lanka Cricket wanted to celebrate the countrys 70th year of Independence with a tri-series named the Nidahas Trophy involving India and Bangladesh in March and thus the tour was brought forward to December cramping the Indian international schedule.
However as interim coach Nic Pothas pointed playing back to back Test series with the top side in the world (despite the poor results) was advantageous to the struggling Sri Lanka side as it would only improve their performances individually and as a team.
I think these two series back to back against India is going to be the making for Sri Lanka. When you play against quality teams under pressure, you become better, Pothas said after the rain-hit first Test of the series ended in a draw at Eden Gardens, Kolkata.
India with the tour of South Africa in January in mind prepared a green track at Kolkata for the first time that nearly proved their undoing as Sri Lanka with their limited bowling resources ran through their powerful batting to put them out for 172 and then gain a first innings lead of 122. However India fought back in the second inning via a century from their captain to put the pressure back on Sri Lanka who managed to hold onto a draw at 75/7.
Having got the scare of their lives the pitches prepared for the next two Tests at Nagpur and Delhi hardly came close to the Kolkata track. All talks of making pitches to prepare for South Africa were thrown out of the window as India resorted to tracks that were more suitable to their spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. These two top ranked spinners took 13 wickets between them at Nagpur to fashion out Indias biggest Test win by an innings and 239 runs. At the same time the margin of defeat was also Sri Lanka largest in their history.
In this Test the ghosts of Sri Lankas batting debacle in the three Tests at home where they were whitewashed returned as they were bundled out for substandard totals of 205 and 166. Only skipper Dinesh Chandimal stood out scoring twin fifties but as former captain Angelo Mathews had pointed out on an earlier occasion one cannot win Test matches scoring fifties, but at least one or two batsmen must make it big by scoring hundreds.
Mathews as the senior batsman in the team was under pressure to deliver. Coming to the third and final Test at Delhi he had scored just one fifty in four innings  hardly the inspiration for the rest of the side.
Sri Lanka had a few problems in their batting to sort out  the openers were not seeing the new ball off and the middle order was getting exposed to the fast bowlers who were still fresh and bowling their first spells. There was also the crucial no. 3 spot where Lahiru Thirimanne given another opportunity to seal it failed miserably scoring 90 runs in four innings.
The situation required a few changes to the batting order for the final Test at Delhi and Sri Lanka who had gone with a 6-5 combination for the first two Tests decided to strengthen their batting which had been their bane and opted for an extra batsman at the expense of an all-rounder Dasun Shanaka who had played in the first two Tests.
Sri Lanka capped Roshen Silva who had been a heavy scorer in domestic competitions and was in the Test squads for the series against Pakistan and India without getting a break. They also gave the no. 3 spot to Dhananjaya de Silva who had gained selection along with Silva for this series following their good performances for Sri Lanka A on their tour to West Indies.
These two batsmen starred in helping Sri Lanka to an honourable draw in the third Test at Delhi despite the nasty experience of having to inhale polluted air, after India had set them a daunting target of 410 to chase. De Silva batting fluently and at times showing glimpses of arguably the best batsman produced by Sri Lanka Aravinda de Silva in his stroke play went onto complete a fighting century before he was forced to retire hurt with glute tightness in his left leg when he and Roshen Silva were carrying Sri Lanka towards safety.
If India thought that they had an opening with De Silvas retirement to get to the rest of the Lankan batting they were in for a surprise for Silva showing great reserves of concentration and skill along with Niroshan Dickwella batted out the rest of the overs to ensure a draw.
Silva after a third-ball duck in the first innings to the start of his Test career went onto score a defiant 74 not out to join a small band of Lankan cricketers who had been dismissed for a duck and scored a fifty in the second innings on their debut  Roy Dias, Athula Samarasekara and Dimuth Karunaratne.
Silva was to relate later that it was the experience of playing in the A series in the Caribbean that stood him and Dhananjaya de Siva in good stead during tough times against India.
No one saw that West Indies series. But that was a massive challenge. It was as tough as India. Dhananjaya was superb in that series. First match we were beaten. There were two pacies who were bowling at 145kmph and one guy was bowling at 140kmph. There were two good spinners as well. The challenge there was huge. You cant simply explain. I think the three knocks that I played in West Indies helped me to get a spot here. said Silva.
This was the fighting spirit that was lacking in the Lankan batting and it was given an injection by the captain Chandimal who set an example to the rest of the batters with a monumental knock of 164 in eight minutes under eight hours in the first innings that enabled Sri Lanka to avoid the follow-on and force India to bat again. Chandimal didnt put a foot wrong during that innings and it inspired his former captain Mathews to come out of his poor run of scores with a long overdue Test century after two years. Mathews was fortunate during his knock but he deserved every bit of luck to see him through to his century that would have lifted a heavy load off his shoulders.
Dhananjaya de Silva century on comeback to Test cricket.
Sri Lanka managed to dismiss Kohli cheaply only once in the first innings of the series for a rare duck at Kolkata, after that the Indian skipper was in his element reeling off an unbeaten century in the second innings and following it up with back to double centuries and a fifty to boot. He was certainly in a different league compared to the rest of his team mates and it was no surprise when he walked away with the Man of the Series award with a handsome aggregate of 610 at a Bradmanesque average of 152.50.
Although Sri Lankas main bowler Rangana Herath didnt make much of an impression in the first two Tests he played picking up only a solitary wicket for 115 runs, his fitness is something that Sri Lanka will have to monitor very closely. He is not getting any younger at 39 and it is the second time in successive Test series that Herath has been forced out of a Test with back stiffness.
Asanka Gurusinha the Lankan cricket manager said that Herath used to get the stiffness whenever he tries to bowl a bit quicker than he usually does. The pitch at Nagpur required that kind of effort because it was slow and Herath sent down 39 overs as India racked up 610-6.
Off-spinner Dilruwan Perera has been Heraths spin partner for quite a number of years but he too is on the wrong side of 35 and although fit how long he will continue is a matter of conjecture. In the circumstances Sri Lanka are trying to groom Lakshan Sandakan the left-armer who bowls chinaman. Sandakan can become a match winner provided he is consistent with his lines and lengths which he will have to work hard at. Muthiah Muralitharan was such a great spinner for Sri Lanka because he could bowl almost all six balls in one spot. There is also the uncapped 27-year-old right-arm leg-spinner Jeffrey Vandersay and left-arm spinner Malinda Pushpakumara who broke into the Test circuit in August against India at the age of 30.
On the fast bowling side Sri Lanka are well served with a battery of fast-medium bowlers headed by Suranga Lakmal, Lahiru Gamage, Nuwan Pradeep, Vishwa Fernando, Dushmantha Chameera, Lahiru Kumara and Dasun Shanaka.
The return of Kusal Perera and Asela Gunaratne from injuries and with Kusal Mendis waiting on the wings to make a comeback after rectifying his batting mistakes, the return of Dhananjaya de Silva and the introduction to Test cricket of young Sadeera Samarawickrama and Roshen Silva not forgetting Kaushal Silva the Lankan batting line-up is not only going to be exciting but very competitive for places which is the success of any international team. Chandika Hathurusinhga has timed his arrival as head coach to perfection.
The Indian team retained their no. 1 status with their 1-0 series win. 
==============================
## Title: Three carrying tramadol arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Three carrying tramadol arrested
The Police on Saturday arrested two men and a woman with 70,000 tramadol tablets at Wariyapola.
The three suspects travelling in a car were apprehended near the Wariyapola bus depot after police found 70,000 tramadol hidden inside the vehicle.
Several were arrested recently for selling tramadol as intoxicants to schoolchildren.
The seized tramadol stock is believed to have a street value of over Rs. 2 million.
The two men aged 49 and 50 and the woman aged 39 are residents of Mannar, Nattandiya and Negombo. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: 'Time is of the essence,' UN official says after North Korea visit
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 09:10
'Time is of the essence,' UN official says after North Korea visit
Tensions on the Korean Peninsula are the world's most dangerous security issue, and must be resolved fast and diplomatically to avoid war, a top United Nations envoy said after a rare visit to North Korea.
Jeffrey Feltman, the UN under-secretary-general for political affairs, visited the reclusive nation between Tuesday and Friday, the first trip there by a top UN official in six years.
During his visit, he met with Ri Yong Ho, the North Korean minister for foreign affairs. Their meeting came at a particularly tense time -- a week after North Korea tested an advance long-range missile and South Korea conducted military drills with its ally, the United States.
Ri and Feltman "agreed that the current situation was the most tense and dangerous peace and security issue in the world today," theUN said in a statement.
Feltman stressed the need for relevant Security Council resolutions to be implemented, saying a diplomatic solution could be achieved through sincere dialogue.
In a statement to journalists, he said there's an "urgent need to prevent miscalculations and open channels to reduce the risks of conflict." He emphasized that the international community is alarmed by escalating tensions, and is committed to a peaceful resolution.
"Time is of the essence," he said.
Missiles and drills
North Korea remains technically at war with its neighbor South Korea after the Korean War ended in armistice but not peace in 1953.
Feltman's trip coincided with the annual Vigilante 18 military drill held by the US and South Korea, which the US Air Force says is designed to boost the "combat effectiveness" of the alliance.
North Korea's state media described the drills as "joint air war exercises targeting the DPRK," a reference to North Korea's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
The drills came after Pyongyang test-fired a Hwasong-15 missile November 29.
It was North Korea's first ballistic missile test since September. The Hwasong-15 is believed to be its most dangerous and technologically advanced long-range ballistic missile, and demonstrated a range of around 13,000 kilometers (8,000 miles), which puts most of the planet in range. North Korean state media purports it can carry a "super-large heavy warhead."
UN in North Korea
Feltman's visit to North Korea was a response to a "long standing invitation" from Pyongyang authorities for policy dialogue, the UN said ahead of the visit.
The last senior UN official to visit North Korea was emergency relief coordinator Valerie Amos in October 2011, according to the UN. The last time an undersecretary-general for political affairs visited the country was in February 2010.
Six UN agencies are represented in North Korea, staffed by a team of about 50 people from across the globe, the UN said in a statement.
Feltman visited several UN projects in North Korea, including a pediatric hospital and Tuberculosis prevention institute.
The former American diplomat is a key adviser to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on global peace and security issues. He spent nearly 30 years at the US State Department before joining the UN in 2012.
China calls for peace
China's foreign minister Wang Yi said Saturdaythere was still hope for peace on the Korean Peninsula.
China has repeatedly called for a de-escalation of tensions on the Korean Peninsula, including a freeze in the North Korean nuclear program in exchange for the halt of United States and South Korean military drills.
China's official Xinhua news agency reported that Wang again raised the "suspension for suspension" proposal at an international relations conference Saturday.
"(Wang) noted that the situation on the Korean Peninsula is still deep in a vicious circle of demonstrating strength and confrontation, and the outlook is not optimistic," Xinhua said. "He said that all parties need to make efforts to ease the situation and bring the situation out of the 'black hole' of confrontation."
==============================
## Title: Trains to run
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:05
Trains to run
Railway commuters were greatly inconvenienced when the train strike went on for the third consecutive day. Commuters were seen trying to board any available train which would take them close to their destination as possible. Packed to the brim, commuters boarded trains from the window while women held on for dear life clinging on to footboards. Based on the performance report of Sri Lanka Railways, more than 133 million passengers had travelled by train in 2016 alone. Pictures by Saman Mendis  
The ongoing islandwide train strike which has left many commuters stranded whilst crippling essential services, may end today.
Trade union activists said that they may agree to call off the strike due to the GCE Ordinary Level Examination which begins tomorrow.
On Saturday, the government declared the railway service as an essential service, which meant that those obstructing the provision of the railway services can be tried under the Essential Services Act. According to the legal provisions those convicted under the Act can be liable to two years rigorous imprisonment.
The Cabinet is expected to discuss this matter tomorrow.
Discussions between railway trade unions and the Presidents Secretary Austin Fernando concluded with the trade unions deciding to continue the strike.
Sri Lanka Railways Spokesman said they expect that railway workers will report back to work today, since their leave has been cancelled, with the declaration of the railway as an essential service.
We expect that railway trade unions will call off their strike action today considering the inconvenience caused to students sitting the G.C.E. Ordinary Level Examination, he added.
Sri Lanka Railways Additional General Manager (Operation) Vijaya Samarasinghe said he was confident that the Locomotive Engineering Operations Union (LEOU) and the Railway Employees Joint Front will call off their trade union action.
He said that the trade unions had sought a meeting with Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam to discuss their current trade union action in relation to the commencement of Ordinary Level Examination.
Samarasinghe said the strikers have expressed some concerns regarding their job safety and security as well. Samarasinghe said the strikers shouldnt worry about their security, since Sri Lanka Railways is a government institution. He stressed that the Railways Department safeguards workers rights and ensures no harm come to those who participate in the trade union action.
Samarasinghe added that Sri Lanka Transport Boards contribution and cooperation to minimize the discomfort caused by the trade union action, was commendable. He pointed out that the SLTB provided an efficient service for the commuters adding that railway season tickets were made valid to travel in SLTB buses.
On Sunday, trade union activists who spoke to the Daily News cited that they would momentarily end their strike due to the GCE O/L Examinations so that students will not be inconvenienced.
Meanwhile, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam has requested the LEOU to call off the strike considering the difficulties that it will cause the students sitting the O/L examination. Minister Kariyawasam has made the request from the trade unions at a meeting held at his residence yesterday (10). Minister Kariyawasam has also informed the strikers that he will put across their issues and demands to responsible parties.
The Minister pointed out to the strikers that the trade union action will cause distress to the students.
Minister Kariyawasam expressed confidence that the trade unions will give a positive response to his request.
Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva on the main demand made by LEOU said in keeping with the governments new recruitment procedure it has been decided to recruit Locomotive Driver Assistants through a competitive examination by upgrading the required educational qualifications.
This measure was taken to provide driver training to the assistants so that they could substitute the official train driver in case of any emergency. The locomotive drives who threatened Railway authorities over this decision for the past several days, have launched a strike inconveniencing the public, Minister de Silva pointed out.
The constant argument put forward by locomotive drivers was that assistants need not have a higher educational qualification. If not they could not keep the assistants under their control. Anyone would understand that this was an unjust and unfair demand, he said.
The driver assistants union had filed a petition in the supreme court against this injustice and the Attorney General had consequently ordered them to consequently conduct an examination. As Minister, he was not in a position to violate a court order issued through the Attorney-General, Minister de Silva also said.
The Minister also said the Railway Employees Joint Front too had come out to support the drivers strike by launching a strike on their part based on a salary anomaly issue. Station masters, guards and supervisors were involved in this strike. The Minister said he had already submitted a Cabinet memorandum on resolving the salary anomaly issue.
The Cabinet had submitted it to the Cabinet Advisory Committee for guidelines. When taking decisions about salary anomaly issues it was mandatory for the Cabinet to submit it to the Cabinet Advisory Committee. It would take several days for it to take a decision. It is on this issue that the Railway Employees Joint Front joined the strike causing great inconvenience to the public, Minister de Silva added.
Minister de Silva also said that he condemns the strike in his capacity as the Minister of Transport, but said that he wishes to grant reasonable demands by listening to the strikers.
The Minister said he never intends to stifle trade unions. Therefore, he would earnestly request union leaders to call off the strike and report back to work and resolve their problems through negotiation. If union members failed to report to work, they would be considered as vacating their posts.
==============================
## Title: Tried & Tasted with Walter Wuthmann : The Sooriya Village
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Shows
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 15:51
Tried & Tasted with Walter Wuthmann : The Sooriya Village

==============================
## Title: Tusker electrocuted, farmer arrested
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Monday, December 11, 2017 - 01:00
Tusker electrocuted, farmer arrested
A farmer was arrested by Moragoda police for allegedly killing a 9-foot tusker by electrocuting it at Alagollewa, Moragoda.
He was remanded till December 15 when he was produced before Kekirawa Acting Magistrate M.A. Koswatte on Saturday.
The suspect was identified as Samarakoongedara Pradeep Shiran (28) of Galenbindunuwewa, Moragoda.
Moragoda Police informed court that the suspect was arrested following a complaint made by an officer attached to the Ritigala office of the Wildlife Department.
Investigations revealed that the suspect owned a paddy field and a sorghum cultivation adjoining his residence. He had drawn a live wire from his water pump of the well and connected it to the wire fence around his cultivation.
The tusker that came to invade his field had got electrocuted when it kept its trunk to the fence.
Police said the tusker had a pair of tusks about 2.10 feet in length. Veterinary surgeon V. Giridaran, who held the post mortem, had reported that the elephant died of electrocution.
==============================