## Title: Making Lanka great
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Making Lanka great
Rationalists say that the average human tendency is to copy one way or the other, when one desires an immediate answer or an outcome but have not worked for it. Obviously Lankans are no exceptions. Its often a kind of automatic sharing of a free environment.
Equality of humans and acceptance of common ethical beliefs morally entitles us to use each others outcomes as our own. Since the arising of the Buddha, various religious leaders emerged among humans showed the equality of all humans. Hence, such belief based ethical outcomes belong to a common pool. When others moral outcomes are taken, without accepting the common belief of human identity, then naturally that will be challenged and leads to conflict and war. A system without equality of humans and such regulations, we tend to develop human jungles.
President Mahinda Rajapaksa brought his brother Gotabhaya Rajapaksa from USA to eliminate the LTTE  not to follow rules but to break them where needed by his side. Their argument was Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe made a blunder by signing a peace agreement on the basis of equality of humans. Such Buddhist principles are fraudulent they said. They needed to invoke the animal in their army to defeat the LTTE who freed themselves from the limits of Common Laws of Sri Lanka.
Human ethics
Mahinda forgot that laws are not ethics of humans but social agreements. To that extent they became animalistic. The awareness of this challenge faced by Mahinda Rajapaksa was strongly indicated by Norwegian Minister Erik Solheim who quoted Mahinda Rajapaksa in reference to the LTTE Leader He is from the jungles of the North. I am from the jungles of the South. Lets see who will win!
Laws do not represent human ethics, the need to act based on meththa, karuna, muditha and upekka. But Laws do restrict our cleverness. They also help us share our wealth through our common values. Such sharing is important in development of heirs who would carry forward and laterally spread our humanistic experience. Heritage and teachings confirm this commonness.
While Mahinda, as said above, violated ethical way forward, LTTE also violated the connection to heritage by method of terror, excluding mass participation, oppressing helpless kith and kin. However the peace agreement with Prime Minister Wickremesinghe compelled them to come out and make proposal for open participation in an appointed government. Mahinda and his gang by violent action in the south removed the possibility of implementation of this peace agreement. During this period TNA supported the peace agreement thus making LTTE indirectly the sole representative of Tamils.
The above is the only argument for the LTTEs claim that they were the sole-representatives of the Tamil Community, while claiming to oppose the elected government accepted by world community. In Marxist terms too struggle of the oppressed should be open to the proletariat and the oppressed. That is why Tamils too say the above is a lie because the author does not have a position that represents a whole nation. In formal democracy, the entire nation can question only through a referendum or through Lawful Policy carried out unanimously by all their elected members.
Violence against minorities
The above confirms the existence of latent terrorism in media and political campaigns in the Sinhala society. Time to time this latent power burst out with violence against minorities in Lanka. If LTTE were terrorists for doing so then so is the media and the political campaigns that are terrorizing Democracy. It is therefore disappointing to note the lack of depth demonstrated by private media and Sinhala hegemonistic political campaigns. However, now Tamils generally say that in selection of officers for powerful positions in the state, the Yahapalanaya has shown commonness to all Lankans. That is how natural structures should be shared.
Yahapalanaya as a government elected by the democratic people had to represent their true aim as Lankan oppressed and confirm that they could win even in a disorderly environment; disturbed by racism. Through this natural selection  Yahapalanaya also invoked all those who have invested in multi-culturalism from various parts of the world and in Lanka from the past too. It is common understanding among Tamils that had the LTTE not sold out their voting rights  Ranil Wickremesinghe would have become President in 2005 and all together would have prevented the 2009 tragedy which has now become a dark global picture.
The Good Governance
In Sri Lanka, it is still possible the government we elect paving for the triumph of tribalism and the return of the strong man. Like The Donald of US, we too have Mahinda and Gotabhaya, promising to make Lanka Great again, by making it a Rajapaksa- Regime, again.
The Good Governance government is not so good! Still, the right to criticize, to oppose remain, and occasionally achieves something worthwhile  like parliamentarians deciding not to avail themselves of a pay hike. Ven. Galagoda Aththe Gnanasara Thera has been sentenced to prison, because judicial independence has been restored to some degree.
If the Rajapaksas return, one of their first tasks will be to cow the judiciary into submission again.
The independent audit commission has finally being sworn in. That was thanks to the 19th Amendment, which will be thrown aside, if the Rajapaksas return.
We do not want fascistic governance again.

==============================
## Title: Man injured in shooting
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Man injured in shooting
A man was injured when unidentified men on a motorcycle shot him near the Jumma Masjid Junction in Maligawatte yesterday morning.
The victim (33) is a brother of underworld leader Mohamed Asmil, who was killed in 2013.
A woman (31) from Maligawatte was shot at at the same place on August 6.
Maligawatte police are investigating.
==============================
## Title: Market Statistics on 30-08-2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Market Statistics on 30-08-2018
==============================
## Title: Meghan goes mini!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Meghan goes mini!
The Duchess of Sussex flashes her legs in a thigh-skimming 327 Judith and Charles tuxedo dress for charity performance of hit musical Hamilton in London before show-stopper Harry bursts into SONG on stage
The Duchess of Sussex looked stunning in a thigh-skimming tuxedo dress as she joined Prince Harry for a special charity performance of hit musical Hamilton tonight.
The royal couple beamed as they spoke to guests inside the foyer of the Victoria Palace Theatre, London, after being ushered inside through the stage door.
Meghan, 37, showed off her toned legs in a 327 dress by Canadian label Judith and Charles and Paul Andrew pumps for the occasion, while her husband Harry, 33, looked smart in a suit and tie.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were introduced to the show's award-winning creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda, and his wife Vanessa Nadal before the group took their seats in the theatre's Royal Circle.
Prince Harry then took to the stage with the cast where he burst into song himself with a rendition of You'll Be Back - sung by the character of his ancestor George III in the musical.
The event, which marks the royals' first public appearance in a month, is being held to benefit Prince Harry's charity Sentebale, which works with children and young people affected by HIV in southern Africa.
dailymail
==============================
## Title: Myanmar dam flooding displaces thousands
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Myanmar dam flooding displaces thousands
MYANMAR: Rescuers in boats negotiated muddy waters on Thursday to reach thousands stranded in central Myanmar after a dam overflowed, sending a torrent of water across farmland and villages.
No casualties have yet been reported but state media said more than 63,000 people in Bago region were affected after the Swar Chaung dam overflowed early Wednesday morning.
The dams spillway, a structure that controls the release of more than 20,000 cubic metres of water held in Swar Chaungs levee, was broken by seasonal rainfall.
It is the second major flood caused by damage to dam in weeks in the region, after at least 35 people were killed, scores left missing and thousands displaced by a collapsed hydropower facility in neighbouring Laos.
AFP reporters in Bago province saw soldiers sporting orange life jackets employed to rescue the stranded, steering tin boats to waiting villagers huddled on mudflats.
Trucks were lodged in murky waters while roads had buckled under the weight of the waters, which continued to flow across the villages.
Reeling from the loss of his home, Wai Lin Aung, 27, said there was no warning from authorities on what to do after the dam overflowed.
No one told us what we needed to do so we just monitored the water levels and as the situation became worse, we just ran, he told AFP, adding that he had stayed at a monastery overnight.
How can I feel comfortable seeing my house destroyed I have nowhere to live and nothing to eat. Myanmar experiences a monsoon season that goes from June to November, but locals in Yedashe township said that they have never witnessed such a torrent of water.
It was like something we couldnt believe, Phyu Thi, 35, said.
The heavy weight of the floods also fractured part of a bridge on the Yangon-Mandalay highway linking Myanmars two biggest cities, throwing the countrys traffic artery into disarray.
Minister of Construction Han Zaw said Thursday that 500 people are working to fix the road, which will take about two days.
(We) are trying to get the situation of transportation back to normal as much as we can, Han Zaw said.
Currently more than 12,600 people have taken shelter in about 30 temporary camps, but many others are at a loss for what to do.
Kyi Win, 46, managed to return to his village to check on the state of his home but said he will continue staying in a temporary shelter.
Some of the houses are completely destroyed, he said, explaining that the toilet of his house has been wrecked. For now, Ill stay (at the monastery) because I cant come back here. The deluge comes just weeks after heavy monsoon rains pummelled Myanmar, causing widespread flash floods that forced some 150,000 people to flee their homes.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: The Nautical Institute holds  annual awards ceremony
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
The Nautical Institute holds  annual awards ceremony
The Nautical Institute (NI) is an international representative body for Maritime and provides a wide range of services to enhance the professional knowledge of members who are drawn from all sectors of the maritime world.
To provide the strongest possible professional focus, dedicated to improving standards of those involved in control of seagoing craft, while maintaining the Institute as an international centre of nautical excellence.
As a part of the NI Sri Lanka branch activities, the second branch annual awards (BAA) ceremony was held recently, together with the branchs twenty fifth AGM, at the Colombo Lighthouse Galley. Each of the five selected recipients of the BAA received a plaque, a certificate and NI membership for one year sponsored by the branch.
The awards were presented to three Officers of the Merchant Navy who have obtained the highest aggregate marks for the professional subjects in the CoC examinations conducted by the office of the Director General of Merchant Shipping of Sri Lanka in 2017, along with the two best midshipmen for 2017; one from the Sri Lanka Navy and the other from the Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
The BAA was supported by NI HQ offering a special discount on the membership fees to the Branch for the award winners. The following seafarers were recognized and presented with the awards. Master RajithaD.Semage, Chief Mate K.K. Maduranga, NWKO : A.P.P. Rajakaruna, Best Midshipman from the Sri Lanka Navy Executive Branch H. V. Kotelawala. The best Midshipman from the Sir John Kotalawela Defence University was H.A.I.D. Hettiarachchi.
The 25thAGM of the Ni Sri Lanka branch was held in Colombo recently and the following office bearers and executive committee were appointed for the year 2018/19.
Professor Capt. NalakaJayakody FNI- Chairman, Capt.Rohan Codipilly MNI Vice Chairman,
Capt.Nirmal Silva AFNI - Vice Chairman, Capt. Nish Wijayakulathilaka AFNI  Secretary, Capt. Kanchana Dolapihilla AFNI  Treasurer, Capt. Mahesh Kuruppu AFNI - Asst. Secretary and Lalith Ekanayake MNI - Asst. Treasurer.
==============================
## Title: No decision to charge children at CMC parks - Deputy Mayor
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
No decision to charge children at CMC parks - Deputy Mayor
Colombos Deputy Mayor M.T.M Iqbal refuted media reports that the CMC had decided to impose a fee on children entering the council run parks yesterday.
He said that CMC had not taken any such decision no member in the council had made a such proposal.The news report is misleading, he said.
Iqbal said the Council was discussing to impose a fee on children using the electric cars maintained by a private company at the children park in Crow Island. We were discussing on a how fixed rate can be introduced, he said.
Colombo Municipal Commissioner V. K.Anura told the Daily News that there is no truth in these media reports and the Council had not taken any decision to impose fees on children entering the Children Parks belonging to the Colombo Municipal Council.
==============================
## Title: obituaries
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Obituaries
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
obituaries
GUNASEKERA - KALYANI - Beloved wife of Nihal Gunasekera (former Lyceum International Physics Teacher). Beloved mother of Ravindra and Tanisha, mother-in-law of Sandamalee Lenawalagedara and Chathura Mendis, peacefully passed away on 28.08.2018. Remains lie at Barney Raymonds Funeral Parlour. Cortege leaves the Parlour on Saturday 1st September 2018 at 4.00 p.m. for General Cemetery, Borella for cremation at 4.30 p.m. (New Crematorium).098962
SILVA - SRIYANI - Loving daughter of late Albert and late Vinitia, loving sister of late Percy, late Asoka, late Tissa and Nihal, loving sister-in-law of late Noeline, Gail and Rathnavalie, expired. Cortege leaves residence Pare Gedara, Katana for burial grounds, Halpe at 3.30 p.m. on Saturday the 1st September 2018.098590
SILVESTI - DAISY KALA - (formerly of Holy Family Convent Bambalapitiya Music Department). Beloved daughter of late Mr and Mrs. S.N. Silvisti and sister of late Robert. Remains will lie at No. 601/8, Havelock Road, (Gomes Place), Colombo 06 from Friday August 31st. Prayer service will be held at 3 p.m. on 31st August. Cortege leaves at 3.30 p.m. for burial at the General Cemetery, Borella (R.C. Section). Informed by Ms Ranie Mary Pathmadevi.099217
SIRIMANE - KAMALA (Nee SENEVIRATNE) - Wife of late Edgar Sirimane of Bellanthara, mother of Anura, Renuka, Lilanthi & late Nelufer, mother-in-law of Bimbika, Bandula, Lance, expired. Remains lie at Jayarathne Funeral Parlour. Cremation at 5 p.m. on Saturday 1st September at Borella Cemetery.099098
THERESE GONSAL nee GOMEZ - At Rest with Jesus. Beloved wife of late Fredrick Gonsal, mother of Ranjani (Australia), Romula and Annette, mother-in-law of late Roger Gomez, Errol Perumal and Joe Miranda, beloved sister of late Gasparammal Motha, late Emily Alvares, late Alex Gomez, late Scholastica Miranda, late Regina Paiva, late Rev. Fr. Peter Gomez (S.J.), late Joe Gomez and Christine Pereira (Australia), loving sister-in-law of Stella Gomez. Remains will lie at A.F. Raymonds Funeral Parlour on Friday 31st August, from 10.00 a.m. onwards. Cortege leaves Parlour on Saturday 1st September at 10.00 a.m. for burial at General Cemetery Kanatte (R.C. Section).098169

==============================
## Title: Oracle Cloud supports Lankan companies in Their Race to Transform and Innovate
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Oracle Cloud supports Lankan companies in Their Race to Transform and Innovate
Three of Sri Lankas most prominent companies shared how they are transforming their businesses and accelerating the adoption of the latest innovations thanks to the use of Oracle Cloud Applications, during a recent media showcase.
The event, which focused on cloud-driven innovation, saw participants hearing directly from key business leaders about their experience of how modern cloud offering are helping them transform and embrace innovation as a result of being able to increase business agility, lower costs and reduce IT complexity.
Attendees also learned how Oracle Cloud  the broadest and most integrated cloud solution in the industry enables these businesses to take advantage of innovative technologies to enable seamless expansion of their business prowess to the next level.
The speed of innovation can be daunting and rapidly shifting consumer expectations continue to change the game. This means successfully growing a business has never been harder, said Chandita Samaranayake, Head of Applications at Oracle  Sri Lanka, Indochina, and the Maldives. To navigate this change and help Sri Lankan business leaders create breakthrough experiences, Oracle Cloud offers customers trusted business applications, empowering them to overcome the barriers to growth and successfully scale by delivering industry best practices,
Sri Lankan organizations drive innovation on Cloud
Leading Sri Lankan organisations including Millennium Information Technologies (MillenniumIT ESP), MAS and McLaren Group shared details of the business benefits they continue to realise, because of the transformational power of Oracle Cloud Applications.
MillenniumIT ESP
MillenniumIT ESP is one of Sri Lankas leading information system integrators providing a wide array of solutions, services and IT integrated products to many industries. Incorporated in the year 1996, MillenniumIT ESP has evolved, as one of the largest IT Infrastructure solution providers in Sri Lanka.
The company is reputed for supporting a range of customers including all banks, telecommunication service providers, apparel manufacturers, leading conglomerates here in Sri Lanka and overseas, and has also received various excellence, innovation and performance-based awards globally.
In December 2017, Ambeon Holdings PLC  a Holding and Management company, acquired MillenniumIT ESP. With over 3500 employees, the Ambeon Group is a medium sized conglomerate reputed for its market dominance in the areas of financial services, manufacturing, real estate and strategic investments.
Todays businesses are faced with unprecedented changes that demand a rethink of traditional enterprise management processes and models, said Rahal Jayawardene, Head of Technology Alliances and Innovation  Millennium Information Technologies (Pvt) Ltd.
To be effective in this new operating environment, business leaders need to drive operations with confidence, monitor results continuously, and course correct with agility. The latest additions to Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning Cloud are empowering our organization to embrace change and take advantage by providing us with end-to-end solutions we needed without any need for customization to fully embrace Oracles cloud capabilities. This has enabled Millennium IT ESP to embrace industry best practices, connect disparate applications, improved productivity and decision-making to capitalize on opportunities faster than any other industry player.
MAS
MAS Holdings is a US$ 1.8bn conglomerate and one of the worlds most recognized Designto-Delivery solution providers in the realm of apparel and textile manufacturing. The organization is headquartered in Sri Lanka with 53 manufacturing facilities across 16 countries, and design locations placed in key style centers across the globe with over 98,000 people involved in its operation.
Human Resources (HR) teams have traditionally had to pick between simplicity and performance when selecting new technologies. To accelerate innovation, improve productivity and successfully prepare for the future of work, HR can no longer make this trade-off. Instead, they need to apply new strategies and technologies that attract, engage and retain employees, said Ushaan Abeywickrema, General Manager, Group Human Resources.
Ushaan further said, We needed a global solution from a vendor with international experience that would help standardize our processes. The latest innovations within Oracle HCM Cloud have enabled us to address these challenges by providing simple, powerful solutions that can proactively anticipate and respond to changing employee and workforce needs. Oracle Applications will help optimize our talent management acquisition process, provide complete workforce insights, increase operational efficiency and make it easy for everyone to connect, collaborate, and do their jobfrom anywhere, on any device.
McLarens Group
McLarens Group is well-established across shipping, marine and logistics industry. It is a brand synonymous with the shipping industry of Sri Lanka.
It is the partner of choice for several multinationals with commercial interests in the island.
While shipping, marine services and logistics remain at the heart of the group, the company has established a lead market presence in bunkering, oil and gas services, manufacturing, lubricants trading and distribution, property development, hotel and leisure services as well as food and beverages and other strategic investments.
We evaluated multiple vendors, but felt that Oracle is uniquely positioned to help us with a comprehensive offering we needed. By upgrading to the latest Oracle Cloud applications, we will be able to increase our agility by transforming the way we consolidate all our financial details, said Umeshi de Fonseka Group Head (General Manager) of ICT & Digital Business at McLarens Group of Companies.
Once successfully deployed we will be able to streamline processes and enjoy greater visibility to business insights and analytics, and help us make informed business decisions in a timely manner. The deployment will also increase business transformation efforts of the Group, enabling us to maintain data integrity, accuracy and consistency.
Other Highlights:
The event also gave participants an insight into Oracles latest product innovation Oracle Soar, the worlds first automated enterprise cloud application upgrade product that will enable Oracle customers to reduce the time and cost of cloud migration by up to 30 percent.
By providing a complete set of automated tools and proven cloud transition methodologies, Samaranayake highlighted that the new Soar to the Cloud solution can enable customers with applications running on premises to upgrade to Oracle Cloud Applications in as little as 20 weeks.
At the event, Samaranayake said Sri Lanka has witnessed tremendous growth in its cloud transformation drive over the last few years. From financial institutions to telecommunications, apparel manufacturers to blue chip companies, local businesses have come on board for faster innovation and business transformation through cloud applications.
The shift to cloud is real and it is making most enterprises re-evaluate their architecture and application landscape. Sri Lanka has made major strides towards becoming a cloud-ready nation and we are witnessing more and more organizations gradually migrating their business processes and data to the cloud.
Oracle offers a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of cloud applications and platform services.
==============================
## Title: Organic fertiliser to be analysed
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Organic fertiliser to be analysed
Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera yesterday instructed the National Fertilizer Secretariat to conduct scientific research on the chemical content of organic fertiliser made out of municipal waste.
During a progress review meeting held at the Ministry yesterday, Minister Amaraweera gave this instruction following a number of complaints received by the Ministry from certain groups which claimed that the organic fertilisers contain high levels of cadmium.
Encouraging farmers to engage in organic farming is a really good thing. But if they contain heavy metals, these fertilisers will badly affect the health of the people, the Minister said.
==============================
## Title: Pet Comfort
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Pet Comfort
Whether its a passenger fearful of flying, someone coping poorly with a past traumatic situation, or a student who gets nervous before taking tests, an increasing number of people are leaning on animals to provide comfort.
While such emotional support animals (ESAs) serve a genuine purpose for many people, they have stirred much controversy in recent years, notably on airplanes, such as when a woman on a cross-country flight was not at all happy when she had to sit next to a very large Dalmatian, which was on the owners lap. On another plane, a man was bitten on the face by a U.S. Marines emotional support dog. Then there was the time, in 2014, when Ivana Trump (the presidents first ex-wife) brought her miniature Yorkie into a high-end restaurant in New York City, showing a therapy animal cardbut drawing complaints from other patrons.
Numerous websites will sell you everything from a service vest for the animal and a certification card to a note from a licensed psychologist to claim your animal as an ESA. Is all this legitor just a pretense to be able to travel, eat out, shop, and sightsee with your pet, or live in housing that doesnt allow animals After all, ESAs come with perks beyond the comfort they provide, including that they get to fly in an airline cabin free of charge (as opposed to flying as checked baggage or cargo, for a fee). Heres the lowdown on this growing animal movement.
What is an emotionalsupport animal, and howis it different from aservice or therapyanimal
Also called companion animals, ESAs provide comfort to people with emotional or psychological issues, which may include depression, anxiety, social phobias, or panic attacks, for example. In contrast, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), a service animal typically refers to a dog that has been trained to do specific tasks for people with physical, psychiatric, or intellectual disabilities to help them in their day-to-day activitiessuch as a guide dog for the blind or a dog that signals when its owner is about to have a seizure. Therapy animals provide support for people affected by illness, disaster, or other stressors, such as in hospitals, nursing homes, and schools. Neither ESAs nor therapy animals are covered by ADA.
What animals canqualify as ESAs
Though ESAs are typically dogs or cats, they can be any domestic animal, including not only rabbits, mice, ferrets, and guinea pigs, but also snakes, ducks, and potbellied pigs. The only stipulations are that the animal cant be a health or safety threat to other people and the owner must be able to keep it under control in public so it doesnt become a nuisance. Also, the animal cant be one thats illegal to own, such as certain exotic or any wild animals.
What kind of training doesan ESA require
Unlike service dogs, ESAs dont require any special training to do their job: The idea is that the mere presence of the animal helps someone with an emotional disability live independently and adapt to stressful situations. In fact, a current peteven 15-year-old Fluffycan be designated an ESA as long as a licensed mental health professional affirms that it provides therapeutic benefit.
How do you get an ESA
Requirements for obtaining an ESA are fairly loosey-goosey. There are no national standards, and no registration or certification for the animal is needed. Basically, you just have to be diagnosed with a psychological condition that would benefit from having the animal. Airlines and property managers most likely will require a letter from a licensed mental health professional or medical doctor who can provide a diagnosis. It must be on letterhead and declare, among other things, the particular psychological condition you have and that the animal is important for your psychological well-being.
Can you have more than one ESA
Yes. But again, a mental health professional would have to determine if that would be beneficial. And the documentation provided would have to note what each animal is contributing to the easing of symptoms.
Can you take an ESA everywhere
To manybut not allplaces. If an apartment building, condo, or other public or privately-owned dwelling doesnt allow pets, this policy must, with some exceptions, be waived for emotionally disabled people with ESAs under the Fair Housing Act (similar to how people in wheelchairs must be accommodated for their physical disabilities). Many colleges and universities now allow ESAs on campus and in campus housing. And, as noted above, commercial airlines must accommodate passengers flying with ESAs. But restaurants, stores, taxis, buses, beaches, and libraries, for example, are not required to allow them, as they must service dogs. In other places, such as public schools, ESAs are rarely permitted.
Regarding air travel, its best to contact the airline to verify what documentation is required and whether there are any restrictions (such as size) on the animal you can bring on board. Some airlines are favoring a ban on ESAsor at least restricting the types of animals allowed. berkeleywellness
==============================
## Title: Plant power!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Plant power!
Vegetarianism is a growing trend across the globe  especially in the West - with many consumers turning to plant based diets, abstaining from animal products. Vegetarian and Vegan alternative products are gaining momentum in every category, from non-dairy milks and cheeses, to plant-based meat substitutes. UKs supermarket giant Waitrose recently added a dedicated vegan section in 134 of its stores nationwide, having taken into consideration the rising demand for vegan food among vegan consumers. The number of vegetarians in many top meat consuming countries including the USA and Australia has been steadily increasing, according to latest reports.
One may choose to be a vegetarian for a variety of reasons ranging from health concerns/ religious reasons to animal rights advocacy. Of late we have witnessed many international animal rights organisations such as PETA taking to the streets to protest against appalling animal welfare violations and barbaric methods of animal slaughter either for food or extremist religious purposes.
As recently revealed by Dr. Walter Willett, Professor of Epidemiology and Nutrition at Harvard Medical School at least one-third of early deaths could be prevented if everyone moved to a vegetarian diet. At least 200,000 lives in the UK could be saved each year if people cut meat from their diets, the study revealed.
We have just been doing some calculations looking at the question of how much could we reduce mortality shifting towards a healthy, more plant based diet, not necessarily totally vegan, and our estimates are about one third of deaths could be prevented, The Telegraph.UK quotes him as saying. But the benefits of a plant-based diet had been vastly underestimated.
Dr. Neal Barnard, President of the Committee for Responsible Medicine, a non-profit research and advocacy organisation based in Washington, D.C, also highlights the need to wake up to the health benefits of vegetarianism and veganism.
I think were underestimating the effect, he opined at the 2018 Unite to Cure Fourth International Vatican Conference in Vatican City. I think people imagine that a healthy diet has only a modest effect and a vegetarian diet might help you lose a little bit of weight. But when these diets are properly constructed I think they are enormously powerful. A low-fat vegan diet is better than any other diet I have ever seen for improving diabetes. The Telegraph quotes him saying.
Sri Lankan situation
Speaking at the Second Annual Asian Buddhist Animal Rights Conference at the Buddhist Cultural Center in Colombo late last year Speaker Karu Jayasuriya expressed his concern that meat consumption in Sri Lanka was on the increase though many western countries were turning to vegetarianism.
The Speaker Jayasuriya has opted for vegetarianism as a tribute to his late daughter who was a vegan.
She always wanted me to be a vegetarian. I used to eat prawns and chicken in the past. But one of the requests of my late daughter was for me to be a vegetarian. She was a vegan. So after her sickness [death], I switched to vegetarianism. he told the Daily News during a recent interview.
As well- known nutritionist and researcher Dr. Damayanthi Perera noted even though for many decades western medical and nutrition authorities have been promoting foods of animal origin such as meat and milk as healthy food, now many informed western consumers are turning to vegetarianism, Many informed consumers such as UK, USA, Germany, in general consumers from all the industrially developed nations are turning to vegetarianism.
Dr. Perera cited an interesting personal experience to elaborate her point. The research topic of one of my British PhD colleagues was on vegetarianism. I was surprised and I asked her why she chose such a well-researched subject because the majority of Indians are vegetarian and the benefits of the vegetarian diet were known by then! She then explained to me that she was researching why many British consumers were becoming vegetarian. That was around 1990more than two and a half decades ago. I am not citing from her thesis, but to my knowledge, the three key reasons for British consumers to adopt vegetarianism were due to health, ethical and environmental reasons. With regard to ethical reasons there were concerns regarding battery farming practices etc. at that time, she said.
Veganism
Currently, many children and young adults from industrially developed countries are becoming vegetarian or vegan. Vegans shun all animal products including milk. Veganism is developing as a silent protest against the unimaginable cruelty meted out to farm animals and dairy cows, in industrial farms. A couple of decades ago, the majority of Western consumers were unaware of what was happening in industrial farms. Animal rights activists, undercover reporters /journalists and food researchers have investigated what was happening in the Animal Agriculture Industry and exposed the wrong doings. Therefore, currently consumers are making informed choices about meat and milk consumption, she explained.
Milk Mustache and Milk Myths
As Dr. Perera further noted there is an over production of milk in Western countries and the consumers are now aware that the nutritional benefits of milk have been hyped up by the Western milk industry simply to boost sales. The Tag Line Got Milk and the Milk Mustache Campaign of the US is an example. Milk was promoted as an essential food for adults!
Currently many Western medical doctors, naturopathic doctors and consumers are questioning about the physiological need for cow / animal milk consumption by humans. Logically thinking, we are the only species that drink milk from another species! This is highly un-physiological. There are many facets to the milk issue such as allergies, and other illnesses associated with milk consumption, Dr. Perera noted.
Due to health, environmental and ethical reasons Western consumers are rejecting foods of animal origin. There is a silent Tsunami growing against meat and milk. As researchers we observe the under-currents long before the Tsunami hits the shore! she emphasized.
Go Green
With so many great vegan options, eating green has never been more delicious. Whether you go vegan for the environment, for your health, or for animals, you have the power to change the world, simply by changing whats on your plate, notes Jason Baker, Vice-President of International Campaigns, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) Asia.
He too agrees that a vegan diet is as good for humans health as it is for animal welfare.
There is no nutritional need for humans to eat any animal product; all our dietary needs, even as infants and children, are best supplied by a meatless diet. The American Dietetic Association notes that a vegetarian diet reduces the risk of many chronic degenerative diseases and conditions, including heart disease, cancer, obesity, hypertension, and diabetes, he added.
Baker noted that in addition to causing heart disease and cancer, animal products contain harmful contaminantsincluding bacteria, arsenic, dioxins, and mercurythat can affect our health both in the short and long terms.
The overuse of antibiotics on factory farms has caused many of the bacteria found on animal flesh to become antibiotic-resistant, he said.
Pain gone through by animals
As Baker explained animals are much more intelligent and complex than most people realize, and scientists are providing more and more evidence of this all the time. They are sensitive to what they encounter; a horrific death in front of other helpless animals.
Most animals raised for food today spend their lives in factory farms. These animals, who feel pain and fear just as the dogs and cats who share our homes do, are separated from their families and crammed by the thousands into filthy warehouses. They are mutilated without the use of painkillers and deprived of everything that is natural and important to themthey wont be permitted to see the sun or breathe fresh air until the day when they are forced onto trucks bound for the slaughterhouse. On the killing floor, many animals are completely conscious and struggling to escape while their throats are cutand some are still conscious while their bodies are hacked apart or when they are dunked into tanks of scalding-hot water, Baker revealed the sad and horrific truth behind meat and dairy industry.
The amount of pain suffered by animals before being killed could be reduced if alternative food practices are adhered to, Baker emphasized.
Buddhist view
Venerable Sathindriya Thera of Dhamma Voice for Animals (DVA) who jointly organised last years Asian Buddhist Animal Rights Conference said that the Buddhas view on meat consumption is clearly stated in Jeevaka Sutta in the Middle Length Discourses of the Buddha.
In Jeevaka Sutta the Buddha says, I say there are three occasions in which meat should not be eaten; when it is seen, heard or suspected that the living being has been killed for sake of a bhikkhu. I say: Meat should not be eaten on these three occasions.
However the common argument raised by those who are in favour of meat consumption is that the Buddha did not prohibit meat consumption, he only imposed three conditions.
The Thera explained why it is high time we dispelled such myths. Can anyone eat meat by passing all these conditions If someone passes these conditions the food chosen defiantly would not include meat. But Buddhist way is not arguing with the unwise. Buddhism is for the wise people to practise and benefit from. Unwise people argue to prove that they are correct. Therefore, we have to think wisely. The Buddha did not force anyone to do anything, even monks. But he has clearly mentioned what is a virtue and what is not, he noted.
The Thera promotes vegetarianism because as Buddhist Monks they have to promote virtuousness, not malevolence.
The Buddha asked monks to go on in all directions and spread the wisdom and compassionate life style to overcome human ignorance. That is the duty of monks. So I dont just promote vegetarianism! I promote non-violent Buddhist life style. Someone can see my non-violent activism as Vegetarian promotion. But if someone eats animal flesh they indirectly promote Killing of another being. You dont have to be Buddhist to understand the malevolence in that action. Also we dont need the Buddha to explain such a simple thing; this is common sense. Buddhism is for advanced thinkers, the Thera added.
DVAs role
DVA Sri Lanka Projects Director Keshinie Bandaranaike said that the sole mission of the DVA Sri Lanka Chapter is to enlighten the masses on suffering faced by the animals due to the meat and dairy industry in the world and appeal to the people to turn to a vegetarian diet with the noble intention of putting an end to animal suffering.
It is our stand that the consumption of meat directly results in immense suffering and pain for animals when they are being killed for our consumption. If you accept that animals have rights, raising and killing animals for food is morally wrong. An animal raised for food is being used by others rather than being respected for itself. It is being treated as a means to human ends and not as an end in itself and this is a clear violation of the animals rights, she said.
No matter how humanely an animal is treated in the process, DVA believes that raising and killing it for food remains morally wrong.
There is clear evidence of the link between heavy consumption of meat and adverse environmental and health impacts. Worldwide, livestock and meat production have also been identified as major contributors to intensive water use, high phosphorus use, land degradation and threats to food yields and loss of biodiversity.
Just as PETA, the DVA too intends to show that there are adequate nutrients that can be derived from a vegetarian diet. A nutritious and tasty meal can be made with pure vegetarian ingredients. Due to much awareness in the world of the benefits of vegetarianism, there are enough restaurants serving varied vegetarian dishes, specialty vegetarian restaurants and various food items made available in the market, Bandaranaike added.
Plant food vs. Animal food
Is there enough scientific evidence to prove that plant based food products are healthier than animal based food The Daily News asked Dr. Damayanthi Perera.
Chronic, degenerative diseases/ Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) have become a major health problem in the world. The latest and emerging scientific information demonstrate the benefits of plant based foods i.e. fruits, vegetables, pulses, nuts and seeds etc. for preventing chronic diseases such as: overweight and obesity, diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, cataracts, immune system disorders etc. A plant based diet will also prevent hormone -dependent cancers such as: breast, ovary, prostrate and colon cancer, Dr. Perera said.
On the contrary, the latest scientific evidence demonstrates that in addition to the processed meat products, red meat and chicken are also strongly associated with certain types of cancer.
Abstinence or reduced meat consumption will prevent cancer and many chronic disease and also environmental pollution caused by industrial animal farms. In industrialized nations a large portion of cereals are fed to farm animals which is a very wasteful process. As such, there are plenty of benefits to man and the eco-system, she added.
Growth, Health, NCDs and Premature Death
According to Dr. Perera, as per conventional knowledge, it is believed that animal proteins are superior to plant proteins, but it is important to understand that the early research was based only on the impact of animal foods on growth.
New, robust, large scale scientific research data on health demonstrates that meat and milk are strongly associated with cancer and other chronic, degenerative diseases. Therefore, there is a burning question. Is it ethical to promote foods that are causing such terrible illnesses as healthy food This is something the professionals ought to consider seriously. Knowledge brings an obligation to change, she added.
As the world is going through a NCD epidemic and consumers are dying prematurely, the relevant professionals and policymakers have a professional obligation to update their knowledge and provide the latest information to the consumers, the well- experienced researcher emphasized.
It is then up to the consumers to make an informed choice about consumption of foods of animal origin. This will help parents to safeguard the health of their children. To ignore or withhold truthful information is unprofessional and unethical, she noted.
Healthy diet
A question that many people would ask is whether a vegetarian diet is healthy. The scientific consensus is that a carefully planned vegetarian diet is healthy.
A vegetarian diet that combines cereals and pulses can meet the protein requirement. This method is called mutual supplementation or complementation, she said.
However Dr. Perera emphasized that a carefully planned vegetarian diet excludes the poverty based vegetarian diets followed by poor people due to economic reasons. Obviously such a diet would be deficient in many nutrients, she noted.
For generations Indian vegetarians have known how to thrive on a vegetarian diet. They never consumed any special dietary supplements or complementary proteins. However, in addition to the mutual supplementation process, they also used beneficial processes such as fermentation and germination of food that enhanced vitamin B1 2 and Vitamin C etc. We have to look at the epidemiological data and the total picture. What better scientific proof is needed to prove that a vegetarian diet is healthy A vegetarian diet is healthy, sustainable, ethical and eco-friendly, she concluded.
Can people survive entirely on a vegetarian diet
Human requirement for protein is about 10% of energy intake.
*Pulses average over 25%
*Cereals, nuts and seeds over 12%
Therefore, even on a vegetarian diet, it is not difficult to obtain an adequate amount of protein if energy requirements are fulfilled. A child over one year is supposed to eat from the family pot. In other words they share the same food cooked for the family. A growing child needs more protein per kg body weight compared to an adult but as noted afore, the most crucial matter is to ensure that first and foremost the childs energy requirements are met. If the energy requirements are not met, it is a futile exercise to worry about protein because the protein will be burnt to provide energy! Children can be given cashew nuts, peanuts, sesame seed sweets (Thala Guli), Green gram sweet (Moong Guli) etc. as snacks in place of biscuits, cakes and other unhealthy short-eats. The above foods are high in protein and liked by children.
60 + Diet
One may recall that in a normal family set up, though children may receive some milk as an extra food, other family members were never fed according to their age group. i.e. as a young person or as an over 60 person! Ironically, this is a wrong message inculcated via the mass media by dietary supplement marketers. Our parents and grandparents never consumed a special diet or any special dietary supplements based on their age.
In place of non-vegetarian food, vegetarians can include dhal / lentils (pulses), millets, nuts, seeds, mushrooms etc. Vegetarians may also consume milk and milk products. What the latest data demonstrates is that whether an individual is a vegetarian or not it is important to consume plenty of fruits and vegetables for a number of health reasons. In addition to vitamins, minerals and fibre, fruits and vegetables also provide thousands of beneficial phytochemicals (plant chemicals). It is also beneficial to consume part of the vegetables in the raw form as salads or snacks to obtain the benefits of heat labile enzymes and Vitamin C.

==============================
## Title: PRESIDENT xi WISHES PRESIDENT; appreciates good working relations
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:06
PRESIDENT xi WISHES PRESIDENT; appreciates good working relations
Chinese President Xi Jinping extending birthday greetings to President Maithripala Sirisena on Wednesday appreciated the sound working relations between them.
The Chinese President in his congratulatory letter said that he likes to work together with Sri Lankan President to further promote China-Sri Lanka Strategic Cooperative Partnership. Chinese Ambassador in Sri Lanka Cheng Xueyuan called upon President Maithripala Sirisena on Wednesday and handed over the letter of birthday greetings from the Chinese President, a statement issued by the Chinese Embassy said.
In the letter, President Xi Jinping congratulated his Sri Lankan counterpart on the latters 67th birthday and appreciated the good working relations between them. President Xi stressed that he
attaches great importance to the development of bilateral relations and would like to work together with him to further promote China-Sri Lanka Strategic Cooperative Partnership to a new height
On the same day, President Sirisena replied with a letter of thanks through the Chinese Embassy, and expressed deep gratitude to his Chinese counterpart for the warm greetings extended.
President Sirisena stated that the bilateral relations have made tremendous progress in the recent past encompassing various sectors.
It is my fervent belief that the close collaboration will continue to flourish and expand for the benefit of our peoples. I would be looking forward to work closely with you to further strengthen development cooperation between our two nations.
==============================
## Title: Richard Pieris Finance shines  at SLIM NASCO Awards 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Richard Pieris Finance shines  at SLIM NASCO Awards 2018
Richard Pieris Finance Ltd, the only financial company owned by the diversified conglomerate Richard Pieris Group and proprietor of the household brand ARPICO, clinched two awards at the SLIM  NASCO Awards 2018 held recently.
Richard Pieris Finance Ltd won the Silver Award (Other Sales Support Staff Non-Executive) which was won by Rusiru Prabodh Peiris Operations Junior Executive and the Bronze Award (Sales Supervisor) won by Sockalingam Varthan Gampaha Branch Manager
Looking at our performance, were the onlyfinance company in its 5thyear that is winning these awards. Especially it is a huge achievement to win a NASCO award for a finance company that is only in its 5thyear. This shows that our directions and goals are set in stone to be one of the top financial companies in the country. It is purely because of the commitment and the quality of our employees,said Richard Pieris Finance Ltd Executive Director and CEO K.M.M. Jabir.
Since our inception we have long understood the need to keep reinventing ourselves to be competitive in an ever evolving business landscape. This remains our mantra as we strive to better serve our clients by providing profitable products while solidifying our position in the financial sector, Jabir added. Manager of Human Resources Richard Pieris Finance Ltd Ashan Buddhakorala said: Our employees work tirelessly to do things the right way. These awards exemplify the efforts taken by them to taketo be among the top emerging financial institutions in Sri Lanka.
Richard Pieris and Company PLC has accompanied the Sri Lankan people through eight decades of change and the company has evolved into one of the largest private institutions in the country and stands tall among the ranks of the countrys diversified business conglomerates.
With its footprint extending from manufacturing to retail to plantation management and financial services, the group is involved in creating value across the national economy and is one of the most long standing, stable and profitable corporate entities in the country.

==============================
## Title: Rock Meditation
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Rock Meditation
Juliet Coombe discovers the healing powers of balancing rocks while meditating and enjoying exciting agro farming experience at Jetwing Kaduruketha
Kaduruketha is an enviro-friendly place where people can learn about ancient village cures from jungle medicinal plants, meditate by balancing rocks and enjoy daily vegan food straight from the plot to plate.
Here in the wilds of Wellawaya Queen Sugaladevi made her bathing pond, something Jetwing Kaduruketha have beautifully recreated in an incredible agro tourism project bringing us all closer to the land. The villagers tell me the many waterfalls you can visit around the area are not only fun places to swim, but also have special healing powers as they cascade down the mountain side, catching medicinal plants as they flow and like the hot springs frequented by the Kings in ancient times make ones skin feel both healthier and softer after an hour or so swim.
I am told for the sake of my health, to stop and recharge my batteries before it is too late and that Jetwing Kaduruketha cleverly connects the body, mind and soul together with the voodoo of the location and activities that are devised to help you switch off. This means a recipe of early nights, healthy eating, vegan snacks only, daily breathing exercises and meditation. Now, for all those yoga aficionados this is easy and a way of life for some, but for a passionate mission driven person like me, this has been possibly my single greatest challenge to stop and unplug, until I went to Jetwing Kaduruketha and was presented with a pile of large rocks and asked how good my rock-balancing skills were, I realised mindfulness was not just a word but an action that needed to take place in my life. How simple life can be I discovered as put one rock on top of another rock and had to focus on it not falling over.

From a distance, sitting in the open-air pavilion of Kadurukethas dining-room, it all looked so easy and yet, as you get closer to the rocks and see how many shapes and funny bumps they have to sit on, you realise this is something that requires real skill and a hundred per cent concentration, or mindfulness, as they now call it. As rice was being harvested in the paddy fields and my lunch was being hand-picked from the Jetwing Kaduruketha vegetable garden and cooked, I delicately put one rock on top of another, but less than five rocks up they would fall in all directions, making me laugh like a small child playing with Lego blocks. Only this was with Mother Nature and in the wilds of Wellawaya, an amazing crossroads to over twenty fascinating archaeological sites showing the incredible ancient history of the island.
Here I discover you can see fishing cats at night and flying squirrels by day. Of course, if I wanted to eat my delicious lunch wrapped in banana leaves, I was going to have to meditate on the best building method or spend my day contemplating being caught between fallen rocks and hard places. The deep concentration on the activity, with a single focus, helped my head clear and provided me with the space for uncluttered thinking and deep breathing. The quest to build the highest rock formation for others to meditate on from the delightful restaurant pavillion, was a brilliant way to get me to focus on something simple yet challenging. The general manager of the hotel joined me and, like a magician, made it look easy, as if he was bending spoons - the rocks seemed to obey his every command.
Not to be defeated, I tried again and almost did it on the third attempt, to be rewarded with a walk to the butterfly garden after my sixth attempt. Here I was shown some leaves that can be used as an alternative to soap and picked some curry leaves for a healthy juice with my lunch. I learnt from the highly knowledgeable staff that the area is famous for its rocks and even caves with rock paintings in, hence making rock meditation part of their guests daily ritual. Time vanishes in Jetwing Kaduruketha while taking dips in a pool, inspired from the Great Queens bathing area, going on nature walks to learn what can cure and kill you, and exciting night safaris that start at 10 pm. The only thing is, no matter how often you look and whatever time of day it is, you will not see the jackals, which call out from time to time. I am told this is a warning or omen of something bad. Perhaps, now I understand why the film was named The Day of The Jackal a nocturnal warning that someone is about to die or something is about to change in your life. Luckily for me the wild dogs were quiet during my stay and my experience of daily rock balancing has inspired me to take this up at home with my kids, as a way of clearing my mind with something that is really fun to concentrate on doing.
Set against the backdrop of dripping tropical jungle, iridescent paddy fields and stunning mountains, Jetwing Kaduruketha, created by Jetwing Hotels group is an idyll that helps one step out of a busy life and truly reboot ones battery. It is a concept that is all about people and sharing the wealth and richness of Sri Lankas ancient agro-knowledge, only passed, until now, from one farming generation to the next.
A scenic gem that has cleverly woven traditional life into every aspect of the hotel both in its architectural design and its daily operations, which include fabulous first hand experiences with the farming community, ranging from challenges of farming rice to jungle walks to learning all about the countrys indigenous medicine. Equally importantly, the staff show people all the different local fruits, leaves, and roots that are used in the meals prepared by the hotel kitchen staff daily; not to mention the healthy jungle juices, which are created at the bar and have spawned a fascinating some fascinating jungle mixology.
The ancient agricultural knowledge sharing is at the heart of Jetwing Kadurukethas human element initiative through JYDP, the association with the farmers, in keeping with the agro-tourism concept, which is a first for Sri Lanka. This is important as it not only celebrates village life in Wellawaya, but also teaches the hotel guests about why something as simple as eating off a banana leaf is better for your health. Like eating with your hands, the banana leaf, I learn from the knowledgeable and passionate staff, gives off enzymes that contribute to the digestive process and are good for all your five senses. Like the architecture, everything is very different in the villa room with neither aircon nor TV, only an attached bathroom without a roof; yes, a shower looking up at the trees, the stars and the moon, which allows nature to look back at us and allows us to be truly a part of it not apart from it.
	

==============================
## Title: Sarpaya on facebook still, despite being on death row - AG
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:02
Sarpaya on facebook still, despite being on death row - AG
Former Sabaragamuwa Provincial Councillor Muhamdiramge Hasitha Samantha alias Sarpaya who is on death row over a double murder case is still updating his Facebook account, the Attorney General complained to the Colombo High Court.
Taking facts into consideration Colombo High Court Judge Champa Janaki Rajaratne issued an order directing the Superintendent of Welikada Prison that a report be submitted in court to ascertain as to how an imprisoned accused is updating his Facebook account while being in a prison cell.
Deputy Solicitor General (DSG) Dileepa Peiris appearing on behalf of the Attorney General made this revelation when another case filed against Hasitha Samantha was taken up for trial. DSG Peiris submitted to court that the accused who is on death row over another murder case is updating his status on his facebook account while being in Welikada prison.
The court further issued an order directing the OIC of CIDs Computer Crimes Division that an analytical report be submitted in court with the assistance of facebook management regarding the location where facebook page had been updated. In this case, the Attorney General filed indictments against former Sabaragamuwa provincial councillor over a double murder incident took place in 1999. The Ratnapura High Court had transferred this case to Colombo High Court following the Attorney Generals request that the witnesses were reluctant to give evidence.
The accused was indicted on charges of having killed UNP provincial councillor Ranjith Nandasena and his private secretary Thushara Deepal by shooting them and setting them on fire while inside a vehicle. Hasitha Samantha was convicted of double murder and sentenced to death by Ratnapura High Court on December 11, 2014.

==============================
## Title: SDB bank Receives Award for Fastest  Growing MSME Bank in SL
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SDB bank Receives Award for Fastest  Growing MSME Bank in SL
SDB bank once again being recognized for its invaluable contribution towards the upliftment and development of the MSME sector, with the latest award it received as the Fastest Growing MSME Bank in Sri Lanka for the year 2018, by the leading UK based publication, Global Banking and Finance Review.
The award joins a rank of accolades garnered by SDB over the years in its growth journey to be the critical component in the local banking sector that it is today.
Last year, Asia Securities in its financial review commended the SDB for its unique positioning servicing the unbanked rural economy by leveraging the banks access to co-operatives.
The review further commended the SDB operation for maintaining the lowest OPEX per branch in the scope of its review and for its unconventional banking model focused on retired Government employees and MSMEs.
A specialized bank licensed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, SDB bank has been consistent in its efforts towards the empowerment of the MSME segment, which the bank in line with many global authorities has identified to be the backbone of the economy.
It is in this context, that the SDB has granted in excess of 54,000 loans in the financial years of 2016 and 2017. The accumulative monetary value of loans handed out to this critical economic segment is nearly Rs. 20 billion as it stands presently.
Additionally, the Bank has played an unparalleled role in developing Co-operative businesses into MSMEs, spanning through a wide range of industries including, agriculture, dairy, garment and manufacturing.
It has also facilitated co-operatives and MSMEs to scale up, by assisting them in developing their financial literacy, capacity building and value chain development by providing them with information about resource planning and management of challenges associated with scaling up, more so, in the context of the transformational shifts taking place in global commerce due to rapid changes in technology and a dynamic geo-political and regulatory environment.
In line with this vision SDB has assisted co-operatives to gain easy access to finances through society networks, in order for them to scale up to MSMEs, with SDB having ties with nearly 3,800 societies to date and offering inclusive financing options which are unique and easily accessible, even for individuals and co-operatives engaged in informal segments of business.
Nimal C. Hapuarachchi,General Manager/CEO of SDB said, Even though SANASA Development Bank commenced as a unique bank with a focus on the unbanked rural economy, largely facilitating the micro-finance segment, over the years it has strengthened its position in the MSME sector, by moving into retail lending with a focus on small and medium enterprises, government employees, graduates and the female entrepreneurs of Sri Lanka, who run small businesses. We have also launched our Uththamavi Loan for women entrepreneurs, in order to empower the women of our country to achieve financial independence and contribute actively to the economy.
The prestigious award we have received has provided assurance to us and our investors, that the strategic shift of diversifying away from the microfinance sector to the MSME sector, has become a success, he said.
In line with the General Managers comments, M.S. Kiriwandeniya, Chairperson of SDB bank said, We have used our unique position in the Sri Lankan banking sector, to introduce financial products and services that will empower the youth and women in rural areas of Sri Lanka, who are struggling to start and stabilize their own businesses. We believe that these customers will grow rapidly in the future and add enormous value to the Sri Lankan economy.
==============================
## Title: Sierra Construction builds  water towers in Jaffna, Kilinochchi
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Sierra Construction builds  water towers in Jaffna, Kilinochchi
Residents of the Jaffna peninsula and the Kilinochchi region now enjoy the benefits of improved water supply and sanitation facilities, following the completion of two phases of the Jaffna Kilinochchi Water Supply and Sanitation Project by Sierra Construction Limited., a leading engineering and construction solutions company in Sri Lanka.
Funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Government of Sri Lanka, the work entrusted to Sierra involved the construction of 15 water towers on behalf of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) of Sri Lanka.
Work began in December 2014 and the completed towers are to be formally handed over by Sierra Construction at the end of the year. Eight water towers were constructed in the towns of Palai, Kodikamam, Nallur, Karainagar, Pungudutivu, Kayts, Vaddukkodai, and at the Jaffna Municipal Council (Old Park). Another seven water towerswere constructed in the areas of Puttur, Meesalai, Poonakari, Navatkuli, Kaddudai, Velanai, and Mandaithivu. Ranging between 250 m3 and 1800 m3 in capacity, these water towers cumulatively provide storage for 10,000 cubic metres or 10 million litres of water and are expected to contribute significantly to an improvement in health and human development in the areas they serve, and help meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) of the Government of Sri Lanka. These towers increase access to safe drinking water in the targeted Urban Council and Pradeshiya Sabha areas, the Company said.
Contracted at a total value of Rs 1,140 million, the infrastructure is estimated to benefit 600,000 persons living in the Peninsula and the northern mainland, and will be maintained for a period of 12 months by Sierra Construction.
Winning contracts of this nature brings us a degree of satisfaction that goes beyond the boundaries of business, Anura Premarathne, Chief Operating Officer (Water Supply & Sewerage) at Sierra Construction said. This is because the work contributes to the development of the country and the elevation of the quality of life of our people. Everybody at Sierra goes the extra mile to ensure the best possible outcome.
Sierra Construction Limited. is a fully owned subsidiary of the diversified Sierra Holdings Pvt Ltd., which has interests in cable manufacturing, PVC manufacturing, fertilizer manufacturing and leisure in addition to construction.

==============================
## Title: Specialists allowed to work upto 63 in state hospitals
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Specialists allowed to work upto 63 in state hospitals
The retirement age of medical consultants (specialist doctors) has been increased up to 63, Public Administration Ministry sources said.
The retirement age for consultants was 60 and it has been increased up to 63 through a gazette notification effective retrospectively from June 6, 2017.
The gazette notification issued on August 27 ( last Monday).The decision has been taken due to the shortage of medical consultants in Sri Lanka.
Consultants said that there is a huge demand for the Sri Lankan medical consultants from other countries because of the quality of medical education and training they received from state medical faculties and state hospitals.
==============================
## Title: sports brief
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
sports brief
Dialog powers first-ever Mens Asian VB Confederation
Sri Lanka will be hosting the first ever Asian Volleyball Confederation Mens Challenge Cup at Sugathadasa Stadium in September powered by Ultra Speed Dialog 4G home broadband as the principal sponsor.
The Asian Volleyball Tournament will be spiked off on the 15 of September with the grand final scheduled for 22 September at the same venue under the auspices of President Maithripala Sirisena.
Teams from across eight countries including Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Bangladesh, Mongolia and Iraq will battle out for honours. The Navy and Sports Ministry indoor courts will be used as practice venues for the teams. Asian Rugby Western Club Champions League
Kandy SC take on Bahrain RFC today
Hafiz Marikar
Kandy SC will host defending champions Bahrain RFC at Nittawela today in their first game of the three-club Asian Rugby Western Club Champions League tournament to pick the league winners of each country.
Kandy SCs Coach Sean Wijesinghe, who has put the team in a winning mood, says that his team is in perfect form and should display good, winning rugby. Kandy SC has committed firmly towards restoring themselves to the top of the tree in Sri Lanka club rugby and established themselves as contenders for the silverware in all of the competitions.
Bahrain RFC having been crowned West Asia Cup Champions during the 2017/2018 season (the highest grade of Rugby in the Middle East), say that their 1st XV is ready for their first hit out. The kick off is 1.30 p.m. (Bahrain local time).
The teams:
Kandy SC (from): Roshan Weeraratne, Asitha Ratnayake, Heshan Silva, Launga Perera, Oshan Perera, Uchitha Jayasuriya, Thilina Wijesinghe, Tharindu Chathuranga, Arshad Jamaldeen, Yakoob Ali, Shehan Pathirana, Suhiru Anthony, Omantha Panthiyawatte, Lahiru Daulagala, Gayan Jayawardene, Ganuka Dissanayake, Lasitha Attanagoda, Dilaksha Dange, Malitha Wijesundara, Nigel Ratwatte (Captain), Shusarana Herath, Buwanika Udangamuwa, Heshan Janson, Vishwamithra Jayasinghe, Shanushka Jayasinghe, Shanyushka Abeyawickrema, Shamika Perera, Lakshitha Ranaweera, Kelum Madushnaka, Manager - Kapial de Silva.
Baharan RFC (from): Oli Sanson, Lindsey Gibson, Sunia Fameitau, Mark Burnell, Tom Bell, Aled Morris, Alastair Crombie, Elliot Behan, Robert Bennett, Luke Radley, Greg Heath, Adam Wallace (Captain), Jack Phillips, Dai Evans, Joel Lewis, Subs - Jack Parry, Rich Muncaster, Max Sale, Jordan Viggers, Rhys Fitzgerald, Nick Annear, Ross Preedy.
Referee: Darke Norman (based in Dubai from ARFU panel)
Dambulla defeat Colombo in dress rehearsal for Sundays final
In a dress rehearsal for Sundays final at the R Premadasa Stadium, Dambulla defended their moderate total of 140 to pull off a close five-run win over Colombo in the their final league match of the Sri Lanka Cricket T20 League tournament played at the Pallekele International Stadium yesterday.
The defeat was Colombos second in successive matches having lost to Kandy on Wednesday.
Colombo finished on 135-8 with Amila Aponso taking three wickets for 13 runs to restrict their run scoring.
In a match that had no bearing on the final league standings Kandy beat Galle by five wickets at the same venue.
Kandy and Galle both finished the first round league with two wins and four points each.
Kandys win was set up by the brilliant batting of all-rounder Dasun Shanaka who slammed a quickfire 105 not out off 52 balls inclusive of 13 fours and five sixes and his 134-run partnership with Sri Lanka white ball captain Angelo Mathews (46). Earlier Charith Asalanka took four wickets for 14 runs with his off breaks to restrict Galle to 196-5.
* Kandy beat Galle by 5 wickets.
Galle 196-5 in 20 overs (Kusal Mendis 43, Lahiru Milantha 24, Angelo Perera 47, Asela Gunaratne 46 n.o., Charith Asalanka 4/14)
Kandy 199-5 in 19.2 overs (Angelo Mathews 46, Dasun Shanaka 105 n.o., Dhananjaya de Silva 2/9)
* Dambulla beat Colombo by five runs.
Dambulla 140-6 in 20 overs (Ramith Rambukwella 20, Wanindu Hasaranga 26 n.o., Isuru Udana 41 n.o., Jeevan Mendis 3/23)
Colombo 135-8 in 20 overs (Priyamal Perera 46, Kamindu Mendis 21, Sammu Ashan 32, Amila Aponso 3/13)
Singer U-15 Divi.1 Inter Schools Cricket
St. Sebastians and P. De S. Kularathne into quarters
St. Sebastians College, Moratuwa and P. De S. Kularathne MV, Ambalangoda advanced to the quarter final round of the Singer Trophy Under 15 division 1 inter schools cricket tournament yesterday.
Sebs beat De Mazenod College, Kandana by 133 runs at Moratuwa and P. De S. Kularathne MV, Ambalangoda beat Thurstan College, Colombo by 67 runs according parabola method in the pre quarter finals at Thurstan.
* At Moratuwa. St. Sebastians Moratuwa won by 133 runs.
St. Sebastians: 218 in 47.2 overs (Mahen Silva 71, Sanesh Fernando 35, Kushan Herath 28, Disen Weerasinghe 20, Samindu Deneth 4/34, Mithul Senarath 2/23)
De Mazenod Kandana: 85 in 25.4 overs (Ashen Silva 30, Sudam de Silva 21, Mahen Silva 4/16, Induwara de Alwis 2/06, Yashan Avishka 2/18)
* At Thurstan. P. De S. Kularathne Ambalangoda won by 67 runs (Parabola method)
P. De S. Kularathne: 192/8 in 50 overs (Tharindu Harshana 51, Kaveesh Thathsara 33, Lasin Wanidu 22 n.o., Vinod Kavinda 5/38)
Thurstan: 112/9 in 42 overs (Rivindu Perera 26, Lasin Wanidu 3/21, Chathura Rukmal 2/11, Dhanushka Madusanka 2/12, Kaveesh Thathsara 2/12). YK
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka beat UAE at rugby,  but lose narrowly to Korea
## Supertitle: 400m relay: Best timing in 18 years, but not good enough to win medal
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
400m relay: Best timing in 18 years, but not good enough to win medal
Sri Lanka beat UAE at rugby,  but lose narrowly to Korea
Sri Lanka lost its last athletics medal hope when the mens 400M relay team ended up in fourth place clocking 3:02.74 secs at the Asian Games 2018 continued at the Gelora Bung Karno stadium, Jakarta, Indonesia yesterday.
This is the highest athletics achievement by Sri Lanka at the meet and best recorded timing in the event in 18 years. They missed the Sri Lankan record by .03 secs. The Sri Lankan record (3:02.71 secs) was established at the 2000 Asian Athletics Championship in Jakarta by Mahesh Perera, Vellasami Ratnakumar, Ranga Wimalawansha and Rohan Pradeepkumara.
Soon after the event members of the Lankan relay team said that they were sad to miss out on a medal and if they can practice together they will have a great chance to improve their performance. The Lankan mens 400m relay team included Aruna Darshana, Kalinga Kumarage, Pasindu Lakshan Kodikara and Ajith Premakumara.
The gold medal was won by Qatar with a time of 3:00.56 secs with the silver medal and bronze medals going to India (3:01.85 secs) and Japan (3:01.94 secs) respectively.
Sri Lanka thrashed UAE 68-0 in their opening rugby sevens match but went down to Korea 26-31 in their second game. Sri Lanka led 28-0 at half time against UAE and scored 40 more points in the second half to record a clean sweep victory. Lankan team scored 10 tries and nine conversions.
Korea led 17-7 in the first half and added a further 19 points in the second whilst restricting Sri Lanka to 14 points in the second half.
Riza Rafaideen, Srinath Sooriyabandara and Sudam Sooriarachchi scored a try each and made a conversion while Buddhima Priyaratne scored a try for Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka will meet Afghanistan today in their Group C match.
Lankan TT ace Ishara Madurangi was defeated by world number three, Chinas Wang Manyu 0-4 (8/11, 5/11, 8/11, 1/11). Ishara recorded an easy win against Pakistans Fatima Khan 4-0 in the first round. Udaya Ranasinghe conceded victory to his Laos opponent due to an injury in the mens singles event.
Chamara Nuwan competing in the below 73kg weight class judo event lost to Kyrgyzstans Bektur Rysmambetov 1-10. Rajitha Pushpakumara competing in the below 81kg weight class was edged out by his Indian rival Harshdeep Singh.
Lankan esport contestant Amrith Alfred was beaten by his Chinese Taipei counterpart 3-0 in the quarter final round.
Lankan mens volleyball team beat Nepal 3-1. The first round saw a tough battle where Nepal won 25-23. Sri Lanka bounced back in the second round and won 25-16 and maintained the lead to win the third and fourth rounds 26-25, 24-21.
Lankan mens hockey team was defeated 5-2 by Oman. Sri Lanka was placed eighth out of 12 teams.
At the end of the 11th day, China lead the medals table with over 100 medals. They have 104 gold, 67 silver and 50 bronze medals totalling 219 medals. Japan are second followed by Korea and Indonesia at third and fourth respectively.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Insurance pays highest  fishing boat claim in history
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Lanka Insurance pays highest  fishing boat claim in history
Sri Lanka Insurance paid the highest recorded claim for a fishing boat ever, Rs.29 Mn to the insured W.P.M.R.D.R Fernando owner of the fishing boat IMUL A 844 CHW.
Built in 2018, the fishing boat has been completely destroyed after it caught fire on her maiden voyage, making a total loss.
The Sri Lanka Insurance is the first insurance company in the country to have been assigned a global rating for financial stability, AA+ (lka) from Fitch Ratings, London which is an assurance of the companys long-term financial sustainability. The company has also been awarded ISO 9001:2015 certification for correct governing and operational procedures in line with accepted global standards.

==============================
## Title: Sri Sri Radhakrishna Temple to celebrate Krishna Jayanthi on Sept. 2
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Sri Sri Radhakrishna Temple to celebrate Krishna Jayanthi on Sept. 2
The Kotahena Sri Sri Radhakrishna Temple will celebrate Sri Krishna Jayanthi on September 2 (Sunday). The incarnation of Lord Krishna, the Krishna Jayanthi (Birth) falls on the day. Special devotional and cultural programmes will take place at the temple in this regard.
Mangala Arathi will take place from 5.30 a.m. to midnight. Thulasi Arathi, Nagara Sankirtan, Procession of Baby Krishna, Abishekam of Baby Krishna with Valampuri Conch shells, Rajabhoga Arathi, Cultural Programmes by the students of the Hare Krishna College of Music and Dance, Bhajan and Kirtan by the Children of Gokulam Children Home and midnight 12.00 Maha Abishekam will take place as well. The idol of infant Krishna will be bathed and adorned with flowers. Prasadam will be distributed thereafter.
This is the most important festival of the Hindu, Vaisnava devotees all over the world. Devotees observe fasting from early morning to midnight on the day.

==============================
## Title: SriLankan Airlines launches Employee Assistance Centre
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SriLankan Airlines launches Employee Assistance Centre
SriLankan Airlines achieved yet another milestone in Sri Lankas corporate sector when it became the first organization in the country to launch an Employee Assistance Centre (EAC), which offers professional guidance and counselling for employees to overcome challenges in their work or personal life.
The EAC would provide its expertise to any employee free of charge with the aim of facilitating peace of mind and quality of life.
Sharing his thoughts on the initiative, Pradeepa Kekulawala, Head of Human Resources of SriLankan Airlines said, This initiative is based on the principles of industrial and business psychology, where employee well-being and productivity are often correlated. The well-being of the employees is of paramount importance to us as it ensures that employees stay in a positive frame of mind in order to give their best to the company. As an organization, we encourage our employees to raise their performance levels. We believe that an initiative of this scale would enable them to focus better and improve themselves as professionals as well as individuals.
The national carrier has obtained the expertise of the Colombo Institute of Research and Psychology (CIRP). CIRP is considered the pioneering and leading higher education institute in the field of psychology in Sri Lanka since 2010.
It is the most popular private university for psychology education in South Asia, partnered by Coventry University of the UK. Branded as CIRP Life Centre for Psychological Well-being, it is staffed by the best psychologists and counsellors in the country including Sri Lankans and expatriates.
The EAC will grant employees advisory and counselling services on areas such as work life balance, positive parenting and child-minding, coping with stress and emotional challenges in professional and personal life, peaking performance and staying on top, and developing the spiritual quotient within them.
Dr. Dharshan Perera, Chairman of CIRP said, We are pleased to partner with SriLankan Airlines in pioneering a project of this scale. An initiative of this nature would enable us to counter the cultural stigma that you often associate with counselling. Counselling offers a tool which helps each individual to develop a performing mechanism that is needed to tackle lifes challenges. Not only would this produce a motivated employee, it would also help each individual to be a positive minded person.
The Airline already has a number of initiatives targeted at boosting staff motivation. An employee recognition programme titled Varna is in place to commend and honour the efforts of employees who go beyond the call of duty to add value to the organization. An HR Open Day is also in place where employees are given a platform to raise their concerns and resolve issues by reaching out to the management.
Under the guidance of the Airlines Chairman, Ranjit Fernando, a series of Meet the Chairman interaction programmes is also planned as part of the transformational process of change.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan resumes Cochin flights
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:04
SriLankan resumes Cochin flights
SriLankan Airlines resumed services to Cochin yesterday. Flights were suspended since August 15, due to the devastating floods in Kerala.
The Cochin International Airport closed from August 15 and reopened on August 29, with the first flights being domestic services, followed shortly by international carriers.
SriLankans first flight following the resumption departed Colombo at 07.47 am yesterday.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan sold four Treasury bonds of Rs 2.5 bn to ComBank - Witness
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SriLankan sold four Treasury bonds of Rs 2.5 bn to ComBank - Witness
Four treasury bonds of SriLankan Airlines worth Rs 2.5 billion was sold to Commercial Bank in 2014, Commercial Banks treasury bonds and bills chief dealer Hemal Jayasekera said.
He further said that treasury bond funds were remitted to SriLankan Airlines.
Jayasekera made this statement giving evidence at the Presidential Commission inquiring into allegations of large scale frauds and malpractices in Sri Lankan Airlines, Mihin Lanka and SriLankan Catering yesterday.
Responding to the inquiries made by Senior State Counsel Disna Warnakula, Jayasekara said the first transaction was for Rs 750 million on March 13, 2014 and the second transaction was for Rs 750 mn on March 18.
The third transaction had been for Rs 500 million and the fourth transaction for Rs 250 million.
Jayasekara said that the treasury bond was under the CDS account of the Bank of Ceylon and said it was transferred to the Treasury account of the Commercial Bank.
==============================
## Title: Stage set for 26th annual NCE export awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Stage set for 26th annual NCE export awards
The National Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka (NCE) which is the only private sector Chamber exclusively serving Sri Lankan exporters launched the 26th annual export awards, which will be held on September 28 at Shangri-La, Colombo.
The President of the NCE Ramal Jasinghe addressing the launch on Tuesday in Colombo said they have got the very best to adjudicate the process headed by Sunil Wijesinha the well-known professional who is the Chairman of the Panel of Judges. They have also introduced a strong team of technicians to handle the technical side of the applications.
Jasinghe said today the country faced the challenge of the depreciating rupee and the Iran situation. He said the country exports tea to the value of US$ 318 million and on the other hand makes exports to the value of US$ 2.8 billion to the US. Jasinghe said every dollar was important to the economy at this juncture and it was under such an environment that they were sponsoring the event.
Shiham Marikar, Secretary General of the NCE said that for the past 25 years they have been conducting the ceremony without a break and this year they have introduced some special awards. One sector is related to giving special awards to companies working with the differently able community.  Out of the applications received we want to identify a few companies working with the differently able and give them a special award. The idea is to encourage the exporters to work with this community. We have a program that commenced couple of years ago with the ILO to connect our exporters with the producers of the Northern area.
He said they have trained about 3,000 farmers there to grow agriculture products, mainly Red Lady Papaya. There were about 12 exporters who have signed contracts with them and were buying products on a monthly basis. The whole program is to uplift the livelihood of the community of the northern region, he said.
Marikar said they have received more than 125 applications this year and 85 awards will be given to selected exporters.
The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited is the print media sponsor of the event.
==============================
## Title: Style of life
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Style of life
==============================
## Title: Subsistence allowance to families
## Supertitle: Office of Missing Persons recommends:
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:10
Office of Missing Persons recommends:
Subsistence allowance to families
The Office of Missing Persons (OMP) recommends the Government to pay a subsistence allowance to the family members of the missing persons, OMP Chairman Saliya Peiris PC said.
The Chairman was addressing an event at the J R Jayewardene Center in Colombo yesterday to mark the International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances together with a large gathering of the family members of the missing persons, government officials, civil society members and representatives of foreign missions.
The OMP, which is mandated to search, trace and clarify the circumstances of missing persons and provide reparation, psychosocial support and other assistance to family members of the missing persons, has come up with a series of recommendations in its first interim report. The report will be presented to President Maithripala Sirisena next Wednesday (September 5).
The Chairman, explaining the key recommendations made in the interim report, said the interim economic relief measures proposed by the OMP should in no way compromise the right of those victimized families to know the truth and mete out justice.
He said the OMP recommends paying an interim allowance to the families of victims of enforced disappearances until the investigations are concluded. The OMP interim report also recommends that the Government authorities including the Police and Security Forces should cooperate with Habeas Corpus cases filed by the family members of the missing persons.
We understand that there are threats and various influences on victims and witnesses of enforced disappearances and this must stop, he added.
The Chairman also pointed out the OMP had proposed several amendments to the Parliamentary Act for Protection Against Enforced Disappearances which was passed into law early this year.
Chairman Peiris, observing that Sri Lanka lacks technology and facilities to investigate mass graves, said the OMP recommends obtaining the technical expertise in this aspect.
The OMP in its interim report has also recommended that the Government must allow public commemoration of missing persons and erecting monuments in their memory. Going a step further, it has also suggested national level commemoration of missing persons.
If we are to achieve true reconciliation as a country, we need to acknowledge that people have disappeared in this country over the past many years, he remarked, noting that it was for the first time that the UN Day for the Victims of Enforced Disappearances was observed with state patronage in Sri Lanka.
The number of missing persons in Sri Lanka is considerably high. This problem needs long-term solutions. Some are reluctant to accept this fact. Some who are responsible for the enforced disappearances are moving freely in society. There had been times where the perpetrators of enforced disappearances were celebrated as heroes, while the victims were accused as traitors, he noted.
Prior to the commencement of the event at the J R Jayewardene Centre, the family members of the missing persons, about 200 in number, held a peaceful demonstration carrying banners opposite the Lotus Tower. The national anthem was sung in both Sinhala and Tamil at the beginning of the ceremony.
==============================
## Title: Superb century by Geeshan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Superb century by Geeshan
A splendid knock of 125 runs by the glove man of the side Geeshan Fernando enabled Prince of Wales College to beat De Mazenod College, Kandana on first innings in their inter school under 15 division one tournament second round fourth match worked off at Ratmalana. By virtue of this victory Cambrians have booked a berth in the pre quarter finals.
Geeshan had sixteen hits to be ropes and four over and occupied the crease for 120 minutes and faced 77 balls and also he was associated in a fourth wicket partnership of 109 runs with Lasiru Sandaruwan who contributed 38 runs. So far Geeshan has scored 468 runs in this tournament and his contribution has carried a long way for his Alma Maters success. Batting first visitors scored 264 for 6 with Lester Jayaweera scoring 68 runs and in reply at stumps homesters were 265 for 6.
De Mazenod College  264/6 in 70 overs Lester Jayaweera 65, Ruwin Fonseka 49, Mithun Senarath 38, Ashen Silva 28, K N Kaushalya 28 n/o, Shehan Rodrigo 3/40.
Prince of Wales  265/5 in 35 overs Geeshan Fernando 125, Chenula Fernando 46, Lasiru Sandaruwan 38, Rithika Fernando 31 n/o, Ashen Silva 2/93.
==============================
## Title: Take collective steps against drug menace
## Supertitle: President appeals to BIMSTEC leaders:
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
President appeals to BIMSTEC leaders:
Take collective steps against drug menace
President Maithripala Sirisena called upon the leaders of the states in the Bay of Bengal Region to take collective steps against drug menace narcotics smugglers use ocean routes for drug smuggling.
Addressing the fourth Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) yesterday, he drew attention of the leaders to the drug menace which is a great obstacle for the progress of the world community.
It is the menace of drugs and narcotics, heroin, hashish, marijuana and other drugs that are smuggled into the country mainly by sea. This has largely affected our youth and the school children. Illicit drugs have become the most serious challenge and we require more advanced technology and training for our coast guard to fight drug smuggling at sea, he said.
I urge the BIMSTEC Association, the world community and all the states to commit themselves to fight illegal drugs trafficking collectively and individually through a robust international programme that is more organised and stronger than now, President Sirisena said.
The President said that some powerful corporate groups sometimes even succeed in toppling governments and the leaders should be vigilant about them.
He pointed out that climate change and natural disasters adversely affect the economies of the countries in the Bay of Bengal region emphasised that as the Bay of Bengal community, we have to find remedies to these challenges and work towards commitment for poverty alleviation under the BIMSTEC Poverty Plan of Action.
Pointing out that the people in the Bay of Bengal have a common history and shared cultural heritage is the backbone of multilateral understanding and respect, he said it is our responsibility to further strengthen cooperation among the membership through regional integration creating a prosperous Bay of Bengal region.
The BIMSTEC regional bloc is one of the fastest growing regions in the world, said President Sirisena and added that Sri Lanka, as an Island Nation wishes to make maximum use of the ocean with new light on ocean research, tourism, fisheries and marine resources.
Briefing the leaders about Sri Lankas achievements, he said that during the last three and a half years, democracy, human rights, rule of law and media freedom has been strengthened and independence of judiciary has been established and actions were taken to punish those who are guilty of corruption, bribery and malpractices irrespective of their status of political affiliations.
President Sirisena said BIMSTEC has vast experience and strength acquired over the past 20 years, and that could be fully utilized for meeting the challenges faced by the Bay of Bengal community.
He called on the fellow leaders to give fullest support and continued cooperation to achieve the set targets and goals of BIMSTEC for the benefit of all our peoples.

==============================
## Title: Teejay sponsors Graduation Fashion Show of University of Moratuwa
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Teejay sponsors Graduation Fashion Show of University of Moratuwa
As innovative and flamboyant apparel collections of young and aspiring fashion designers of the University of Moratuwa (UoM) took the ramp by storm recently, Teejay Lanka PLC, Sri Lankas only multinational textile mill and the regions largest textile manufacturer was on board as the events Principal Sponsor for the fifth consecutive year.
Twenty one collections were showcased at the 12th annual Graduation Fashion Show of the University of Moratuwas Department of Textile and Clothing Technology, and seven awards were presented to promising final year undergraduates of two degree courses at the event held at the Shangri-La Ballroom, Colombo. Teejay Lanka CEO, Shrihan Perera said, Teejay is no stranger to the University of Moratuwa. Over the past five years we have been helping shape the future of students through professional guidance and business exposure. Teejay itself has embarked on a journey of innovation and value addition as the key to its own future, and institutions like the University of Moratuwa, can help accelerate the transformation and strengthening of the local textile industry.

==============================
## Title: Teejay sponsors  Graduation Fashion Show
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Teejay sponsors  Graduation Fashion Show
As innovative apparel collections of young and aspiring fashion designers of the University of Moratuwa (UoM) took the ramp by storm recently, Teejay Lanka PLC, one of Sri Lankas multinational textile mill and the regions largest textile manufacturer is the Principal Sponsor for the fifth consecutive year.
Twenty one collections were showcased at the 12thannual Graduation Fashion Show of the University of Moratuwas Department of Textile and Clothing Technology. Seven awards were presented to promising final year undergraduates of two degree courses at the event held at the Shangri-La Ballroom, Colombo. Graduating students launched new collections developed from concept to final product at this show, with their creations modelled on the catwalk by professional models. Teejay Lanka PLCpresented the main awards, namely, the Outstanding Designer Brand, the Commercially Creative Designer, the Serendib Inspirational Designer, the Menswear Designer, the Innovative Designer, the Creative Knitwear Designer and the Innovative Textile Fabric Designer.
Commenting on the sponsorship of this event, Teejay Lanka CEO Shrihan Perera said, Teejay is no stranger to the University of Moratuwa. Over the past five years we have been helping shape the future of students through professional guidance and business exposure. Teejay itself has embarked on a journey of innovation and value addition as the key to its own future, and institutions like the University of Moratuwa, can help accelerate the transformation and strengthening of the local textile industry. The panel of judges for these awards comprised of eminent personalities in the fashion world such Piyumi Perera, Head of Design, Hirdaramani Industries; Peter Katz, Freelance Designer; Dinesh Chandrasena, Academic Lead and Fashion Design Coordinator, Raffles College of Design; Naftali Anatol Abelson, Consultant, Brandix and Teejay Group; Darshi Kirthisena, Trend Consultant, Linea Aqua, and Creative Director -Buddhi Batiks; and Michael Steen, Director Innovation Centre, NIKE 360 Holding BV.
The star of the night was NisansalaDeegala, winner of the Outstanding Designer Brand Award for her Clothes for Soul collection, inspired by the concept of mysticism. The other main awards were presented to Omali Kulathunga who took home the Innovative Designer Award and the Textile Fabric Designer Award. Kasun Gayan was adjudged the winner of the Menswear Designer Award.
Notably, Omali Kulathunga is also the winner of the international award Circular Ocean which was presented for Best Design using throwaway material. Her awards at the UoM Fashion Show were presented for her collection Rejected Values which was designed from handmade textile crafted from the creative use of polysacks, cassette tapes, bubble wrap, Styrofoam and the like that potentially pollute the environment and the ocean.
Kasun Gayans Technomadic was a travel supportive tech-wear collection specially designed for adventure and jungle survival. It also featured functional elements to carry travel essentials without the need for backpacks or luggage.
The other award winners at the event were Shehan Enos, Nushan Bopitiya and Lakni Udara Edirisuriya.
The collaboration between the university and Teejay Lanka PLC was strengthened through a signing of a memorandum of understanding in 2014 that enabled development of opportunities for employment generation and collaboration on strengthening research, design and technical capabilities and product development on a mutually beneficial platform. The Department of Textile and Clothing Technology of the University of Moratuwa is the largest manpower training provider to the textile and clothing industry of Sri Lanka. The Department conducts two degree courses and offers postgraduate training leading to Masters and PhD degrees.
==============================
## Title: Thanuja Navaratne rewarded as most  positively Entrepreneur of the year 2017
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Thanuja Navaratne rewarded as most  positively Entrepreneur of the year 2017
Thanuja Navaratne Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Company Secretary, Proprietor and Lead Consultant d of Gruvyino Consultancies won the positively entrepreneur of the year 2017 held at Hotel Taj in Colombo recently.
Gruvyino Consultancies is a leading company providing consultations for legal and development sector.
And also they are into project/ program management consultancy and training / legal services real estate investment legal advisory services to government, corporate and development sectors.
Thanuja Navaratne said that she is delighted with this award presented in recognition of her tireless effort and would consider this as an encouragement for her future projects.
This annual event for the encouragement and recognition of women entrepreneurs island-wide is organized by Womens Chamber of Industry and Commerce that was established in 1985 and it is the only Chamber of Commerce dedicated to women in Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Tissa and Grand Alliance
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Editorial
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Tissa and Grand Alliance
Former UNP General Secretary Tissa Attanayake, now in the political wilderness, after ditching the party to join Mahinda Rajapaksa in the latter's failed Presidential bid, from time to time emerges out of his hibernation to take pot shots at his former leader Ranil Wickremesinghe, the UNP and the Yayapalanaya Government in general. Soon after the defeat of Rajapaksa, Attanayake went underground only to resurface sporadically such as at the famous Nugegoda rally held to herald the Bring Back Mahinda campaign, and, more recently, in the aftermath of the local government polls defeat of the government. At all occasions Attanayake never failed to bring down the party of which he was once General Secretary, in the eyes of the public, while underscoring the need for a change of leadership in order to reverse the fortunes of the party.
Now Attanayake has gone one better. According to a vernacular daily, the former UNP Genereal Secretary has set his sights on forming a Grand Alliance for the sole purpose of accommodating all disgruntled UNPers in the current dispensation and among the grassroots supporters, for the purpose of contesting future elections. In his estimation, some 40% of all UNPers, among the grassroots, are in utter despair over the conduct of the party leadership resulting in, in his view, the sorry pass the party had plunged into. In addition, he says, those voters who broke party ranks and voted for the Common Candidate too were disgusted at the current state of affairs. Hence, Attanayake, in the role of the Messiah, is planning to deliver, not only all disgruntled UNPers from the clutches of a dictatorial leader, but also others who have felt letdown by the Yahapalanaya, to the promised land.
It is noteworthy here to take cognizance of the fact that Attanayake did not see anything wrong with his party leader when he quit the UNP as its General Secretary to join Rajapaksa on the eve of the last Presidential Election. On the contrary, his loyalty to the leader was expressed in unequivocal terms even on the day of his parting. His stated reasons for quitting was attributed to a clique that had formed within Sirikotha to undermine his authority as party General Secretary and make him feel unwanted.
Assuming his reasons were true, then this so called clique was justified in demanding his ouster. This is because when he was UNP General Secretary, the party suffered defeat after defeat, beginning from 2005. The tide turned only after his exit in November 2014 to join the Rajapaksa camp. Hence, Attanayake was the Jonah of the UNP all those years and it was left to Kabir Hashim, who took over the mantle, to reverse the fortunes of the party.
Surely Attanayake cannot seriously believe that his attempt to rally disgruntled UNPers by providing them with a new haven is going to damage the party to any degree. Maverick politician Maithri Gunaratne also broke ranks with the UNP with the sole purpose of offering a sanctuary to disillusioned UNPers. Unlike Tissa Attanayake, who only makes rare TV appearances, Gunaratne's was almost a daily presence on private TV channels, during the recent local government election campaign, attacking the leader and urging grassroots UNPers to vote for his breakaway party to usher in a new-look UNP. The UNPers gave him a fitting reply, going by the results of the poll, where his outfit was right at the bottom of the also-rans, so to speak.
This indeed tells a tale. No genuine UNPer would quit the parent party to join breakaway outfits formed by individuals out of pique with the leadership. Ask Rukman Senanayake. The scion of the Senanayake family broke ranks with JRJ, due to serious personal differences, to form the Eksath Lanka Janatha Party (ELJP). The party, needless to say, was confined to a mere name-board, making no electoral impact whatsoever. Similarly, Sinhala cinema's superstar Vijaya Kumaratunga quit the SLFP with wife Chandrika to form the Sri Lanka Mahajana Pakshaya (SLMP) which turned out to be another misadventure. The Lalith-Gamini duo also suffered a similar fate, their Rajaliya Party failing to make any headway despite the unpopularity of the UNP government at the time. Only Mahinda Rajapaksa, out of the lot, was able to break the mold (at the recent LG election), but he, by no means, left the SLFP/UPFA, unlike the above mentioned, but only presented himself as representing the so-called true SLFP, which may have accounted for the SLFPers voting for the pohottuwa en-masse.
The names mentioned above were political heavyweights and Tissa Attanayake, by no stretch of the imagination, can find common ground with these stalwarts, and, like Maithri Gunaratne, will be a poor also- ran at the hustings. This, the former UNP General Secretary is fully aware of, and, hence, has obviously undertaken a contract from the Rajapaksas to use the new party (Grand Alliance) as a platform to attack the UNP leader, and, also the President, with the hope that the fallout would bring whatever votes the nominee of the pohottuwa could collect at the Presidential Election.
==============================
## Title: TTSC Badminton Championship on Sept. 2
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
TTSC Badminton Championship on Sept. 2
Eighteen teams for the Open and eight teams for Veterans have attracted the 23rd Travel Trade Sports Club (TTSC) Badminton Championships 2018, sponsored by Serendib Leisure Management Ltd., for the eighth successive year, to be held on September 2 at St. Thomas College, Mt. Lavinia Indoor Stadium, commencing 8.30 am.
Sri Lankan Airlines will fight to defend both titles.
The Teams : Sri Lankan Airlines (Open & Veterans), Cinnamon Grand Colombo, (02 teams for the open and 01 team for the
Veterans), Cinnamon lakeside (open & Veterans). Habarana Village (Open & Veterans), Ceylon Roots (Open & Veterans), Diethelm Travels (open & Veterans), Club Hotel Dolphin, Waikkala (Open & Veterans), Jetwing Travels (Open & Veterans), Tour Blue (New comer to TTSC/Open), Connaissance de Ceylan (Open), Pegasus Reef Hotel (Open), Uga Escapes Management (new comer to TTSC/Open), Green Holiday Centre (Open), Aitken Spence Hotel Management (open), Aitken Spence Travels (open), Viluxur Holidays (open) and Eco Team (open).
==============================
## Title: Two gangsters in police net
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Two gangsters in police net
The Organized Crime Prevention Division arrested two gangsters said to be close associates of underworld gang leader Makadure Madush from Bandaragama and Homagama. Police have also found a T-56 weapon and 29 ammunition from the possession of these two individuals.
These two gangsters are suspected to have been involved in several underworld activities and police have found that five out of the 29 ammunition recovered by the police are used for micro weapons.
==============================
## Title: UN expert on debt, human rights to visit here
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
UN expert on debt, human rights to visit here
The UN Independent Expert on foreign debt and human rights Juan Pablo Bohoslavsky will conduct an official visit to Sri Lanka from September 3 to 11, at the invitation of the Government.
My visit aims at collecting first-hand information and examine questions related to debt and other financial obligations from a human rights standpoint, Bohoslavsky said.
The purpose of the mission is to identify good practices, challenges and potential gaps to be addressed, he said.
An important objective of my visit is to study the effects of public debt and related polices on the full enjoyment of human rights.
I am particularly interested in understanding how human rights standards are integrated in economic policies and examining ongoing reforms and programmes aimed at inclusive growth. I would like to grasp how these measures translate in potential improvements and challenges for the realisation of economic, social and cultural rights.
During his visit, the Independent Expert will pay specific attention to the incorporation of human rights standards in international development financing, microfinance, and efforts deployed to prevent and combat illicit financial flows in the country.
I look forward to engaging with the authorities of Sri Lanka, civil society, academics, the international community and other relevant stakeholders, Bohoslavsky said.
The Independent Expert will hold a news conference in Colombo on Tuesday, September 11 at 11.00 am. The news conference is strictly limited to journalists. For media registration to the conference, please contact: Kaushalya Kathireson [emailprotected].
The Independent Expert will submit a comprehensive report about his visit to the UN Human Rights Council in March 2019.

==============================
## Title: USS Anchorage, Suranimila conduct exercise
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
USS Anchorage, Suranimila conduct exercise
The USS Anchorage joined the Sri Lankan naval ship Suranimila to conduct an exercise at sea on August 28.
The exercise allowed the ships to improve each crews knowledge and strengthen a wide variety of seamanship skills critical to operating throughout a free and open Indo-Pacific region. During the exercise, multiple ships sailed in formation to practice communications and maneuvering procedures. In addition to the Anchorage and Suranimila, two landing craft air cushions (LCACs), one AH-1Z Cobra helicopter, and one UH-1Y Huey helicopter participated.
==============================
## Title: Violent extremism primary threat of 21st century - pm
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:07
Violent extremism primary threat of 21st century - pm
The 21st century opens up in an age facing an array of traditional and non-traditional security threats emanating from natural calamities, climate changes, human exodus and displacement, violent non-state actors, issue of ethnicity, new-fangled ideology, religious radicalism and political activities, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said, adding that the most leading threat is violent extremism.
Delivering the keynote address at the 8th Defence Seminar organised by the Sri Lanka Army at the BMICH yesterday, the Prime Minister said though the nature of warfare remains as in ancient times, a clash of interests among organised groups or state, however the science of warfare has drastically changed.
Chairman Mao once said that political power grows out of a barrel of a gun. But 60 years later conflicts are no longer limited to conventional weapons and battles. Therefore, conflict management and resolution demands a more comprehensive and integrated approach than ever before. Todays battlefield is not only expanding as noted by US Army General Mark Odum, it is converging and compressing, creating a situation where the fast moving global trends across all elements of national powers are transforming the nature of present society and impacting on human life, including the character and nature of warfare, the Prime Minister noted.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe, elaborating on the broader prospective of security threats said, these trends are attributed to rapid advancements in science and technology, where innovations and inventions are made possible at a lightening pace and increased human interactions facilitated through the internet and social media, making cognisance, perceptions and opinions instantly available to influence the masses across the world.
He said multinational cooperation in all forms of affairs, particularly related to the issues of national and international affairs therefore, is essential due to the complex nature of threats developing against humanity and mankind.
In such a complex world the effectiveness of militaries is more realistic to visualise in collaborative and cooperative landscape than a competitive arena. In this context military professionalism should grow with the transformation of operational environment retaining the ability to engage in a broader spectrum of security while keeping a step ahead of adversaries at all times, the Prime Minister said.
Seminars such as the Defence Seminar, when men in the profession of arms and those in the business of statecraft congregate to focus their intellect in bringing about practical solutions to security issues of this age proves that security as always is paramount to all nation states and cannot come second to any other need, the Prime Minister noted.
Hence, these new issues must be recognised as national security threats and a number of civilian institutions would be required to work with the defence establishments. New mechanisms both civil and military needs to be created finding the threat perception is such that global security needs a global response. Global security challenges emanate from ongoing conflicts and threats which may be man induced or due to natural disaster,. the Prime Minister said.
We as states need to be prepared for both. States need to cooperate by sharing intelligence, training and knowledge where relevant. Good rapport and a working relationship among security stakeholders locally and internationally are the key to success in meeting future security challenges. It is my belief that the deliberations at this seminar would bring about positive solutions and an understanding of the present day security issues,the Premier added.
I am certain, together we would foster greater cooperation and friendship helping us to serve as one for a secure and peaceful future, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said in conclusion.

==============================
## Title: Vision Care, agents for Oticon OPN hearing aids
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Vision Care, agents for Oticon OPN hearing aids
The sole agent for Oticon OPN hearing aids in Sri Lanka since 2005, Vision Care Hearing Solutions celebrates the brands success and has provided countless people across the island, with access to world-class Oticon OPN hearing aids.
These cutting-edge solutions have transformed the lives of thousands of Sri Lankans and people across the globe, enhancing their quality of hearing and empowering them to communicate with greater ease.
Driven by its motto of People First, Oticon creates ground-breaking solutions that give individuals with varying hearing impairments the technical support that they need to share their thoughts and ideas freely whilst engaging in conversations with greater confidence.
Oticon OPN is an innovative device that employs an open sound approach designed to manage multiple speech and noise sources, even in complex listening situations. OPNs new OpenSound Navigator scans the environment 100 times per second to analyze and balance every sound individually.
The Oticon OPN is the first-ever internet connected hearing aid, that allows direct streaming of phone calls and media from an iPhone. Compatibility with Android devices was also made possible with the newly released Connect Clip, enabling all smartphone users to enjoy its benefits.
The products sales in 2018 show that it continues to be the most revolutionary hearing device in the market to date.
Commenting on Oticon selling over a million Oticon OPN hearing devices by 2018,Chathira Siriwardena said, As the sole agents of Oticon devices in Sri Lanka, we at Vision Care Hearing Solutions are pleased that this remarkable product has drastically improved the lives of over one million hearing-impaired individuals across the globe, and positively impacted countless people in our country as well. Designed in Denmark, Oticon OPN aids have helped to transform so many peoples lives, delivering better clarity of audibility and improved understanding of speech.
Over the years, Vision Care Hearing Solutions has established hearing aid fitting and aftercare processes and services that are on par with international standards, in an effort to bring the best of what the global hearing aid industry has to offer to Sri Lanka.
==============================
## Title: Worlds largest paper plane
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Worlds largest paper plane
A Massachusetts museum is hoisting a 64-foot-long paper airplane into the air to break a Guinness World Record.
The Revolving Museum in Fitchburg announced the paper plane, created under the supervision of "Project Soar" leader and local artist Jerry Beck, will be lifted by a crane Tuesday at the Fitchburg Municipal Airport.
A Guinness World Records adjudicator will be on hand to verify whether the 1,500-pound plane beats the previous record for a paper airplane, which was created by students and faculty at Germany's Braunschweig Institute of Technology in 2013.
Beck said the project has been four years in the making and involved contributions from more than 4,500 people.
"We're doing something that's never been done in the world before," Beck told the Boston Globe.
"It's a beautiful montage of artwork from all ages, from a two-year-old to a 92-year-old."
UPI
==============================
## Title: Skewers and Kebabs at Galadari
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Skewers and Kebabs at Galadari
The Galadari Hotel is offering a mouthwatering kebab and skewers promotion at the Arena from September 07 to the 16, 7pm to 11pm. Enjoy a fascinating range of cold, hot and sweet kebab and skewers, according to your desire.
The cold range includes smoked salmon and cheese kebabs, prawn to crab and squid etc. The hot selection includes fresh thyme infused griddle fried salmon and green bean on timbale, cheese and mushroom ravioli on concasse gratinate with herb sabayon and much more. For those with a sweet tooth a decadent range has been introduced, these include dark and white chocolate coated strawberry and marshmallow skewers and cinnamon chocolate fondant with tropical fruit kebab and lime sauce.
The Galadari invites you to be a part of this fabulous promotional offer. Visit the Arena and chill out with your friends in style.
==============================
## Title: SLPP protest will benefit govt.
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SLPP protest will benefit govt.
The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) public protest planned for September 5 will have positive effects for the government, Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera said.
If anybody thinks that they can topple the government by organising anti-government protests, it is really an illusion. The protest will further strengthen the government, said the Minister.
He said that the only outcome of the protest will be public inconvenience.
There should be a clear reason for holding this type of protest. But the reason for the SLPPs protest is not clear, he said.
The present government has not taken any decision which is harmful to the public. Since every person has the right to protest, the government will never take any legal action to prevent the protest, he said.
We dont want to make them heroes by getting a court order prohibiting this protest, Minister Amaraweera said.
==============================
## Title: SLTB employees deserve salary hike
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SLTB employees deserve salary hike
Transport and Civil Aviation Minister Nimal Siripala De Silva yesterday said the Sri Lanka Transport Board (SLTB) employees should get a salary increment as they work very hard to serve the people when private buses and trains are on strikes.
The Minister was participating in a SLTB progress review meeting yesterday.
But the decision in this regard will not be made on the influence or threats of any trade unions or other organizations, he said.
The SLTB daily revenue has increased to Rs.100 million since it followed a systematic plan to reduce corruption and wastage.
The SLTB has 6,100 buses and 30,463 employees. The island has 107 main bus depots and 13 sub bus depots and 90 per cent of them earn profit today, he said. The Board has been in loss for many years. But it had recorded a Rs. 1,618 million profit last year. This year it will be Rs.2000 million, he said.
==============================
## Title: SriLankan refused Russia GSAs request to credit money to personal account
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
SriLankan refused Russia GSAs request to credit money to personal account
SriLankan Airlines turned down a request made by its General Sales Agent in Russia Anna Korakowa to credit 986200 roubles to her personal account at the Commercial Bank, Borella Branch, in 2015.
Korakowa was also a director of Sri Lankan Travel Inc.
This was disclosed before the Presidential Commission investigating alleged acts of fraud and corruption and other misdeeds in SriLankan Airlines, SriLankan Catering Services and Mihin Lanka by SriLankan Airlines Senior Manager (Revenue) Upekha Avanthi Abeysekera in her evidence on Wednesday.
Abeysekara said the airline in return requested Korakowa to get two directors to approve this transaction in writing, but Korakowa followed a policy of complete silence about the matter.
Sri Lankan Travel Inc. which acted as the General Sales Agent had Noel Ranaweera as it Chairman, while thes other members of the Board of Directors were Gamini Abeywickrema and Korakowa.
However SriLankan Airlines did not possess any documentary proof about the constitution of this Director Board, according to evidence given by the witness previously.
==============================
## Title: Ten per cent of CPC jobs for its workers children
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Ten per cent of CPC jobs for its workers children
Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunga said that 10 per cent jobs of the CPC will be offered to children of its employees.
He was participating in the scholarship awarding ceremony at the ministry yesterday.
The Minister said scholarships for employees children were increased to Rs. 60,000 per year and it will be paid in two installments. The Medicine Faculty has three scholars, Engineering Faculty three, Science Faculty 10, IT Faculty three, Management Faculty four and Arts Faculty two. The Minister said workers must take the responsibility to save the institution.
Everyone has studied with public funds. I am paid with public money. Therefore, all have a responsibility to repay the country what they received from the country. If 50 per cent people have this in their mind, the country will be a better place. Unfortunately, people try to earn whatever way they can. This institution is running because of the dedication of these parents. Other countries mainly privatise State institutions to minimise the expenses. Some people think that will do in our country as well. If we have not save these institutions, they will be privitaised, Minister Ranatunga said.
Petroleum Resources Development Ministry Secretary Upali Marasinghe, CPC and CPSTL Chairman Dammika Ranatunga, Managing Director Neil Jayasekara, Manager (HR) Samantha Pushpalal were present.
==============================
## Title: 1990: Suwaseriya
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
1990: Suwaseriya
It came for my grandmother within seven minutes. So it will definitely come for your loved one as well. 1990 Suwaseriya pre-hospital care ambulance service kicked off in 2016 with so many rumours, allegations and figments of imagination hindering its commencement. However, this ambulance service sped fast ahead, leaving all baseless accusations behind, and won the hearts of Sri Lankans.
This emergency ambulance service, which is provided free, was initiated in 2016 in the Western and Southern Provinces under an Indian grant of US$ 7.5 million. The grant included the purchase of 88 ambulances, operational expenditure of the service for one year, and setting up of an emergency response centre.
The service is now being expanded to the other seven provinces with an additional grant of US$ 15.02 million, covering the cost of 209 ambulances, training costs and operational expenditure for one year.
India has granted a total of US$ 22 million for the whole project, to date. There are 143 ambulances currently deployed in the Suwaseriya service so far, 56 for Western Province and 32 for the Southern Province. The emergency ambulance service, which can be obtained by dialing the toll free number 1990 on any network in Sri Lanka, is one of the largest Indian grant projects in Sri Lanka.
On August 24, Uva Province received 26 fully furnished ambulances along with foreign-trained staff as a part of the extension of this ambulance service islandwide. Accordingly, Hali-Ela, Badulla, Bandarawela, Moneragala and many other areas will receive this service. These ambulances will be stationed at 26 selected police stations and the respective ambulances were handed over to the OICs at the public grounds at Hali-Ela in the Badulla district, under the patronage of Assistant High Commissioner of India Dhirendra Singh, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment Minister Harin Fernando, and Economic Affairs State Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva.
According to Suwaseriyas service record as of today, it has serviced 91,547 persons in emergency situations. The service has also recorded 12 minutes and 57 seconds of average response time from reception of the emergency call to the ambulance reaching the patient.
According to the statistics, more than half a million calls have been received by the central operations control centre of this service and 98.7 percent of these calls have been answered within two seconds.
The Suwaseriya ambulance service call centre is now considered the most efficient in the country. Thirty-two emergency child births have taken place in the ambulances where both mother and the child have been safely taken to hospitals for medical care.
State Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva, the visionary behind this ambulance service, said that a total of 300 ambulances will be deployed to the fleet when the service is extended islandwide.
State Minister Dr. de Silva said that the number of required ambulances is decided by a software application, and if more ambulances are needed, the government will take necessary steps to acquire them.
Two years back, we started this service in Hambantota, Galle, Matara, Kalutara, Gampaha and Colombo, State Minister Dr. de Silva said. In July, we extended the service to the Nothern Province. Suwaseriya now provides its service to the Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mannar, Vavuniya and Mullativu districts. This service is one of the most prominent projects implemented by this government. This service was gifted to us by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has pledged his continued assistance to spread this service across the country.
People in developing countries do not receive a free ambulance service. If you are rich and have purchased a subscription, a private ambulance service will come to you. But most of us cannot afford such a thing. However, in developed countries, there is a free emergency service provided for the public. Our target is to provide a free ambulance service that will reach any citizen in the country within 15 minutes, the State Minister said.
State Minister de Silva said the government took steps to pass the 1990 Suwaseriya Foundation Act in order to continue the service which started as a foreign-funded project. Usually when the funds are over, a project shuts down. We did not want that to happen. So the government decided to take the responsibility for this project. Accordingly, we passed the 1990 Suwaseriya Foundation Act and allocated money for the continuation of the project. The Act was passed unanimously in Parliament in May.
The Board of the Foundation will consist of three ex-officio members and four other members appointed by the President. The three ex-officio members include the Treasury Secretary, the Health Secretary and the IGP or their representatives. Four members appointed by the President should possess academic or professional qualifications and have experience in the fields of medical science, pharmaceuticals, medical technology, finance, management, administration, or law. The Foundation can receive grants, gifts or donations, and it will have its own fund. It can enter into contracts or agreements as necessary for the discharge of its functions. Members, officers and employees of the Foundation are deemed to be public servants.
Minister Harin Fernando, who was present at the launch of the service in the Uva Province, said that a request has been made for special ambulances that are compatible with the high mountain ranges in this province. He said discussions are already taking place with Suwaseriya officials with reference to these special ambulances and urged the public to discard all political points of view when looking at the Suwaseriya service. I am disappointed when people look at this service with politically-tinted glasses. See how difficult it is when someone faces an emergency situation. You have to run around the village calling for help. Even when you find a vehicle, you dont know the proper way to lift the patient. You might even make the patient worse from the way you are handling him or her. We dont know first aid. People should learn to look beyond the politics and understand the services provide to the people of the country, Minister Fernando said.
He also said that many groups alleged that this ambulance service will employ Indians whereas it has created a large number of employment opportunities for Sri Lankan youth. Minister Fernando said that a Cabinet decision was taken to allocate Rs. 600 million to establish a kidney unit at the Badulla Hospital. A cath lab will also be provided to the same hospital in the process of making Badulla Hospital as one of the main hospitals in the Uva Province.
We are very grateful to the Indian government on behalf of the Uva Province and the citizens of Sri Lanka, for the great service that has been rendered to us, Minister Fernando said.
Assistant High Commissioner of India Dhirendra Singh, addressing the gathering, said that he was impressed by the achievements of the Suwaseriya service.
I was just looking at some figures, and I was really amazed that the ambulance service which started in 2016 has already reached half a million calls in two years. Another wonderful facet of this service has been that on an average, it takes only about 13 minutes to reach the people in need. It speaks of the facility that is available for these citizens. We are indeed very happy to be a part of this project in Sri Lanka. Let me admit one fact very candidly: we dont have such a service in India, such an efficient service, such wonderful people operating it and such lucky people receiving this service, he said.
MP Vadival Suresh, Provincial Minister Upali Samaraweera, the Badulla GA, and Uva DIG Jagath Palihakkara were also present on the occasion.
==============================
## Title: ADB to provide US$ 1 bn annually till 2020
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
ADB to provide US$ 1 bn annually till 2020
Asian Development Bank (ADB) would provide US$ 1 billion annually for three years to Sri Lanka for 2018 to 2020, said ADB Vice President (Operations 1), Wencai Zhang said after visiting some of the development projects in the Southern Province.
He said that the ADB team met Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe last morning and told him that the ADB would also support the governments initiative of Enterprise Sri Lanka. The PM was also keen to improve the rural economy and specially the SME sector.
This is a step taken in the right direction to reactivate the SME sector. The ADB is also keen to lend to this sector and already have opened a credit line with the Minister of Finance to offer credit to entrepreneurs via state and commercial at very low interest rates.
The ADB through the Finance Ministry has disbursed around US$ 175 million from 2016 so far.
We are also keen to provide more credit to women entrepreneurs and also offer more technical support for the vocational training sector.
He said that the ADB is keen to assist the agriculture, energy, ports, water supply, sanitation, education, transport, health and vocational sectors. ADB is especially keen to get involved in the Mahaweli Water supply project which in turn will help the rural economy to grow.

==============================
## Title: Allergy alert!
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Allergy alert!
A tot allergic to inflatables, apples and even his own tears is a prisoner in his own home - and will never be able to enjoy summer.
Nine-month-old Riley Kinsey, from Kirkby-in-Ashfield, Notts, was born with 50 known allergies and is only able to leave his house once a week because of fears he could have an life-threatening allergic reaction.
The toddler breaks out in a severe red rash if his skin comes into contact with any type of latex  meaning he can never play on bouncy castles, have balloons at his birthday party, go to a childrens ball park or relax on a lilo on holiday.
And the youngsters sensitive skin is even allergic to his own tears, meaning when he cries his face swells up to double its usual size.
Only able to eat four kinds of food - turkey, carrots, plums and sweet potatoes, Riley has had reactions to almost every household item and foodstuff in mum Kayleigh and dad Michaels house.
And the family admit relatives even refuse to hold him in case they trigger a dangerous reaction.
Mum Kayleigh, 24, a stay-at-home mum, said that she and Michael, a plasterer, have now been left wondering what kind of life Riley will lead in future.
The mum-of-three said, It's very hard for my husband and I.
You can't live your life, you have to wash your hand so many times and make sure everything is clean. We only take him when we have to, no more than once a week. Its too risky otherwise. Hes become a prisoner in his house because the outside world is so risky for him. If he begins to cry his skin gets irritated even further. It can be quite difficult to deal with as you can't leave him to soothe. You have to go and deal with him straight away. He was quite interested in my daughter's purple inflatable hammer but then we found out he was allergic to that to as his face swelled up. We ask ourselves if hell able to go to a normal school or even something straightforward like going to a park. It's heartbreaking. It's not nice to see him like this.
Michael said, "It's very worrying not to know if he'll be able to lead a life where he can be a normal child. It upsets me that he may not be able to go and kick a ball on a field with his friends. This will impact his whole life but also ours. But at the end of the day he's my son and I will deal with whatever I have to as I want the very best for him."
Kayleigh said that the weeks following her sons birth were normal enough with no complications.
Then, at six weeks old, Riley began to develop eczema on his head.
Kayleigh said, The back of his head started weeping so naturally we took him to the doctor who gave him some cream to try. It was like hed tipped acid over him, it had absolutely no impact at all and made it worse. The first allergy reaction was in February. He had some baby porridge. Straight away his face started swelling and he was really unsettled and started crying. It's just escalated from there. Its so distressing.
Riley has reactions so severe that his face will swell and his body will become covered in terrible sore patches and hives which put him at risk of infection.
Kayleigh said because Rileys allergies are largely airborne, she and her husband have to operate a strict daily cleaning routine that sees the couple hoover their house from top to bottom.
They have to be so careful about Rileys condition, the family even have to avoid eating in certain rooms in the house in case Riley should enter them.
And heartbreakingly, Riley is also unable to play with his sisters Georgea, four, and Taylor Mae, two.
Kayleigh and Michael have even been forced to spend 5,000 on re-carpeting their entire home and are facing the prospect of having to add an extension to their home.
Kayleigh said, He gets hives across his body and will cry out in pain. It leads to lots of sleepless nights because he wakes himself up scratching in his sleep. There have been times when weve found that hes scratched himself red raw with blood all over him. Riley has his meals on his own and not with his sisters or the rest of the family. We eat in the kitchen but Riley eats in the living room, so the food is kept away from him. Were struggling to find places to put his food in a sterile environment so we need extra space. We have to wash his clothes separately as well as his bowls and spoons.
Kayleigh and Michael both said, Everyone has done what they can, but we've had a couple of family members refuse to hold him. All we get is people asking 'how do you cope' but at the end of the day you have two choices. Do you walk away or get on with it We choose to get on with it because he's our son.He's a very happy child. He smiles every day and just gets on with it."
Mirror
==============================
## Title: ASEAN-China trade to receive a boost with Southern  Transport Corridor: Chan Chun Sing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
ASEAN-China trade to receive a boost with Southern  Transport Corridor: Chan Chun Sing
Fruits, seafood, and Chinese medicinal herbs are examples of some goods which could flow more easily between western China and Southeast Asia once trade on the Southern Transport Corridor (STC) takes off.
Jointly developed by Singapore and China under the Chongqing Connectivity Initiative G2G (government-to-government) project, the STC is a multimodal transport route linking Chongqing in western China to Singapore via rail and sea.
The STC will provide new opportunities for ASEAN companies to tap into growing demand in western China, said Singapore Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing on Tuesday (Aug 28).
He was speaking on the second and final day of the FutureChina Global Forum and Singapore Regional Business Forum in Singapore, where growing connectivity between China and Southeast Asia was a key focus.
Last year, bilateral trade between China and Southeast Asia reached a record high, totalling more than US$515 billion (S$701 billion).
Chongqing Mayor Tang Liangzhi, who was speaking at the forum, noted that the STC has already reduced travel time between western China and Southeast Asia by two-thirds.
Chan added that the STC is an open platform, as having more users will expand its network, build economies of scale, and benefit all by reducing costs.
At a separate panel session in the afternoon, Chan noted that it took Singapore very long to develop a new concept for partnering China on bilateral infrastructure projects.
.Channel NewsAsia
==============================
## Title: ATTITUDINAL CHANGE, A MUST - Dr. Udagama
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:09
ATTITUDINAL CHANGE, A MUST - Dr. Udagama
Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka Chairperson Dr.Deepika Udagama said attitudes of the people must change for the country to move forward and adequately address the sufferings of families of disappeared persons.
We should not look at this through a political or racist perspective, she said and pointed out that some harbour negative feelings toward the OMP. Still, those trying to find their missing loved ones are called traitors, while those responsible for the disappearances may be regarded heroes, she said.
Dr. Udagama said there must be a reckoning with this difficult past in order for the country to progress as a nation.If we are to have a civilised country, we have to see that these things do not happen again,she said.
She was delivering the key note address at the J.R. Jayewardene Centre in Colombo yesterday to mar the International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances. A large gathering of family members of the missing persons, government officials,civil society members and representatives of foreign missions were present.
If anyone can listen to these stories and watch these images of the struggle of families of the disappeared without being moved, there is something terribly wrong with this country.
Dr. Udagama stressed that much like the incessant pain of the friends and family of the disappeared, human rights violations against these individuals are unending. Under international law, enforced disappearances are continuing violations.From the moment a person is deprived of their liberty, the violation continues, Udagama said.
According to the United Nations Human Rights commission, enforced disappearance is defined by three elements: deprivation of liberty against the will of the person, involvement of government officials, at least by acquiescence, and refusal to acknowledge the deprivation of liberty or concealment of the fate or whereabouts of the disappeared person. In Sri Lanka, many of these disappearances are in connection with the civil war and the 1980s JVP insurrection. Years later, families still wait for answers, in a purgatory between mourning and hoping.
Dr. Udagama attributes the slow progress, in part, to a lack of consistency in the political system and unstable institutions. In Sri Lanka, democracy has not been properly established, she said.
The government changes and people change and things happen in a different manner.We have to strengthen our institutions.

==============================
## Title: Bangladesh axe Sabbir,  Anamul from Asia Cup squad
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Bangladesh axe Sabbir,  Anamul from Asia Cup squad
DHAKA, Thursday: Bangladesh have dropped batsmen Sabbir Rahman and Anamul Haque from their 15-man squad for the Asia Cup in the United Arab Emirates next month, a cricket official said Thursday.
Middle-order Sabbir and opener Anamul paid the price for poor performances during Bangladeshs win over the West Indies in a three-match one-day international series last month.
Sabbir, who concluded a six-month ban from domestic cricket in June for assaulting a fan, accumulated just 27 runs in the series while Anamul made 33.
Squad: Mashrafe Mortaza (Capt), Shakib Al Hasan, Tamim Iqbal, Mohammad Mithun, Liton Kumar, Mushfiqur Rahim, Ariful Haque, Mahmudullah Riyad, Mosaddek Hossain, Nazmul Hossain, Mehedi Hasan, Nazmul Islam, Rubel Hossain, Mustafizur Rahman and Abu Haider.  AFP
==============================
## Title: Blue Elephant opens at Hilton Colombo
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Blue Elephant opens at Hilton Colombo
Hilton Colombo unveiled `Blue elephant recently with galmour. Sulochana Gamage captured some fashionable guests who arrived at the event.
==============================
## Title: Bopitiya Auto Enterprises wins Asia  Pacific Entrepreneur Award
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Bopitiya Auto Enterprises wins Asia  Pacific Entrepreneur Award
The founder of Bopitiya Auto Enterprises, a leading pioneer in manufacturing, distributing and exporting motor spare parts made in Sri Lanka, Jude Rodrigo was recently named the most outstanding business leader in the manufacturing industry at the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards (APEA) 2018.
The APEA event was held in Colombo for the fourth time and was graced by Minister of Industry and Commerce Rishad Bathiudeen. Minister Tourism Development, Christian Religious Affairs and Land John Amaratunga, President of Enterprise Asia Dato William Ng and Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Dinesh Weerakkody also joined the event.
Organized by Enterprise Asia, the award recognizes entrepreneurial excellence, sustainability and innovation. The award series is also held in Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Singapore, Hong Kong, India and China.
Entrepreneurship is a challenging journey. Its the persistency and creative thinking through innovations that immensely added value in my enterprising effort to be a prominent entrepreneur in motor spare parts manufacturing in Sri Lanka, said BAE Founder Jude Rodrigo.
We consistently strive to deliver authentic durable products that are well compatible with local road conditions and ensure that our strategies are prioritized around evolving customer satisfaction. We are confident to always explore new methods, expand onto many international markets, diversify the companys portfolio and establish it as a prime brand in the auto components market both locally and globally, Rodrigo further said.
The company is also nominated as a model factory in the country by Japan-based Asian Productivity Organization (APO) for its unique creative thinking pattern and the founders continuous commitment to practice concepts such as 5S, Kaizen, JIT, TPM and TQM when implementing business strategies.
==============================
## Title: Bridge to a brave new world
## Supertitle: Enterprise Sri Lanka:
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Enterprise Sri Lanka:
Bridge to a brave new world
The Enterprise Sri Lanka exhibition, organised by the Finance and Mass Media Ministry to create an economy of entrepreneurs, was opened under the patronage of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe in Moneragala, yesterday.
The exhibition has 12 zones and 515 stalls to raise awareness on the implementation of the recently-launched interest-subsidised loan scheme, Enterprise Sri Lanka. It will apprise the public of the progress of the ongoing and future development projects of the government.
Pictures by Rukmal Gamage, Malan Karunarathne, Samantha Weerasiri and Nissanka Wijerathne.
==============================
## Title: Cabinet committee under PM looking to revive SriLankan
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:05
Cabinet committee under PM looking to revive SriLankan
Cabinet Secretary Sumith Abeysinghe said a cabinet sub-committee chaired by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe is looking into a viable proposal for the betterment of SriLankan Airlines.
Abeysinghe said President Maithripala Sirisena has recommended this measure.
Abeysinghe told the Presidential Commission investigating into the alleged frauds that have taken place at SriLankan Airlines, Mihin Lanka and SriLankan Catering that former President Mahinda Rajapaksa had approved to provide US$ 520 million for SriLankan Airlines and Mihin Lanka on July 27, 2011.
He briefed the Commission on decisions taken by the cabinet on SriLankan Airlines from time to time. Abeysinghe was giving evidence before the commission chaired by retired Supreme Court Judge Anil Gooneratne.
==============================
## Title: Cabinet Decisions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Cabinet Decisions
Stabilising coastline from Mount Lavinia to Angulana and eroded ridge of sand in Kaluganga Embouchure
The Cabinet has granted its policy approval to stabilise the coastline from Mount Lavinia to Angulana under the Colombo South Sand Nourishment Project. The Cabinet approved the proposal by President Maithripala Sirisena in his capacity as the Mahaweli Development and Environment Minister to stabilise the coastline from Mount Lavinia to Angulana using Sand Engine Methodology and to re-stabilise the ridge of sand in Kaluganga Embouchure.
Improving facilities for Public-Private Partnerships in Sri Lanka
The Cabinet approval was granted to secure funds (USD 25 million) from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the World Bank to improve a structure to assist Public- Private Partnership and to finance the infrastructure facilities. The Cabinet approved the proposal by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe in his capacity as the National Policies and Economic Affairs Minister to conduct negotiations and to enter into loan agreements.
State Christmas Festival 2018 to be held in Mannar Diocese
The State Christmas Festival is held annually based on a diocese and under the guidance and counselling of the Bishop. The Cabinet approved the proposal by Tourism Development and Christian Religious Affairs Minister John Amaratunga to hold the State Christmas Festival 2018 based on Mannar Diocese under the theme, Birth of Jesus and Gorgeous Christmas.
Holding Annual Conference 2021 of the Asian Development Bank in Sri Lanka
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera to inform the Asia Development Bank the intention to host the 2021 annual Conference in Sri Lanka and to appoint a national monitoring committee and sub committees for the purpose.
Amendments to Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration Act No. 9 of 1982
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Public Administration and Management and Law and Peace Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara to amend the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration Act No. 9 of 1982, inserting the amendments to adjust the administrative structure and functions of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration to meet present requirements.
New projects to enhance the efficiency of plantation sector to be implemented from 2019
Rs. 457.85 billion was gained as the export income of tea, rubber and coconut products in 2017. It has been identified that methods, services and experiments should be developed to increase this income. The proposal by Plantation Industry Minister Naween Dissanayaka to allocate funds to implement these projects was approved by the Cabinet.
Systematic assessment to identify chemical disasters by National Building Research Organization
A study conducted by the National Building Research Organization has proved that many chemical accidents in Sri Lanka are occurred due to unawareness, lack of proper maintenance of premises, weakness of Supervision and wrong industrial use. Therefore, the Cabinet approved the proposal by Irrigation, Water Resources and Disaster Management Minister Duminda Dissanayake to implement an assessment to identify the chemical disaster risks in 2019-2020.
Formalising investments of Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Higher Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Dr. Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe to invest the funds owned by the Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund in government banks and Central Bank bonds, liquidating the functions of the National Wealth Corporation Limited and the National Wealth Securities Company to formalise the investments.
Amendments to Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Higher Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Dr. Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe to amend the name of the Mahapola Higher Education Trust Fund Act No. 66 of 1981 as Lalith Athulathmudali Mahapola Higher Education Trust Fund Act No. 66 of 1981.
Revising nutrition allowance of the scholars in sports schools
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam to increase the monthly nutrition allowance of the students of sport schools from Rs. 2,500 up to Rs. 5,000.
Holding Asia Pacific Regional Annual Conference 2019 on Express Mail Service
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Postal, Postal Services and Muslim Religious Affairs Minister M.H.A.Haleem to hold the Asia Pacific Regional Annual Conference 2019 along with foreign representatives.
Infrastructure Development Project of the Katubedda Technical Engineering Training Institute
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Science, Technology, Research, Skills Development & Vocational Training and Kandyan Heritage Minister Dr. Sarath Amunugama to call for a detailed project proposal to improve the Technical Engineering Training Institute, Katubedda using Rs. 2,400 million provide by an Austrian Loan Subsidy Scheme.
Kolonnawa Channel Diversion Project
The Cabinet approved the proposal presented by Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka to award the contract to improve under phase 3 of the Metro Colombo Urban Development Project to the joint venture of the E&C Institution and the RR Institution for Rs. 1,004.4 million.
Constructing eight rural bridges to uplift beneficiaries in model villages in Hambantota
The Cabinet approved the proposal by Housing and Development Minister Sajith Premadasa to construct eight bridges in the Hambantota District under the
Nagamu Purawara programme. (Bridge across Rambukwewa Weligaththa Aru; bridge across Muwanwewa, Weerawila Aru, Diyambediya; bridge across Pannegamuwa and Abhayapura; bridge across Ambalanthota Liyagastota and Bedigantota, Malala Aru in Thanamalwila Road, Ranmuduwewa bridge;bridge across Rabarwatta and Uduwila, Katuwana Keselwatta Bridge and bridge across Lunugamwehera South Bank).

==============================
## Title: A captains dream all rounder
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
A captains dream all rounder
In the pre Test cricket era, Zahira College, Maradana produced some outstanding cricketers who could have sported the countrys colours and left their mark with telling performances.
GHULAM RAZICK from Zahira is our SPORTS LEGEND this week. His full name is a 'Googly' in its own right: GNANI SHEIKKH ABDUL CADER MOHAEDSEEM ABDUL 'GULAM' RAZICK. It reflects that there are many facets to this Sportsman of yore: the curly haired handsome cricketer. He was an all rounder that any captain, school, club or country will strain every nerve, sinew and muscle and love to have.
He belonged to Zahira College which was a breeding ground at that time for cricketers of class. RAZICK was that mercurial all rounder and naturalist who took to the game like a duck to water when he was in grade 4 at school. His love for the game knew no bounds.
Rose to be a champion
He rose to be a champion playing in under 12, 14 and 16 age groups showing his immense natural talent. It was not long before he realized his dream of playing in the first side in school.
In the mid 1950s the best cricketer Zahira gave to the game was undoubtedly Muttiah Devaraj. A Tamil in a predominantly Muslim school Devaraj belonged to a generation when race, creed or religion had no part to play in neither school nor national sports.
Devaraj was a classy all rounder. As a right hand batsman he was devastating with strokes all round the wicket.
As a fastish right arm off spinner he was not easy to negotiate and as a cover fielder, he had it him to put to second best the worlds best in that position South Africans Colin Bland and Jonty Rhodes. Devaraj dominated the school scene in the mid 1950s.
He later played for the Tamil Union and Nomads and his consistency earned for him calls to play for the Board Presidents X1 and in the then regular and famous Gopalan Trophy game against Madras.
Knack of spotting talent
RAZICK'S first coach was the famous Bahar who had the natural knack of spotting talent and licking into shape and giving to the country a finished product that would be a pride and an example.
RAZICK had a good run in big time school cricket, before joining Moors Sports Club, which club saw a host of promising Zahira cricketers joining them. He was oozing with talent so much so that as a schoolboy he played for Moors in the company of some exalted cricketers.
RAZICK sported the captaincy cap at school in 1963 and 1964. In a game against S.Thomas College, Mount Lavinia ---believe it or not--- he captured six wickets for five runs and helped Zahira triumph. The Thomians were captained by Randy Morrel who was the writers team mate at the Burgher Recreation Club.
An offer of a bat
Incidentally a little anecdote. Morrel and the writer were playing for BRC in a Donovan Andree Trophy game at the BRC ground against Saracens and Clive Barthomoleusz a former Wesley cricketer made an offer that any member scoring the first century in that game would be presented with a bat.
Morrel and I were racing neck to neck to get that elusive bat and we reached the 90s together and Morrel attempting big hit to race ahead of me skied a catch and was out and wasnt I elated.
Back to RAZICK and his taking five wickets and over in a game with his right arm cutters came naturally and heading the schools bowling averages was no big deal. He began his big time cricket career in 1962 for Moors and played in the company with stalwarts of the calibre of Makkin Salih, Tony Buhar and M.E.M. Nawaz. The rookie RAZICK held his own among these stalwarts.
A grand century
In a Sara trophy fixture against University which UNI side had famous schoolboy cricketers  Lareef Idroos, Sarath Wimalaratne, Nihal Gurusinghe and Raja de Silva he scored a hundred and then followed with 87 against Moratuwa and 40 against a strong SSC side.
Those knocks earned him a slot in the Board Presidents X1 against Madras in Gopalan Trophy games in 1966 and 1968.
He then graduated to the Ceylon team that played MCC in a limited over match and in a match won on a faster run rate he took the wickets of the renowned John Edrich, Roger Prideaux and Keith Fletcher and making an unbeaten 15.
It was he who hit the winning run. He still treasurers pocketing the wickets of Edrich, Prideaux and Fletcher.
However he enjoyed his most memorable moments in the game when he was selected to play for the country against MCC in an unofficial test.
He bowled after T.B.Kehelgamuwa and Daya Sahaband used the new ball.
Hawk eyed slip man
RAZICK who was hawk eyed with quick reflexes had the knack of taking some amazing slip catches. More than once he had taken five catches in an innings and the best effort was grabbing for Moors 13 catches in a Sara trophy game and that too when leading the team. That effort would have been a world record, but the cricket had that time was not recognized because that effort was performed in the pre Test era.
RAZICK was also coached by the great Bertie Wijesinha and admits he improved his game all round tremendously under Wijesinhas guidance.
I had the opportunity of playing against RAZICK and can vouch for his abilities as a stylish, copy book correct, yet right hand dashing batsman; bowling medium paced vicious right arm off cutters; and as slip fielder he could be bracketed with former Australian opening batsman and slip fielder par excellence Bob Simpson.
He also had a brilliant captaincy brain.On a personal note  sub head Before going on to sing more praises of RAZICK, I would like to digress and on a personal note recall the Sara Trophy game between Moors and Saracens at the then Braybrook Place matting in the 1970s. After a century opening stand between T. K. Palitha and Weerabangsa for Saracens, I was asked to go in next by captain Shanti Pieris and up the scoring rate. That was because of my ability for big hitting against the fast bowlers.
Knowing and having seen me hook left arm fast bowler and my former team mate at SBC Nihal Zoysa playing for NCC in Sara game for two sixes to the Rifle Green rail track off bouncers, RAZICK who was captaining Moors immediately summoned a left arm spinner called Dawoodbhoy to bowl.
Into the land of nod
Now Dawoodbhoy would toss the ball so high, that you could go into the land of nod, yet wake up and play him. I was waiting, and sick of waiting for the ball to descend that sleepishly I pushed forward only to snick for RAZICK to gobble the catch at slip and pocket the ball to my consternation. Out first ball for zero.
That was RAZICK for you as captain. Playing for Moors he also won the Single Wicket Tourney organized by the Colombo Cricket Club for the 'Times of Ceylon' Trophy in 1965 beating Cambridge Blue P. I. Pieris of the Sinhalese Spots Club in the final.
RAZICK also showed amazing energy when he bowled 42 nonstop overs in a 'SARA' Trophy game which he claims to be a record.
RAZICK is married to Zeenath Munawar and has one daughter and two sons and resides at Bauddhaloka Mawatha.
Cricketers and all-rounders of his class are rare-and rarer still are self-effacing gentleman of RAZICK'S calibre.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Carbonic manure to put under tests
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Carbonic manure to put under tests
Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera has instructed the National Fertilizer Secretariat to test composition of carbonic fertilizer produced from urban waste and submit a report.
This follows allegations by certain parties that carbonic fertilizer produced from urban waste carried a high percentage of Cadmium, a ministry release said.
The Minister issued the directive at the weekly fertilizer review meeting held at the ministry yesterday.
The Minister said farmers were encouraged to use carbonic fertilizer, but a high percentage of Cadmium and other heavy metals in them may cause health hazards.
==============================
## Title: Carrier Celebrates New Local Entity  in Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 16:48
Carrier Celebrates New Local Entity  in Sri Lanka
Carrier announced the grand opening of its new office and newly expanded product offering in Sri Lanka.
Leveraging global expertise and an extensive portfolio, this newly formed entity will increase the accessibility of Carrier staff and services and the availability of their end-to-end air conditioning solutions, enabling shorter lead times and better customer service.
The key reason for opening an office in Sri Lanka was to be closer to our customers and offer them energy efficient air conditioning solutions from Carrier and Toshiba, said Arun Bhatia, Managing Director, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, India Region. Carriers philosophy over the years has been to offer the right heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) solutions.
Carrier Aircon Lanka Pvt Ltd is a fully owned subsidiary of United Technologies International Corporation Asia Pte Limited. Carrier, a world leader in high-technology heating, air-conditioning and refrigeration solutions, is a part of UTC Climate, Controls & Security, a unit of United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX).
Carrier has been focused on Sri Lanka for some time and is now investing locally by launching full-fledged operations to serve its customers, said Arun Bhatia, managing director, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, India Region. Carriers philosophy over the years has been to offer the right heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) solutions for the right applications, which ensures that our customers benefit over the complete life cycle of our products.
In Sri Lanka, Carrier will offer air conditioning products from two brands  Carrier and Toshiba, which operate through a joint venture. Carrier, the inventor of modern air conditioning, will bring world-class products, and Toshiba, the inventor of inverter air-conditioning technology, will offer top-of-the-line, high-quality products with Japanese technology. The products and service offerings are differentiated based on customer segments and needs with a complete range available for residential, light commercial and commercial applications. Both brands will cater to all customer segments including commercial buildings, hotels, hospitals, residential projects, small offices, banks and retail shops.
We will offer top-of-the-line, superior quality products from Carrier and Toshiba in Sri Lanka, said Farokh Madan, director, marketing, UTC Climate, Controls & Security, India. All products will be fit for local use in Sri Lanka, while we bring Carriers global expertise in offering high-efficiency, advanced solutions for modern buildings.
Customer care is one of the core values of Carrier and will remain a focus in Sri Lanka, said Aditya Bharadwaj, who is leading the Sri Lanka operations. In particular, we will bring the latest technologies in connected services, where HVAC equipment is connected to command centres. In addition, with the use of data analytics, we will offer enhanced services, including prognostics, to deliver higher up time and energy optimization. At Carrier, sustainability is a high priority and is incorporated into many of the products and services that will be available in Sri Lanka.
Whether its reducing greenhouse gas impact, leading the phase-out of ozone-depleting refrigerants or introducing many of the worlds most energy-efficient building solutions, Carrier has led and been a part of green building movements across the globe.
In fact, Carrier is the founding member of green building councils in countries across the world including the U.S., China, France, Argentina, India and Singapore, among others. On energy efficiency, the Company takes a holistic view, looking at building-level energy efficiency rather than just for our equipment itself. They also assist customers with existing buildings with old HVAC equipment by conducting detailed audits and suggesting interventions that can reduce energy consumption substantially.
Energy needs will always be a problem for any country and hence it is important to move to new technologies like Invertors air conditioners and green buildings, said Bhatia.
==============================
## Title: Catch the Fall at ODEL
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Catch the Fall at ODEL
Having established itself as the trendsetter and go to destination for clothing and accessories ODELs Fall collection surpasses expectations.
The theme for this years Fall collection is the Himalayan Wanderer, giving our customers the opportunity to re connect with nature, be inspired by the richness of flora and fauna, mountains high and rivers deep, ancient cultures steeped in tradition; in short we invite you to don the mantle of the Himalayan Wanderer, said Softlogic Holdings, Group Marketing Director, Desiree Karunaratne.
Our Fall theme which is centered on the Himalayas, captures the magic and essence of this iconic mountain range, with the clothes reflecting our need to reconnect with nature, and incorporates the wonderful hues and cultures of the Himalayas. The Himalayan Wonderer collection, gives the wearer a sense of escape, the ability to remove oneself from the hustle and bustle of city life, allowing you to be one with nature, she added.
Inspired by designers Prabal Gurung, Phillip Lim, Etro, Missoni, and Simone Rocha, ODELs Fall collection allows you to return to nature, to reconnect with our natural environment. The textiles and materials used for the Fall collection reflect the colours, diversity and imperfections of our natural environment, and the traditions of nomadic tribes which have formed a new wave of handicraft that focuses on woven stitches, indigenous patterns and ceremonial decorations. The traditional checks, Tibetan prints, tweed patterns, plaids and psychedelic hues, sees paisleys taking center stage of this extraordinary collection, whilst allowing for a mix and match of patterns, thereby bringing out something truly extraordinary on the stands at ODEL. Falls most eclectic trends can be seen at your favourite store so, if youre already thinking about your Fall wardrobe, ODEL has you covered.
Apart from the mismatch pattern combinations and stylish layering you will also see the rich strong colours of Navy , Purple , Deep Red, Maroon, Rusty Orange, and Yellow being featured throughout Odels Fall collection. Weve rounded up the trends that will be filling the streets come next season, and odds are youll want to have your fingers in every pie, Karunaratne said.
The Mens and Kidscollections too draw from the Himalayan Wanderer with of course a twist for their respective product lines, while the jewelry collection is a feast for the eyes depicting age old ethnic designs with a modern flair, embellished with tassels and beads and other trimmings. The ODEL Home collectionshowcases a wide array of products in line with the overall trend, guaranteed to bring a waft of the Himalayas into your living room.
As Fall approaches, its time to check out the trends at ODEL that will set the tone for the season. ODELs Fall collection which hit the stores on August 31 is chock full of fashion opportunities for fashion guys and gals to Explore, Dream and Discover.
==============================
## Title: Chathurya, Anjalika create upsets to win titles
## Supertitle: 103rd Tennis Nationals
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
103rd Tennis Nationals
Chathurya, Anjalika create upsets to win titles
The mens and womens singles finalists were found in the ongoing 103rd Tennis Nationals continued at the Sri Lanka Tennis Association courts yesterday.
Mens top seed Sharmal Dissanayaka cruised to the final beating Heera Ashiq 6/4, 6/2 while second seed Dineshkanthan Thangarajah edged out fifth seed Sanka Atukorale 6/2, 6/3 in the other semi final. Itll be interesting to see Sharmal battle with Thangarajah in the mens singles final on September 1.
Sharmal beat Mohomed Rostom Ali in easy straight sets 6/0, 6/0 while Heera Ashiq had the better of Chehan Fernando 7/5, 6/2 in the quarters.
Fourth seed Anika Seneviratne created a major upset when she beat top seed Janali Kawya Manamperi in straight sets 6/0, 6/0 in yesterdays womens singles semi-final battle and booked her berth in the final. Anika will take on fifth seed Anjalika Kurera in Saturdays final. Anjalika defeated second seed Oneli Perera comfortably 6/1, 6/0 in the semis.
Anika defeated Janali Rukshika Wijesooriya in a tough quarter final battle 7/6(0), 7/5 while Anjalika had no trouble in beating her quarter final opponent third seed Savini Jayasuriya in straight sets 6/3, 6/0.
Eigth seed Chathurya Nilaweera created an upset and bagged the boys under-16 singles crown beating second seed Luca Knese 6/4, 3/6, 6/2.
Second seed Anjalika Kurera too created an upset to win the under-14 girls singles title as she defeated top seed Tania Doloswala in easy straight sets 6/1, 6/1.
==============================
## Title: China announces tax cuts in move to support economy
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
China announces tax cuts in move to support economy
Chinas Cabinet on Thursday (Aug 30) announced new measures to cut costs for companies as policymakers look to support growth amid an escalating trade war with the United States that threatens exporters.
The State Council announced tax cuts that should reduce firms costs by more than 45 billion yuan (US$6.59 billion) this year, state radio reported.
Beijing is speeding up infrastructure spending and offering help to smaller companies as Chinas economy cools and US trade tensions intensify. Channel NewsAsia
==============================
## Title: Cinnamon Grand clinches swimming championship
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Cinnamon Grand clinches swimming championship
Cinnamon Grand Colombo claimed the coveted championship title at the 9th annual John Keells Inter-Company Swimming Championships, held in Colombo recently. Team Cinnamon Grand clinched the title with a record breaking 520 points, a first in the history of the tournament. Leisure Inbound came in second place with 383 points, while Centre Functions took home third place with 206 points.
Cinnamon Grands mens team became the Overall Mens Champions with 413 points, while the womens team claimed third place in the Overall Womens category with 107 points. Cinnamon Grands individual champion swimmers in their respective categories were Amanda Rodrigo (Novices Women 25  29 years), Pruthuvi Perera (Novices Men Under 25), Adrian Shu (Championship Men Under 25), Kalani Bandaranayake (Novices Women 30  34), Dini Isaacs (Novices Women 40+) and Roshan Bandaranayake (Novices Men 35  39).
The championship title was achieved through dedicated practice and hard work from all team members, under the guidance of Major Kapila De Silva, head of Human Resources at Cinnamon Grand Colombo, coach Edward Vandendreisen and coordinator Yasapalitha Karunarathne.
The members in the mens team were Roshan Bandaranayake, Yasapalitha Karunarathna, Prasad A. Perera, Dinanja Prasad, S.G. Siriwardana, Laksiri Ihalagamage, Dinuka Tharanga, M.W.D.P. Kularathna, Lakshman Karunarathna, Anura Kulathunga, Indika Samarasinghe, Manoj Surangika, K.W.D.Drashana, Dilshan Perera, M.D.N. Mendis, Arzalan Liyakath, Sachithra Jayathilake, Aldrin Shu, L.A. Pruthuvi Perera, I.R. Jayakodi, R.C.P. Weerathunga, U.W.A.R.D. Perera, Nishan Chathuranga, Chandana Vidanapathirana, Rasika Ranga Peiris, Shohan Chandiram, Malisha Gajanayake, A.C. Sanjeewa Perera, P. S. Hennadege, E.N.P Zoysa, and Kalum Gunarathna.
The members in the womens team were Dini Isaacs, Madhu Samarasinghe, Andrea Wijesinghe, Shehara Fernando, Amanda Rodrigo, Natalie Dunuwille, H.T. Abeyweera, Ruwandika Wijewardana, T.P. Ranasinghe, and Kalani Bandaranayake.
==============================
## Title: Citizens' Mail
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Letters
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Citizens' Mail
Mixed priorities of the Traffic Police
One observes dozens of Traffic Policemen at various points on city roads. They are supposed to be on traffic duty which includes the enforcement of traffic rules and also to ensure that pedestrians and other road users are safe.
Often one sees them under the shade of trees or chatting away with someone or the other.
At Thummulla roundabout and at Bullers Road R A De Mel junction one sees them but they hardly nab arrant drivers of private buses. Especially at Reid Avenue-Bullers Road junction and at Maya Avenue-Havelock Road junction one often sees bus drivers who increase the speed of their vehicle when they see a motorist who is trying to use his right of way and proceed ahead.
Recently there were half a dozen Traffic Policemen who had come on three motor-cycles waiting at the Model Farm Road  Castle Street traffic light waiting in ambush not to nab errant motorist who drive on the other side of the centre line but to issue spot fines to persons who come from Cotta Road end towards the junction and want to turn left towards the Castle Street Hospital. There is supposed to be a Traffic light installed which is not right ahead or on the left side of the road but about 30 degrees to the left of the middle.
I observed over 10 motorists being issued spot fine tickets for turning left at this point.
I suggest the IGP instructs the City Traffic Police to be stationed at Havelock Road roundabout and at Thummulla junction and to nab errant private but drivers who try to bulldoze their way through.
I also suggest he instructs his officers to utilize the recordings of CCTV cameras that have been installed at these points and issue tickets fining them.
C. AtukoralaColombo
==============================
## Title: Coconut Products  Prices on 30-08-2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Coconut Products  Prices on 30-08-2018
==============================
## Title: Collective effort to face security threats: Army Commander
## Supertitle: Colombo Defence Seminar - 2018:
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Colombo Defence Seminar - 2018:
Collective effort to face security threats: Army Commander
Military forces are generally regarded as the first respondents to deal with in any crisis situation that takes place in the country. Due to the nature and the extended connectivity of non-traditional security threats, a solution to todays problems could not be found within the national boundaries of a single state. Hence, the collective efforts of many nations is required. Collective engagement and a range of policy instruments are necessary to respond to these challenges effectively. This broadened concept of security has in turn influenced how countries presently view national safety, said Army Commander Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake, delivering the welcome address at the Defence Seminar 2018, under the theme Security in an era of global disruption.
The Colombo Defence Seminar - 2018 organised by the Sri Lanka Army for the 8th consecutive year, commenced at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH), with the participation of many foreign participants from across the globe.
Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake, highlighted the importance of broadening horizons of knowledge on defence and challenges that prevail among all nations across the world.
He said the presence of such a large gathering of friends across oceans, signified the values those nations had placed on our relationship. During the past seven years, the Defence Seminar has evolved into a round table of intellectual interaction to identify and discuss geostrategic and security matters in global, regional and internal context as well.
This broadened discourse focused on the scope of security and its challenges, would certainly generate a forum that would stimulate critical thinking and geostrategic security matters.
These carefully articulated themes would analyze emerging threats and disruptions, for which the armed forces are the first to respond in any land. It also provides a platform which could shed light on geostrategic security concerns, he said, welcoming the delegates to the two day conference.
The Army Commander said that he hoped this Defence Seminar forum would set the stage to provide better understanding to derive cooperative and collaborative options. He noted that the two day seminar would set the stage for active discussions to simulate critical thinking on the theme and a global network of defence partners would take part in crucial discussions towards formulating a collective and assertive approach to repel security threats on nations.
The days programme commenced with the lighting of the traditional oil lamp by Chief Guest Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, State Minister of Defence Ruwan Wijewardene, Secretary to the President Udaya Seneviratne, Defence Secretary Kapila Waidyaratne, Secretary to the Foreign Ministry Prasad Kariyawasam, Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne, Air Force Commander Air Marshal Kapila Jayampathy, IGP Pujith Jayasundara, and Army Commander Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake.
==============================
## Title: COMBANK reaches Rs 10 bn mark in lending to SMEs under Enterprise Sri Lanka
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
COMBANK reaches Rs 10 bn mark in lending to SMEs under Enterprise Sri Lanka
The Commercial Bank of Ceylon has received registrations for a whopping Rs 10 billion in loans to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), under the governments Enterprise Sri Lanka initiative launched in June this year to stimulate the national economy.
Notably, Commercial Bank leads all lending banks under the Jaya Isura loan scheme, having processed a record 300 Jaya Isura loans by mid-August 2018.
In total, the Bank has processed over 400 interest-subsidised loans under the four different categories, amounting to a cumulative total of Rs 10 billion.
Since its inception, Commercial Bank has been committed to supporting SMEs and the national economy, and its contribution has grown progressively as the Banks operations expanded, the Banks Managing Director S. Renganathan said. Today, Commercial Bank has a significant impact on the Sri Lankan economy in terms of its assets, market capitalisation, taxes paid to the government, import and export volumes it channels and its lending to SMEs.
Commercial Bank of Ceylon is one of the highest lenders to the SME sector in Sri Lanka.
Under Enterprise Sri Lanka, the Jaya Isura scheme is applicable to SMEs in agriculture, fisheries, livestock, floriculture, horticulture, light engineering, printing, tourism, handicrafts, apparel, IT, renewable energy and manufacturing industries.
The first category under this scheme enables entrepreneurs to borrow between Rs 50 million and Rs 100 million, with a reduced interest rate of 6.75% per annum. Subsequently, category 2 under the scheme offers loans between Rs 200 million and Rs 400 million at a 10.12% interest rate per annum.
The Ran Aswenna scheme is for small scale farmers, farmer organisations, floriculture and ornamental fish related businesses, agro and fish processing establishments, and commercial scale farmers. Under this scheme, borrowers can obtain loans from Rs 5 million to Rs 750 million according to their respective categories, at an interest rate of 6.75% per annum.
Govi Navoda is for small scale farmers and farmer organisations, and offers loans of up to Rs 500,000 with an applicable interest rate of 3.38% per annum. The loan scheme facilitating the purchase of solar panels  Rivi Bala Savi allows households to borrow up to Rs 350,000 at an interest rate of 6.75% per annum.
There are 15 tailor-made local funded and donor funded financial and non-financial schemes under the umbrella of Enterprise Sri Lanka.
The government of Sri Lanka launched this initiative with medium term targets to achieve a per capita income of US$ 5000, create one million new job opportunities, increase exports, and to achieve a continuous GDP growth rate of five percent.
==============================
## Title: COMBANK wins at SL CSR Awards,  Golden Globe Tigers Awards
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
COMBANK wins at SL CSR Awards,  Golden Globe Tigers Awards
The Commercial Bank of Ceylon, recently won five awards, four from the World CSR Congress at the Sri Lanka CSR Awards 2018 and one from CMO Asia at the Golden Globe Tigers Awards 2018, at the same event.
The Bank was presented the awards for Best Corporate Social Responsibility Practices, Support and improvement in quality of education, Developing sustainable strategies and Concern for health at the Sri Lanka CSR Awards; and honoured with the Brand Leadership Award in the Banking category by CMO Asia.
The award for Support and improvement in quality of education, recognises the Banks initiatives in the field of education. Over the years, the Bank has made an immense contribution towards the Sri Lankan education system by donating over 175 IT laboratories to needy schools, awarding of scholarships to 350 undergraduates, launching the revolutionary online learning platform Sipnena,initiating a math lab programme, sponsoring vocational training through career guidance units,providing English language training for both students and teachers, and by partnering the Smart Schools initiative to transform the traditional classroom model.
The Bank won the award for Developing sustainable strategies for its success in interweaving sustainability with its business practices and for taking the initiative to reduce its carbon footprint through the establishment of Green Banking Channels, comprehensive waste disposal systems, moving in to solar power and reduction of paper use through the digitization of processes.
The award for Concern for health was won for the Banks efforts in providing infrastructure and critical care equipment to over 50 childrens, maternity and general hospitals owned by the government. Improving antenatal, neonatal and paediatric healthcare facilities has been the focus of these efforts. The Banks health related CSR initiatives also encompasssupporting initiatives and research for the prevention of chronic kidney disease (CKDu).

==============================
## Title: Disney themed parties
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Disney themed parties
A stay-home-mum who runs a 'professional princess' business now earns up to 100 an hour after stepping in to help at her friend's party three years ago.
Rachelle Douglas, 32, spends most of her time dressed in elaborate costumes and puts in around 35 hours of rehearsal time every week.
Her princess act is a full-time job and she confesses to spending hours watching the films over and over again to get her performance just right.
She reluctantly first put on a costume three years ago stepping in during a kids party as a favour for a friend but ended up falling in love with the characters.
Dedicated Rachelle then set up her own business, Make It Magical Entertainment 18 months ago and it has snowballed ever since.
She performs as Belle, Elsa and Ariel at 'princess parties' but under different names such as the snow queen and sea princess.
Rachelle from Gateshead, Tyneside, often visits poorly tots in hospital in full costume as part of her dedicated charity work.
The mum-of-four works around 40 hours a week with only five of those actually spent at parties - the rest consists of mending and cleaning costumes, learning songs and rehearsals. But the biggest chunk of her working week is spent studying Disney flicks - perfecting the outfits, makeup and mannerisms. Rachelle charges 50 for turning up in character to a party for 30 minutes. The average party usually lasts around two hours. But business is booming and she has been inundated with bookings - with no sign it will slow down anytime soon.
However, there's a lot of prep involved and Rachelle spends an hour-and-a-half getting ready each time.
"I do spend quite a few hours every week rewatching things," she added.
Mirror
==============================
## Title: Donation for two Ampara schools
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Donation for two Ampara schools
School books, uniforms and other school equipment will be donated to children of the Wahawa Junior School and the Hela Kumara Junior School in Ampara at 9.00 a.m. on September 7.
The schools will receive two water tanks as well.
==============================
## Title: DREAMRON HOLDS DIPLOMA AWARD CEREMONY
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
DREAMRON HOLDS DIPLOMA AWARD CEREMONY
The annual awards ceremony of the Dreamron College of Beauty College of Art and Beauty was held recently at the BMICH for the 11th consecutive year. This year over 750 students who completed courses in Beauty Culture, City & Guilds and other certificate courses conducted by the College in 2017/2018 received their Diplomas and certificates, at this glamorous award ceremony.
Dreamron Group Chairman, Dr. Priyanka Perera emphasized on Dreamrons vision of providing a quality product at a reasonable price. The secret of Dreamrons success is our quality and always working towards the best interest of the customer stated Dr. Perera
With Dreamrons deep involvement in the cosmetic industry in Sri Lanka, it was identified that there was no appropriate institution to train professional beauticians in the country. Taking this in to consideration and with the commitment to develop the beauty and cosmetic industry, it was the brainchild of its chairman to launch the concept of beauty colleges to train and develop the skills of professional beauticians as a CSR project of the company. The aim of the college is to train students to achieve internationally accredited qualifications and training and provide opportunities for all those who wish to build a career in the beauty industry
The Chief Guests of the event was Member of Parliament, Bandula Gunawardena and National Tertiary Education Chairman, Dr. Sagara Alahapperuma and the Guests of Honour were Chairman National Youth Council Erandika Welianga, the Additional Secretary of Prime Ministers media unit Saman Athaudahetti, and foreign invitees from Japan, Singapore and Dubai also participatec. Leading personalities from the beauty industry such as Dr. Premasiri Hewawasam, Michel Wejesuriya, Berni Balasooriya, Thilak de Silva, Hasini Gunasekara and many eminent beauticians were present and several popular TV and cinema artists were in attendance to witness the event.
Among the acts and performances were elegant hair shows presented by the students of Dreamron Beauty College, Dance performances were by Chandana Wikramasinghe dancing troupe, and Bathiya and Santhush entertained the audience.
==============================
## Title: EFL expands global footprint to Malaysia
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
EFL expands global footprint to Malaysia
EFL (Expolanka Freight) a global freight-forwarding company headquartered in Sri Lanka is setting up its 18th overseas operations in the regional hub of Malaysia. The company is taking over an existing operation managed by its parent company SG Holdings Global and will officially open for business in Kuala Lampur on 1 September 2018.
Malaysia is a natural addition to EFLs global portfolio, largely to drive the intra-Asia growth, and to complement our USA expansion. Being a prominent economy in the region, we believe, it will be an important part of EFLs footprint, to cement our place as a sought-after freight forwarder in the South East Asia region, Chief Executive Officer S. Senthilnathan said.
With Asia contributing significantly to the logistics industrys growth, analysts point out that growth in trade and domestic demand will in turn drive the growth of the transportation and logistics industry. Issuing a statement on the announcement, SG Holdings Global shared its strategy for further expansion. This will be in line with our Groups goal, as we build on EFLs extensive global network and expertise to further expand our reach, it said.
EFL is a member of Expolanka PLC  a leading conglomerate with interests in Logistics, Leisure and Investments.
==============================
## Title: End September date for SLFP annual convention
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
End September date for SLFP annual convention
SLFP General Secretary Prof. Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa said yesterday that the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) annual convention will be held at the end of September, giving foremost place to all religious activities.
Addressing a media briefing held at SLFP headquarters yesterday, he said that SLFP bala mandalas are being reorganised at present to ensure the partys victory at any forthcoming election.
SLFP has already established bala mandalas in 124 seats while steps have already been taken to establish bala mandalas for 59 more seats in the coming weeks.
The annual convention will be held after empowering all bala mandalas across the country, he added. There is a revival within the party with the reorganisation process. We must immediately find solutions for the present crisis of the party. All factions should be united under the leadership of the President to strengthen the party and move towards success, he added.
==============================
## Title: energy management solutions from access
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
energy management solutions from access
Access Energy Solutions provides Sri Lankan companies with energy management solutions for electrical and thermal energy systems.
The companys unique service offering is an arrangement under which it assumes ongoing energy management responsibilities on behalf of its clients, and helps them to increase overall energy efficiency.
Many companies the world over are seeing the benefits of outsourcing energy efficiency management to third party entities. Here in Sri Lanka we have already helped a number of companies in the banking, manufacturing and healthcare sectors to reduce their monthly energy overhead by upto 20%. This in turn has helped these businesses to increase their operational productivity and systems efficiency by 40%, said Roshal Perera, Director Access Energy Solutions. The first step in energy management is to identify where a businesses energy is being spent. Access Energy Solutions helps companies do this by conducting an energy audit, which helps pinpoint the problem areas. Thereafter the company develops a tailor made strategy to manage and reduce energy usage and helps their clients implement best practices. Energy efficiency reduces running costs for businesses, lowers carbon emissions and shows the public that a company is environmentally aware. The unique challenges faced by manufacturing and engineering firms can appear to make energy efficiency difficult to achieve; automated systems and processes usually run 24 hours a day, meaning that machinery is constantly powered up and cannot be turned off.
However, there are technologies which can make massive differences to the energy consumption and maintenance costs involved in running this equipment all the time.Access Energy Solutions has partnered with the worlds leading energy technology expert, Honeywell, in order to provide clients with advanced solutions. Honeywells solutions help address immediate and long-term energy challenges, increase efficiency, decrease costs, increase reliability and security and improve facility management. A robust energy management solution can also help organizations get a higher LEED certification for buildings, reduce operations, maintenance and repair costs and extend the life of existing plants and equipment.
Access Energy Solutions provides turn-key project solutions for HVAC Systems, Steam Generation and Distribution Systems, Building Management Systems, Biogas Systems and Lighting Systems. Established in 2005, Access Energy Solutions is a subsidiary of the Access Group. It is registered under the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority (SLSEA) as an Energy Audit Efficiency Improvement (EEI) and an Energy Audit Service (EAS) company.
==============================
## Title: England 246 all out in 4th Test against India
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
England 246 all out in 4th Test against India
SOUTHAMPTON, Thursday: England were dismissed for 246 after winning the toss on the first day of the fourth Test against India at Southampton on Thursday.
They were in dire straits at 86 for six before Sam Currans Test-best 78 revived the innings.
Jasprit Bumrah led Indias attack with three wickets for 46 runs.
Bumrah and Mohammed Shami took two wickets apiece to leave England struggling at 139 for six come tea on the first day of the fourth Test at Southampton on Thursday.
But after England had slumped to 86 for six, recalled left-handed batsmen Moeen Ali (30 not out) and Sam Curran (27 not out) shared a seventh-wicket stand of 53 that was unbroken at tea.
Bumrah had taken two wickets for 35 runs in 15 overs and fellow paceman Shami two for 38 in 13, with all Indias four seamers gaining sharp movement off a lightly grassed pitch.
The 24-year-old Bumrah enjoyed a second-innings haul of five for 85 during Indias 203-run win in the third Test at Nottingham that cut Englands lead in this five-match series to 2-1. He was quickly into the wickets again on Thursday after England captain Joe Root decided to bat first after winning the toss on a sunny morning.
Bumrah struck with just his seventh delivery when, from over the wicket he had the struggling Keaton Jennings lbw for a duck, with the bemused left-hander leaving a ball that cut back into him when he thought it was going the other way.
Number three batsman Root reprieved after a Bumrah review for lbw revealed a no-ball, fell leg before to Ishant Sharma to leave England 15 for two.
Jonny Bairstow had been promoted to bat at number four despite a broken finger suffered at Trent Bridge that means he is unfit to keep wicket, with Jos Buttler set to deputise again behind the stumps as he did at Nottingham. Bairstow, however, edged Bumrah on six to give India wicket-keeper Rishabh Pant a simple catch. AFP

==============================
## Title: Enterprise Sri Lanka Programme provides customers with low interest loans
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Enterprise Sri Lanka Programme provides customers with low interest loans
In Sri Lankas history, State Banks offer their customers the maximum benefits through the Enterprise Sri Lanka Programme, by providing a low interest loan system, said, State Entrepreneurship Development and Kandy Development Minister Lakshman Kiriella.
The Minister made these comments inaugurating the second day of the Enterprise Sri Lanka Programme in Moneragala yesterday.
He said, all State Banks come under the purview of his ministry and through the Enterprise Sri Lanka Programme, the Ministry plans to bring benefits to the people directly.
 Opportunities should be given to the people to build develop their entrepreneurship, to build a house and to fulfill their financial requirements, so the the Enterprise Sri Lanka Programmme would pave the way for them to provide low rate loan facilities with minimum rules and regulations, the Minister said.
He said, people step into Banks with fear of interests and other requirements, but with the introduction of this programme people need not worry.
The Minister said, the President and the Prime Minister brought this new change to the country.
This programme not only provide loan facilities, but also offer instructions to the people in view of clearing out their dark corner on their new business ventures, the Minister said.
He said, it is the responsibility of the people to get the maximum benefit out of this programme as the government plans to continue this novel programme which leads the country towards development.
This exhibition proves the fact that Vision 2025 is an inevitable development goal of the government and it is a blessing to the people in Uva Wellassa. Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Sila, Mangala Samaraweera, Ranjith Manduma Bandara and Iran Wickramaratne also participated.
==============================
## Title: Eppendorf appoints Avon Pharmo Chem as SL distributor
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Eppendorf appoints Avon Pharmo Chem as SL distributor
The Eppendorf a leader in life science laboratory supplies in the world has appointed Avon Pharmo Chem Pvt Ltd as the distributor for all their product range to offer Sri Lankan Science Community.
Eppendorf has been a well reputed brand in laboratory equipment and consumables for several decades in Sri Lanka. Avon being the fast growing technology partner for Sri Lankan science community for over decade, it became the most suitable channel for most of the Eppendorf products. Now with this appointment Sri Lankan scientist community will enjoy the world class research supplies from Eppendorf at highest convenience with application support from a knowledgeable team.
Eppendorf is a leading life science company that develops and sells instruments, consumables, and services for liquid-, sample-, and cell handling in laboratories worldwide. Its product range includes pipettes and automated pipetting systems, dispensers, centrifuges, mixers, spectrometers, and DNA amplification equipment as well as ultra-low temperature freezers, fomenters, bioreactors, CO2 incubators, shakers, and cell manipulation systems. Consumables such as pipette tips, test tubes, microtiter plates, and single-use bioreactor vessels complement the range of highest-quality premium products. Avon Pharmo Chem was established in 2002 as a life science supplier for medical laboratories and research laboratories. Eppendorf products are most broadly used in academic and commercial research laboratories, e.g., in companies from the pharmaceutical and biotechnological as well as the chemical and food industries.They are also aimed at clinical and environmental analysis laboratories, forensics, and at industrial laboratories performing process analysis, production, and quality assurance.
Eppendorf was founded in Hamburg, Germany in 1945 and has more than 3,100 employees worldwide. The company has subsidiaries in 26 countries and is represented in all other markets by distributors.

==============================
## Title: In an era of global disruption, knowledge, technology are vital facts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
In an era of global disruption, knowledge, technology are vital facts
In an era of global disruptions, knowledge and technology are vital factors. Today, challenges from various quarters is far more complex than what we had to face 50 years ago, President Maithripala Sirisena said in a message at the Defence Seminar 2018 yesterday.
We need to take into consideration that advanced technology while being an asset in certain instances, also pose a great challenge in other areas. Security is vital for each nation or global coexistence and safety.
If there is no national security in a country, there is no survival. Democracy and freedom is vital to very country. Hence, I consider the theme chosen for the Defence Seminar Security in an era of global disruptions, as a timely and most appropriate theme to fit todays context, he noted.
President Sirisena is currently on a tour to Nepal to attend the 4th Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multisectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC).
Excerpts from the message:
The timely theme, Security in an Era of Global Disruptions, I am sure, during the two-day long sessions, would shed light on multifaceted and diverse perspectives that need to be evaluated in the context of restoring global peace, harmony and prosperity, absent from disruptions and violence that would harm the very development of human civilization and also the next generations yet to be born, to be precise.
As you know very well, no nation would be able to survive without national security intact and all alone, but absence of security would definitely push the entire population into a state of horror and anarchy, needless to mention. We have undergone those bitter experiences and overcome those threats against our own survival as a multi ethnic nation, thanks to our own armed forces. Therefore, all of you who have assembled here have the responsibility as well as the capacity to address contemporaneous security issues that appear to be increasingly interconnected and unpredictable, both at regional and global levels in correct perspective during your consultations.
What we are witnessing worldwide as of today is grim, complex, thought-provoking and more importantly, necessitates us to take serious note of own existence in an era of digitalized technology with the avowed objective of mitigating, if not avoiding such tense political compulsions and associated ad hoc violent solutions that bring untold misery and death. This
forum in this regard, would be able to alert the delegates to the process of learning strategies and direct address of root causes that wreak havoc in Nations within their national boundaries and not allowing them to spill over.
Colombo Defence Seminar since its inception, has been fully dedicated and committed to promote global partnership through extensive discussions of current relevance particularly in the wake of appearance of different disruptive forces that would multiply grave threats to the democratic statecraft, political and socio-economic stability and more significantly, to the
very existence of mankind living in this amorphous milieu.
This open and frank academic parley, I am pretty sure, would induce all of you to seek means to muster collective efforts, away from traditional perspectives and explore possibilities to seek collective mechanisms to overcome disruptions against long-lasting peace through intellectual brainstorming.
The Sri Lanka Armys intellectual connectivity and accommodation of fruitful discussions for the sake of indispensable security concerns through this forum, indeed deserves my commendation and appreciation.
I also wish to express my deep gratitude to the Commander of the Army for all the arrangements that went into to make these sessions a memorable one to all who assembled here in Colombo.
Had I been able to speak to you in your presence, I would have been the most privileged to do so, but another overseas commitment undertaken, has unfortunately deprived me of that productive interaction with you in Colombo. Nevertheless, as the Lord Buddha has preached, I fully believe Peace should begin from Ones own Inner Heart, since Violence begets only Violence. Resolution of any critical issue whether it be security or otherwise, should therefore be made only through negotiations, nothing other than dialogues and exchange of views. That is what the true sense of humanity means to all of us.
Let me wish all of you good luck for deliberations in the Colombo Defence Seminar sessions and making it an eye-opener to the world at large. I hope you will enjoy an unforgettable stay in Sri Lanka, endowed with rich culture of hospitality and warmth. I once again thank the Sri Lanka Army for its meticulous arrangements and all of you for gracing these candid deliberations for the greater benefit of mankind and the generations, yet to be born.
==============================
## Title: Exchange Rates 30-08-2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Exchange Rates 30-08-2018
==============================
## Title: FACETS begins today at BMICH
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
FACETS begins today at BMICH
Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Association organized 28th annual, Intentional Gem and Jewellery Show, FACETS Sri Lanka began at the BMICH yesterday. Minister of Science, Technology and Research Dr. Sarath Amunugama, State Minister A.H.M. Fowzie, Leader of the JVP Anura Kumara Dissanayake, Chairman of the Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Authority Peshala Jayarathna Bandara, Chairman SLGJA A.H.M. Imtizam and Facets Chairman Musthaq Jabir were also present at the opening ceremony.
Over the years, the show has steadfastly developed in to one of the best international gem and jewelry exhibitions in the world. A very significant factor in the history of the event is that it is the only exhibition in Sri Lanka, which has been held uninterrupted for a period of 27 years.
As a result, the local Gem and Jewelry trade has benefitted immensely, reaching appreciable heights in the international arena. Over the past 27 years, the brand profile of the show has developed to a great extent, gaining international recognition as a world class exhibition and has now grown to nearly 200 stalls.
Facets Sri Lanka plays a pivotal role in making Colombo a regional Gem &Jewelrycapital and Sri Lanka the Sapphire Capital of the World.
FACETS strengthens and promotes industry development with special focus on the industrys prime resource, the Ceylon Sapphires, as well as to increase the sale of other gemstones and jewelry products to overseas markets, attract more international buyers to Sri Lanka and facilitate a level playing field among the different segments of the industry.
Vignettes of the opening : Ruzaik Farook
==============================
## Title: Financial News -Date: 30-08-2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Financial News -Date: 30-08-2018
==============================
## Title: Former deputy minister permitted to go abroad
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Law & Order
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Former deputy minister permitted to go abroad
Former deputy minister Sarath Kumara Gunaratne whose passport was impounded by court as part of indictment filed by the Attorney General was yesterday permitted to go abroad by the Colombo High Court.
The Attorney General had filed indictments against former deputy minister Sarath Kumara Gunaratne and five others for allegedly misappropriating Rs.11.2 million of public funds allocated for the Negombo Lagoon Development Project by utilising the funds for former President Mahinda Rajapaksas presidential election campaign.
Accordingly, Sarath Kumara Gunaratne was allowed to travel to India between October 1 and October 16 by High Court Judge Shashi Mahendran.
The Attorney General had filed indictments against six accused including former fisheries deputy minister Sarath Kumara Gunaratne, his son-in-law Upul Chaminda Kumarasinghe, Ceylon Fisheries Harbour Corporations (CFHC) former chairman Upali Liyanage, its former general manager Piyal Abeysekara, Chandana Pelpita and Lakmina Munidasa under the Public Property Act for the alleged misappropriation of Rs.11.2 million belonging to CFHC during the 2015 Presidential Election. The Attorney General alleged that the accused had committed six offences under the Public Property Act, between November 20, 2014 and January 7, 2015.
==============================
## Title: Former Royal Skipper Sampath Agalawatte dies
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Former Royal Skipper Sampath Agalawatte dies
One of the finest schoolboy ruggerites of the 1980s and the 1984 Bradby Shield winning Royal College Captain Sampath Agalawatte died on Wednesday after a prolonged illness and his funeral took place on the same day according to his wishes.
Agalawatte started his rugby career in 1981 by playing for the Royal under 17 team and graduated into the first XV in 1982 under the leadership of Hiran Muttiah playing as full back.
In 1983 he shifted to the fly half position and played a key role in Royals success. He helped the school captained by Sriyan Cooray to regain the Gunaratne Trophy by firing across two 30 metre penalties in the last five minutes to give Royal a 18-14 win over S. Thomas. Then playing in the centenary match against Trinity at Longden Place which was graced by the donor of the shield former Royal Principal E L Bradby he put over two 35 metres penalties and with the try scored by prop forward Lalith Samarawickrema Royal scored a historic 10-6 win although Trinity won the Bradby Shield by virtue of their 14-6 win in the first leg played at Bogambara.
In 1984 Royal led by Sampath Agalawatte had a marvellous season by ending up as joint unofficial schools rugby champions with Isipathana remaining unbeaten during the season and also went on to clinch the schools rugby sevens title by beating St. Peters College by 22-4 in the final. Playing in the Bradby Shield first leg against Trinity at Longden Place he put over two match winning penalties to give Royal a 6-3 win and the return match played at Bogambara ended in a nil-all draw which helped Royal to wrest back the Bradby Shield after four years.
He was rewarded with the Captaincy of the Colombo Schools Team in the Noel Gratiaen Cup match against Outstation Schools led by Thomian Asanga Seneviratne which they lost 10-6. After the season the Royal Rugby Team toured Bangkok Thailand and played two matches in which they beat Kings College Bangkok (21-12) and were beaten by Vajiravudh College Bangkok (0-45).
The champion Royal rugby team of 1984 comprised Sampath Agalawatte (captain), Lalith Samarawickreama, Mahil Kuragama, Sanjaya Sigera, Duminda Senaratne, Chiro Nanayakkara/Amith Sumanapala, Janaka Lenaduwa, Ajith Weeratunge, Mahendra Nawaratnam, Jehan CanagaRatne, Feroze Suhayb, Ajith Gunasekera, Krishan George, Kimal Ousmand and Ahmed Cader.
He was also a fine Athlete and a Basketball player. After leaving school he played club rugby for Kandy SC (one match) and the Ceylonese Rugby and Football Club.
==============================
## Title: Geeshan Bandara wins Fearless Award
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Geeshan Bandara wins Fearless Award
Fearless Photographers is a unique community of 3,000 of the worlds best wedding photographers. These professionals are not afraid to push the boundaries of photography to surprise and delight clients with extraordinary images of their wedding day. The Fearless Competition is highly contested, with only the top 2 per cent of over 9,000 submissions presented the prized Fearless Award.
Describing the Fearless Award-winning image Geeshan said, This particular moment was from a recent Indian destination Wedding held in Sri Lanka which are always colourful, sometimes chaotic and some of the toughest weddings to shoot. Set against the dramatic backdrop of a Sri Lankan coast, this was even more special.
The picture was taken during the saat phere or pheras ceremony. The sun had begun to set, painting the sky varying hues of red and orange. Looking at the image, the eye is drawn to the centre of the frame, giving the impression of a renaissance painting, or a theatrical still, he explained. Geeshan believes his raw and unfiltered style, dubbed wedding photojournalism, is unique and remains a nascent art in Sri Lanka. Each wedding presents the opportunity to bring to life powerful, compelling images  to tell a story. My goal is to make that happen for all my clients, he said.
Wedding Photojournalism is a comprehensive and artistic documentation of the days events in an unscripted manner. Photographers capture real moments  the ones the bride and groom miss during the day  the laughter, unexpected tears, unbridled joy and everything in between. These are moments a trained and experience eye sees and anticipates.
There is an increasing desire to move away from the stilted, posed images that show a very static day, to capturing more depth and realism. The ultimate satisfaction is when our clients tell us how happy they were to relive their wedding day and all the moments they missed, Geeshan said about the documentary style of covering weddings in Sri Lanka.
Ensuring these moments are recorded, Geeshans small team of talented and enthusiastic photographers specializes in photographing the beauty and sentiment of the day as it unfolds. They have photographed over 400 weddings, including grand, opulent events, to fun, intimate and private destination weddings.
While Geeshans first Fearless Award brought him international recognition in 2015, he is also the recipient of a series of other awards including 2 Reportage Awards, 5 Wedding Photojournalist Association Awards (WPJA), 5 International Society of Professional Wedding Photographers Awards(ISPWP) and 12 Professional Wedding Photographers of Canada Awards (PWPC).
==============================
## Title: Gnanasara Thera transferred to Prison Hospital
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Gnanasara Thera transferred to Prison Hospital
Bodu Bala Sena General Secretary Ven. Galagoda Aththe Gnanasara Thera who is serving a six- year prison sentence, was transferred to the Prison Hospital from Jayewardenepura Hospital yesterday morning.
Hospital sources said that the Thera was transferred to the Prison Hospital after being treated at the Jayawardenepura Hospital, where he underwent surgery.
Ven. Gnanasara Thera was jailed yesterday for six years after being found guilty of contempt of court over his conduct during a court hearing regarding the case of missing journalist Prageeth Eknaligoda.
The Thera was taken to the Prison Hospital in an ambulance yesterday morning and a group monks and laymen were at the hospital when the Thera was being taken from the Jayewardenepura Hospital.
==============================
## Title: Govts economic agenda on right track - ADB
## Supertitle: Economy to be up 4.2% in 2018 and 4.6% in 2019
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Economy to be up 4.2% in 2018 and 4.6% in 2019
Govts economic agenda on right track - ADB
The economic reforms agenda adopted by the government is heading in the right direction, Vice President (Operations 1), Asian Development Bank (ADB), Wencai Zhang told the journalists in Colombo yesterday.
He said, However there are some areas that have to improve. These include the improvements in the Doing Business index and the government must also ensure that more private sector players are joining in the economic growth. Sri Lanka should also try to woo more FDI to Sri Lanka.
Zhang who is on an official visit in Sri Lanka has visited some of the development projects in the Southern Province this week.
He also said that it was pleasing to note the exports are increasing and hoped that this positive trend would continue. Sri Lanka now has the potential be a major economy in the future, he said at the press conference.
Zhang was joined at the press conference by Country Director, ADB, Sri Widowati.
Wencai Zhang said that Sri Lankas economy would grow at 4.2% in 2018 and 4.6% in 2019 from around 3.3% earlier. This is not a healthy rate but it is expected to be on an upward trend.
Asked if the credit facilities offered by the bank for development projects are properly being implemented by the government, Country Director, ADB, Sri Lanka Sri Widowati said, they were successfully disbursed.
==============================
## Title: Hameedia rewards Commonwealth medal winners
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Hameedia rewards Commonwealth medal winners
Hameedia, Sri Lankas pioneering menswear specialist recently hosted a special event to celebrate the nations most talented weightlifters and boxers who managed to bag silver and bronze medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. Held at Hameedias Envoy Mansion recently, the event concluded with the presentation of exclusive clothing collections, which were handed over to each of the medal winners and their team leader. Hameedia, Managing Director, Fouzal Hameed also conducted a series of interactive sessions on grooming and fashion etiquette for the sportsmen and women.
Invited to the event were Chinthana Vithanage - the team leader, Indika Dissanayake - silver medalist in the Mens 69kg Weightlifting category, Chathuranga Lakmal - bronze medalist in the Mens 56kg Weightlifting category and Dinusha Gomes - bronze medalist in the Womens 48kg and Chamari Warnakulasuriya  bronze medalist in the Womens 53kg Weightlifting category.
Also present at the event were Anusha Kodithuwakku - bronze medalist in the Womens 48kg Boxing category, as well as Thiwanka Ranasinghe and Ishan Bandara - bronze medalists in the Mens 49kg boxing category and Mens 52kg boxing category respectively.During the event, each medal winner took to the stage to share more about their inspiring journeys and their sporting careers, as well as their experiences at the Commonwealth Games. The event ended with the athletes enjoying snacks and refreshments at Caf Bagatalle together with Hameedias management and staff.
Hameedia Managing Director, Fouzul Hameedstated We were pleased to have organized this event in acknowledgement of our talented and dedicated athletes who have brought much honor and pride to Sri Lanka with their outstanding performances at the 2018 Commonwealth Games.
As the leading menswear specialist in the country, and the authorized franchisee for adidas sports, this initiative gave us the chance to reward the islands top sportsmen and women with high-end sportswear and gear - something we believe will be truly meaningful and of value to them.
It was also a pleasure to conduct special one-on-one sessions with the athletes, which gave them the opportunity to learn a range of useful grooming techniques and fashion tips that will enable them to step out in style in their professional and personal lives. We are also glad that we were able to spend some time with the medalists and their team leader, and learn more about to their inspirational careers and accomplishments.

==============================
## Title: Happy aquarium
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Happy aquarium
If you want freshwater fish as aquarium pets, you need to know how to care for them. To keep your fish happy and healthy, following these tips will help make maintaining an aquarium fairly easy and trouble-free.
Acclimate your fish
Fish are fragile. For best results, ask the store associate what their water parameters for nitrate, nitrite, ammonia and pH levels are. When home, test your aquarium water for its chemistry. The greater the differences, the longer you need to acclimate your fish.
Float your fish
Float the sealed bag of fish in your aquarium for at least 15 minutes but no longer than one hour to allow for temperature acclimation. Open the bag and slowly add a quarter cup of water from your aquarium. Repeat the process of adding a quarter cup of water every five minutes until the bag is full. This brings the temperature and chemistry together slowly, which allows the fish to acclimate to their new aquatic home without being shocked by sudden changes. Remove the bag from the aquarium and slowly pour off as much water as possible without harming your aquatic life. Lower the bag into the aquarium and allow your fish to swim out into their new home.
Room to roam
Overcrowding can lead to low oxygen levels in the water. Another crisis of overcrowding includes excess waste, which clogs the filter and degrades your aquarium water. In addition, too many fish in small spaces can cause fatalities. Check with a pet specialist for the right size tank for your fish.
Condition the water
Water for fish is like air for humans. It is critical to your fishs long-term health. Tap water comes with countless properties that need to be balanced in an aquarium in order to support aquatic life. To condition water properly, use a de-chlorinating and biological aquarium supplement available at your local pet store.
Maintain proper pH Levels
pH measures the acidity or alkalinity of your tank water. Buy a pH test kit and use it to check the pH level. Freshwater fish thrive when the pH level is between 6.6 and 7.8 depending on species. This range will offer a natural, antiseptic effect that helps your fish resist illness. If you want a healthy aquarium, be sure to check regularly for any fluctuations in pH levels.
Replace aquarium water
It is recommended to change 25 percent of your aquarium water at least once a month. This will help maintain a clean and healthy tank, plus it keeps nitrate concentrations at a safe level. Use a gravel vacuum to siphon out water and debris. Keeping your water clean and maintaining stable water parameters helps promote healthy and strong fish.
Maintain adequate watertemperature
Changes in temperature can wreak havoc on aquarium fish. Dont place your aquarium in a window that gets a lot of sun or next to heating or air conditioning vents, as drastic temperature changes can make your fish sick or even kill them. Tropical freshwater fish require a constant temperature of 72F  82F depending on the species, in which case youll need to purchase an aquatic heater for your tank.
Clean the sides of the tank
Not everything thats green is a good thing. Algae buildup on tanks cloud the glass, gives water a murky look, and depletes oxygen, which can create health concerns for your aquatic life. Thriving aquarium plants can also be harmed by the presence of algae. If left unchecked, algae will rob plants of much needed oxygen. Pet stores have a variety of tools to help, which include scrub brushes, some with long handles and aquarium algae magnets to scrape off excess algae from the aquarium.
With a healthy and well-managed fish tank, you will have many happy hours of pleasure watching your fish swim in their aquatic habitat.
petco
==============================
## Title: Has new Serjeant-at-Arms
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Has new Serjeant-at-Arms
Narendra Mihindukumar Fernando was appointed as Parliaments Serjeant-at-Arms with effect from yesterday.
His appointment follows the retirement of former Serjeant-at-Arms Anil Parakrama Samarasekara. Fernando held the office as the Deputy Serjeant-at-Arms from 2006.
Fernando records a 36 years in the Parliamentary service, with 16 years attached to the Department of the Serjeant-at-Arms. He has also held office in the Administrative Department, Legislative Service Department, Finance and Supplies Department, and Foreign Relations and Protocol Office in various capacities. Fernando was appointed to the post of Assistant Serjeant-at-Arms in 2002 and held office until 2006.
Fernando acted in the post of Serjeant-at-Arms twice in the periods from July 25, 2015 to August 22, 2015 and from July 24, 2017 to August 27, 2017.
Fernando received his education at Isipathana College, Colombo.
Following Fernandos appointment, Kushan Jayaratne will be appointed as the Deputy Serjeant-at-Arms.
==============================
## Title: HealthRecon Connect  Recognized as Great  Place to Work
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
HealthRecon Connect  Recognized as Great  Place to Work
HealthRecon Connect Pvt Ltd celebrated another outstanding achievement in a year of successes - receiving the Great Places to Work Certification, conferred recently.
Commenting on the accolade, Chief Executive Officer- Denver Fernando stated; We are delighted to receive this recognition on our first attempt at GPTW Certification, and within 2 years of operations in Sri Lanka. It is a true testament to the people philosophy and the CREDO we practice. As an organization we continually strive to implement innovative, practical people practices. We believe the key to our success is being close to our team through open dialog, being able to quickly change course when required and driving values through every initiative. We share this achievement with our incredible team. The catalyst of people practices is the team who lives it and as such we salute our team for embracing the philosophy and continuing to live the values.
From inception we have focused on value based growth. Our people practices are founded on the five values of the company and links the milestones of a team members employment journey. Values are the nucleus of performance management, career advancement, recognition, communication and engagement. We are committed to practicing our people philosophy in a manner that affects each individual as a whole, engaging and empowering them to achieve great outcomes both personally and professionally. Our team has shown great tenacity and passion in this journey, and this achievement belongs to all of them, stated Thilini Ekanayake, Head of Human Resources.
HealthRecon Connect offers solutions and services to healthcare providers facing challenges in driving quality patient outcomes while managing through ongoing cost increases, declining revenue, increasing complexities in regulatory/compliance frameworks, administrative and HR challenges and declining patient interaction.
==============================
## Title: Hemasiri to be named Presidents chief of staff
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Hemasiri to be named Presidents chief of staff
Peoples Bank Chairman Hemasiri Fernando yesterday, confirmed that he was invited by President Maithripala Sirisena to accept the post of Chief of Staff of the Presidential Secretariat.
Fernando, when contacted by the Daily News over media reports that he was to be appointed as Chief of Staff of the Presidential Secretariat next week in addition to his present position as Peoples Bank chairman, confirmed the receipt of an invitation from the President.
He said that he had not received a letter yet. President asked me. I said OK. When I am there, I could build a bridge between the two sides at least, he said.
Fernando had held a number of positions in the public sector, including Chairman of Sri Lanka Telecom and Civil Aviation Authority. He had also been the Secretary to former Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike.
The post of Chief of Staff of the Presidential Secretariat had fallen vacant since the arrest of I.H.A. Mahanama, who is currently in remand custody over bribery and corruption charges.
==============================
## Title: Heptathlete wins Asian gold with 12 toes
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Heptathlete wins Asian gold with 12 toes
JAKARTA, Thursday: Being born with six toes on each foot didnt stop Indias Swapna Barman winning the Asian Games heptathlon -- but she immediately issued a plea for shoes that actually fit.
Barman led going into the last of the seven heptathlon disciplines, the 800m -- her weakest event -- and managed to cling on despite a fourth-placed finish as her closest rival came in last. The Indian athlete, who still has all dozen of her toes, said every step of the race had been excruciating as she pushed through the pain barrier in her ill-fitting footwear.
Normal shoes dont work for me. There is lot of pain when I wear any shoe, spikes or anything, she said after clinching gold late on Wednesday.
Indonesias Hendro said it was a miracle to even finish the 50km race walk in Jakartas brutal pollution, heat and humidity Thursday after he was carried from the finish line on a stretcher.
Hendro collapsed after pounding the Indonesian capitals smoggy streets for more than four-and-a-half hours in 31 Celsius (88 Fahrenheit) heat to finish last, in the Asian Games slowest 50km (31 miles) walk for nearly three decades.
The air quality index in central Jakarta hit 163 on Thursday morning. A reading of more than 150 is considered a health threat to the general population.
After being doused in ice water by medics Hendro, 28, who like many Indonesians goes by one name, was carried to the medical centre shouting incoherently with pain.
Hayato Katsuki of Japan took gold with 4:03:30 -- 23 minutes slower than the last Asian Games -- with a well-judged race, after making holes in his vest to improve ventilation. Chinas Wang Qin took silver, and Joo Hyun-myeong of South Korea bronze.  AFP
==============================
## Title: ICBT Inter-Campus Rugby 7s champs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
ICBT Inter-Campus Rugby 7s champs
ICBT campus became the champions of Inter Campus Rugby 7s tournament played at the Royal College Sports Complex on August 25.
The tournament organized by ICBT Campus and played according to IRB standards. The tournament attracted top rugby players in Sri Lanka representing the leading private sector higher education institutes. A tournament played in rather a different format to all other sevens tournaments throughout the past 3-months, saw twelve teams take to the ground, being divided evenly into four groups of three.
ICBT Campus beat BMS 22-12 in the Cup final while KDU defeated CINEC 24-07 winning the Bowl segment and NSBM comprehensively beat Royal Institute 21-05 to secure the Plate title.
The cup final was a tight tussle as tournament favorites ICBT went up against BMS. BMS looked to continue their dominance in inter-campus sports events, however, they met formidable ICBT team filled with stars from the Sri Lankan Sevens circuit.
The likes of Omalka Gunaratne, Adeesha Weerathunga, Chamod Fernando, Janidu Dilshan and the Lee brothers from CH were a few big names while Wajid Fawmy and Ishara Madushanka were a couple of notable competitors pulling on the BMS jersey.
Omalka Gunnartne of ICBT was adjudged the Player of the Finals while Ishara Madushanka BMS was the player of the tournament.
==============================
## Title: Indias economy up 7.6% in April - June
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Indias economy up 7.6% in April - June
India likely grew 7.6 percent in the April-June quarter, propelled in part by an improvement in manufacturing and exports, a Foreign Media poll showed. The median consensus in a poll of 50 economists put annual economic growth just a touch lower than the near two-year high of 7.7 percent in the January-March quarter. Forecasts for the $2.59 trillion economy ranged between 7.0 and 8.0 percent. (www.economictimes.com)
==============================
## Title: India funds more houses for plantation sector
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
India funds more houses for plantation sector
High Commissioner of India Taranjit Singh Sandhu laid the foundation stone to build 150 houses in the plantation areas on August 30.
Public Administration, Management and Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara, Hill Country New Villages, Infrastructure and Community Development Minister Palani Digambaram and Education State Minister V.S. Radhakrishnan participated.
The houses will be built under the Indian Housing Project. A large number of people from the Kumarawatta Estate attended the function. The Government of India will build 14,000 houses in the plantation areas including the 10,000 houses announced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. Agreement between India and Sri Lanka for the 10,000 houses was signed on August 12 when 400 houses built under the Indian Housing Project were handed over. Todays foundation laying ceremony marks the extension of Indian Housing Project outside Nuwara Eliya, Hatton and Badulla. The IFRC/SLRC will construct the houses.
India has provided US$ 3 billion for various humanitarian projects in Sri Lanka and US$ 550 million of the amount is pure grant assistance. The High Commissioner visited the Enterprise Sri Lanka National Exhibition, Moneragala along with Public Administration, Management and Law & Order Miniser Ranjith Madduma Bandara.
==============================
## Title: Indian PM praises Presidents reconciliation efforts
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:08
Indian PM praises Presidents reconciliation efforts
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Singh Modi yesterday expressed his admiration to the commitment shown by President Maithripala Sirisena to promote reconciliation and sustainable peace in Sri Lanka while ensuring democracy and freedom.
Prime Minister Modi made this observation when the two leaders formally met on the sidelines of the Fourth Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) being held in Kathmandu, Nepal. Prime Minister Modi also extended his early wishes for President Sirisenas Birthday which falls on September 3.
At the conclusion of the Summit, the Chairmanship of BIMSTEC will be handed over to Sri Lanka by the current Chair and Prime Minister Modi said he is happy to take upon any task set by President Sirisena as the new Chairman. He also observed that BIMSTEC will be strengthened under the leadership of President Sirisena.

==============================
## Title: Industrial Asphalts Ceylon to strengthen equity base
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Industrial Asphalts Ceylon to strengthen equity base
Industrial Asphalts Ceylon Limited (IAC) plans to further strengthen its equity base by raising capital in the market during the financial year 2018-2019.
The company is also looking at potential strategic investors who possess deep knowledge in private equity and international capital markets, Managing Director/ CEO of the company, G. Ramanan told the shareholders in its annual report for 2017/18.
As IAC moves onto becoming an investment holding company, we are keen to activate some of the more suitable activities including, being an active player in the capital markets.IAC would be looking at the possibility of raising debt also in both local and overseas markets as far as rules and regulations allow us to do so, he said.
The Companys current name denotes the routes and traditional business line of IAC. In order to reflect the more dynamic business venture we have become and the fact that we are an investment holding company the name has to follow suit. We are hopeful that by December 2018 a new name with an appropriate logo would be launched, the report said. During 2017-2018, the company has been able to bring into the books the value of the land which was re-classified as investment property. This resulted in a financial gain of Rs.534 million which was captured through the Income Statement. The financial statements also reflect provisions made for bad debts and stocks.
We hope to accrue further benefits in the future as our strategic realign starts to take hold, he said.
IAC is also gearing itself to achieve success through the capture of the countrys tectonic shift from an under-developed country to a developed country.
==============================
## Title: Japanese Defence Minister  visits Hambantota Port
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Japanese Defence Minister  visits Hambantota Port
Japans Minister of Defense, Itsunori Onodera, called at the Hambantota Port on August 22 during his State visit to Sri Lanka.
The Minister was taken on a tour of the port by Capt. Ravindra Jayawickreme, CEO of Hambantota International Port Services (HIPS). He was given an overview of the ports future plans.
The Japanese delegation included Ambassador of Japan in Sri Lanka Kenichi Suganuma and several other dignitaries, along with the Commander of Sri Lankas Southern Naval Base.

==============================
## Title: Japanese support for free Indo-Pacific Ocean
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Japanese support for free Indo-Pacific Ocean
Foreign Affairs State Minister of Japan Kazuyuki Nakane said Japan has been supporting the maritime safety of Sri Lanka to realize a free, open, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific Ocean.
The State Minister visited Sri Lanka on August 28 and stayed here till August 30.
He participated in the Commissioning Ceremony of patrol vessels and held meetings with Sri Lankan government leaders to promote bilateral relationships between the two countries.
The Commissioning Ceremony of the two patrol vessels provided by grant aid from the Government of Japan, valued at 1.8 billion yen (2.3 billion LKR), was held on August 29 at the Colombo Port.
Japan hopes that these vessels will improve the capacity of maritime law enforcement by the Sri Lankan Coast Guard Agency. These patrol vessels were named SLCGS Samudra Raksha and SLCGS Samaraksha by the Coast Guard.
State Minister Nakane called on Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and had meetings with Ministers Lakshman Kiriella, Navin Dissanayake, Secretary to the President Udaya Seneviratne.
The State Minister exchanged views and ways to further consolidate the Japan-Sri Lanka Comprehensive Partnership in maritime security and development cooperation, including through a new G7 Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Partnerships Initiative.
The G7 Initiative, which aims at accelerating positive change on gender equality, the empowerment of women and girls and respect for their human rights to achieving and sustaining peace through the WPS, was agreed at the recent G7 Foreign Ministers Meeting in April, 2018
State Minister Nakane appreciated the acceptance by the Government of Sri Lanka to partner with Japan to advance the WPS agenda and expressed Japans intention to support its efforts in cooperation with other G7 members.

==============================
## Title: Korean migrant workers must visit EPS Centre in Battaramulla for their insurance claims
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Korean migrant workers must visit EPS Centre in Battaramulla for their insurance claims
The Director General of the EPS Center of HRD Korea in Sri Lanka, Kwak Hunjong has urged Sri Lankans who have returned from Korea to claim their return cost insurance and departure expired insurance(Thwejukum) from the EPS center in Battaramulla by producing the relevant documents if they had already not claimed these insurance schemes.
Addressing a media briefing held in Battaramulla yesterday, he said that Sri Lankas Foreign Employment Bureaus website had published 400 names of returnees from Korea who have not claimed these insurance payments.
He further said that many returnees have changed their addresses and contact numbers, while the EPS Center was unable to contact them. I have a responsibility to inform and help them get this payment for their hard work they had done in Korea.
He further said that the workers who had been employed for more than one consecutive year at the same place of employment in Korea, would be eligible for the application of departure guarantee insurance, while others who had worked for more than three years are eligible to apply for dormant insurance category. Once migrant worker depart Korea, he or she are eligible for the application of the return cost insurance. He said that EPS (employment permit system) is a unique system launched by Korea, where foreign workers from 16 other countries are introduced to Korea for employment. In Sri Lanka, EPS was initiated in 2014 after signing a MoU between the two countries. The total number of Sri Lankans departed to Korea under the EPS had exceeded 58,000 and consists of approximately 44,975, more than 13,000 of re-entry workers at the end of April, 2018.
Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau Deputy General Manager, D.D.P. Senanayake said that the Bureau receives nearly 25,000 applications for the Korean entry exam, as it is held in a transparent manner. Applicants should undergo a point system exam, competency test and skills test. He said that Sri Lankans who go to Korea, could work for four years and 10 months and with the approval of the employer, he or she could work another four years and 10 months after a break of three months.
There are 25,000 Sri Lankans working legally in Korea, while around 3,000 are believed to be working illegally. We send all workers after the signing of bonds. These illegal workers have been informed to return to Sri Lanka by the Bureau, or, legal action would be taken against them and we have already sent Letter of Demand to 1,000 illegal workers, he added.

==============================
## Title: Largest Rubik's cube
## Supertitle: 
## Section: T&C
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
Largest Rubik's cube
A Canadian science museum unveiled a giant working Rubik's cube that officials believe to be a Guinness World Record breaker.
The Telus Spark science museum in Calgary unveiled a Rubik's cube Wednesday morning that measures 5 feet, 6.25 inches tall, beating the Guinness record-holding British cube by just over 4 inches. Wes Nelson, an exhibit technician at the museum, created the cube in honor of puzzle inventor Erno Rubik's birthday. He said the exhibit was originally going to be a small plywood cube that would not function. "Of course, I said, 'There's no way we're doing that. If we're doing it, we're gonna make an actual, functioning Rubik's cube,'" Nelson told CBC News. He sad it took about five weeks to build the giant cube out of Styrofoam, cardboard, pipe and vinyl.
"We spent one night smearing lubricant into the interior surfaces of this thing to make sure that it spins," Nelson told the Calgary Herald.
The museum is now working to get the new record certified by Guinness.
UPI
==============================
## Title: LAUGFS Lubricants clinches Gold Award at SLIM NASCO 2018
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Finance
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:00
LAUGFS Lubricants clinches Gold Award at SLIM NASCO 2018
LAUGFS Lubricants Dilan Wijerathna,Supervisor/Executive  Sales, clinched the Gold Award under the Industrial, Manufacturing and Energy sector at the National Sales Congress (NASCO) organised by Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM).
Commenting on his achievement Dilan remarked, This achievement is an honour for me and I am truly humbled to have secured the Gold Award. LAUGFS Lubricants helped me realise and drive my career ambitions as I undertook multiple challenges and explored opportunities within the local lubricants industry.
Through his exceptional dedication and innate talent, Dilan maintained an excellent track record in sales within a competitive geographical region. With a passion for the brand he achieved his daily performance targets throughout the 2017/18 financial year. Since joining the LAUGFS Lubricants family as a Sales Executive in 2015, Dilan has grown exponentially to become a key performer within the company. In recognition of his outstanding performance and consistent delivery of superior results against key performance indicators assigned for the period,he was awarded the sole Gold Award.
Encouraging Dilan Wijerathna to continue pursuing his ambitions, LAUGFS Lubricants Chief Executive Officer, Niroshan Pieris commented, With the LAUGFS Lubricants brand re-launch, the salesforce was restructured to increase efficiency. Through these efforts we aimed to ensure a broader career growth for each individual. Investing in continuous training and development we empower individuals like Dilan to prioritise their own individual performance and realise their ambitions. Dilan has been enthusiastically working in a competitive region and we at LAUGFS Lubricants are proud to support him on his journey as he takes his career to even greater heights.

==============================
## Title: Legal measures to extradite Mahendran from Singapore
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Friday, August 31, 2018 - 01:03
Legal measures to extradite Mahendran from Singapore
Legal measures have been taken for the extradition of former Central Bank Governor Arjuna Mahendran from Singapore through Singapore Interpol, Senior Deputy Solicitor General Haripriya Jayasundara, appearing on behalf of the Attorney General submitted yesterday.
She made this submission when the magisterial inquiry into the Bond issue was taken up. She said the Attorney General at informed the CID that there was no issue with handing over the copies of the warrant and charges against Mahendran and other documents demanded by Arjun Mahendran.
On an earlier occasion, SDSG Jayasundara informed the Magistrate that the suspect had requested four documents including copies of the warrant and charges filed against him, from the CID, via the Singapore Interpol.
The Attorney Generals Department also stated that there was no obstacle to handing the documents requested by Mahendran.
Those four documents have been handed over to the Singapore Interpol on 2018.04.28, SDSG Jayasundara said.
SDSG Jayasundara further stated that Singapore Interpol sent an email to the Sri Lankan National Coordinating Office and stated that Arjun Mahendran is in Singapore.
Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayarathne ordered CID officer Senarathne to appear before the Court on the next hearing date.
Meanwhile, Perpetual Treasuries Limited (PTL) beneficiary owner Arjun Aloysius and its Chief Executive Officer Kasun Palisena, who were earlier arrested in connection with the controversial Central Bank Bond issue, were yesterday ordered to be further remanded till September 13 by the Colombo Fort Magistrates Court.
They were also re-remanded in connection with the parallel magisterial inquiry on deleting phone call data from the PTL voice recording system and fabricating evidence to the Bond Commission.
However, the copies of documents of Perpetual Terasuries Ltd pertaining to this incident which were in the backup data in the W.M.Mendis Company were submitted before the Court by Attorney-at-Law Jeewantha Jayathilake yesterday.
Senior Deputy Solicitor General Haripriya Jayasundara with Senior State Counsel Lakmini Girihagama appeared for the Attorney General. Defence Counsel Jeewantha Jayatilleke appeared for the suspects.
==============================