## Title: Haj intention
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Haj intention
Nazeer, his wife Nazeema and son Nyzar are of a small family. The husband works in a private company and the son having done his GCE (A/L) wanted to do a foreign job.
Both mother and son have a fear for the Almighty Allah and involve in religious activities. But the father is not so but will attend only the Friday prayers. Nazeema has an ambition of performing Haj and will often talk about it. But of what use when they do not have enough money for it.
One day when Nazeer was resting in the verandha, Nazeema went to him and said, I do not know when will I get the chance of performing Haj. Nazeer, who has often listened to these words and also who is not much to the religious side, said, Your intention is good. Yet you have to wait till the opportunity comes.
Yes, but the thing is replying to her husband said, When those who visited that holy place, talk about the beauty of that mosque, piety of the devotees, the recital of the holy Quran, the divinity of the environment etc. I feel as if I have to go at the earliest.
The husband regretfully said, Please bear this in mind. I am the sole breadwinner in the family. You know how I manage to run it including spending for Nyzars successful education. But I will try to send either from the gratuity when I retire or if we can send our son to a middle east country for employment.
The son who was listening to this conversation, assured his mother, Mummy, do not worry, you need not wait till data retires. My friends father knows a foreign job agency and he said he would arrange for a job within the next few weeks.
The mother being pleased, told Zyzar, My dear son, those words of yours itself is enough to me. I hope Allah will help you in getting the job. Your father is a sick person and he depends on his job for our survival. He encourages me to perform Haj though he does not pray Allah and do the other religious necessities.
As assured he gets a job in Abu Dhabi and leaves his parents with the hopes that all financial difficulties would come to an end in a few years time. The son being a talented boy rose to a good position in his company as the staff was also fond of him.
The promotion gave him a bigger salary and after sometimes he sent the necessary funds to his mother to perform her Haj. The parents were overjoyed by the kind deeds of their son.
The mother attended to all the pre-arrangements of the Haj matters and finally booked the plane ticket. The departure was just two days before the incident of the crane that crashed in the Mecca mosque which killed over 100 and injured over 200.
Nazeer was a bit shaken over this incident. He said, How fortunate you are. Had you gone, you too would have been sometimes killed in that crash. Now I am scared of sending you. Cancel the ticket and could think of it after a few years time.
But unshaken Nazeema questioningly advised him, Are you crazy to postpone it for a future time. If Allah wants to take my life He will take it at anytime.
Nazeer replied, May be, but listen to what I say. That does not mean we must force death on us. The rain and the strong wind could suddenly continue again. Suppose, if another crane crashes and if you are amidst of it what will happen
Nazeema strongly telling him not to be a fool, added, Do not imagine death in such a way. Only Allah knows when and where to get the life. Do not you remember how your pious brother died He was praying in a mosque when he collapsed. Allah should have not done that to a good Muslim praying for Him, yet Allah did because He needed his life at that particular moment. May be there is a vacancy to such a pious man in the heaven at that particular moment.
Nazeer could not speak anything against her. Those few words made Nazeer realize the fact of life and had faith in Allah and fear of Allah. He said actually my fear was that if he something happens there I will not be able to see even your body and within a couple of hours everything will be finished. Please forgive me for my foolishness.
Ask your forgiveness from Allah. He will definitely forgive you. Trust Allah for everything to be good. Nazeer was mute. My son will be eagerly awaiting for my Dua (asking from Allah) for him from Allah from that holy mosque. Therefore, I shall go as for the arrangements. She concluded.
The following day when Nazeema was going to a shop crossing the main road she met with an accident and succumbed on the spot.
Nazeer then realized the words of his wife who said only Allah knows when and where to get the life. The Almighty and All-knowing Allah gave the chance to the husband to see her face and at the sometime the full merit of performing Haj was bestowed to Nazeema as her intention was very clear to anyhow perform the Haj. Since that day Nazeer too started a pious life.
Birth one way but death could be of different ways. May Allah protect all human beings from all risks. Let His kindness and mercy be to all the mankind.
==============================
## Title: Australia's Great Barrier Reef needs more care - Report
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 19:30
Australia's Great Barrier Reef needs more care - Report
AUSTRALIA: Australia's attempts to curb damage to the Great Barrier Reef, which was almost listed as being in danger earlier this year, are falling well short of targets, a report released by the national and Queensland state governments said.
The progress report showed water quality in areas close to shore along the world's largest coral reef remained poor due to nitrogen, pesticide and sediment run-off from farms, as well as from cyclones and floods.
"If one of my kids came home with a report card like this, I'd be a bit disappointed. There's more bad news in here than good news," Queensland Environment Minister Steven Miles told reporters at the Rivers Symposium in the Queensland state capital, Brisbane.
Improving water quality was one of the main goals in the Australian government's "Reef 2050" long-term sustainability plan, which was central to persuading UNESCO's World Heritage Committee not to blacklist the reef as "in danger" last July.
Miles said the rate of progress between 2013 and 2014 towards the state and federal governments' water quality improvement targets had slowed dramatically. However, there had been some recovery of coral and seagrass in one catchment area where discharges had dropped.
Australia has targeted farmers to try to change the way they use fertiliser and pesticides to curb run-off into coastal waters and limit damage to coral and seagrass.
"Being in the tropics with cyclones and the rest adds complexity, but we still need to do more," said Roger Shaw, chairman of the Great Barrier Reef Science Panel, who put the report card together.
The grains industry was the only one achieving close to the best-practice targets so far, while graziers were making good progress. The sugar cane industry was the big laggard, according to the report.
"It is disappointing," Shaw said.
He said part of the problem with sugar cane was that the fertiliser is applied all at once. It can then be leached off if there is a cyclone or flood during the growing season.
Trials are being run to improve fertiliser coatings to help tackle the problem.
- NDTV
==============================
## Title: Being Elizabeth Bishop
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Being Elizabeth Bishop
What must it be to be someone else Gerard Manley Hopkins wondered. It is a question that has occupied Colm Tibn before, whether the someone else was Henry James, or the mother of Christ.
What must it be to be someone else in a book that is not a novel, and in which the someone else is a poet who specialized in solitariness, who could be chilly in person, and who did not hesitate to turn away uninvited guests. When Mary McCarthy threatened to visit Elizabeth Bishop, she replied: Id be grateful if you didnt come over.
Tibns On Elizabeth Bishop introduces the poet in new company  he likens her to James Joyce, and more persuasively to Thom Gunn  and alongside old acquaintances (Robert Lowell, Marianne Moore). Mostly, Tibn recognizes in Bishop aspects of himself. Both writers are drawn to grey, muted coastlines; both invest feeling in things withheld. Like Bishop, Tibn found himself returned to childhood by the experience of elsewhere: Bishops fifteen-year sojourn in Brazil prompted her to recall and reimagine Nova Scotia; having escaped Ireland to write his first novel in Southern Europe, Tibn found his proper melancholy tone in memories of Wexford. These childhood haunts were, for both writers, places of profound loss. Tibn is particularly good on estrangement, and puts his finger right on it when he says that Bishops life in Brazil  at least as retold in her letters and poems  seemed a parody of normal life, a comedy she had invented. Yet he tends to underestimate Bishops knowingness about this kind of self-estrangement: he is deaf, oddly, to the ironizing distance she puts between herself and the naive tourist speaker in Arrival at Santos, who somehow never thought of there being a flag and who hopes that the customs officials will speak English.
When he went away to school aged fifteen, Tibn wasnt allowed to take his poetry books with him, so he spent the month before he left home copying poems into a notebook. It is a good way of becoming intimate with verse, and a habit that persists in this volume. Sometimes he will drop a phrase of Bishops in passing, and ask you to pick it up (the attempt to escape this cold spring had been a sojourn . . .; because of the sheer sweet intensity in how nature greeted my eyes . . .); or he will find another way of copying her style into his prose. Bishops verbal tic of self-correction, for example (shadows, or are they shallows), comes out in Tibns prose remix as she was careful, or as careful as she could be, not to allow that to happen in her life, or more accurately, in her poems. Tibn is a less inviting mediator of the poetry when he gets up close and technical. Paragraphs which begin, The next stanza reads . . .  and which proceed by counting syllables and marking stress patterns seem thoroughly competent, but not a particular enticement to follow him into the verse.
Things open up in the chapters on Gunn. The heart of the story here is not Bishops meeting Gunn in 1968, but Tibns recollection, while reading one poet, of something hed heard in the other. Gunn said of his mothers suicide (he and his brother had found her body), obviously this was quite a traumatic experience. Bishop had written something equally deadpan, about her mothers confinement to a mental institution (well  there we are). So the two poets meet in Tibns reading of them, and in that meeting he discovers something about himself: that the writers he had read intensively in his teens  Gunn, Bishop, Thomas Mann and James Baldwin  had hit [him] emotionally, not only, as he had thought, because of their common sexuality, but also because each had suffered the early loss of a parent (in Baldwins case, the turbulent relationship with a stepfather).
In the work of both Bishop and Gunn, words meant simply what they said, Tibn claims, and he returns to that thought several times in this book, as though to appoint himself guardian of the poetrys guardedness. It is important to insist that the poem Roosters is about roosters, he says, and goes on: if Bishop had wanted to write a poem about maleness and militarism, she would, or might, have done so, although it would have been unlikely. Aside from the fact that Bishop wrote to Marianne Moore, in a letter Tibn later quotes, that she wanted the controversial water-closet in Roosters to emphasize the essential baseness of militarism, one could respond that if she had wanted words to mean only what they said, then she probably shouldnt have put them into verse, and so encouraged them, as poems often do, to mean other things too.
Tibn chooses to focus Bishops relationship with Marianne Moore, as others have before, on the drama of the closet (Bishop put the water-closet in Roosters; Moore wanted her to take it out; Bishop refused; and so ended Moores mentoring of  though not her friendship with  the younger poet). Tibn makes a common mistake in assuming that Moores fastidiousness came with a narrow view of sexuality. It is hard not to imagine Moore casting a cold eye on some of Bishops poems that she had once read innocently, realizing now that her young friend was perhaps writing coded lesbian love poems all the time.
Bishop might well have kept her private life private (she believed in closets, closets, and more closets), but it is harder to imagine that a lesbian relationship would have come as a shock to Moore, who was raised in a lesbian household in which it was heterosexual unions  especially marriages  that were mistrusted, or treated with scorn. The closing chapters of On Elizabeth Bishop, on Bishops friendships with Robert Lowell and with Moore, seem a little perfunctory. Theyre put together largely from the poets published letters and from stories told by previous critics: Tibn acknowledges his large debt to David Kalstone, on Bishops spat with Lowell over his use of lines from private letters in his poems, and to Kirstin Hotelling Zona on Bishops correspondence with May Swenson.
Tibns book starts out sounding a bit like a novel: She began with the idea that little is known and that much is puzzling. It ends with some lines of Bishops on the same theme  the little that we get for free / the little of our earthly trust. Not much  to which Tibn responds, not much perhaps, but enough to be going on with. Or perhaps not. Borrowing the poets trick of lending weight to an utterance by seeming to unsay it, and so having it both ways, Tibn finds a neat way of wrapping things up. This pocket-sized volume with its generous margins, its thick pages, rough-edged as though you had cut them yourself, tells us quite a bit about a novelist whose biggest disappointment, he has said, is that he would like to have been a poet; as to what it tells us about Elizabeth Bishop that we couldnt have gathered elsewhere  perhaps not so much.
(Fiona Green is a Senior Lecturer in American Literature at the University of Cambridge.)
- Times Literary Supplement
==============================
## Title: Bens, St Joseph's Balika, Kegalle overall champs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Bens, St Joseph's Balika, Kegalle overall champs
Sir john tarbet Junior athletic Championship 2015 sponsored by Ritzbury Chocolate of Ceylon Biscuits Limited concluded at the Public Grounds on September 18 with the participation of over 6500 Junior school athletes. St Benedict's College, Kotahena and St Joseph's College Kegalle emrged overall champions
Krishantha Wilathgamuwa National Sales Manager of Ritzbury presenting the 2015 Sir JohnTarbet Overall Champions trophy for Boys to Team Leader of St. Benedict's Collage Kotahena, also in the picture are N.A.D.R. Hemantha President of Sri Lanka School Athletic Association, Neville Rodrigo Secretary SLSA, Laksman Hapuarachchi Treasurer SLSA and Susantha Fernando President of Sri Lanka School Athletic Coaches Association.
Krishantha Wilathgamuwa National Sales Manager of Ritzbury presenting the 2015 Sir JohnTarbet Overall Champions trophy for Girls to team Leader of St.Josephs Balika Kegalle. also in the picture are N.A.D.R. Hemantha President of Sri Lanka School Athletic Association and Susantha Fernando President of Sri Lanka School Athletic Coaches Association.
Girls overall champs - St.Joseph's Balika Kegalle
Boys Champs - St.Benedict, College Kotahena

==============================
## Title: Best yet to be seen
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Entertainment
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Best yet to be seen
There was a time that people expected the artist to paint nature and life the way the majority of people visualize it. It was justifiable at a time photography as yet to be invented. However, with the progress of photography artists could enjoy more freedom to differently visualize reality as the task of recording real events and life realistically was transferred elsewhere.
Today we have a superb variety of art forms in painting like cubism, surrealism, impressionism and many more styles not to mention purely abstract art. According to Oscar Wild No great artist ever sees things as they really are. If he did he would cease to be an artist.
Imaginative and revolutionary artists developed various styles and forms of registering their creative perceptions on canvas exciting the ability of aesthetic sensitivity of art loves. The new freedom coupled with philosophical and aesthetic insights of great artists and art critics gave rise to enlightened concepts relating to art. In consequence, many schools like romanticism, cubism, surrealism, impressionism etc. came into existence. And some painters, not stagnating in one form or style, changed their ways of creating art several times in their career. Pablo Picasso, the world renowned artist, for instance, started painting rather realistically but gradually dissociated himself from it and developed his own unique style. His themes were, in fact, selected from common real life scenarios, yet, in his own fantasy world, he completely reinterpreted them making the viewers excited, shocked but absolutely thrilled. Yet this exercise of freedom in creating a different reality was enthusiastically accepted by enlightened art lovers.
Among the most senior artists in Sri Lanka, Jayasiri Semage has also evolved a few independent styles in his journey of oriental arts. Even though is heritage is Ajanta Sigiri style, he has had some influence from Chinese oriental art and even from some western schools. However, he had remained conformed to the universally accepted norms of proportions of human and animal figures. This was probably because he had a large cliental among the Buddhist public for whom he was creating highly educative pictorial narratives and meditationaly inspired line essays. His aesthetic communications were mostly non elliptical. However, now that he has acquired much experience and international feedbacks, a new turn in his style seem to emerge. This does not mean that he is divorcing from his traditional style that he has developed with utmost love and care, even to the extent of his admirers could identify his paintings not looking for his signature. Yet he says As many artists also have changed their styles, I thought I would also do some experiments to change my style. Yet I have to be sure that it would be a step forward, not going back.
How actually has this new style emerged Perhaps a self analysis seem to have convinced Semage that creating decorative motifs by manipulating rhythmic creepers with stylized foliage and flowers is his special talent. He has shown an extra-ordinary mastery in rhythmic curves in liyawela and incorporating traditional ornamental symbols like galbindu etc into it. He was perhaps aware of the fact that ancient Sri Lankan artists incorporated living captures into liyawelas. With such inspiration he has experimented to see how could make his entire pictures get immersed in liyawela rhythm. In other words, he wanted liyawela rhythm to be his language. To make this real, he had to give up traditionally inherited rules of discipline in maintaining proportion in human and animal figures. It is true that Even Geroge Keyt went against rules of proportion and became highly revolutionary in his unique style, yet he moved more into the western inspiration. Semage seems not willing to move out from Sri Lankan traditional art tradition to that extent. Yet he wants to create something new within the confines of Sri Lankan art tradition. Semage has done it and one might even not recognised them as Semage's art since they do not conform to traditional proportions of human figures. He has moved out from the rules of proportion and projected his visualizations of rhythm of life into liyawela, making it his new frame and form. He has done it using water colour and oil on canvass. What is lacking in his new language of paintings is not only the proportion but also the balance.
Yet these ill proportioned and imblanced paintings do to betray the identity of Sri Lankan art as they are still line drawings displaying features of Sri Lankan tradition. However all his new human and animal figures have bent and reshaped against natural forms dictated by the dominant liyawela motif.
Semage is busy at his studio at No. Lillian Place, Mount Lavinia, putting the finishing touches to his new revolutionary creations preparing them for the solo exhibition which is being held at No. 03 Semage Art Gallery till September 25.
==============================
## Title: Beyond absolute idealism
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Beyond absolute idealism
The exhibition called Text is an attempt to go beyond or move beyond the alienation we experience in relation to the Objective World through the approach of Absolute Idealism, Materialism and Psycho-Analysis.
This exhibition is an attempt to go beyond or move beyond the world as we experience through sensory perception and to dive into the realm of speculation and, by doing so, to try and attain a spiritual understanding of a world that lies behind phenomena. This may also be termed as an attempt to go beyond the confines of art and religion.
This exhibition explores certain ideas of western philosophy. Among these is the notion that art, when viewed as a means or the primary form used to attain the Absolute Spirit or Self-Realization, has reached its limits and the role of art in this has ended. To go beyond on the path of Self-Realization or attaining the Absolute Spirit, the contemporary way is the path of Philosophy.
In the contemporary world we could see the broadening of philosophy rather than of art. Therefore at this time, as an artist I have to clarify various dimensions that are not empirical in this alienated objective world and the connection my soul has to this reality. At each moment, through the conceptual world, across various fantasies I reach reality or in other words the connection my soul (subject) has with the objective world. These are looked at from the point of view of philosophical discourse described previously. Using art as the form and philosophical discourse as the base to create a political discourse is my aim. Therefore this exhibition is a discourse on philosophy using the form of art.
Many claims are made on the hidden or inaccessible aspects of both art and the artist. Looked at from the point of view of philosophy as currently being discussed, since art itself is considered a fantasy, the base on which such claims of possessing hidden or inaccessible aspects are made looks increasingly weak.
One may say that through this exhibition, instead of asking questions about objects in this world, questions are asked about the questioner-the one asking the questions. The question that is asked is who or what are you A broad study is made of the spirit. In the end it would seem that this spirit is a void and that its centre does not exist within the person. Rather it exists in the other and ones control has left one and has been absorbed in the other.
A world consisting of fantasies is created both within consciousness and within space as a result of the Negativity that exists in the Absolute Spirit. These objects may manifest themselves in front of us either as spiritual or in the object spirit forms. One continuously ventures out through these fantasies. Initially viewed the Objective World and Objective Spirit create various forms of confusion and fear. At times this world laughs at me. At times it leads me into various conflicts. It creates various images. At other times it tries to kill me. However since we do not possess the quality or ability of self-consciousness we fail to realize that this world about which we entertain feelings of alienation is in fact a projection of our inner selves-our souls. Opening ceremony is at the Lionel Wendt Gallery on the October 9 at 5pm and will remain open till October 11.
==============================
## Title: Children's tales for children's sake
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Children's tales for children's sake
SLBCs Ananda Samarakone Auditorium was bright on July 2, as Sarasavi Bookshop Chief H D Premasiri, Kumudini Haputhanthri, Dr Edwin Ariyadasa, Prof Praneeth Abeysundera, S H Sarath and Colvin Settinayaka graced a book launch of an extraordinary nature.
The compiler is Suneetha Wickramage, a retired employee of the SLBC. She has translated a series of books originally published in India. The series has been translated into 21 languages, and Wickramage is the 22nd translator. The series includes eight books covering themes of happiness. It teaches the children to observe the value of water, the colours of trees and types of animals and how friendly they are.
The ceremony kicked off with three child singers singing a song on the beauty of animal life. They sang to the instrumental music of the SLBC band. It was announced that childrens songs are becoming a thing of the past. The three songs we were treated to at the launch were composed by Suneetha Wickramage.
The most touching event was yet to happen. Wickramages publisher, H D Premasiri, requested her to distribute the copies among the children present at the occasion. This, Wickramage happily did and later presented copies freely to the special guests.
In his speech, the veteran artist S H Sarath was quite careful with words. His speech was aimed at the children. The earliest form of Sri Lankan art, according to Sarath, was confined to temples. As centuries lapsed, parents made use of temple paintings to narrate Jathaka tales to their little ones. Sarath noted the valuable contribution of Sybil Wettasinghe who did wonders to rejuvenate the childs mind with paintings.
Sarath, on a more serious advisory note, asked the little painters to make their own colours by mixing green and yellow, blue and red to watch the outcome of new colours.
He asked the parents to make their children move more with the nature and make them write essays - and the essay into a picture. Sarath emphasized that discipline could not be maintained by blasting a child or teaching. Only nature could enlighten a little brain.
Suneetha Wickramage recalled her heydays at the SLBC.
I was simply an announcer at the Lama Pitiya and gradually climbed the ladder to become a presentation officer. Today, when a child needs a certain meaning, they first try to google and probably facebook. But finally they approach mother for the correct meaning. I must thank my husband Piyasena Wickramage and son Nipuna Wickramage for supporting me throughout this endeavor.
Professor Praneeth Abhaysundara noted that the Indian Books are translated in such a way that they easily touch the little minds more easily.
Colours have a history. Purple is spirituality. All these books show all the colours well placed to the little ones. In Japan they relate stories and poems to improve the knowledge of children. In France, the children are made to draw. Parents expect their children to learn discipline. Unfortunately there is no such thing happening in Sri Lanka. Some people do not have peace of mind to draw or sing. But parents must see that children learn the value of the nature. Martin Wickremasinghe was no graduate. But he wrote all those books which are mostly used as textbooks in schools, with an admiring sense of the nature, Prof Abhayasundara noted.
Dr Edwin Ariyadasa mentioned that storytelling has a long history.
We had no electricity in the ancient times. So the mother used to narrate a story to lull her child to sleep. But a mother would keep a watch on the childs responses. If the response gets weak, that is a sure sign that the child is asleep.
Once Robert Howe of Harvard University offered a paper and a pencil to a Negro child to draw something. The little child has drawn two pictures of a human. One very nicely dressed and the other half dressed, with one arm, one eye and one leg. So Howe inquired the child about the painting. The well dressed one was an American child, while the other one is the Negro child himself. Now that speaks a lot about the child mentality.
On another occasion, a psychologist offered a pen and a paper to a child. The little one had drawn a smiling face and a head of a fish. The child explained his painting: that is me after eating a baked fish. That too is a mental satisfaction of a child by art.
==============================
## Title: Coaching camps at Getambe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Coaching camps at Getambe
The Playgrounds Deptartment of the Kandy Municipality conducted Cricket and Soccer Coaching Camps at Gatambe and Edmund Silva Playgrounds respectively on 12th of September, 2015 in connection with the Local Government Week. Indoor Games Tournaments I.e. Table Tennis and Carrom were held for Junior Table Tennis players and members of the Municipal Community Centres.
The Cricket Coaching Camp which as held at Gatambe Municipal Playgrounds was headed by Malcolm Perera, Former Director of Coaching of Sri Lanka Cricket assisted by Duncan Arnolda, Tharanga Welagedara and T. Chandrathilak. Ninety Boys and Girls from Kandy and Suburb Schools participated. Soccer Coaching Camp was headed by S.A. Weerasinghe, a UK qualified Soccer coach and former playground Instructor was also held on that day assisted by former Playground Instructor Gamini Silva and present Playground Instructors W.A. Priyantha and Sunanda Mediwake and 145 boys and girls attended this Coaching camp.
The Table Tennis and Carrom Coaching camps were held at the E.L. Senanayake Library auditorium attended by over 200 girls and boys and this camp was conducted by Playground Instructors, Sunil Abeygunasekera, Sumudu Vithanage, B.P.K. Ranasinghe and Amitha Wijeratne. These tournaments were coordinated by the Chief Playground instructors, J.AV.K. Shanthasiri, G.G. Dharmaratne and Nelum Lekamge.
==============================
## Title: Do we need book fairs
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Do we need book fairs
Once again we are having an "International Book Fair" in Colombo. It is the talk of the town this month. The organizers will count the footfalls and be proud about the achievement. For nine days there will be a huge traffic congestion around the BMICH. The book fair is the largest annual crowd puller in the country.
Do we really need book fairs today is the question that comes to mind, every year. In the same way that the Neanderthals disappeared from the face of the earth with the invasion by the 'early modern humans' the printed book is also threatened by the e-book and the audio book. However the printed book will never become extinct, it will remain with us for a long time to come, while the book fairs as we know them today will become extinct in the near future.
Book Carnivals for 'entertainment', and for the organizers to make profits, will continue, like the mockeries of festivals held in the name of literature, in Jaipur or Galle. Yet for anyone who wants to buy a book, there are book fairs which are open anytime. You can visit these book fairs at your convenience, browse through the books, even read a few pages, check the price of the book at other vendors, order the book, sit back and relax till the book is delivered to your doorstep, or to your computer.
Even before the digital books take over the market from printed books, digital technology has already taken over the marketing of printed books. Today almost everything a man needs could be searched for, located, and purchased in cyberspace. All this started twenty years ago, with the launch of Amazon for online sale of books and eBay for online auctions. Amazon 2014 sales figure was $ 90 billion worldwide. The best place to search for a book today is the internet, whether it is for a new print, a used book, a first edition, or as a soft copy. Many book publishers and sellers too are now competing with Amazon, selling their books online directly to customers. These book sellers have their own permanent 24/7 book fairs in cyberspace, while Amazon is the largest International Book Fair in cyberspace which never closes its doors.
There are also sites like bookfaironline.net, who claim, "It encourages dialogue and mutual cultural understanding by providing a neutral platform to all publishers and writers around the world. It's available online 365 days a year, there is no need to travel across the hemisphere, no need to pollute the planet by flying and shipping books to the four corners of the earth. Bookfaironline.net is committed to reduce the carbon footprint within the publishing industry." The cultural festivals like the Kolkata Boi Mela is fading away.
But people still fly from all over the world, leaving a huge Carbon foot print, just to attend the book fairs in Frankfort, London, Delhi and all other cities, when they can find in cyberspace all the books displayed. Book sellers also invest millions to showcase their books here. Some of our booksellers too participate and display their books, when they could display all their books online to all the readers around the world, at a much lower cost.
When we can visit such book fairs in the comfort of our home or office, or from anywhere on earth as long as we have an android phone and a connection, there is really no necessity to visit a congested venue to attend a book fair. Driving is a nightmare and finding a parking space is far worse, unless we are lucky to share a ride with another person.
Public transport is still worse, even though the organizers arrange a shuttle bus service to a few locations in the city. Some of the book stalls are so crowded, that one could only crawl between book shelves, pick a book at random and wait for ages at the sales counters.
A book lover now living in Toronto lamented that she will be missing the book fair this year and wrote on Facebook, "The smell, the sight of books, touching them, holding them and reading bits, the conversations with like minded people..." But this is just wishful thinking, all one could smell is the food and the sweat, and conversations about parking problems, the crowds and what is to eat, and where.
The traditional book fairs are for the benefit of the publishers and sellers. They make us buy what they want to sell, or to get rid of, from their non-moving stocks. We do not have the opportunity to check out the books, have a choice of what we want to buy.
The sellers abuse the human instinct for impulse buying. They keep the books they want to sell, at our eye level, within easy reach. We end up buying them, because they do not display the books we really want to buy, or they keep them out of our reach. We believe we get bargains, when they offer special discounts. But we are only deceiving ourselves. Most publishers offer the same discounts at their own bookshops, throughout the year.
If the postal services offer a reasonable rate for book posts, then it would benefit both the publisher and the reader, as it would save both time and money, to order a book by post, than to visit a book shop. Or a local courier service should make an attractive offer for home delivery of books.
The time has arrived for the Book Publishers Association to have a permanent book fair in cyberspace from 2016, to offer a real service to the readers at less cost and effort.
Save time. Avoid the hassle. Visit all the book fairs in cyber space.
[emailprotected]

==============================
## Title: Of films in many languages
## Supertitle: New Gleanings
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
New Gleanings
Of films in many languages
Why do we watch a Movie/Film/Cinema For that matter, why do we read fiction/flash fiction or even theatre/drama It is for entertainment you would /may say. Right.
But it is not merely for sheer entertainment or to while away the time. At the same time, more serious minded people among us would like to be entertained in a fruitful manner, meaning that they look for artistic qualities in what they perceive. There are experts in particular fields of interests who are critics who expect certain standards in what they perceive. As against the dictionary meaning of criticism, such critics are not mere condemners, but appreciating the finer points in a workout and politely point out the shortcomings or defects in such works and thus hold a balance in their judgment. Thats why their candid opinions are welcomed by the creators of such works.
The perceivers of art are sometimes excited by the discovery of critics of things that did not strike them at first. The enlightened viewers or readers and the critics identify themselves with the characters in a film for instance and are engrossed in experiencing the same pleasures or pains. They learn how the characters resolve their problems and so on. They find what they could not do are achieved by the characters and are thrilled by their actions.
The above are some points discussed in an essay found in a book on cinema in general and reviews of mostly on international films seen at international film festivals. The bookis in Tamil and titled Mukkiya Cinemaakali Parriya Suvaiyaana Kannoddam (Tasteful Look on Important Films)
The book is published by Manimekalai Prasuram in Chennai and has short and useful information on outstanding films of the recent past. Apart from the European continental films, reviews of two Sinhala films-Yuvathipathy and Saroja- and a Tamil film made by a Lanka born Arunthathy who live in France are also included. The name of the film is Mukam (Face). There is also a brief article on Lankan Tami films, and comments on a few Tamil films made in Kodambakkamin Chennai. Other articles are on : What is a Documentary,the changing approaches in film criticism, Film Criticism, Training in Film Appreciation, a book in Tami on the art of cinema, a journal in Tamil on film criticism, pen portraits on Roger Manvel ,(a pioneer British film authority and critic) two Indian Tamil film actors Archana and Sivakumar), Adoor Goalakrishnans Kathaa Purushan, B Narasinga Raos Telugu film Daasi, Film Direction by Indian women, Contribution by three Tamil women in film direction, Tapan Sinhas creations ,Regional films of India, A Man for All Seasons, Ingmar Bergman, Leon, Marana Simmaasanam (a Malayalam film), Netherlands Film Festival in Colombo and Iranian film Saara.
The video presentation of a Chinese, Burmese, and American film are critically viewed in the book.
The remaining reviews are on films the writer has seen in Interrnational Film Festivals held in Indian capitals -New Delhi, Chennai, Bangalloru and Thiruvananthapuram. Such films as Meera Nairs Perez Family, French films (Guardian Angels, at Chance, Son of Gagon, Le Peril Jejune, Between the Devil and the Deep Sea, Jeya Ganga,(made by French Indian Vijay Singh),and many more not listed here.
[emailprotected]
==============================
## Title: Friday holiday for Muslim schools
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Friday holiday for Muslim schools
September 25 will be a holiday for all Muslim schools due to the Haj festival which falls tomorrow, the Education Ministry stated yesterday.
==============================
## Title: Gazette notification on ministries released
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Gazette notification on ministries released
Official Gazette notification of all new Ministers and their functions has been published by Sri Lanka Government Printers today. Twenty institution including the Sri Lanka Central Bank, Exchange and Securities Commission and National Youth Service Council will fall under the purview of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe who is also hold the position of national policies and economic
Gazette notification

==============================
## Title: Greeks 'feel nothing will change' after the election
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Greeks 'feel nothing will change' after the election
GREECE: In a mood of resignation, most Greeks put on their Sunday best and trudged to the polling stations to vote in a new government for the fifth time in six years. But quite a lot didn't bother.
At an old primary school in the crowded working-class district of Agios Panteleimonas, an official checking the ballots admitted: "Greeks are quite bored about the election - they feel nothing will change." In the most densely populated constituency in Athens, where people live very close to the polling station, "We'll only have 250 by the end of the day ... Five hundred people voted here in January."
Athens tends to be quiet on polling days, when hundreds of thousands return to their ancestral villages to vote. But this time, in the city centre the calm was glacial. Further north in Kypseli, another gritty neighbourhood which is home to former prime minister Alexis Tsipras and the headquarters of the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn party, voting was brisker.
"Last time abstentions were 20 to 25 per cent and we think it will be the same today," a Syriza official said. "Most people realise how important it is to vote." Two young men agreed.
Marcus Santorinous, a 26-year-old welder had just returned from working in Cyprus and was hoping to find a job in the Netherlands. "I want young people to have good salaries, old people to have good pensions," he said. "I don't want to live in a country where young people are paid 300 [220] a month."
He said he had voted for the Syriza breakaway outfit, Popular Unity - committed to taking Greece out of the eurozone. His friend, Stavros Anagnosleos, a student, said he remained loyal to Syriza, despite the chaos over the referendum in July. "I don't want the old parties; they destroyed the country, they are dangerous - and they will do what the Germans tell them to do."- THE INDEPENDENT
==============================
## Title: HIS BODY WAS THE SYMBOL OF DEATHLESS BEAUTY
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
HIS BODY WAS THE SYMBOL OF DEATHLESS BEAUTY
From his tender age he was taught many instruments by his father and the way he mastered them was truly astounding with the violin being his first love and on which he conquered the whole world of classical music. He conquered Vienna, Berlin, Paris, London along with the heart and love of Princess Elise, the sister of Napilean while in Lucca during his eight year stay there.
No one can describe the miracle-virtuosity of the world's greatest violinist who played on a single string without as much as batting an eyelid. Niccolo Paganini stunned the world and carved a niche in the realms of classical music history whose matchless playing has not yet eclipsed by another.
He inspired the devil and the devil inspired him.
He also inspired choreographer Lenoid Lavrsky into a ballet on his life which he divided into seven ensembles.
First Improvisations
Enemies
A Meeting
Lonliness and despair
Love and consolation
The joy of creative work and death
Finale :- Stronger than death.
Lavrovsky was completely obsessed by this quintessential Romanic virtuoso who was surrounded by legends of his commitment to the devil who had responded to him with eery skills on the violin that was diabolical and matched his cadaverous appearance, giving him the scary looks. People were intrigued and other violinists and composers stunned by his playing like man obsessed by an evil spirit. With the excesses in his life, Paganini rose to be what he had painted of himself. In 1934, Sergei Rachmaninov composed the celebrated RHAPSODY ON A THEME OF PAGANINI. Later, it was the composer who suggested to choreography, Mikhail Fokine of the possibility of doing a narrative ballet on Paganini using this score.
Thus the day dawned:- In 1939 Fokine produced his Paganini Rachmaninov's music for the de Basil Ballets Russess, boarding it for the first time at convent Garden in summer the outbreak of the war.
Fascinated by these results, in 1960, Lenoid Lvrovisky, the Director of the Bolshoi Ballet used this score for his Ballet on Paganini in Moscow with scenery to effect more interest, by Vadim Ryndin. He cast Yaroslar Sekli as the tormented violinis. This role immortalized later by Ladimir Vasilev who caused more revivals due to his brilliant performance.
Lavrovsky did not accept everything that Fokine did and instead he invoived Paganini tormented by his own genius as by his rivals. He gave the impression of the artistic and emotional struggle of a great performer along with conflicts but with eventual triumph of art.
Lavrovsky for many years dreamed about producing an one-act ballet, a part of which would be devoted to the music of Rachmaninov who was his favourite composer. He was thinking of the Florentine Nights of Heinrich Heine where the poet pays tribute to the amazing genius of Paganini. Everything was unfolding before the chareographers's eyes as he visualized him with the violin remaining with the principle character of Paganini.
Rachamaninove's music had a hold on Paganini because of his rebellious passionate vitality. Lavrovsky portrayed him as the genius at work in the fervour of inspiration, struggling for his art:- Paganini in love all his life not only with music but with life itself. That made Lavrovsky decide on the ballet and project Paganini not holding the violin but he as the beautiful instrument that gave birth to music.
His body was the symbol of the deathless beauty and power of music. That was the way the world would look at him no matter whether he was tormented by the devil or not.
From his tender age he was taught many instruments by his father and the way he mastered them was truly astounding with the violin being his first love and on which he conquered the whole world of classical music. He conquered Vienna, Berlin, Paris, London along with the heart and love of Princess Elise, the sister of Napilean while in Lucca during his eight year stay there. At nineteen Paganini left hoe and as he started his brilliant career and the money was coming, he started gambling and lost most of it.
But he saved considerable amount running into millions in the ensuing years. Along with his fame, success and virtuosity at the violin, sunfaced eccentricity and was called the satanic but was the robust archetypal Romantic, very tall, emaciated, with curly black hair reaching his shouldes and dressed in black immobile that made him a showman and dare-devil but the greatest violinist that ever lived.
With his crazy way he would walk on to a stage and look around for a stage and look around for a violin and many were the eager ones to let him have his. At one concert in Livorno he turned up without a violin and loaned a Guarnerius to play by a wealthy violinist. After listening to Paganini, refused to refused to take it back. He kept eudiences in rapture and awe of the time with his devil-given 'tricks' He Would enter the stage with two strings on his violin with the E-string representing a woman and the G-string a man and play an amorous scrore between the two. At other times, he would rip off three strings and retain one and continue to play on the G-string.
Amazing, incredible, astonishing but that was Paganini. He had the athleticism and accuracy that no one has surpassed to date. No one dared to take up the challenge. Some of the passages he perform leaps and double stops that had never been played on a violin.
It was such impossibility that he mastered with truly nexplicable touch. All these wondrous at play, people started to associate him with the supernatural, causing devil influence.
Paganini without question became the foremost and greatest violinist in the world.
He was more renowned for his music over his scores that were heavenly and perfect beyond compare with anyone of his past and present contemporaries and the ones that followed him especially works written for the strings.
His health deteriorated so much that all his teeth had to be taken out and his power failed to sustain him. Two operations on his jawbone in 1828 completely knocked off his senses. He also suffered from laryngeal phthisis which robbed his speech. Eventually he could hardly swallow anything and condemned.
This made people to say that he was in league with the devil because how could such sounds have come.
The church denied him a buriel and his body was stored in morgue for many years. In 1845 the Grand Duchess of parma authorized the removal of his remains and interred in the parma cemetery.
Paganini's Guarneri del Gesu violin is preserved in the Museo Municipale Genoa.
ESSENTIAL WORKS Twenty-four Caprices, Op.1 (1820), short unaccompanied stud that have the capacity totackle any different violinistic probolme Musically attractive enough to have inspired Brahms' variatlons for the piano.
VIOLIN CONCERTO No.1 in D Op.6 (1817-18) this bouncing bow and double-stop hari in the last movement, the recording which tragic short-lived with the philharmonic orchestra.
VIOLIN CONCERTO No. 2 B Minor, Op. 7 (1826) this last movement is nicknamed ciochenette in which the soloist imitate a little bell. Liszt wrote a very difficult piano version of this piece.
LE STORAGE (Witches dance) Op. 8 (1813) This score is one of the most soughted pieces of paganini's recital.
FANTASIA ON G - String Paganini created the precedence by playing this on a single G- string. It is based on a theme from Rossini 's Mose in Egitto and strilingly beautiful and largely associated with Paganini's virtuosity and brilliance
==============================
## Title: Hungarian army given sweeping powers against migrants
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 19:30
Hungarian army given sweeping powers against migrants
HUNGARY: Hungary's parliament gave Monday the army and police sweeping new powers to keep migrants out as populist Prime Minister Viktor Orban warned that Europe was being "overrun".
"They are overrunning us. They're not just banging on the door, they're breaking the door down on top of us," the right-wing Orban told lawmakers.
"Our borders are in danger, our way of life built on respect for the law, Hungary and the whole of Europe is in danger," the 52-year-old said in Budapest.
"Europe hasn't just left its doors open but has sent open invitation... Europe is rich but weak, this is the worst combination, Europe needs to be stronger to defend its borders."
The new legislation, passed with a two-thirds majority, allows the army to take part in border controls, to restrict personal liberties and to use "coercive weapons designed to cause bodily harm, although in a non-lethal way, unless it cannot be avoided."
"Similar to the police, the use of non-lethal firearms, rubber bullets, pyrotechnics, tear gas grenades, and net guns can be used," it stipulates.
Coming a week after illegal border-crossing became a crime punishable by up to five years in jail, soldiers can now also check ID papers and detain suspected illegal migrants.
The police meanwhile will be able to enter private homes for the purpose of carrying out a search for migrants who entered the country illegally, amongst other new powers.
The rules are applicable in areas where a "state of crisis caused by mass immigration" has been declared. Last week the government declared such a state in six counties bordering Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia and Austria.
The Hungarian Helsinki Committee, a refugee rights group, warned that refugees should not be treated as enemies.
"The extended powers of the army and police must be used with utmost care in situations involving refugees who themselves have fled from war and terror and have already suffered gravely from police and armies in their home countries," said the group's chief Marta Pardavi.
EU member Hungary has emerged this year as a frontline state in Europe's migrant crisis, with 225,000 travelling up from Greece through the western Balkans and entering the country from Serbia and most recently Croatia.
Most then enter Austria which lets them travel onwards to Germany.
Last week Hungary sealed its southern border with Serbia, forcing tens of thousands of migrants to enter Croatia, from where many then again crossed into Hungary and headed for Austria and beyond.
The country has erected a razor-wire barrier along its 175-kilometre (110-mile) border with Serbia and along 40 kilometres of its border with Croatia not marked by the Drava river.
It is also building a four-metre high fence along its border with Serbia and is planning to erect a barrier along its frontier with Romania too. Hungary has been widely criticised for its treatment of the migrants, including in clashes last week when police used tear gas and water cannon against protesters throwing stones and other missiles.
Orban argues that Hungary is applying EU regulations and blames Greece for waving migrants through and Germany -- the migrants' main destinations -- for relaxing asylum rules for people fleeing Syria's civil war and Islamic State extremists.
He also rejects that the new arrivals are refugees, saying they are either "economic migrants" in search of a better life or Syrians who voluntarily left camps outside Syria where their lives are not in danger.
- AFP
==============================
## Title: The hybrid court riddle
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
The hybrid court riddle
Nearly a week after the release of the much talked about OHCHR report on alleged war crimes during the final stages of war in Sri Lanka, the UNP and the SLFP, the two mainstream parties in the political sphere of the country, are still discussing about its outcome. The SLFP, which had ultra-nationalist leaning during the tenure of its former Chairman Mahinda Rajapaksa, appointed a top level committee, headed by former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, to study the reforms and come up with recommendations on the path the party should take when it comes to the Geneva issue. The very appointment of former President Kumaratunga, a politician who has a liberal mindset when it comes to ethnic and religious matters, shows that the party is ready to come out of the ultra-nationalist cocoon under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena.
The Geneva issue was raised at the UPFA Parliamentary group meeting held at the Presidential Secretariat on Monday evening. However, the MP group collectively decided to defer the matter as the report was still being studied by the committee headed by former President Kumaratunga. At the same time, the party has decided to seek the assistance of a group of top level lawyers to study the concept of hybrid court, an alien term to the Sri Lankan judicial system. From the media statements issued by some senior parliamentarians of the SLFP over the past few days, one can assume that the SLFP is willing to work with the UNP to find a solution to the Geneva issue. That was, to a great extent, a result of President Maithripala Sirisenas moves to consolidate his power in the SLFP, sometimes at the expense of his own popularity.
The UNP, on the other hand, discussed the OHCHR report, inter alia, at the partys Working Committee meeting held on Monday evening. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, speaking at the Working Committee members, that there was no reason to worry about the Geneva issue as the international community had faith in the Sri Lankan government and its commitment to genuine measures towards accountability and reconciliation. He indicated that there would be a consensus of some sort among international community over the domestic inquiry mechanism initiated by the Sri Lankan government.
Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera and Justice Minister Wijedasa Rajapakshe saved the former President from the electric chair, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe quipped at the UNP Working Committee meeting, summing up the outcome of the initial stages of the UNHRC session.
Maybe because they too hail from the Southern Province, like Rajapaksa, a jovial Prime Minister told his party colleagues who attended the second Working Committee meeting after the Parliamentary election. He said the outcome of the 30th session of the UNHRC was a victory for the Sri Lankan government as the international community was arriving at a common ground on a domestic inquiry mechanism, compromising on their call for an international investigation. Some people are only clinging to one term  the hybrid court. There is no decision as such. What we will do is a domestic inquiry and there should not be any doubt about it, the Prime Minister explained.
Wording of the draft resolution leaves space for negotiations, compromises
Over the past few days, there were extensive discussions among top echelons of the government over the manner in which Sri Lanka should tackle the call for a hybrid court. On Saturday morning, they were relieved to see the early draft of the US sponsored resolution which did not use the contentious term hybrid court.
The first draft of the US sponsored resolution said,
Encourages the new Government of Sri Lanka to respect its positive commitment to bolster and safeguard the credibility of these justice processes by engaging in broad national consultations with the inclusion of victims and civil society, including non-governmental organizations, from all affected communities that will inform the design and implementation of these processes, as well as assistance from international experts and the international community throughout the process, and to ensuring strong and effective witness and victim protection measures are in place;
Welcomes the governments recognition that accountability is essential to uphold the rule of law and build confidence in the people of all communities of Sri Lanka in the justice system, takes note with appreciation of the Government of Sri Lankas proposal to establish a Judicial Mechanism with a Special Counsel to investigate allegations of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law, as applicable; and affirms that credible transitional justice process should include independent judicial and prosecutorial institutions led by individuals known for integrity and impartiality; and calls upon the Government of Sri Lanka, to involve international investigators, prosecutors and judges in Sri Lankas justice processes;
Encourages the Government of Sri Lanka to review and, where required, reform domestic law to ensure that it allows for prosecution of the full range of crimes under domestic and international law involving violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law;
The key policy makers of the government, over the weekend, extensively analyzed the wording of the first draft of the resolution and its connotation. They were of the view that the non-existence of the term hybrid court in the draft resolution was a key indication on the international communitys willingness to cooperate with the Sri Lankan government on this particular matter. The early draft of the resolution, though it referred to the involvement of international investigators, prosecutors and judges in Sri Lankas justice processes, remained vague on the level of that involvement. That provided a wide opening for the Sri Lankan government to work its way into a consensus.
On the other hand, the early draft is expected to undergo several changes within the next one and a half weeks. First version of the draft is a maximalist version of the resolution. It usually leaves space for negotiations and compromises. Therefore, Sri Lankas response to the draft resolution will play a key role in the final resolution which will be presented to the UNHRC session, a senior retired diplomat told the Daily News on Monday.
Aryasinhas response to draft resolution on SL
Sri Lankas official response to the draft resolution was given by Sri Lankas Permanent Representative to Geneva Ravinatha Aryasinha, in his opening statement to the first informal consultation on the draft resolution on Sri Lanka. Aryasinha said the draft resolutions text is reparative, judgmental and prescriptive and not in keeping with the spirit of the process of reconciliation and reform underway in Sri Lanka.
It was also pointed out that all these mechanisms will be evolved and designed through a wide process of consultations involving all stakeholders including victims, communities, political parties, civil society representatives, the military, the High Commissioner and his office, bilateral partners, relevant international organisations as well as members of the diaspora who wish to be consulted. It was also explained that we expect the mechanisms to be designed in a manner that they would have the necessary freedom to obtain assistance - financial, material and technical, from our international partners including the OHCHR.
Taking office following the elections on January 8, has clearly demonstrated, through a series of actions, the intention to ensure meaningful culture and society based on the rule of law and good governance, promote and protect human rights, uphold democracy, and the universal values of equality, justice and freedom. I do not, on this occasion, endeavor to list out the many measures that have been taken since January 8, including legislative measures. I am sure that all of you, who have watched Sri Lanka closely, are aware of all these details.
In this context, what we urge from our friends in this room and beyond is understanding, patience, assistance, encouragement, support, trust, goodwill and faith. At a time when we have a new Government that is adopting a calmly different path to that which was followed in the era before January 8, the expectation is, naturally, that there would be a similar change in tone, tenor, and even strategy on the part of the Council as well.
As you are aware, the government, on its own volition, and conviction that it has to do right by all her people, has already commenced taking steps to address many of the concerns in the previous resolutions and reports as well.
Further, given that both the HCHRs report (A/ HRC/30/ 61) and the Report on the OHCHR investigation on Sri Lanka (OISL) (A/HRC/30/SRP.2) recognizes that the report represents a human rights investigation and not a criminal investigation, emphasizing excessively on the criminal justice aspects, makes the resolution imbalanced. It would be more helpful to have a holistic approach when making recommendations in this resolution on promoting reconciliation in Sri Lanka.
We also remain concerned regarding the formulations provided in several of the Operative paragraphs. Certain terminology used such as verification, is new and intrusive language to be presented in a human rights resolution, especially when the country concerned is engaging with the international community including with the OHCHR, Aryasinha said in his speech.
It does not require a lot of wisdom to understand that Aryasinha, towards the latter part of his speech, is referring to the part that calls upon the Government of Sri Lanka, to involve international investigators, prosecutors and judges in Sri Lankas justice processes. It can be assumed that ta compromise will be reached on international prosecutors and judges participating in Sri Lankas judicial process. There is a possibility that Sri Lanka may accept an international panel of judges and legal luminaries acting as observers overseeing the entire process, without actively taking part in it. That is an arrangement to which Sri Lanka can agree without upsetting the majoritys sentiments back home!
It is crystal clear that the Sri Lankan government and other member nations of the UNHRC do not want to go for a want on the resolution on Sri Lanka. Therefore, Sri Lankas position on the domestic inquiry mechanism is likely to be accepted by the UNHRC, probably with an assurance of its engagement with international stakeholders.
Zeid playing bad cop and US playing good cop
Meanwhile, former Sri Lankas Permanent Representative to Geneva and a vociferous critique of the new government, Dr. Dayan Jayatilleka, commenting on the draft resolution of the US, said that while UNHRC Chief Prince Zeid is playing the role of the bad cop with regard to Sri Lanka, the US is playing the role of the good cop.
In an interview journalist Michael Gregson on Tuesday, Jayatilleka said that while Zeid is urging a hybrid court, the US is apparently coming to the rescue saying a domestic mechanism with international component. Jayatilleka added that this is an old known tactic of the US. However, the Sri Lankan government seems to be going along with this, he argued. Sri Lanka's support for the US proposal will prevent countries which are against such a systems from taking any step against it, Jayatilleka also said.
Sri Lankas closest neighbour India is likely to play a key role in the whole process. Indias support, needless to say, will work in Sri Lankas favour when it comes to watering down of the resolution and determining the outcome of the Geneva session. It is in this backdrop that a high profile Sri Lankan delegation, led by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, visited India last week for bilateral discussions. It was Prime Minister Wickremesinghe;s first visit to a foreign nation after assuming office as the Prime Minister for the fourth time. Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera, who was attending the opening session of the 30th session of the UN Human Rights Council is Geneva, left for India to join the Sri Lankan delegation visiting New Delhi.
Highly placed diplomatic sources told the Daily News that India was unlikely to support a resolution supporting an international investigation in Sri Lanka or a hybrid court, as suggested by the UNHRC Chief. Instead, India will support a credible domestic inquiry mechanism initiated by Sri Lankas law enforcement bodies, with the assistance of international stakeholders.
Indias stance over hybrid court
India is unlikely to digress from the statement it made over US sponsored resolution on Sri Lanka at the UN Human Rights Council session in 2014, a top diplomatic source told the Daily News.
Explaining Indias position at the last years UN Human Rights Council session where the majority of member nations gave a mandate to the OHCHR to conduct an inquiry into alleged war crimes during the final phase of war in Sri Lanka, the Indian delegation to the session it was not in a position to support an inquiry mechanism that was intrusive.
The delegation, in its statement explaining the abstention from voting said, as the closest neighbour with thousands of years of relations with Sri Lanka, we cannot remain untouched by developments in that country. Since the end of the armed conflict, India remains engaged in a substantial way in the relief, resettlement, rehabilitation and reconstruction process in Sri Lanka. We have extended substantial assistance to the Government of Sri Lanka in its efforts for resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons, de-mining, education, connectivity, livelihood restoration, economic revival, etc. This has contributed towards return of a modicum of normalcy to the Northern and Eastern provinces.
In asking the OHCHR to investigate, assess and monitor the human rights situation in Sri Lanka, the resolution ignores the progress already made by the country in this field and places in jeopardy the cooperation currently taking place between the Government of Sri Lanka and the OHCHR and the Council's Special Procedures. Besides, the resolution is inconsistent and impractical in asking both the Government of Sri Lanka and the OHCHR to conduct investigations simultaneously.
India believes that it is imperative for every country to have the means of addressing human rights violations through robust national mechanisms. The Council's efforts should therefore be in a direction to enable Sri Lanka to investigate all allegations of human rights violations through comprehensive, independent and credible national investigative mechanisms and bring to justice those found guilty. Sri Lanka should be provided all assistance it desires in a cooperative and collaborative manner.
It has been India's firm belief that adopting an intrusive approach that undermines national sovereignty and institutions is counterproductive. Any significant departure from the core principle of constructive international dialogue and cooperation has the potential to undermine efforts of this Council for promoting universal respect for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Moreover, any external investigative mechanism with an open-ended mandate to monitor national processes for protection of human rights in a country, is not reflective of the constructive approach of dialogue and cooperation envisaged by UN General Assembly resolution 60/251 that created the HRC in 2006 as well as the UNGA resolution 65/281 that reviewed the HRC in 2011.
One has every reason to assume that Indias position has been further strengthened by the new government of Sri Lanka as it repaired ties with India during the post-January 08 period.
Another key issue that drew the attention of Sri Lankan authorities was the necessity of new laws to conduct the domestic inquiry process. Some sections of the legal fraternity argued that the new laws might need to have retrospective effect as the domestic mechanism was investigating into alleged war crimes perpetrated before May, 2009. In the opening statement made by Sri Lankan Foreign Minister at the 30th session of the UN Human Rights Council last week, there were strong indications that new legal measures would be introduced to strengthen the domestic investigation.
According to the present constitution of the country, Parliament does have the right to make laws including laws having retrospective effect and repealing or amending any provision of the Constitution or adding any provision to the Constitution (Art.75), the only restriction being that there can be no ex post facto criminal statutes under the Constitution unless the law is based on general principles of International Law recognised by the community of nations. A well-known example of ex post facto criminal legislation was the Offence against Aircraft Act of 1982 passed by the Parliament pursuant to Art. 18 (6) of the Constitution to incorporate international criminal law of hijacking of planes into Sri Lanka domestic law to convict Sepala Ekanayake of a crime that was not a crime in Sri Lanka at the time of the hijacking.
In this context, it is important to understand that the two thirds majority in Parliament will be a key factor in this regard. Therefore, any action taken in this regard will have to be approved by the UNP and the SLFP, the two largest parties in Parliament which are presently working together within the framework of a national unity government under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
==============================
## Title: 'I love my dog': Syrian refugee walks 300 miles carrying pet to Europe
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 19:30
'I love my dog': Syrian refugee walks 300 miles carrying pet to Europe
GREECE: A 17-year-old Syrian refugee has walked more than 300 miles carrying his pet dog after he could not bear to leave the animal in his war-torn homeland.
Aslan, from Damascus, was interviewed by the UN's refugee agency (UNHCR) after arriving on the Greek island of Lesbos.
Holding the tiny dog as it yapped happily in his arms, he said: "I love this dog, I need her."
The teenager said he had walked at least 310 miles (500km) carrying all his belongings in a rucksack, and holding the dog in a red carrier.
"The dog is Rose," Aslan said, holding up his pet's animal passport, before giving her a drink from his water bottle.
"They said 'you can't take your dog'. I have food and I have water, I have everything."
When asked by aid workers why he did not leave Rose in Syria, he replied: "I love my dog."
A spokesperson for the UNHCR said it had seen "many" refugees like Aslan carrying their animals with them on dangerous journeys from the Middle East, across the Mediterranean and onwards through Europe.
"When forced to flee home because of war, many people would never dream of leaving their pets behind," she added.
Of the 300,000 refugees and migrants who have arrived in Greece so far this year, more than 93,000 have landed in Lesbos, where the infrastructure is unable to cope.
Meanwhile, a British family is leading a group of volunteers helping the thousands of asylum seekers who arrive every day on the island's northern coast.
Eric Kempson, 60, has worked with his wife and teenage daughter to transform their home into an impromptu base of operations for humanitarian efforts.
"I'm here and I'm a human being," he told The Independent. "When you see these babies suffering you can't just watch."
A five-year-old girl was among more than a dozen Syrian refugees believed to have died on Saturday when their dinghy sank on the way from Turkey to the island.
Many of the refugees and migrants reaching Greek islands continue their journey through the Western Balkan route, which is becoming increasingly difficult after Hungary closed its border with Serbia and other countries started increasing controls.
The UN estimates that 80 per cent of the people entering Europe through the Balkans are from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, with the remainder from a range of countries including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Burundi and in Sub-Saharan Africa.
According to UNHCR figures, more than 442,440 people have crossed the Mediterranean Sea to Europe so far this year and 2,921 have died attempting the voyage.
- THE INDEPENDENT
==============================
## Title: JVP for credible Domestic Inquiry
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
JVP for credible Domestic Inquiry
Opposing the Hybrid Court System proposed by the UNHRC, the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) yesterday stressed that justice for alleged war crime victims would be ensured only through a credible Domestic Inquiry into alleged war crimes.
Addressing the media at the JVP office yesterday, Parliamentarian Vijitha Herath said there are no provisions within the constitution and the legal framework of the country for the interference of foreign judges in the internal matters of the country.
He said the absence of a proper mechanism to implement the LLRC recommendations during the Rajapaksa regime has resulted in the UNHRC intervention on this issue.
Soon after the war ended in 2009, the JVP proposed the then government to set up a proper domestic mechanism to develop war affected areas and rehabilitate and resettle affected families with the assistance of all political parties. We also proposed to the government to get the volunteer participation of all nations to do that.
But the Rajapaksa government didnt listen to us and made a Joint Statement with the UN during the visit of the UN Secretary General promising to take certain measures to investigate war crimes, etc. But they failed to achieve this, he said.
Herath also added that the Rajapaksa government undermined the independence of the judiciary and this also resulted in foreign intervention.
He urged the present government to protect judicial independence and avoid political interference in the work of the judiciary.
It was reported that the government of Sri Lanka and the United States is planning to make a joint proposal at the UNHRC on September 24.
We will reject that report too if there is anything mentioned in that report indicating interference by international judges, he said.
==============================
## Title: Kasippu den raided
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Kasippu den raided
The Anuradhapura Division Police Vice branch under the guidance of SSP Athula Weerasinghe, took in to custody 45,000 Ml. of unlawfully distilled spirits (Kasippu) along with distilling equipment. The raid was conducted in the reserved forest belt along the banks of Konittha Ela in the Kutiyawa area.
The police team under the instructions of SSP Weerasinghe consisted of Sub Inspector B W Piyaratne, Sergeant Rajapaksa (38419), Sergeant Siriwardane (19120), Constables Siriwardane (53580), Ranjan (81188), Disanayake (45579), Ratnasiri (11612) and Tilakaratne, successfully raided the kasippu brewing den located in a thick jungle after having stayed in the area for nearly two days.
Two suspects too were arrested and produced before the Thambuttegama Magistrate and remanded till October 4.
==============================
## Title: Local poll under ward system - Dinesh
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Local poll under ward system - Dinesh
No matter what the UNP Working Committee says, according to President Maithripala Sirisena, the next Local Government election will be held according to the ward system.
The system of holding elections should not be changed/decided on the chances of one political party having to win the election, MEP Leader and MP Dinesh Gunawardena said.
Addressing the media in Colombo yesterday, he said this was announced by the President during a meeting held recently between President Sirisena and the SLFP MPs. President Sirisena is powerful than the Working Committee of the UNP.
Therefore the next LG Polls will be held under the ward system. MP Gunawardena pointed out that the people of Sri Lanka demanded a new electoral system and therefore the next LG Polls should be held under the new system.
The electorates had been demarcated and amendments had been made by the committee headed by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. There is no way of going back to the preferential system.
Speaking on the latest UNHRC Report on Sri Lanka, Gunawardena said the Commission Report handed over to President Sirisena by retired High Cort Judge Maxwell Paranagama should be presented in Geneva. In that report he (Paranagama) vehemently rejected the 40,000 deaths claim made in the UN Report. The Sri Lankan judiciary is independent and has the capability of conducting any type of investigation. That is why Sri Lankan judges functioned and still function in International bodies and in foreign countries. Considering hearsay evidence and producing witnesses after 30 years is unacceptable on any grounds, he added.
==============================
## Title: Loyala College, Negombo swimming champions
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Loyala College, Negombo swimming champions
Loyala College, Negombo emerged champions at the 2015 outstation Free Style Swimming Meet conducted by Biyagama Swimming Diving and Life Saving Association.
The swimming meet was held at the Sapugaskanda Yashida Swimming Pool recently.
Panadura Aquatic Sports Academy team were runners-up. The chief guest at the meet was Yoshida Education and Social Service Foundation Chairman and Japan Chief Sanganayake Ven Banagala Upatissa Nayake Thera.
Yoshida Foundation Director Hemakumara Gunasekara, National Aquatic Sports Association Vice Chairman K.A.S. Somachandra, Yoshida Swimming Academy Parents Association Chairman Mahesh Nanayakkara, Yashida Shokanji International School's Sports Development Committee Secretary Kumara Atalugama and Biyagama Swimming Association Senior Instructor Nelson Perera were present at the meet.
Champion Swimmers
Under-9 Boys
Keshan Pasindu Bandara (Colombo Wesley College)
Under-9 Girls
Tharindi Senethya (Panadura Aquatic Sports Academy)
Under-11 Boys
(Saniru Muthukumarana (Gampaha Team Wave - Aquatic Club)
Under-11 Girls
(Anuja Senali (Negombo Loyala College)
Under-13 Boys
(Mark Sachin Perera (Negombo Loyala College)
Under-13 Girls
Thenuri Nethmini Perera (Panadura Aquatic Sports Academy)
Under-15 Boys
Harsha Kumara (Panadura Aquatic Club)
Under-15 Girls
Hithara Sithmini Perera (Panadura Aquatic Sports Academy)
Under-17 Boys
Udara Ayeshmantha (Sapugaskanda Yoshida Shokanji International School)
Under-17 Girls
Shashini Emesha (Negombo Loyala College)
Over-17 Boys
Nimesh Bandara (Panadura Aquatic Club)
Thirty Schools and Swimming Clubs in the outstation participated.
These events was organized by Senior Swimming Instructor W. Thilak Ratna Kumara.
==============================
## Title: N. Korea family reunion lottery 'extremely cruel': top rights expert
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
N. Korea family reunion lottery 'extremely cruel': top rights expert
KOREA: North Korea's use of a lottery system to allow a fraction of the families separated by the Korean War to meet is "extremely cruel", a top rights expert said Monday.
North and South Korea agreed earlier this month to hold a weekend reunion in October for separated families -- only the second to be held in five years -- with 100 people to be selected by each side to take part.
But Australian judge Michael Kirby, head of a UN commission that published a searing report on the rights situation in North Korea last year, noted that the country is believed to have taken some 120,000 South Koreans -- most as the North Korean troops retreated.
With more than 60,000 people in South Korea hoping for reunification with family members -- many who are now "of considerable age" -- North Korea's capricious agreement to sporadically allow small groups to meet is far from enough, he said.
"At the present rate of 100 being given that privilege, many, many will die before the numbers are accommodated," Kirby told reporters in Geneva.
"It is extremely cruel of the administration of (North Korea) and a breach of fundamental human rights to deny the opportunity for families to be reunited," he said, adding: "It is really a barbarous practice."
Kirby said previous reunions had been planned and cancelled for no apparent reason, and that the North Korean approach was exacerbating the suffering of the families longing for contact.
"It is simply unacceptable that (knowledge about) their whereabouts, whether they are alive or dead, what happened to them, and having contact with them is left to a lottery," Kirby said.
The commission's report accused North Korea of committing human rights violations "without parallel in the contemporary world", including the abductions of an estimated 200,000 foreign nationals from at least 12 countries. Those findings were debated Monday at special session of the UN's rights council, which North Korea's ambassador at-large, Ri Hung Sik, dismissed as "nearly three hours talking about a non-existent issue."
Asked specifically about widening the family reunion programme, Ri said: "the reunion of these separate families is resolved between North and South (Korea). It has nothing to do with Kirby."
In addition to the many South Koreans taken and held, hundreds of Japanese citizens are believed to have been taken to train North Korean spies in Japanese language and customs.
With few exceptions, world nations roundly condemned North Korea's legacy of abductions and its refusal to engage with the commission's findings.
Japan's point-person on the abduction issue, Shoichiro Ishikawa, told the council that acknowledging its misconduct was "the only way for (Pyongyang) to gain the chance of reconciliation with the international community."
Kirby stressed that the international community has an obligation to press ahead and try to ensure accountability for the abductions, disappearances and a wide range of other crimes against humanity that have taken place in North Korea.
The longtime practice of international abductions by North Korean agents was "particularly barbarous, and is something akin to international piracy," Kirby said ahead of the debate.
Many of the crimes committed in the country "shock the conscience of mankind," he said, insisting: "It is not open to the world community to turn away." - AFP
==============================
## Title: NASA developing world's first space shotgun to blast asteroids
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 19:30
NASA developing world's first space shotgun to blast asteroids
US: NASA is developing the world's first space shotgun that can blast asteroids into small pieces for collection as samples when a robotic spacecraft reaches near one such space rock in the near future.
Along with a Brooklyn-based company Honeybee Robotics, the US space agency is working on a shotgun - as part of its Asteroid Redirect Mission (ARM) - that will test the strength of an asteroid to determine if it is sturdy enough for sampling, New York Post reported on Sunday.
The ARM aims to chop off a massive chunk of an asteroid and shift it into the Moon's orbit. Then, a manned spacecraft will collect samples and send these back to the Earth for further examination.
"Collecting and characterising samples from asteroids is an important science goal in itself, and NASA has identified it as a key step toward human exploration of Mars," Kris Zacny, director of exploration technology at Honeybee Robotics, was quoted as saying.
The US space agency plans to launch the unmanned ARM in early 2020s. As part of it, the scientists will use a robotic spacecraft to capture a large boulder from the surface of a near-Earth asteroid and move it into a stable orbit around the moon for exploration by astronauts.
Following its rendezvous and touchdown with the target asteroid, the uncrewed ARM spacecraft will deploy robotic arms to capture a large boulder from its surface.
With the shotgun, firing a bullet at an asteroid's surface will enable physicists to work out the solidity of the rock by measuring its rebound speed.
NASA has identified three valid asteroids for the mission so far: Itokawa, Bennu and 2008 EV5.
The agency expects to identify one or two additional candidates each year leading up to the mission.
Throughout its mission, the ARM robotic spacecraft will test a number of capabilities needed for future human missions.
- IANS
==============================
## Title: The Nation through its portraits review
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
The Nation through its portraits review
Simon Schama opens his vivid and intimate history of the nations portraits with one that got away. In 1954, for the occasion of Winston Churchills 80th birthday, Graham Sutherland was called upon to create an image of the great man that would be housed in parliament and live down the ages. It was a commission the war artist could not refuse; but he approached it with trepidation.
He drove down to Chartwell, Churchills home, in his Hillman Minx and over a period of months there ensued a classic example of the courtship ritual between artist and subject that is at the heart of this book: sitter stubbornly putting his best face forward, painter doing his utmost to see through it.
The pair got on well. Churchill, seeking to exercise control over the outcome, offered the artist his own studio to use; Sutherland, at the height of his powers, charmed Winnie and Clemmie with his brilliance. The relationship was maintained right up to the moment of the reveal, when Churchill, who had seen a photograph of the final portrait and sought to cancel its presentation, did the next best thing and made an acceptance speech denouncing it as modern art.
In 1954, to a room of Tory MPs, there could be no more damning epithet. Laughter rained down on Sutherland  and his monumental portrait  at what should have been a crowning moment of his career. The picture, a masterpiece of curmudgeonly defiance, was never hung in parliament. Churchills private secretary subsequently made a bonfire and burned the original in accordance with Churchills wishes.
This story, told by Schama with a novelists concise flourish, is exemplary of the way he can bring art to life. He is both an inspired communicator of detail and context, an excitable and exciting critic and a sleeve-tugging gossip. The idea of portraiture  its in-built vanities, the inevitable backstories of commission and intrigue, of power and wealth made for conspicuous display  is a perfect vehicle for his detailed imagination. This book is inevitably part of a multimedia event, with a TV series and exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery pending; lip service is paid to the kind of blockbuster comprehensiveness that the BBC can sell, there is a nice history of the NPG itself and so on, but in fact, for the most part, Schama just shoehorns in all the best stories he knows.
Some of his episodic chapters seem to quicken his pulse more than others; the faces of power and the faces of love are more compellingly understood than the faces of fame (Schama can do contemporary social history, he of course goes out of his way to make the case for us all being selfie-portraitists now, but his heart, and rightly so, is really in some of the more extraordinary buried stories of the past). Now 70, he has a powerful career historians sense of fleeting time, and an ever empathetic grasp of the human emotion that attends it. His series of essays on portraiture and mortality are worthy of a book in themselves.
The original impulse for making likenesses was as an act of memorial, and an act of love; a desperate gesture against death or parting. (Dont go. Dont leave. Dont die. Dont change. Dont disappear, as Schama titles the relevant chapter here.) His account of the extremes that the 17th-century adventurer and poet Sir Kenelm Digby went to in order to preserve his late wife, who died on May Day 1663, reads like a piece of found mythology. Schamas research focuses on Sir Anthony van Dycks spectral painting of Venetia on her deathbed, a portrait drawn from Digbys erotic memory of his wife when he first disturbed her sleeping. Digby kept the portrait with him at all times and slept beside it so that when he stirred from his sleep (not that there was much) she would be there with him, lying at the same angle, gently glowing and peaceful. Schama tells this story with such richness of detail that you are there beside Sir Kenelm in his fitful sleep.
There are plenty of other tales to match this one; a remarkable story in portraits of Maria Cosgrove, wife to the celebrated miniaturist Richard Cosgrove and lover of Thomas Jefferson; a rigorous analysis of two photographic portraits of Alice Liddell, one by Charles Dodgson that was a precursor to Alice in Wonderland, and another by Julia Margaret Cameron, of Liddell as a young woman, self-possessed and no longer the possession of the story-telling don.
In the best of these tales  of Francis Bacons triptych of his dead lover George Dyer; of Dante Gabriel Rossettis infatuation with William Morriss wife, Jane; of Annie Leibovitzs study of John and Yoko on the day of Lennons death  the subjects of the portraits become uncannily alive, which you imagine was always the point.
- The Guardian
==============================
## Title: New councillors for NWP
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
New councillors for NWP
Five new UNP councillors were sworn-in before North Western Province Governor Amara Piyaseeli recently.
This is to replace the five councillors elected to the parliament from the recent Parliamentary Election.
The new UNP councillors are Manjula Bandara and S. Sahabdeen from the Kurunegala District and Jude Suresh, D. Erawgoda and Inod Thushara from the Puttalam District.
The son of the Governor, Manjula Bandara, was among the new UNP councillors.
==============================
## Title: Nobel: his life and mission
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Nobel: his life and mission
Almost all universally acclaimed personages of great achievements had to undergo a series of vicissitudes in their lives and the life of Alfred Nobel renown as an Inventor, Entrepreneur and Industrialist better known as the founder of Nobel Prize was not an exception.
Alfred Nobel was born on 21 October 1833 in a simple home in the courtyard building at Norrlandsgatan, 9, in Stockholm, Sweden.
His childhood was spent in insecurity and poverty. In 1837, when Alfred was only 4 years old, his father Immanuel Alfred went bankrupt and had to flee abroad to escape his creditors.
Immanuel Nobel left his family in Stockholm and spent five years alone trying to build up his economy.
During his absence, his wife Andretta Ahlsell had to feed the family in Stockholm by running a little dairy and a green grocery . At times Andretta and her children were on the verge of penury which Alfred Nobel and his brothers could never forgot.
At the age of seven, Alfred Nobel was sent to the School of St. Jacob which was considered as a school for the poor children. St. Petersburg in Russia was a rapidly developing city in the mid-nineteenth century which offered great opportunities to people with initiative and enterprising people from all over world came to the Russian empire.
Immanuel Nobel came to St. Petersburg and started a foundry and an engineering workshop with great success and after a few years he was able to support his family in Stockholm. As the family became financially well off in 1840 Alfred Nobel and his brothers were taught at home which was the trend among the children of the upper class in the era.
Alfred Nobel was sent on a study tour from 1850  1852 and during his visit to New York Alfred had the opportunity to meet the Swedish inventor John Ericsson. After the completion of his study tour, Alfred joined his fathers company known as  Founderies & Ateliers Mecaniques Nobel & Fils .
This engineering company gradually expanded and produced wide range of civil and military products which were in high demand during the period. Alfred Nobels father Immanuel Nobel became an expert on underwater mines and he obtained large orders during the Crimean War which lasted for three years.
In the year 1850 Immanuel Nobel could employ more than thousand workers in his factory in St.Petersburg . After nearly twenty years, in 1856 Immanuel Nobel could visit Sweden again. But the prosperity did not last long and in 1859, due to economic problems in Russia, Immanuel Nobel had to face bankruptcy and he returned to Sweden with his wife. Alfred Nobel when he was thirty years old , returned to Sweden in 1863 and started his career as an inventor.
Soon he went to Hamburg where he stayed for ten years and left for Paris in 1873. Alfred Nobel lived in Paris longer than anywhere else and it was in Paris he signed his famous will in 1895. He built up an industrial empire and three years before his death he bought Bofors estate in Varmland.
Alfred Nobel had a great interest in the development of weaponry. He was not only a brilliant inventor but also a daring entrepreneur and a shrewd industrialist. Alfred Nobels most important inventions were based on Nitroglycerine. Nobel discovered how to handle Nitroglycerine which is a highly viscous and highly explosive liquid safely.
Nobel invented Detonator in 1864, Dynamite in 1867, Blastine Gelatine in 1875, and Smokeless Gunpowder, Balilistic in 1887. Alfred Nobel was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1884 and he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Uppsala in 1893.
Even though Nobels workshop blew up killing his youngest brother Emil and four other workers he did not give up his research on explosives. The Swedish State Railways Board decided to use Nobels Blasting Oil in the excavation of new railway tunnel under Sodermalam .
He left Sweden to establish himself as an entrepreneur on the Continent. The large scale buyers of explosives were on the Continent and in the USA. Explosives were on great demand for Mining, Railway Construction, Road Building, Tunnelling Docks and Canals. In Hamburg, Germany he found  Alfred Nobel & Company , and in 1866 in USA he found  US Blasting Oil  ,  The British Dynamite Company  was found in the United Kingdom in 1868.
Nobel started factories for the production of explosives in Spain ( 1871), Italy ( 1873) , and in Switzerland (1873). During 1865- 1873 Alfred Nobel founded his Industrial Empire and became partner in 16 dynamite factories in fourteen countries.
He was fluent in five different languages of Swedish Russian, German, French and English. In response to an advertisement carried by Alfred Nobel for an efficient Secretary, Bertha Sophie Felicita ( Bertha von Suttner) a lady born in Prague, Bohemia, Austria left for Paris in 1876 to become the Secretary and the Housekeeper of Alfred Nobel. Alfred Nobel , the dynamite millionaire and Bertha who became his Secretary happened to be the most renowned female peace activist of the day.
Even though she left Alfred Nobel to get marry to Baron Arthur von Suttner , Bertha continued to correspond with Nobel till his death. In 1892, she promised Alfred Nobel to keep him informed on the progress of the Peace Movement launched by her. Bertha realised that she was beginning to succeed when she received a letter from Alfred Nobel in January, 1893 telling her about a Peace Prize Alfred hoped to found and his will proved he had already established the Prize for Peace.
In 1889 she published her major novel  Lay Down Your Arms  It was a novel of pacifism an opposition to all war and hostility and a belief that all disputes should be handled peacefully. In the final will of Alfred Nobel, he wrote a Prize for Persons or Organizations who promote peace . Several years after the death of Alfred Nobel, the Norwegian Storting (Parliamnet ) decided to award 1905 Peace Prize to Bertha von Suttner. Alfred Nobel died in 1896 and he did not give an explanation for choosing Peace as a Prize category.
Nobel was a trained Chemical Engineer , the categories for Chemistry and Physics were obvious choices. The reasoning behind the Peace Prize is less clear. According to the Norwegian Peace Committee , his friendship with Bertha von Suttan who was a Peace Activist and later a winner of the prize, profoundly influenced his decision to include Peace as a category.
Some scholars suggest it was Alfred Nobels way to compensate for developing destructive forces. His inventions included dynamite and ballistite both of which were used violently during his lifetime. First Nobel Prize was awarded in 1901 for Physics to Konrad Wilhelm Rontgen for discovering X Ray. This first Nobel Prize was awarded at the Royal Academy of Music in Stockholm,Sweden , on 10th December. 1901. Being a cosmopolitan , Alfred Nobel directed that in the awarding the Prize, no consideration whatever be given to the nationality of the candidate but that the most worthy shall receive the Prize.
The process of selecting the Nobel Laureates is exclusively handled by the Nobel Prize Awarding Institutions. The Royal Swedish Academy awards Nobel Prize in Physics, Chemistry and Prize in Economic Sciences. The Nobel Assembly in Karolinska Institute awards the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine. The Norwegian Nobel Committee elected by the Norwegian Parliament awards Nobel Peace Prize.
On the fifth anniversary of Alfred Nobels death, on 10th December, 1901 the first set of Nobel Prizes were awarded. Jacobus C. Rontgen won the Prize for Chemistry, Wilhelm C. Rontgen won Prize for Physics, Emil A. von Behring won Prize for Physiology and Medicine , Rene F.A. Sully Prudhomme won the Prize for Literature while Jean H. Dunant and Frederic Passy won the Prizes for Peace. A total number of 43 women were awarded Nobel Prize between 1901 to 2011.
Marie Curie was awarded Nobel Prize twice. The famous personages such as Nelson Mandella, Martin Luther King Jr, Dalai Lama, Mother Theresa, Fridjot Nansen, Albert Schweitzer and Alva Myrdal and Organizations such as The International Red cross (ICRC), won Nobel Prizes. Nobel Peace Centre was opened on 11th June, 2005 and a best known architect in UK, David Adjaye had designed and modified the former Vestbanen Railway Station in Oslo, Norway to the Nobel Peace Centre.
Nobel Peace Centre consists of an exciting combination of changing and permanent exhibitions. The Peace Centre seeks to promote popular interest in issues relevant to War, Peace and Conflict Resolution in Norway as well as abroad.
The Peace Prize Laureates all presented on digital screens in the Nobel Field a garden of 1000 fibre-optic lights. In addition there are exciting items such as the Magical Book about Alfred Nobel , his life and work. The Electronic Wall Papers and the Film Room -the Eye.
Some of the scheduled events of Nobel Peace Centre comprised of Lectures, and Open Meetings, Seminars and Discussions and a wide range of Cultural and Artistic Activities. Nobel Peace Prize of 2011 was won by three female laureates Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Leymah Gbowee and Tawakkul Karman for their Non-Violent Struggle for the Safety of the Womens Rights to full participation in Peace-Building Work.
==============================
## Title: Once a celebrated beauty
## Supertitle: Book excerpt
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Book excerpt
Once a celebrated beauty
The following is from Musharraf Ali Farooqis Between Clay and Dust, which was shortlisted for The Man Asian Literary Prize in 2012. A novelist, translator, and children's book author, his second novel The Story of a Widow was shortlisted for the DSC Prize for South Asian Literature 2011 and longlisted for the 2010 IMPAC-Dublin Literary Award. Farooqi was born in 1968 in Hyderabad, Pakistan, and now divides his time between Toronto and Karachi.
Gohar Jan
Early in his professional career, Ustad Ramzi had realized that the entanglements of married life would not let him devote himself fully to his art and its exacting discipline. He vowed to remain celibate to achieve perfection in his art and shut his mind to thoughts of women.
He finally attained the rank of an ustad or master, and acquired such celebrity that the mere privilege of being his sparring partner conferred eminence on a pahalwan. Throughout this time Ramzi observed his vow of celibacy.
The news of his visiting Gohar Jans kotha in the courtesans enclave was therefore received with great interest.
Gohar Jan was an accomplished singer whose raga recitals were renowned. Once a celebrated beauty, she was known for her haughty airs and capricious treatment of her lovers. Like other prominent tawaifs of her time, she maintained her own kotha where trainee girls or nayikas received instruction in the arts of musical entertainment. Gohar Jans kotha in the inner city was the largest and most famed.
The young men frequented the kothas to learn the bearings of polite society, the older men to socialize, or rekindle the memories of their lost youth. Whenever one of them fell in love with a tawaif or a nayika, his affairs provided a spectacle and entertainment to the rest of them, until he was cured of his passion. Those who could not survive it did not return. A tawaif who fell in love had only two choices: she could either put an end to the association, or leave the kotha to pursue a life outsideif one was offered her. Implicit in the latter choice was the understanding that she would never be readmitted to the kotha if the promise of the new life failed her. There was a universe of failed unions, dreams, and abandoned hopes that started in the kothas and trailed off into the anonymity of the citys dark alleys. It was saidwith some justificationthat only the fickle survived in the kothas, and only the pitiless prospered.
When people heard the news of Ustad Ramzis visits to Gohar Jans kotha, they thought that like scores of others, he, too, was lured by Gohar Jans physical charms. But there was another purpose to Ustad Ramzis kotha visits.
Ustad Ramzi had been taken by an old acquaintance one evening to listen to Gohar Jans mehfil of a raga recital at the kotha. That day, for the first time, he saw Gohar Jan as she entered with her nayikas and took her seat at the head of the ensemble of musicians. He saw her command her troupe quietly and imperiously, often with just a glance. That day, also for the first time, Ustad Ramzi felt the powerful meditative effect of music when Gohar Jan started a raga.
He had always struggled with a component of his discipline which stressed the need for meditation to focus physical strength. That chance visit to Gohar Jans kotha made Ustad Ramzi understand how music could quieten the aggressive humors of his soul. He later returned to Gohar Jans kotha and soon became one of the habitus of her mehfils.
Those who watched Ustad Ramzi for any signs of becoming infatuated with the tawaif were disappointed. At the end of the mehfil, he always left her kotha with others. Even after it was borne out that it was Ustad Ramzis fondness for music that occasioned his visits to the kotha, that fact was not accepted. People made all kinds of insinuations: that Ustad Ramzis endeavors outside the akhara did not meet with any success; that it is one thing to floor men, and another to contest the favors of a tawaif like Gohar Jan.
These comments inevitably reached Ustad Ramzis ears, too, but he never learned that some people attributed these insinuations to Gohar Jan herself. Those who knew the tawaif could readily believe that it would have provided endless entertainment to Gohar Jan to make a spectacle of someone as self-absorbed and sacrosanct as Ustad Ramzi. But whether Gohar Jan found the sombre Ustad Ramzi too dull and uninteresting a quarry, or some other consideration hindered her, for some reason the insinuations ended there, and the gossip also died out.
For many years now Ustad Ramzi had regularly attended Gohar Jans mehfils. He never realized that his visits to her kotha had now become for him a need; he felt restive without attending her mehfils once every few days. Over the years, the ragas themselves had been suffused with Gohar Jans inflection and intonation; when Ustad Ramzi heard anothers rendition, it hardly stirred a thing in his breast. It was as if the ragas only existed embodied in Gohar Jans voice.
Kotha
Gohar Jans stately and austere beauty had been mellowed somewhat by age. Her hazel green eyes were surrounded by wrinkles, and time had begun to cast her features in its soft, cruel mould. Her kotha still attracted patrons but the number of its visitors had dwindled.
That sudden and radical turnabout in life after Partition had created a deep feeling of uncertainty. A growing sense of frugality in all affairs had followed. It had adversely affected the fortunes of the tawaifs enclavea world that thrived on extravagance, and where people traditionally flaunted their wealth and fine taste.
The mehfils ended in many kothas. The drapes in the kothas remained drawn. The wooden staircases smelled of dampness. The carpets had not been aired in a long time and were musty.
In the music rooms, tanpuras gathered dust under their silken wraps and their necks became bent from the humidity. The silence of the sarangis continued unbroken and the heads of the tablas and pakhavajs became wrinkled and dry. The quiet of the music rooms was broken sometimes by the sound of a string snapping.
The neighborhood seemed more alive in daytime than at night. Most of the nayikas than at night. Most of the nayikas had moved out from the kothas to find a trade in which their musical training could advance a career. Many had joined the fledgling film industry. In the last year, two nayikas had left Gohar Jans kotha. One had migrated. Another tried to open her own kotha in another neighborhood, but failing to attract new patrons closed it down. Only one nayika, Malka, remained with Gohar Jan.
The only other occupant of the kotha was Gohar Jans old retainer, Banday Ali, who had been associated with it for nearly three decades. He was in charge of the mehfils and also looked after the kothas finances. Every evening he made sure that the paandans were stocked, the drinks ready, the white floor coverings spread in the Music Room, and bolsters placed for the guests. Two servants were also on hand to fill the hookahs for visitors, refresh them at regular intervals, and run errands if the guests wished to send for food from the bazaar or call a conveyance at the evenings end.
Banday Ali usually finished his preparations an hour before the mehfil started. Then he had his customary cup of tea before opening the doors of the kotha. After the musicians arrived he sat on his sofa at the entrance where he greeted visitors. Malka received the guests at the door of the Music Room, offered them paan, and ushered them in where the musicians were already seated and awaiting Gohar Jan.
At the end of the mehfil the guests left their payment in a moneybox. While the servants cleared up the room, Banday Ali did his accounting. After the house staff left he closed the kotha doors and retired to his room on the top floor of the building to sip his cup of opium.
Banday Ali regularly gave an account of the kothas finances to Gohar Jan on the fifth of every month. But in recent days the exercise made him uncomfortable. Having been associated with the kotha and its finances for so long, he felt he was himself somehow to blame for its declining income.
Gohar Jan had been quietly selling her gold since the previous year to maintain the kotha on the same lavish scale as before. Banday Ali was the only person who knew about this. Gohar Jan had forbidden him from discussing it even with Malka. He had quietly suggested to Gohar Jan a few times that she could rent out the kothas western wing which had a separate entrance and was no longer occupied by the two nayikas. But each time Banday Ali made his suggestion Gohar Jan declined it with the same equanimity with which she received the account of her diminishing income.
Malka
Gohar Jans relationship with her nayika, Malka, was an unusual one, perhaps because of the special circumstances of her presence at the kotha. Unlike other nayikas who joined kothas in their youth or were sold to the mistresses of the establishments, Malka had arrived at Gohar Jans kotha as a foundling. One winter morningtwenty-three years earlierBanday Ali had discovered the baby wrapped in a piece of felt cloth lying at the kotha entrance. Gohar Jan made every effort to find the mother, but had no success despite all her contacts and influence with the city administration. As Gohar Jan had feared, the orphanage refused to take in a child sent from the tawaifs enclave.
Gohar Jan decided to raise the girl at the kotha.
But she never showed her any fondness. Banday Ali, who saw no emotional bond between the two, mentioned to Gohar Jan a few times that the child needed more affection from those around her. He never received a response from Gohar Jan.
It was perhaps a result of Gohar Jans frosty demeanor towards her that Malka herself grew up cold and reserved. She was pretty and her sharp features finely balanced her natural, graceful air but her manner was quiet and aloof. Even Banday Ali who nursed a filial feeling towards Malka saw that she did not return his affection with any warmth.
In view of Gohar Jans impassive attitude towards Malka, Banday Ali could not understand why she gave her a room near her own living quarters instead of in the kothas west wing reserved for the nayikas. The other nayikas saw that as an unfair privilege for Malka and it laid the foundations of constant animosity between them.
These were not the only contradictions Banday Ali saw in Gohar Jans behavior towards Malka. Gohar Jan did not impose the same strict discipline on her that she imposed on the other nayikas. In this instance, perhaps, it was also unnecessary. Malka submitted herself to the hard training in music and dance without persuasion. Either from a sense of loneliness or competition with the other nayikas, she excelled at what she was taught. Gohar Jan offered encouragement to the other nayikas over their least achievements, but ignored Malkas hard work.
One day in the Music Room, Banday Ali witnessed yet another moment in the continuing drama as Malka underwent a training session with Gohar Jan.
Straighten the left foot. Put the right hand Gohar Jan was explaining.
It was probably Gohar Jans detached manner that made Malka restless. In the middle of her steps she did a pirouette.
Gohar Jan looked up.
Why dont we begin with the pirouette Malka asked her.
Does make-up start with the eyes or the feet Do you put on the ankle-band before the head adornment That is why you start with the salutation and end with a pirouette. Like the sixteen adornments, the movements too follow a sequence
Even as she explained, Malka was moving her fingers in the imitation of a bird in flight.
Gohar Jan cast a reproving look at her and continued, All right. Put the right hand above your head in the shape of the half-moon. Stretch forward the left hand in a half circle More composure!
Malka kept looking straight at the wall in obstinate silence. There was a brief pause as Gohar Jan looked at her again.
Very well, Gohar Jan said. That is your lesson for today. Go and rest.
Instead of leaving, Malka sat down and began strumming on the tanpura.
What is this now Gohar Jan chided her. You wont rest, nor will you let me have any peace!
Malka did not answer.
Play it then if it is your wish, Gohar Jan said half-heartedly.
Malka got up and left the room.
Banday Ali sometimes tried to compensate for Gohar Jans disregard by praising Malkas talents to her. Malka would listen politely with her head lowered, without expressing any joy. He could see that after being denied Gohar Jans love as a child she now sought her praise as an adult. The more Gohar Jan ignored her, the harder Malka tried to win her attention. Banday Ali realized that no matter how much he might praise Malka it would never equal even a glance of appreciation from the one whose approval she sought.
Whenever Malka expressed a desire to perform before an audience, Gohar Jan summarily rejected the request, saying that Malka still had to learn a great deal.
For a brief period after the two nayikas left Gohar Jans kotha, Banday Ali saw Malka happy.
He felt, as did Malka, that she would finally have Gohar Jans complete attention and be given an opportunity to perform. But even the departure of the other nayikas did not bring about any change in Gohar Jans manner.
==============================
## Title: Pablo Picassos Anti War Mural; the Tortured Guernica
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Pablo Picassos Anti War Mural; the Tortured Guernica
Give tear out twist and kill I cross light and
Burn caress and lick embrace and look I ring
Full peals from the bells until they bleed
Frighten the pigeons and make them fly all
Around the dovecot until they fall to the
Ground already exhausted I will stop up all
Pablo Picasso
During the Spanish Civil War on the 26th of April 1937 the German Air Force (Luftwaffe) bombed a small town of Guernica in Spain killing hundreds of innocent people. Pablo Picasso who was one of the most influential artists of the twentieth century plagued by this horrific action expressed his disgust on a canvas which later became a masterpiece known as Guernica.
The mural Guernica represents suffering people, animals, and buildings wrenched by Nazi bombing and later earned the title Tortured Guernica.
According to an eye witnesss account which appeared in The New York Times on April 28, 1937 describes the heartbreaking events that occurred at the small Spanish town. The report follows thus.
At 2 a.m. to-day when I visited the town the whole of it was a horrible sight, flaming from end to end.
The reflection of the flames could be seen in the clouds of smoke above the mountains from 10 miles away.
Throughout the night houses were falling until the streets became long heaps of red impenetrable debris. Many of the civilian survivors took the long trek from Guernica to Bilbao in antique solid-wheeled Basque farm carts drawn by oxen. Carts piled high with such household possessions as could be saved from the conflagration clogged the roads all night.
Other survivors were evacuated in Government lorries, but many were forced to remain round the burning town lying on mattresses or looking for lost relatives and children, while units of the fire brigades and the Basque motorized police under the personal direction of the Minister of the Interior, Seor Monzon, and his wife continued rescue work till dawn.
The indiscriminate killing of a large numbers of the Guernica civilians by the Luftwaffe Junkers aroused Pablo Picasso's artistic conscious. Small Spanish town of Guernica was not a militarily significant target. But in front of an immense military power a sense of justice and value of human lives became trivial.
Picasso who was a genius of shape molded his artistic ability to send a message to the evil dowers as well as to the future generations who would learn by Guernica tragedy. Pablo Picasso's monumental painting The Tortured Guernica portrays an eternal anti war symbol.
Although Picasso was a well-known artist but least understood so as his mural Guernica which carries artistic expressions of an enigmatic gesture.
It is a black and grey picture without text which silently spoke thousand words. The picture contains images of a light bulb, a bull's head, a dying horse, a woman with outstretched arms, burning buildings, a warrior with a broken sword and an anguished mother with a dead child. Each image has a deep meaning and symbolizes the death, evil power, human despair and anguish.
The content of Guernica was widely discussed by the Artistic community as well as Psychologists. Although the precise significance of the imagery in Guernica remains ambiguous Guernica challenges the 20th century notions of warfare and portrays it as a brutal act of violence and urge for self-destruction.
Picasso seized the instinctive id impulses which comprise the unorganized part of the human personality structure that contains the basic drives.
As the psychoanalytic notion the Id is the dark, inaccessible part of human personality or the savage part which becomes active in events like war. Sigmund Freud believed that the id represents biological instinctual impulses in men such as aggression (Thanotes or the Death instinct) and sexuality.
Thanotes or the Death instinct is the foremost subject of the mural Guernica. Picassos Guernica painting narrates the rhythm of death and human suffering. It reflects the unexpected change from life to death.
The image of bulb on the top represents the bombs fell from the German Junkers which brought the message of death.
The symbolic painting of the horrors: the fallen hero and anguish mother with her dead son, agonized horse, and the dead with widely opened eyes recount an outsized story.
It is a form of indictment of man's inhumanity to man.
The Tortured Guernica is a testament to Picasso's genius. The Guernica's concealed images of death are a prophetic vision of the modern warfare.
The painting is an artistic metaphor for the human anguish under a deadly unleashed force the mankind ever saw.
==============================
## Title: [PARLIAMENT - (23-09-2015)]
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
[PARLIAMENT - (23-09-2015)]
Seven Bills presented to Parliament
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake yesterday in Parliament presented seven Bills to provide for the interim budget proposals made last January.
Parliament will take up the debate on the seven Bills at a future date.
The Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill, Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill, Economic Service Charge (Amendment) Bill, Telecommunication Levy (Amendment) Bill, Betting and Gaming Levy (Amendment) Bill and a Finance Bill were presented by Minister Karunanayake.
The Finance Bill provides for the imposition of Bars and Taverns Levy, Casino Industry Levy, Super Gain Tax, Mobile Telephone Operator Levy, Direct to Home Satellite Services Levy, Satellite Location Levy, Dedicated Sports Channel Levy, Mansion Tax, Migrating Tax, Motor Vehicle Importers Licence Fee.
UPFA MP Bandula Gunawardena requested the Speaker to facilitate a fair time to debate the Bills stating that they refer to many new taxes and levies.
These are related to the interim budget proposals, but the government failed to pass them during the 100 day interim period of the government. They should not be passed hurriedly. We need a fair time to debate the content of each Bill, he said.
UPFA MP Dinesh Gunawardena said the Bills presented cannot be moved for debate till seven days are spent with regard to the Parliamentary tradition.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said the Bills will not be taken up for debate this week.
Temple Trees provided jobs during previous regime - Handunnetti
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
DNA MP Sunil Handunnetti told Parliament yesterday that Temple Trees was an institution that provided political appointments during the previous regime. The ministers of then government did not have powers to appoint persons to the statutory bodies that came under them. They had to get approval in writing from Temple Trees, he said.
MP Handunetti said so while participating in a debate at the time of adjournment of the House.
The government should follow a systematic mechanism in recruiting people to the public sector.
Even former Ports Ministers Rohitha Abeygunawardene wrote letters to MP Namal Rajapaksa to get permission to recruite people to the Ports Authority.
That is why the people defeated the previous regime on January 8.
The present government is also doing the same thing. It has not learnt a lesson from the past.
The government recruited 275 persons to the NSB Bank as clerks through telephone calls without following proper recruitment procedures during its 100 day programme. If the government continues this policy, people would give them the result they deserve soon.
Public Administration Deputy Minister Susantha Punchinilame said that plans are drawn to set up a mechanism which will allow only those with merit and qualification to get public sector jobs.
TNA MP Mavai Senadhiraja said the unemployment rate in the North and East is high. The government should take action to provide solutions to the problem, he said.
No political transfers in public sector after January 8 - Maddumabandara
Sandasen Marasinghe, Irangika Range and Disna Mudalige
There have been no political transfers or political revenge in the public sector after January 8, Public Administration and Management Minister Ranjith Maddumabandara said in Parliament yesterday.
He was replying to an adjournment motion moved by JVP MP Sunil Handunnetti urging the government to follow the stipulated procedure in recruiting persons to public sector jobs.
He said the procedure followed in recruiting persons to the vacancies at public departments will be extended to recruitment to the Boards, Corporations and Authorities.
He said all recruitments to departments except for labourers and drivers are made only through an examination.
Four Pakistanis held with sandalwood
Nushka Nafeel
Four Pakistanis who attempted to smuggle 100 kgs of sandalwood logs and 300g of sandalwood powder worth Rs. 500,000 were arrested by the customs officers at the Bandaranaike International Airport yesterday.
Two males and two females aged 34, 48, 48 and 49 attempted to smuggle the sandalwood to Lahore, Customs Spokesman and Director (Legal) Leslie Gamini said. Investigations are continuing.
==============================
## Title: Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC
Parliament yesterday gave its approval for the appointments of Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne, Shibly Aziz, PC and Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy as Civil Society representatives for the Constitutional Council (CC).
Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella moved the motion on behalf of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe seeking the approval of the House. The House agreed unanimously.
Meanwhile, MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardene raising a Point of Order demanded to know as to how two Cabinet Ministers have been appointed in the 10 member Constitutional Council.
He further said that when the 19th Amendment was brought before Parliament for its passing, it was promised that the council would not include the members of the Cabinet to maintain its independence from the Executive. Now with appointment of two members of the Cabinet, that policy has been changed, the Government should explain as to how it changed from its previous position.
Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella: There is no such thing in the Act. What matters here is the provisions of the Act.
MP Dinesh Gunawardene: The Prime Minister promised to that effect.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya: This matter could be discussed later. Today, the names of civil members are being proposed for the approval not the other members.
Meanwhile, the CC met in the Parliament Complex yesterday with President Maithripala Sirisena presiding.
********
Shibly Aziz, PC
A well-known and eminent President's Counsel in Sri Lanka who has contributed extensively to the development of the legal system in the country from 1968. He was appointed President's Counsel in 1988, the highest honour afforded to a lawyer in the Sri Lankan legal system, in recognition for his professional contributions and exemplary conduct as a lawyer. He served in the Attorney-General's department for 27 years and was promoted to Solicitor General in 1992, and finally, served as Attorney-General from 1995 to 1996.
Shibly Aziz represented Sri Lanka in a number of international fora. He was voted into office as the President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka in 2010 and served his maximum tenure in office until 2012. During his tenure in office, Shibly Aziz was recognised as one of the most apolitical presidents the Association has had.
Representing the interests of almost 15,000 lawyers in the country as President of the Bar Association,Shibly Aziz was keen to develop the image of the Sri Lankan legal system domestically and internationally as a credible, efficient, and transparent system.
*******---------
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne is the founder and president of the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement in Sri Lanka
Ariyaratne is a devout Buddhist and continues to be active in Sri Lankan politics and community development. He is a strong believer in Gandhian principles of non-violence, rural development and self-sacrifice, has shaped the Sarvodaya Movement in ways that forged a significant link between secular principles of development and Buddhist ideals of selflessness and compassion.
He received the Ramon Magsaysay award for Community Leadership in 1969, the Gandhi Peace Prize from the government of India in 1996, the Niwano Peace Prize in 1992, the King Beaudoin Award and other international honors for his work in peace making and village development. In 2006, he received the Acharya Sushil Kumar International Peace Award for the year 2005. Other recipients of this award include John Polanyi and then in 2004, his Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama. In 2007 Ariyaratne received the SriLankabhimanaya the highest National Honor of Sri Lanka.
*******---------
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer by training and formerly the Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human RIghts Commission, is an internationally known human rights advocate who has worked as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women (1994-2003). She was appointed Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human Rights Commission in May 2003.
She was the Under- Secretary- General Of the United Nations, Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict until 13 July 2012. Secretary- General Kofi Annan appointed her to the position in April 2006.
In 2014, Ms. Coomaraswamy was appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon as lead author on Global Study on the implementation of UNSC resolution 1325, on women, peace and security. The Global Study will be presented to the Secretary-General and to the public in October, 2015.
A strong advocate on women's rights, she has intervened on behalf of women throughout the world seeking clarification from governments in cases involving violence against women.
==============================
## Title: Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC
Parliament yesterday gave its approval for the appointments of Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne, Shibly Aziz, PC and Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy as Civil Society representatives for the Constitutional Council (CC).
Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella moved the motion on behalf of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe seeking the approval of the House. The House agreed unanimously.
Meanwhile, MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardene raising a Point of Order demanded to know as to how two Cabinet Ministers have been appointed in the 10 member Constitutional Council.
He further said that when the 19th Amendment was brought before Parliament for its passing, it was promised that the council would not include the members of the Cabinet to maintain its independence from the Executive. Now with appointment of two members of the Cabinet, that policy has been changed, the Government should explain as to how it changed from its previous position.
Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella: There is no such thing in the Act. What matters here is the provisions of the Act.
MP Dinesh Gunawardene: The Prime Minister promised to that effect.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya: This matter could be discussed later. Today, the names of civil members are being proposed for the approval not the other members.
Meanwhile, the CC met in the Parliament Complex yesterday with President Maithripala Sirisena presiding.
Shibly Aziz, PC
A well-known and eminent President's Counsel in Sri Lanka who has contributed extensively to the development of the legal system in the country from 1968. He was appointed President's Counsel in 1988, the highest honour afforded to a lawyer in the Sri Lankan legal system, in recognition for his professional contributions and exemplary conduct as a lawyer. He served in the Attorney-General's department for 27 years and was promoted to Solicitor General in 1992, and finally, served as Attorney-General from 1995 to 1996.
Shibly Aziz represented Sri Lanka in a number of international fora. He was voted into office as the President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka in 2010 and served his maximum tenure in office until 2012. During his tenure in office, Shibly Aziz was recognised as one of the most apolitical presidents the Association has had.
Representing the interests of almost 15,000 lawyers in the country as President of the Bar Association,Shibly Aziz was keen to develop the image of the Sri Lankan legal system domestically and internationally as a credible, efficient, and transparent system.
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne is the founder and president of the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement in Sri Lanka
Ariyaratne is a devout Buddhist and continues to be active in Sri Lankan politics and community development. He is a strong believer in Gandhian principles of non-violence, rural development and self-sacrifice, has shaped the Sarvodaya Movement in ways that forged a significant link between secular principles of development and Buddhist ideals of selflessness and compassion.
He received the Ramon Magsaysay award for Community Leadership in 1969, the Gandhi Peace Prize from the government of India in 1996, the Niwano Peace Prize in 1992, the King Beaudoin Award and other international honors for his work in peace making and village development. In 2006, he received the Acharya Sushil Kumar International Peace Award for the year 2005. Other recipients of this award include John Polanyi and then in 2004, his Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama. In 2007 Ariyaratne received the SriLankabhimanaya the highest National Honor of Sri Lanka.
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer by training and formerly the Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human RIghts Commission, is an internationally known human rights advocate who has worked as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women (1994-2003). She was appointed Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human Rights Commission in May 2003.
She was the Under- Secretary- General Of the United Nations, Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict until 13 July 2012. Secretary- General Kofi Annan appointed her to the position in April 2006.
In 2014, Ms. Coomaraswamy was appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon as lead author on Global Study on the implementation of UNSC resolution 1325, on women, peace and security. The Global Study will be presented to the Secretary-General and to the public in October, 2015.
A strong advocate on women's rights, she has intervened on behalf of women throughout the world seeking clarification from governments in cases involving violence against women.
==============================
## Title: Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Parliament approves Civil Society representatives for CC

Parliament yesterday gave its approval for the appointments of Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne, Shibly Aziz, PC and Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy as Civil Society representatives for the Constitutional Council (CC).
Leader of the House Minister Lakshman Kiriella moved the motion on behalf of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe seeking the approval of the House. The House agreed unanimously.
Meanwhile, MEP Leader Dinesh Gunawardene raising a Point of Order demanded to know as to how two Cabinet Ministers have been appointed in the 10 member Constitutional Council.
He further said that when the 19th Amendment was brought before Parliament for its passing, it was promised that the council would not include the members of the Cabinet to maintain its independence from the Executive. Now with appointment of two members of the Cabinet, that policy has been changed, the Government should explain as to how it changed from its previous position.
Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella: There is no such thing in the Act. What matters here is the provisions of the Act.
MP Dinesh Gunawardene: The Prime Minister promised to that effect.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya: This matter could be discussed later. Today, the names of civil members are being proposed for the approval not the other members.
Meanwhile, the CC met in the Parliament Complex yesterday with President Maithripala Sirisena presiding.
********
Shibly Aziz, PC
A well-known and eminent President's Counsel in Sri Lanka who has contributed extensively to the development of the legal system in the country from 1968. He was appointed President's Counsel in 1988, the highest honour afforded to a lawyer in the Sri Lankan legal system, in recognition for his professional contributions and exemplary conduct as a lawyer. He served in the Attorney-General's department for 27 years and was promoted to Solicitor General in 1992, and finally, served as Attorney-General from 1995 to 1996.
Shibly Aziz represented Sri Lanka in a number of international fora. He was voted into office as the President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka in 2010 and served his maximum tenure in office until 2012. During his tenure in office, Shibly Aziz was recognised as one of the most apolitical presidents the Association has had.
Representing the interests of almost 15,000 lawyers in the country as President of the Bar Association,Shibly Aziz was keen to develop the image of the Sri Lankan legal system domestically and internationally as a credible, efficient, and transparent system.
*******---------
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne
Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne is the founder and president of the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement in Sri Lanka
Ariyaratne is a devout Buddhist and continues to be active in Sri Lankan politics and community development. He is a strong believer in Gandhian principles of non-violence, rural development and self-sacrifice, has shaped the Sarvodaya Movement in ways that forged a significant link between secular principles of development and Buddhist ideals of selflessness and compassion.
He received the Ramon Magsaysay award for Community Leadership in 1969, the Gandhi Peace Prize from the government of India in 1996, the Niwano Peace Prize in 1992, the King Beaudoin Award and other international honors for his work in peace making and village development. In 2006, he received the Acharya Sushil Kumar International Peace Award for the year 2005. Other recipients of this award include John Polanyi and then in 2004, his Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama. In 2007 Ariyaratne received the SriLankabhimanaya the highest National Honor of Sri Lanka.
*******---------
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy
Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer by training and formerly the Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human RIghts Commission, is an internationally known human rights advocate who has worked as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women (1994-2003). She was appointed Chairperson of the Sri Lanka Human Rights Commission in May 2003.
She was the Under- Secretary- General Of the United Nations, Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict until 13 July 2012. Secretary- General Kofi Annan appointed her to the position in April 2006.
In 2014, Ms. Coomaraswamy was appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon as lead author on Global Study on the implementation of UNSC resolution 1325, on women, peace and security. The Global Study will be presented to the Secretary-General and to the public in October, 2015.
A strong advocate on women's rights, she has intervened on behalf of women throughout the world seeking clarification from governments in cases involving violence against women.
==============================
## Title: Praneeth excels in Asian Surfing
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Praneeth excels in Asian Surfing
The Sri Lankan surfer Praneeth Sadaruwan made it up to top 8 but was unable to beat the professional Indonesian surfers in the quarter final at the Asian Sufing Championship in India. "The Indonesians were all excellent, sponsored surfers" he says. The Indonesians took over the semi finals and final, where Billabong athlete Raditya Rondi ended up winning the championship, and 10 000$ along with other gifts.
This is not the first time Praneeth Sadaruwan is showing great talent in surfing. In 2013 he won the Red Bull local hero tour in Sri Lanka and last year he ended up third in the Red Bull Both Ways event in Maldives. Still, competing internationally is relatively new for him, as it is for all Sri Lankan surfers.
Praneeth says competing in the event was a great experience and he is hoping to participate the ASC or other international competitions in the future as well.
==============================
## Title: Prestige regained
## Supertitle: Sri Lanka back on world stage
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Sri Lanka back on world stage
Prestige regained
Sri Lanka is a land of much natural beauty and after 2009, the state had an unprecedented opportunity to build on the skills of her people to build a internationally respected and prosperous nation. The state had the opportunity to ensure law and order, good governance, and durable peace and stability. Instead, under the former regime, religious violence, militarization, discrimination, media oppression, and hate speech continued. Sufficient justice and restitution was not afforded for victims of violence and violations; peace of mind was not afforded for the families of the disappeared.
When the Sri Lankan state could have accelerated reconciliation efforts and built on the goodwill of the international community, evident after the defeat of the LTTE, to foster better relations with the world and harvest all the upshots of such relations - she did not. Instead countries like the US, the UK, Canada, Germany and India, once our close allies in the fight against terrorism, became more distant and sometimes antagonistic in their relations with the Rajapaksa government. Under the directions of the former leadership, Sri Lanka entered into a historically anomalous period of international isolationism.
Suffering in Sri Lanka continued, as violations remained unchecked, and the heavy hand of oppression and authoritarianism tightened its hold. When Sri Lanka's own citizens could tolerate no more, they took large risks to vote, in conditions of great uncertainty, for a change in regime on January 8th. All communities in Sri Lanka, including a large percentage of the Sinhalese population, voted for a change in regime, despite the perceived respite afforded them due to the end of the civil war. This desire for change was expressed once more on August 17th.
Many of the former regime claim that there is a deep-seeded antagonism between the international community and Sri Lankans - and with a long history of colonization, this may be partially true. However, others have noticed that exaggerating the unpleasant aspects of Sri Lanka's relationship with the world has been politically expedient to select individuals. There will always be those who fear the scrutiny of the world, fair trials and independent investigations (whether domestic or international) - these are not the true nationalists or patriots, but those who want to remain above Sri Lanka's own laws.
Boost country's post-war image
Unity in diversity
Hiding behind the idea of 'sovereignty' and the perception that the world was 'against' Sri Lanka, was common even in response to the Darusman report. However the leaders at that time, must have been deeply aware of the contradictions: For example, Sri Lanka has trade relations with, and welcomed tourists, investments and aid from many of the countries who it had identified as conspiring against the state. Some of these countries even took the lead to proscribe the LTTE abroad and provide intelligence that was critical to the eventual defeat of that ruthless organization.
Sometimes the underlying contradictions are so blatantly obvious they are simply ridiculous: one report pointed out that the previous Sri Lankan administration paid a British PR firm about three million Sterling Pounds (Rs. 545,880,000) a year to try to boost the country's post-war image - yet Ministers of the previous administration considered the UK a leading conspirator against Sri Lanka.
The saying that 'only the guilty fear the law' is important at this juncture in Sri Lanka's history. As is identifying the individuals that are now actively bargaining, pulling strings/making deals, and even attempting to influence public opinion, in order to ensure that themselves or their friends and family are not investigated or brought before a court. What are they afraid of
In that context Udaya Gammanpilla's introduction of an indemnity bill for soldiers, can be seen as insulting to these same soldiers, since it assumes that the soldiers are guilty of war crimes - and need special protection. Why shouldn't our honest soldiers be given a chance to clear their names Why should we assume that they are guilty If there are some miscreants within any community of our society - those responsible for killing women and children in cold blood - then, if proven guilty, why shouldn't they face the consequences To allow them to continue to soil the name of all our soldiers would be dishonest by the victims, but also by the honest and hardworking soldiers, who fought to defeat the LTTE. These soldiers may have ambitions to use their skills and expertise, that they have won at great risk to themselves, to contribute to world peace - why should undue ill-repute prevent them from this honour
Government commitments to accountability are nothing new, and the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime even expressed them publicly. For example, a joint statement between the Government and the UN in May 2009 stressed the need for addressing the grievances and aspirations of all communities, the need to find a lasting political solution, and the importance of accountability. The May 2009 UNHRC Resolution (S-11/1), proposed by Sri Lanka herself, endorsed this Joint Statement and also emphasized the need for continuing commitment to upholding human rights obligations and norms of human rights law.
LLRC recommendations
In 2010, the Commission on Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation was appointed by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa to look back at the conflict and plan ahead for an era of healing and peace building. It advocated non-recurrence, recommending that allegations should be investigated and wrongdoers prosecuted and punished irrespective of their political links, that the issue of missing persons should be addressed, and that devolution, land release and resettlement should also be pursued. The UNHRC resolution (19/2) of March 2012 acknowledged the LLRC recommendations as constructive, calling on the Sri Lankan Government to fulfil the relevant legal obligations and commitments made willingly by the Sri Lankan state.
In fact, acknowledgement of the climate of conflict in Sri Lanka and the articulation of a commitment to address the underlying causes of conflict has been a consistent feature of successive post-war administrations. The international criticism heaped on Sri Lanka, was a result of the failure of previous administrations to live up to their commitments in multi-lateral and bilateral fora. Instead of fulfilling her commitments in previous years, Sri Lanka's cycles of violence continued over the last decade.
Failure to ensure justice for crimes in Sri Lanka, gave some the impression that they were above and beyond the law - contributing to today's culture of impunity. This culture of impunity is indiscriminate, accentuated by politicized and failing judicial and law enforcement systems, and it affects all communities in Sri Lanka. Ensuring that those who commit crimes are held accountable is crucial to deter crimes in the future, to prevent impunity and to stand by Sri Lanka's own post-war commitments to the world.
Systematic and structural reform has been a large aspect of how Sri Lanka has dealt with past incidents of violence; the JVP insurrections in the 70's inspired a comprehensive package of state led reforms that radically restructured economic relations. Land reforms, ceilings on income and house ownership, education reforms and poverty alleviation schemes were all part of the drive to prevent recurrence of class-based violence. Introducing structural changes to Sri Lanka that fill the lacunas in our much deteriorated judicial and law enforcement systems and prevent ethnic violence from reoccurring would therefore be in line with our own domestic best practices.
Now Sri Lanka has the opportunity to make a change - to try suspects in a court of law not because of their ethnicity, gender, religion, caste or creed, but because there is evidence that they may have illegally harmed another individual in this country. Sri Lanka has included prosecution as an inherent dimension of justice since the pre-colonial era, and its current legal system unambiguously contemplates the punishment of offenders. It has in the past rejected the idea of impunity for violence by prosecuting offences committed by persons holding public office, including politicians, public servants and members of the armed forces. In that context, previous government narratives of tolerance, kindness and forgiveness, of restorative justice to the exclusion of accountability before the law - are simply inconsistent with past practice in Sri Lanka, and a faade that would ultimately enable impunity. Sri Lankans must ask if they want to live in a society where some are above the law
Sri Lankan identity
To continue to afford victims and suspects a fair trial, would only be consistent with the law of the country - where acts such as rape, torture, enforced disappearances, child conscription, and wrongful killings of individuals who surrender are recognized as crimes in our domestic law. Having a 'Sri Lankan identity' is largely about sharing the same experiences, walking freely on same land and being bound by the same laws.
The OISL report based on the OHCHR investigation in Sri Lanka suggests that there are serious errors in our protection mechanisms - due in part to acts such as the impeachment of the Chief Justice in 2013. The very fact that an international investigation was necessary to produce a credible account of what occurred in Sri Lanka is worrying - a testament to the failures of previous regimes to live up to its promises to conduct domestic investigations. It justifiably gives all Sri Lankans a reason to worry - how can we live and feel safe in a country where crimes such as torture are common
During the war such crimes may have been frequent in the North and East, but in the last decade every Sri Lankan has been a victim of increased crime and corruption. Trying suspects against whom there is reasonable evidence, is consistent with the spirit of our domestic law - where the law applies equally to all Sri Lankans, and all individuals are equal under that law, despite their political or social status. This is a fundamental of belonging to the same country, and while fulfilling expectations for legal continuity among Sri Lankan citizens, it would also promote a shared identity among all Sri Lankans.
==============================
## Title: Pseudo intellectuals and literary giants
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Pseudo intellectuals and literary giants
It seems that some narrow-minded so called intellectuals of the country have hired some newspapers, both Sinhala and English, and also some electronic media these days to push Sri Lanka into an abysmal despair due to known and unknown reason to most of the readers and political enthusiasts.
When we trace back of the history they have written in the annals of parliamentary and other constitutional affair the reader is driven home that what they have done throughout is to become traitors to their own motherland and earning a quick buck of a few dollars from international conspirators.
In my view, yet they have not rendered a yeoman service to our country towards the cause of the emancipation of the downtrodden masses. The irony is that they are the very products of the honest sweat that has wetted this soil from time immemorial. As the intellectuals at the global level their bounden duty is to exploit their intellectual capacities for the betterment of the country. It is quite evident to me that they have been offered doctorates on politics, conflict studies, international relations a many other disciplines by foreign universities in order to made them cats paws in the developing countries when and where their spy service is required. In some countries this category of writers are expelled for the good of the forward march of the nation.
The million dollar problem is that this tribe of Dick Juckey like intellectuals go into liberation at times and come out from their hiding and slumber when they are commanded by their high hands to take the pen to ruin the posterity for easy rule of their governments. One such intellectual was fully stripped off in public by angry crowds when he visited the general hospital when the late Lalith Athulathmudali was struggling for life is inconsistent. They change very easily.
The crux of the matter with regard to the current political scenario in Sri Lanka is that once I was in the audience given by him and I was utterly disgusted and angry over his nefarious effort to rekindle the flame of ultra-nationalistic urge on the eve of the forthcoming general election. I wonder from what universities and for what purposes these pseudo intellectuals have been given doctorates. This could be the international conspiracy that firebrand vociferous and ebullient politicos are lecturing about at their hustings.
Otherwise I fail to realize whether there is any other conspiracy against this country which is very insignificant on the map of the world. The Western countries that they raise their finger at have their own fish to fry. On the other hand what I am not able to understand is that after each and every election defeat the disgruntled politicians leave for America, UK or New Zealand or Norway as they visit their second homeland. Most of the politicians that these political analysts praise and promote send their children for higher education to those countries. Even they get medicine and undergo surgeries in those countries could anyone enlighten me on this matter for my own knowledge. The pseudo intellectual observes and commentators are very vigilant and would like to see these traitor political analysts go into the political dustbin for their nemesis done to the nation. The tramp of ultra-nationalism is invalid at this election, because the voters political maturity is at dizzy heights. In Sri Lanka the voter is not illiterate. He reads and writes well.
So called literary giants of the bygone era appear as specters on the hustings here and there in the island to open their decayed teeth to the voter whose dental health is very sound now. In addition to their literary. Writing they get mixed with politics and get their names tarnished in the face of the public. William Shakespeare, Hector Hugh Munro, Joh Keats, Earnest Hemmingway. T S Eliot and most of the globally acclaimed writers poets and playwrights did not enter the political arena. Yet, they did their duty by people taking their favourite genres as a vehicle. For instance, Fedrico Garcia Lorca put Catholicism and capitalism under his hummer very artistically in his plays at a superb level.
The veteran playwright Gunasena Gallappathy deserves my encomium for giving , the opportunity to view Garcias Yerma in Muhuduputtu, Garcia vehemently criticized how capitalism exploited the proletariat in Spain in a very dramatic manner. His service as a literary figure to his nation goes down in the tapestry of Spanish literature in particular and world literature in general. The House of Bernanda Alba and his Blood wedding should essentially be taken to the small screen to promote the spirit of the proletariat in order to form the necessary mindset of the people for future Sri Lanka. In so far as these political analysts and literary giants attack the nation with blunt weapons.
When the worker reads history they will have to hide somewhere to protect their genitals and the redness of these monkeys jump high on trees.
The phonographic fictions created by these half-baked now septuagenarian literary giants are not their own literary acumen, but the authentic carbon copies of the west.
When we make a profound study into the vast literature created by Mark Twain, Hemmingway, T S Eliot, Jane Auston, Dikens and other writers we realize that our writers have distorted their elements and have made a futile attempt to put them in new bottles in Sri Lanka. Time he is opportune to divulge all these duplicities to the rising generation of Sri Lanka and it could be a praiseworthy crusade by the nation.
To clinch over this piece of writing I would like to remind our pseudo-intellectuals and literary giants to think twice on the line of Mandela written in his Long Walk to Freedom.
In South Africa it is hard for a man to ignore the needs of the people
In Sri Lankan context it is high time for you to turn swords into ploughshares.
The intellectuals of the nation have to take their pens.
Not to praise Brutal, but to kill him.
Forewarned is forearmed.
==============================
## Title: Psychological Reflections of Vincent Van Goghs Art
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Psychological Reflections of Vincent Van Goghs Art
I know for sure that I have an instinct for colour, and that it will come to me more and more, that painting is in the very marrow of my bones.
-Vincent Van Gogh
Vincent William van Gough a famous Dutch artist whose work often associated with Post-Impressionism and later transformed in to Expressionism. Vincent Van Gogh was one of the most important predecessors of modern painting.He created a great number of masterpiece paintings and drawings in just one decade devoted to art.
Vincent van Gogh was born on March 30, 1853 in Netherlands. Since his childhood Van Gogh had an immense passion for art. Van Gogh was an outstanding mostly self taught artist whose famous works include: Starry Night, Cafe Terrace at Night, Terrasse, Houses at Auvers, Restaurant De La Sirene At Asnieres, Sunflowers, Irises, and several self-portraits, amongst others. Most of his best-known work was created in the last two years of his life.
Van Gogh used color for its symbolic and expressive values rather than to reproduce light and literal surroundings. Van Goghs emotional state highly affected his artistic work and it deeply analyses his unconscious mind.
Several psychodynamic factors may have contributed to his art work. The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud viewed art as a privileged form of neurosis where the analyst-critic explores the artwork in order to understand and unearth the vicissitudes of the creator's psychological motivations. In this context van Goughs art represent a deep psychological sketch.He left a profound, soul-searching description of his jagged life in his art work.
Though Van Gogh had little financial success as an artist during his lifetime and often lived in poverty, his fame grew dramatically after his death. Today van Goughs name is considered to be one of the worlds most renowned, respected, and influential artists. But he could not live long enough to see his fame. His life was filled with misery and desolation and this suffering was painted in an artistic way.
The tragic life ofVincentvanGoghcould be summarized emphasizing his early departure from formal education, failure as a successful salesman in the art world, attempt at religious studies, difficulty with female and family relationships, return to the art world, and tendencies toward extremes of poor nutrition or near self-starvation and excessive drinking and smoking.His oil painting the Potato Eaters clandestinely depicts poverty and destitute experienced by the artist.
Van Gogh suffered from complex psychiatric ailments. Apart from the illness excessive use of tobacco and alcohol made a negative impact on his mental health. The mental illness that plagued him affected his art work. Van Gough painted his anguish and despair on canvas. His brushwork became increasingly agitated.
The striking colors, crude brush strokes, and distorted shapes and contours, express his disturbed mind. He suffered two distinct episodes of reactive depression, and there are clearly bipolar aspects to his history. Both episodes of depression were followed by sustained periods of increasingly high energy and enthusiasm.
Van Gogh's inimitable art was defined by its powerful, dramatic and emotional style. The artists concern for human suffering is in somber, melancholy study of art. Maybe he tried to explain the struggle between the man and the human nature, the reality and his unconscious mental conflicts. Van Gogh once said: We spend our whole lives in unconscious exercise of the art of expressing our thoughts with the help of words.
His life was full of mental conflicts. He fought with his inner mind. This dual nature was observable. He had attacks of melancholy and of atrocious remorse. His colors lost the intensity His lines became restless.
He applied the paint more violently with thicker layers. Van Gogh was drawn to objects in nature under stress: whirling suns, twisted cypress trees, and surging mountains. Although van Goghs illness emerged more violently he produced brilliant works as The Reaper, Cypresses, The Red Vineyard, and his famed Starry Night.
In Starry Night (1889) the whole world seems engulfed by circular movements. The Starry Night is undoubtedly van Goghs most mysterious picture. The Starry Night which resides as his most popular work and one of the most influence pieces in history. The swirling lines of the sky are a possible representation of his mental state. The Starry Night embodies an inner, subjective expression of van Gogh's response to nature. Vincent van Gogh once said Looking at the stars always makes me dream. We take death to reach a star.
From the beginning of Van Gogh's artistic career he had the ambition to draw and paint figures. For Vincent van Gogh color was the chief symbol of expression. Contemporary artists admired van Goghs passionate approach to art. But he viewed his life as horribly wasted, personally failed and impossible. On the contrary he was able to produce deeply moving images while living a life of ultimate desperation in an increasing state of mental imbalance.
He was friendly with the French Post-Impressionist artist Paul Gauguin and two friends inspired each other. However they frequently quarreled. Van Gogh had an eccentric personality and unstable moods.
His reactive depression episodes were followed by a prolonged period of hypomanic or even manic behavior.
The life and artistic legacy ofVincentvanGoghhas generated great interest among physicians from different areas of specialization in proposing a retrospective differential diagnosis.Vincent Van Goughsuffered from medical crises that were devastating, but in the intervening periods he was both lucid and creative.VincentvanGogh's illness has been the object of much speculation. Explanations as disparate as acute intermittent porphyria, epilepsy and schizophrenia have been proposed.
Some experts suspect physical and psychiatric symptoms ofVincentvanGoghmay have been due to chronic lead poisoning.According to Arnold (2004) an inherited metabolic disease, acute intermittent porphyria, accounts for all of the signs and symptoms ofvanGogh's underlying illness.
Porphyria is a rare hereditary disease in which the blood pigment hemoglobin is abnormally metabolized. Porphyrins are excreted in the urine, which becomes dark; other symptoms include mental disturbances and extreme sensitivity of the skin to light.
VanGoghprobably suffered from partial complex seizures (temporal lobe epilepsy) with manic depressive mood swings aggravated by absinthe, brandy, nicotine and turpentine.In addition he was troubled by intense death wish.
Suicidal gestures by Vincent depicted in his last paintings. He painted vast fields of wheat under dark and stormy skies, commenting, It is not difficult to express here my entire sadness and extreme loneliness. In one of his last paintings, Wheat Field With Crows, the black birds fly in a starless sky, and three paths lead nowhere. It could be interpreted as the emptiness that existed in his heart.
Mehlum (1996) believes that an early childhood trauma initiated a life-long suicidal process in VanGogh. His difficulties as regards attachment to and separation from his parents continued throughout his life and his emotional instability, intensity and lowered tolerance to frustration seem to portray a borderline personality.
Van Gogh's self-portraits play significant clinical importance. Vincent van Gogh was born one year to the day after a stillborn brother of the identical name, including the middle name, Willem. In the parish register van Gogh was given the same number twenty-nine as his predecessor brother. Van Gogh's fantasies of death and rebirth, of being a double and a twin, contributed to both his psychopathology and his creativity. Van Gogh's self-portraits are regarded as relevant to his being a replacement child (Blum, 2009).
Meissner (1993) hypothesized that the self-portraits ofVincentvanGoghare seen as repeated and unresolved efforts at self-exploration and self-definition in an attempt to add a sense of continuity and cohesion to a fragile and fragmented self-experience. The portraits are painted in mirror perspective;Vincent's search for identity is thus seen as mediated by the dynamics of the mirroring phenomenon.
Auto-mutilation became a part of his medical history. In 1888 Vincents mental health was very unstable. As a result of psychotic crises, Vincent van Gogh was hospitalized several times. His state of mind was very weak and during a breakdown, he mutilated his ear. Van Gogh cut off the lower half of his left ear and gave it to a prostitute. After a few weeks he was able to paint self-portrait with bandaged ear and pipe (Portrait of a one-eyed man) which shows him in serene composure.
During the last few years of his life, his paintings were characterized by halos and the color yellow. Critics have ascribed these aberrations to innumerable causes, including chronic solar injury, glaucoma, and cataracts (Lee, 1981).
Vincent van Gogh's chronic suicidal ideation and behaviour led to a series of crises throughout his life, escalating during the last 18 months before his suicide in 1890. It is possible to identify at least three prominent suicidal motives in van Gogh's case. The first is unbearable emotional pain related to personal experience of loss which reactivated the childhood trauma. The second is introverted murderous rage arising from conflicts with other persons. The third motive described is the need for a cathartic release of energy and emotion (Mehlum, 1996).
Pezenhoffer and Gerevich (2015) found distal suicide risk factors in Vincent van Gogh. They highlighted: family anamnesis, childhood traumas (emotional deprivation, identity problems associated with the nameVincent), a vagrant, homeless way of life, and failures in relationships with women, and psychotic episodes appearing in rushes. In addition the proximal factors included the tragic friendship with Gauguin (frustrated love), his brother Theo's marriage (experienced as a loss), and a tendency to self-destruction and this trait aggression played an important role inVanGogh's suicide.
Vincent van Gogh committed suicide in 1890 at the age of 37. Despite the mental illness he suffered Vincent remained marvelously creative until his death. Although he lived a relatively short period he left behind an astonishing body of work which included several hundred paintings.
VanGogh's painting not only reflected his struggles but also enabled him, for a time, to stave off the hopelessness and despair that eventually overwhelmed him, culminating in his suicide. Despite his turbulent lifeVanGoghremains as one of Europe's greatest artists.
==============================
## Title: Reconciliation, to a larger extent should be a national task  German FM
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Local
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Reconciliation, to a larger extent should be a national task  German FM
Reconciliation, to a larger extent should be a national task. There will have to be international assistance, but to what extent, remains to be seen during deliberation at the United Nations Human Rights Council, visiting German Federal Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Frank-Walter Steinmeier yesterday said, responding to a question posed by a journalist with regard to Germanys position on the actions to be taken by the government of Sri Lanka in view of the UNHRC report on alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka.
He said, Germany has a chair at the UN Human Rights Council right now and that is why they exchanged its views about it with Sri Lanka at the present meetings. We understand that this is a very sensitive issue, he said and added,  Germany will provide its assistance to Sri Lanka. .
German Federal Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Steinmeier was addressing a joint press briefing with Foreign Affairs Minister Mangala Samaraweera at the Foreign Affairs Ministry in Colombo.
Samaraweera said on being asked the question, we have already given our ideas on how this problem of accountability and justice would be resolved in the country. The government of President Maithripala Sirisena came to power in January with a mandate given to him by the people, which included the setting up of a domestic credible mechanism with international technical assistance, he pointed out.
Based on that mandate, the Sri Lankan government started working out the contours of of such a mechanism in the past few months, and we did come up with a non paper on how this mechanism should operate, which I briefly outlined when I made my remarks in Geneva on Monday, he said.
Of course, the UN Human Rights High Commissioner too set out their ideas. We feel that there are are no major differences except one or two areas where we have to find the point of convergence in the type of judicial mechanism we envisaged, he stated.
We discussed with the ministers about our stand. We have told the UN and other international partners that we always welcome international assistance. The form and shape of such assistance is what needs to be finalized and this should be done after consultations which we hope to commence in mid October, the minister said.
==============================
## Title: Right of reply
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Political
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Right of reply
In a response to our lead story on Tuesday titled SLFP Rebels Accept Sampanthan UPFA MP Prasanna Ranatunge said he only described the reasons why his group was not opposing the appointment of R. Samapanthan as the opposition leader, in the current context.
Ranatunge said his comments did not mean that the group had decided to accept Sampanthan as the opposition leader.
According to Ranatunge the groups request was to appoint Kumara Welgama as the opposition leader. The SLFP MP in statement stated that as the Speaker had already appointed Sampanthan as the opposition leader, what he meant was that a tussle for the post would only convey a wrong message to the international community.
Corroborating other details in the story, Ranatunge stated that his group will closely monitor the conduct of the opposition leader and if Sampanthan fails to fulfill his duties, the group will make a decision on the matter.
Ranatunge stressed that Sampanthan should fulfill duties as the opposition leader in Parliament without just confining himself to the affairs of his own party.
==============================
## Title: Sharon Hall clinches HSBC Premier Challenge Trophy 2015
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Sports
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Sharon Hall clinches HSBC Premier Challenge Trophy 2015
The flagship HSBC Premier Golf Tournament proved to be a thrilling and resounding success with over 100 golfers competing for the HSBC Premier Challenge Trophy at the scenic Victoria Golf and Country Resort in Kandy on Saturday, 12 September 2015.
Sharon Hall became the overall winner to clinch the HSBC Premier Challenge Trophy 2015 and also the overall winner in the C Division, Seniors and Ladies category with a score of 42 points.
Ken De Alwis was adjudged overall winner in the A and B Division with a score of 39 points
The overall winners were each presented with fully sponsored hospitality packages to witness the WGC HSBC Champions Tournament scheduled to take place at the Sheshan Golf Club in Shanghai, China from November 2-8. Winning this year's tournament, Sharon Hall stated "It was a fantastic experience playing at the HSBC Premier Golf Tournament in Kandy. The hospitality laid on by HSBC was world class. I'm really looking forward to witnessing the golf tournament in Shanghai."
Ken De Alwis, overall winner in the A&B Division, commenting on his experience, said, "I would like to thank HSBC for organizing the Golf tournament and for the wonderful hospitality extended, during and after the event. I am exited to be able to witness the WGC HSBC Champions Tournament in China and thank HSBC Colombo for this opportunity."
A unique feature this year was the introduction of 'foot golf' to Sri Lanka that has become a growing phenomenon globally combining football and golf. The pre-event 'kick 4 birdie' challenged participants to test if their kick was as good as their swing with a football instead of a golf ball. Priyanga Hapugalle became the winner having proved his skill and accuracy by kicking an 8.6 diameter football as opposed to a 1.6 diameter golf ball to win the pre event. Nilantha Bastian, Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management commented, "We are extremely pleased to have completed another successful HSBC Premier Golf tournament at the Victoria Golf and Country Resort that has been awarded the best golf course on the sub- continent by the Asian golfer monthly reader's poll since 2009. This year was particularly exciting as we were able to introduce a fresh dimension through a hybrid sport - foot golf, that is picking up momentum across the world and give participants a fresh experience of golf, which was much enjoyed. The tournament was equally competitive and exciting and we hope our winners this year , Sharon and Ken will continue to enjoy their experience further when they witness the WGC HSBC Champions Tournament in China alongside world renowned golfers."
HSBC Premier Golfers were also treated to special benefits on lodging, travel and Golf merchandise to make the experience even more rewarding.
The tournament was concluded with an entertainment packed awards ceremony followed by a colourful fireworks display, held at the Club premises.
==============================
## Title: Some things are just sitting there, waiting to be discovered
## Supertitle: Confessions of a bookworm 7:
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
Confessions of a bookworm 7:
Some things are just sitting there, waiting to be discovered
*******
Name: The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas
Author: John Boyne
Published: 2006, Random House
Genre: Historical/Post Modern
*******
How it unfolds
It is the story of a nine year old boy growing up during the World War II in Berlin. Following a visit by Adolf Hitler, whom he calls the Fury (the childish interpretation of the Fhrer), his father is promoted to Commandant, and Bruno and the family moves to a place that he calls Out-with. He is initially sad about moving, and leaving all of his friends. And very much home sick.
Home alone, and with a lot of time to kill, Bruno explores a wire fence and a camp that he sees. The story begins with him meeting Shmuel, a Jewish boy, who shares his birthday. Being barely a child himself, Bruno fails to understand the gravity of the wire fence between them. The story is woven around their friendship, the boys grow closer and closer, and we warm up to them. The story, told through Brunos eyes is brilliantly written. The childish ignorance of children, and the innocence at the face of a much greater tragedy is captured well by the writer.
Though small in size, and written in the simplest language, this is a treasure of book, beautiful, sad, happy and simple at the same time, it steals the minds of the readers. Effortlessly written, the story takes you on an emotional journey due to its impactful and elegant storytelling of an unlikely friendship.
MEET BRUNO
He is the protagonist of the story, born on the 15th April he is nine years old at the time the story takes place. Being a son of a Nazi commandant he has no choice but to move to Out with as his fathers job requires them to. Out-with is discussed by the critics as the Auschwitz concentration camp. Away from Berlin and miserable, the little boy sets upon his own adventure. As he loiters around the Wire-Fence he was forbidden to be near of. There he encounters the boy who wears striped Pyjamas.
The name of the book is special, as the striped Pyjamas are a decisive factor of the story. I would not spoil the amazing twist of plot you are yet to be exposed to.
MEET SHMUEL
Born on the same day as Bruno, he is on the other side of the fence for a reason. He and his family were Jewish. He explains. Shmuel is Polish, the son of a teacher and a watch-mender, who lived in a watch shop with his brother and the sister. But one day they were taken away from home, by soldiers he says. Stripping them of all the valuable possessions, and the mother was separated from the family and only the men of the family were sent to the Auschwitz Concentration camp. The two make friends with each other, due to their common birthday, and ironically despite them identifying each other as friends, a barbed wire fence separated them from each other. Though they were just inches apart, there was an immense distance, of a cruel world in between them.
Words to Remember
And now let me tempt you into reading this wonderful book!
Just because a man glances up at the sky at night does not make him an astronomer, you know.
And who decided which people wore the striped pajamas and which people wore the uniforms
Some things are just sitting there, waiting to be discovered. Other things are probably better off left alone
I think this was a bad idea, he repeated. I think the best thing to do would be to forget all about this and just go back home. We can chalk it up to experience,
But there was something about the new house that made Bruno think that no one ever laughed there; that there was nothing to laugh at and nothing to be happy about.
Don't make it worse by thinking it's more painful than it actually is.
Bruno: Why do you wear pajamas all day
Shmuel: The soldiers. They took all our clothes away.
Bruno: My dad's a soldier, but not the sort that takes people's clothes away.
REASONS TO READ
The book is simple, and small and not too much of burden if you do not have much time to read. It is a wonderful read- trust me you wont put it down until the very last page. And you will have your own story to tell once you put it down.
This is the ideal book to gift your book worm friend, or if you really want to get someone to start reading, yes, this is the ideal book to gift. A book so small, doesnt even hint that it could carry a story so deep. Yet the way it is written, and the fairy tale like ease that the story is told will leave you craving for more.
Unlike, other stories of its kind, it doesnt carry too much information or depth at a glance as it is told through the eyes of a nine year old. But that is the beauty of the book, the way the child thinks of the world versus, the way the adults treated the world. It is indeed one amazing book, a must-have if you are a bookworm.
MONTH OF BOOKS
As it is that time of the year, where you take home tons of books. Well feel free to email me at [emailprotected] for book suggestions. I am more than happy to help you with your book choices. And if you have any suggestions on a book I should be reading, do feel free too!
Adios! Till the next confession!
==============================
## Title: From stardom fantasy to the ground reality
## Supertitle: 
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
From stardom fantasy to the ground reality
This is the season of books. The readers are given the option of selecting what to read. While watching the endless churning out of books, the readers have to be cautious as to what book they should buy.
As one reads the latest Sinhala novel written by the well known television producer Parakrama Ekanayaka, the basic feeling that seeps into the mind is the intensity in which some of the facets of the much discussed entertainment industry plunges an artiste into a pseudo commercialistic frame of reference where the pangs of pain and the gravity of restlessness in the competition overshadows and reduces the human qualities to the lowest possible manner unimaginative.
But one would just remark that the situation cannot be reversed or improved as it stands in that manner. Ekanayaka titles his creation as Tikiriliya Tharu Medde Giya (Fast and Fast, Surasa book 2015) which literally means the damsel named Tikiri or went into the midst of stars referring to the stardom in the visual media with special reference to television musical shows familiar to the present day audiences. Some of these shows are titled as superstar shows where a chance is given to amateurs to rise on the ladder of success to become a star. It is said that newcomers are drawn from various social quarters, some from schools and some from other units of execution and also from nowhere finding an identity in the competitive media culture circles.
It is believed that the way or the steps ahead are both winding and uneasy dependable on various factors. Those who are selected in the first round and several other rounds are being nurtured by individuals of varying types who also have something to gain, like in many a middleman process. The protagonist in this narrative named Tikiriliya too encounters a few male helpers who though come in the guise of helpers are seen turning into opportunistic self helpers who succumb to lecherous means and other physical and mental corruptions unfathomable.
As Ekanayaka tries his best to expose these situations more dramatically than in descriptions making entire work look more an exposure than a well made narrative with a beginning middle and an end. The writer makes use of the well known Sinhala limerick tikiri tikiri tikiriliya kalet aran lindata giya and turns the embedded folk meaning into a more modernistic parable. In the age old Sinhala limerick the intrinsic sense of the folk creator is to depict the picture of a village damsel Tikiri who is tender goes to fetch water from the well with her clay pot. But it so happens that an alligator (kabaragoya) frightens her by roaming round the well. Then she is bitten by the water snake (diyabariya) in the well. It is mere fun and fantasy in the surface layer but bears a metaphorical age old sense which could give numerous other layers of meanings like little miss muffet sat on a tuffet or any other folk verse around the world.
As a matter of fact the folk verses of varying types could be twisted into express new experiences depicting the contemporary consciousness which is by and large the most significant factor that could be interpreted creatively. The character of Tikiriliya is depicted as a young girl who could sing and anticipated a world of futuristic glory by which she would be elevated to a better plane of exhibiting her talent as a singer. Though this happened and continues to happen the destiny of the character Tikiriliya is shown as a victim of circumstances. The stardom to which she enters is shown as challenging and competitive. She is shown as well groomed in knowledge acquisition in the company of her father mother and some of her nearest and dearest friends and well wishers.
But circumstances drive her gradually to areas of darkness. At times she is deceived by pretenders and at times by hoodwinkers in the show business. Ekanayaka in a series of flashbacks shows in episodic form the intensity in which this happens. The narrator Tikiriliya herself brings the human experience of the central factors a tragicomic nature that drove her to a calamity that culminates in her actual dissociation from the show business.
The episodes look more like a series of visual situations with interviews and chitchats intermingled. This creative layer is sensitively portrayed. Ekanayaka has a mission to fulfil as a contemporary writer. He does not make a sentimental issue out of her experiences nor does he attempt sensationalize the stark issues of the entertainment business. Instead he tries to present via the series of experiences of Tikiriliya, to enlighten the reader on a much hidden media exposure.
Prior to this effort in the field of Sinhala narratives a few works of this type had appeared with varying differences. One of the pioneer narratives titled Dona Kamalawathie, was written in the late sixties by the veteran Sinhala journalist Gunadasa Liyanage, depicting the calamities and tragedies in the life of a young girl who went in search of a radio communicator profession.
Then came another narrative on the broadcast issues pertaining to the popular links of the disc jockeying techniques and intimacies of the song lovers that happened to be a popular item in the broadcasting system before the advent of television.
The narrative is titled as Kurulu Hadavata written by Liyanage Amarakirthi. Quite recently a well written narrative titled Clara came to be written by the poet Parakrama Kodituvakku. This narrative unfortunately passed without much discussion on the part of the literary critics though it had popular acclaim running to several editions.
The work by Parakrama Kodituvakku basically rested on the actual life episodes of the popular Sinhala singer cum musician Clarence Wijewardhana. I felt that the work of the latter is somewhat similar in the actual vision than the structure to the creative imagination of the writer Ekanayaka.
But both works need more discussion, as they inevitably open new vistas in the creative field. The work of Ekanayaka though rests on a series of flashbacks as presented by a village damsel who had the failure in obtaining the desired opportunity of becoming a singing star nevertheless is not reduced to a mere tragic disillusion.
The writer Ekanayaka makes the protagonist look back in realisation of what actually befell on her Thus the narrative is more a positive life giving venture.
The writer makes use of the folk idiom and the folk beliefs to the brim enabling the reader to feel the pulse of a new parable worthy of writing.
==============================
## Title: US candidates embrace cafe campaigning
## Supertitle: 
## Section: World
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 19:30
US candidates embrace cafe campaigning
US: Shortly after Hillary Clinton announced her presidential bid in April, her debut campaign stop was a coffee shop in small-town Iowa, an American custom that endures despite mega-events and the growing influence of digital politicking.
Every US presidential hopeful in the last century has likely engaged in the cafe or diner ritual, and nowhere more assiduously than Iowa and New Hampshire, the two states that vote first in the drawn-out battles to decide the nominees for the Democratic and Republican parties.
The 20 men and women currently seeking the White House have already repeated the cliched, but necessary, campaign trail protocol dozens of times.
Like Republican Senator Lindsey Graham did Saturday at the Good News Room Coffeehouse in Boone, Iowa, they slide into a booth next to patrons as they sip coffee or enjoy their bacon deluxe breakfast, and take the pulse of an electorate in America's early voting states.
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie huddled with locals at the Pink Cadillac Diner in Rochester, New Hampshire two days after launching his 2016 campaign, while rival Mike Huckabee pressed the flesh early this month at Dodici Cafe in Iowa.
The humble tradition bumps up against the digital age, which rivals the space carved out by retail politics.
The race is playing out feverishly online, where candidates retweet supporters, use live-stream apps, post video clips on YouTube, and claim to connect with Facebook followers.
But nothing takes the place of a candidate's face-to-face encounters with everyday voters over a hot cup of joe.
"It's the last real vetting process in America," Graham told AFP after an hour-long Q&A session with about a dozen voters at the wood-panelled Boone cafe.
"The diner is a place to look somebody in the eye. You can't do that on social media."
- AFP
==============================
## Title: On Writing, 'The Swimmer', and Getting to the Other Side
## Supertitle: The Art of Going the Distance
## Section: Features
## Date: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 - 18:30
The Art of Going the Distance
On Writing, 'The Swimmer', and Getting to the Other Side
I always begin a semester by asking my students to read Cheevers The Swimmer.
I like hearing what they have to say about Ned Merrill, about the ways in which he is lying to himself and about the ways in which Cheever chooses to reveal this to the reader, or keep it from the readerto keep the reader rolling along, for a while, like one of Neddys gin-sozzled buddiesand its a good story, too, through which to talk about allegory, ambiguity, the stuff of readerly sympathy and the place of social bugbears (all these snobs and their pool parties!) in a narratives worldview.
Plus, at the beginning of the Fall semester, were in denial about the end of summer, and by the time January comes around we feel like were standing weary, bone-chilled, in the middle of a highway, so the imagery of the story always lands well in a basement classroombut thats not the main reason I like to teach it. I like to teach it because its a piece of fiction which seems to enactto make starkly tangiblethe fundamental problem out of which fiction is made. That problem is distance. The distance to be attempted, the distance to be crossed; the many, many poolseach of a different depth and shape and temperature, each possessing its own particular murk and feelthrough which a story must pass on its way to being a story. Facing into the writing of a piece of fiction, I always feel a lot like Cheevers Neddy: at once hungover and amped up on a self-congratulatory buzz, at once sure of the strokes I need to make and slowed down by the residue of all the messes I have made before. There is a story, I know; there is a story I can write, a story I want and maybe even need to write, but it is so far away. It is months away, thousands of scribbled and discarded words away; it is way, way over there, on the other side of a dozen, two dozen Word files given names like New Story and New Story 2 and Cut from New Story 5 and STORY START AGAIN and all sorts of other initially hopeful, and then despairing (THIS THING WHATEVER THE %$& IT IS) monikers.
There is such a way to go, setting out on a new piece of writing. Anything could happen. Anything could show up, and need to be dealt with, and then very possibly need to be given up on, and by the time you finish, you will be a different person to the person you were when you began; maybe not quite as bruised as Cheever, who felt dark and cold for a long time after finishing The Swimmer, but a little wrung out, a little winded, and certainly changed. Think of Zadie Smiths image of so many hopeful writers standing on the shoreline while their perfect novels pile up, over on the opposite coast, out of reach. Or, as Neddy Merrill himself puts it: At what point had this prank, this joke, this piece of horseplay become serious He could not go back
But then, dont listen to me: I can barely swim. Or, I can swimas a child I had lessons, and did my time in the orange inflatable armbands, and pretty regularly now, I drag myself back and forth across the pool in my gyms basement: but I know Im not doing it properly. Im a control freak; Im not letting go. I swim with my muscles tensed, the way they might be if I were inching along a cliff-face, looking down to the waves, and I hold my breath; Ill exhale when I get to the other side, I tell myself; when Im absolutely sure that I havent drowned.
This week I am cat-sitting for two friends who are out of town. In their apartment, they have a lot of beautiful art, including a piece by the land artist Richard Long; one of his stone lines, although it is made of stones which look more like hard gray shells, laid out in the middle of their loft in the middle of Manhattan. The stones are from far away, from the bed of some body of water, and it is a long time since they were taken, by the artist, from that water; here, in the open space, the piece look almost like a freshly-made grave, although that is surely just the workings of my morbid Irish imagination. One of my jobs as a cat-sitter, I suspect, is to make sure that the cat, who is actually just a kitten, does not play with the Richard Long; does not pounce up on it, in pursuit of some dust-mite or shadow, and send its ancient pieces skittering all over the floor. My other job, by arrangement with my friends, is just to write; to sit at the wide table by the high windows, and enjoy the absence of the WiFi for which I have insisted that they do not give me the password, and to work on a new story which I am trying to
To what
To reach; to close in on; to catch up to; to cross. Dont cross me, the story warns as I try to persuade it to come towards me, or as I try to make my way to it; dont fuck me around, its saying, dont vex me or Ill never let you get as far as me, Ill never let you at me. You have to be patient and keep going, says Deborah Eisenberg of the process of writing something, and then, one day, you can feel something signaling to you from the innermost recesses. Like a little person trapped under the rubble of an earthquake. And very, very, very slowly, you find your way toward the little bit of living impulse.
(Of course, Eisenberg adds then, perhaps knowing that people will scoff at this insistence on slowness, many writers manage to condense that process, but things accrue reality through all the millions of unconscious operations that go into writing) I like to get up, at intervals, and walk the length of the piece; to walk along it, one side and then the other.
==============================