## Title: Ceylinco Life?s Upamalika Ratnayake wins CIO of the Year award
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 December 2017 12:01 am
Ceylinco Life?s Upamalika Ratnayake wins CIO of the Year award
	
Ceylinco Life Chief Digital Officer Upamalika Ratnayake was named the Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the Year at the first-ever Women in IT Awards (WITA) organised by the Women in IT Association in Sri Lanka, recently.
The award was presented after an assessment of the projects and achievements of exemplary female CIOs who have demonstrated innovation, leadership and IT excellence in the past 18 months. Their achievements were judged on industry best practices, alignment with organisational goals, leadership and ROI generation.
Commenting on the honour conferred on Ratnayake, Ceylinco Life Managing Director/CEO R. Renganathan said, ?Innovation in the adoption and use of IT is crucial to success in any business today. We are proud to have our chief digital officer win this award. She has been an invaluable member of our team and richly deserves this prestigious award.?
Ratnayake has headed the digital operations of Ceylinco Life for the past eight years and has served the company for a total of 18 years. She was also the company?s first CIO.
A Member of the British Computer Society (MBCS), Australian Computer Society and a Chartered IT professional, she holds several other professional qualifications in IT including CISA (ISACA) and an MSc in Computer Science (MCS) from the University of Colombo School of Computing. In 2013, Ratnayake had the distinction of being adjudged the Female ICT Leader of the Year by the South East Asia Regional Computer Confederation (SEARCC), a forum of national information technology professional societies in the Asia Pacific region. With 33 years of experience in the IT industry, she has been at the forefront of many landmark projects at Ceylinco Life. Some of them include centralising the business processes of the company, introducing the sales force to sales apps and the use of electronic devices for business operations, automating the manual underwriting process, implementing document management solutions and developing in-house systems, which provide business insight.
The Women in IT Association was formed by the Federation of IT Industries in Sri Lanka with the objective of developing and supporting women by enhancing their ICT skills.
 
		
==============================
## Title: "Colombo Seafood Festival 2017"
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 9 December 2017 07:54 pm
"Colombo Seafood Festival 2017"
	
"Colombo Seafood Festival 2017" which was jointly organized by the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Ministry and the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency (NARA) was launched yesterday (08) at Green Path, Viharamahadevi Park, Colombo under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena and to be continued till Sunday (10).
Minister of fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Mahinda Amaraweera and State Minister A.H.M. Fawzey also participated at the event. Pix by Kithsiri de Mel
 
		
==============================
## Title: COPA seeks CBSL report on EPF bond purchases
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 08:06 am
COPA seeks CBSL report on EPF bond purchases
	
The Employees Provident Fund (EPF) has purchased a greater volume of bonds from the secondary market with a lesser yield in 2016 while it has purchased a lesser volume of bonds from the primary market with a higher yield, the Committee on Public Accounts (COPA) states in its report presented to Parliament yesterday.
The report presented to the House by COPA Chairman Lasantha Alagiyawanna stated that this had denied the EPF a massive financial gain. COPA had directed the Central Bank Governor to submit a report on the purchase of bonds.
The report also revealed that total investments worth Rs.10.8 billion made on the national carrier SriLankan airlines and in a hotel company had been written off. COPA had called for the conceptual report on the investments for which cabinet approval has been received.
Another disclosure is the failure to credit to the accounts of beneficiaries Rs.346,697,934. This amount has been received from various companies as EPF contributions. However the EPF Chief Operating Officer said steps have taken to sort out this shortcoming.
The report also carried details of the failure on the part of Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation to achieve financial or physical progress on Rs.741,200 million and Rs.237,100 million allocated for minimizing traffic congestion in Colombo. It has been revealed that these monies include assistance made by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
Among other major disclosures in the report is the spending of more than Rs.300 million by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on transport and rents and the Southern Provincial Council possessing an excess about of 6,587 vehicles while having 1,881 additional staff.
Meanwhile Mr Alagiyawanna while presenting the report said Parliament should discuss the next steps after reports are submitted. "These reports end up in book cases and remain there for years with no action being taken. Therefore it is essential that there is a process of taking action against the shortcomings revealed by committee reports," he said.
MP Budhika Pathirana stressed the need for including procedures pertaining to action on committee reports.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya who responded said the matter would be discussed early next year. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: 'Marians' taken to HC for singing Jothipala?s songs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 02:03 pm
'Marians' taken to HC for singing Jothipala?s songs
	
The Colombo Commercial High Court yesterday issued notices on Sri Lanka?s popular music band leader Nalin Perera and his musical group ?Marians? for singing the late H.R. Jothipala's songs without the permission of his family members.
The case was filed by H.R. Jothipala?s widow and their four daughters under the Intellectual Property Act.
The complainants said the 'Marians' had sung the late Jothipala?s songs at the concert, ?Kings of 70?s unplugged? held on January 22 at the Nelum Pokuna Mahinda Rajapaksa Theatre without permission.
Counsel Chinthaka Fernando, Tharindu Rajakaruna with Nalin Samarakoon appeared for the defence.
The HC issued notices returnable on January 10 on band leader Nalin Perera and the members of his group.?(Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MPs not using their laptops in Parliament: Harin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 04:02 pm
MPs not using their laptops in Parliament: Harin
	
Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure Minister Harin Fernando said yesterday that even 20 per cent of the laptops provided to the MPs were not used by them.
He said order papers and other relevant documents were saved in these laptops to facilitate MPs in the House and added that most of them still use the traditional print papers.
The Minister said MPs had even been provided with facilities to operate the computer by scanning their fingerprints after they complained of forgetting the password and proposed that print
documents should not be given to them for a month to compel the new technology on the MPs.
The laptops were provided by the Chinese Parliament under the E- Chamber project recently.?(Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Muslim Congress Founder?s Son Aman Ashraff Speaks Out Against SLMC
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 9 December 2017 12:01 am
Muslim Congress Founder?s Son Aman Ashraff Speaks Out Against SLMC
	
By D.B.S. Jeyaraj
?
Aman Ahamed Ashraff is the only son of legendary Muslim Congress leader the late Mr. M.H.M. Ashraff and Ms. Ferial Ashraff who was Sri Lanka?s first Muslim woman cabinet minister. In spite of this family background 36- year- old Aman Ashraff who is the executive creative director of Ashraff Associates (pvt) Ltd has kept aloof from politics so far. However there has been in recent times much speculation among Muslim political circles about the possibility of Aman Ashraff entering the sphere of active politics. There are rising expectations within the community particularly in the East that ?Thalaiver? (leader)Ashraff?s scion should emulate his father and don the mantle of Muslim leadership soon.In a bid to clarify Mr.Aman Ashraff?s position on this and also to elicit his views on contemporary political issues the ?Daily Mirror? obtained this exclusive interview by way of telephone conversations and electronic mail exchanges.? ?
The interview ranged on a number of matters relating to Sri Lanka in general and Muslim politics in particular. Mr. Ashraff was frank and forthcoming in his replies and articulated his views on the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress with refreshing candour. Aman spoke of how he and his mother were ejected from the SLMC within a week of his father?s death. He was also critical of the current Muslim Congress leadership without specifically mentioning names. The SLMC co-founder?s son opined that the party had deteriorated to a great extent and that there was no hope of resurrecting the SLMC. He also said that the current need was not community oriented parties but a pluralistic party voicing the aspirations of all Sri Lankans.Though critical , Aman Ashraff refrained from discussing the personalities concerned or disclosing the knitty-gritty details of the disputes involved.
Excerpts:QYou are the only son of the late Mr. M.H. M.Ashraff and Mrs.Ferial Ashraff. Your parents were political party leaders and former cabinet ministers. Sri Lanka is a land where so many children of political leaders have taken to politics and become leaders in their own right. Despite your family background you have not engaged openly in politics so far . Why is that?
Let me begin by first thanking you and the Daily Mirror, for giving me the opportunity to air my thoughts/views through this discussion. To answer your question, I am of the belief one should not enter the political arena for reasons other than a calling to serve the nation and its people faithfully and truthfully. Gone are the days where the letters MP stood as a mark of respect and acknowledgement by one?s people as a worthy choice to represent them on the political stage. We now live in an era where the entrance into the ?game? is sadly more so in lieu of the lust for power, prestige and most unfortunately for profit as well. I?ve never prescribed to the belief that one requires to be in politics in order to render service to the country or its people. I have been blessed with the many opportunities where I have been able to assist others at times of crisis. I will always continue to do so but the fact that I choose to help others should not be misconstrued as me creating a pathway to enter politics because it is not, nor is the fact that I am giving this interview any indication of an imminent entrance into politics on my part.? ?
?
The fragmentation of the SLMC is as a direct result of a seizure of power that took place on the 17th of September 2000 and over the course of the following years gradually evolved into a carefully planned process of consolidation of that very?same power
?
QAlthough you have not engaged in politics, there is a noticeable rise of expectation among sections of the Muslim people particularly from the Eastern province that you should enter politics. This is quite discernible when one reads the Muslim run websites in Tamil,and facebook accounts. There is even much speculation that you would enter the political fray soon. Are you aware of these expectations and speculation and if so how would?you respond?
I am aware of these speculations and rumours. I am also aware of the expectations that many in the East have, of me. Unfortunately, what they see in me and what they seem to want from me is one of two things; on one hand there are some who expect a reincarnation of M.H.M. Ashraff; on the other hand, there are others who seek what they incorrectly perceive to be an individual in complete ignorance of Eastern politics albeit with a political lineage that hails from the Eastern Province which they could capitalize on and puppeteer to suit their heart?s content. I am not my father and I won?t even presume to ever arrive anywhere near his levels of political, spiritual and life mastery. I am my own individual. I have my own views and beliefs; many of which may contradict the expectations of the Eastern Muslims and their perceptions of who I am as the son of M.H.M. Ashraff. So I would respond simply by saying that they need to first get to know me as an individual and assess for themselves whether or not I am the most suitable choice for them.? ?
QHave you been approached by the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress which your father pioneered or any other political party or political group with an invitation to join their folds and engage in politics?
My relationship with the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress has sadly entered into a state of ongoing deterioration ever since my father?s untimely passing. Not many are aware that my mother and I were thrown out of the party no less than seven days after my father?s demise. So as far as relationships with the SLMC are concerned, to be frank, there are none. However, in terms of other political parties -I do not wish to name any- I can affirm that some have been in correspondence with me and have on a few occasions invited me to enter into active politics through their auspices. I have respectfully declined each of these invitations on the basis of focusing on my career, which is a stand that I maintain to this very day.? ?
QSince you have kept away from the political limelight, very little is known about you personally. Can you tell us a little about yourself and what you are doing currently please?
If very little is known about me, I?d say then I have been doing my job well (laughs). I am married to my lovely wife Zahara, who herself is a very successful HR professional in her own right. We are both blessed with an adorable daughter, Sophia. I am a media and advertising professional, having served in Sri Lanka?s marketing & communications industry for the last nineteen years.? ?
?
My relationship with the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress has sadly entered into a state of ongoing deterioration ever since my father?s untimely passing. Not many are aware that my mother and I were thrown out of the party no less than seven days after my father?s demise
?
QAlthough you have not dabbled in politics so far, I am sure you would have been keenly observing political developments concerning the country in general and the Muslim people in particular. Against that backdrop what is your assessment of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress in the post-Ashraff years? Has the SLMC remained faithful to the ideal and objectives of its leader Ashraff ?
I won?t deny that politics is in my blood and I have always observed political developments in the country very closely as I feel every Sri Lankan should if they have a genuine stake in the best interests of the country. That being said, it is unfortunate that the SLMC has diverted so far from the ideals and objectives of its founder. It was against a backdrop of great discontent, insecurity and fear that the Tamil speaking peoples of Sri Lanka felt oppressed and the Muslims of the East in particular felt that they had neither a voice to air their political grievances nor one which would speak on their behalf at a national level particularly in relation to the planning and implementation of national policy in Sri Lanka. This atmosphere led to a rise of militant insurgency in the?
North and East....? ?
QIt was against this backdrop that the late M.H.M. Ashraff undertook a more active political role?
Yes. Realising what was occurring the late Mr. Ashraff, in an effort to wean the Muslim youth away from militancy, proposed political dialogue as the only viable non-violent option which would guarantee results for the Muslims in the East of Sri Lanka. Therein lay his basis for the formation of the SLMC ?a political entity that would be a voice for all Muslims in Sri Lanka. The non-inclusiveness of the Muslim issue in the 1987 Indo-Lanka Accord played a pivotal role as a catalyst for Ashraff to emerge with the SLMC as a recognized Muslim political party. By comparison, it is unfortunate that this party has today eroded into a self-serving entity that has in the last 17 years proven itself to be available to the highest bidder. The pre-2000 era of the SLMC?s political lineage which stood entirely on principle and fostered the best of relationships with Tamil political parties and larger national parties of the day has today lost its status of respect, dignity, and trust in being a reliable political ally. It has become a tragic caricature of its former, self mocked not only by its present political peers but most regrettably by the very peoples it professes to serve and stand for.? ?
QIn that context , why has there been so much fragmentation of the SLMC after Ashraff? There have been many splits in the SLMC and many of those who left the SLMC started their own parties. Most of the non- UNP, non-SLFP Muslim leaders active today were all at one time members of the SLMC and Ashraff?s disciples. Now they are at loggerheads with each other; why is this?
The fragmentation of the SLMC is as a direct result of a seizure of power that took place on the 17th of September 2000 and over the course of the following years gradually evolved into a carefully planned process of consolidation of that very same power. The constitution of the SLMC has been doctored on numerous instances in the last 17 years as a preventive measure taken by parties with vested interests to ensure the absolute preservation of the current leadership and the office bearers who are in line with that leadership?s political ambitions. Any form of dissent or difference in opinion has resulted in severe persecution or near instant expulsion from the party. This manner of leadership - if you can call it that - is what has led to a repetitious lack of confidence in the SLMC and has led to the emergence of new Muslim political entities all claiming the mantle of ?the true voice of the Muslim people?....? ?
QDo you think these new parties are genuine in their professed commitment?
If the leaders of these new entities were all truly serving a common goal in the genuine interest of the community, then the need to be at loggerheads with one another would be quite minimal. However it appears that given their inability to come together in the last 17 years, despite numerous short lived alliances it?s quite clear that each entity is approaching such political partnerships with vested interests. This never occurred in the pre-2000 SLMC where there was always a series of collective goals which the party machinery worked towards with absolute tenacity and unison under the leadership of Ashraff, assisted further by the members of the High Command and implemented on the ground by the members of the politburo and the working committee of the party.?
?QBut there were differences within the party during Ashraff?s time too?
There were always differences of opinion. The difference was that they were welcomed. They would be debated and consequently a consensus (Mashoora) would be carried forward. If arguments reached an impasse, Mr. Ashraff made efforts to resolve the issue in a more non-official environment; often over a cup of tea or dinner at his residence. It was always the practice of the party under the leadership of Mr. Ashraff to encourage and bring more voices and more opinions within the framework of the party in order to foster a more democratically functioning vehicle and never to create an environment that would be the cause of constant dissent and deceit.? ?
QRecently a request was filed under the Right to Information Act by former SLMC Chairman Mr. Basheer Segu Dawood regarding the Justice Weerasekera Commission report on the death of your father and 16 others in a helicopter crash on Sep 16th 2000. The nation was shocked when it was learnt that the report has allegedly gone missing except for 3 pages. This in turn has re-kindled suspicion about the mystery behind Mr. Ashraff?s death. What do you make of all this? I know this is a very painful matter for you and your mother but what is the position of the Ashraff family in this ?
It is ironic that the people (his family) whom one would usually assume are consulted in matters pertaining to the late M.H.M. Ashraff, his estate and affairs are often the ones who are last to be made aware of developments in relation to him. In this particular instance, our family was not consulted in relation to this matter. Not even a simple gesture of courtesy was extended to us inquiring whether we would consent to this horrific chapter in our lives being opened up again. Irrespective of whether this now misplaced file is discovered or not, nothing is going to bring my mother?s husband and my father back to us.?
?
?Whether this government has truly dug deep into the trenches and made genuine attempts to assess, evaluate and provide acceptable solutions to the long standing issues faced by the Tamil speaking peoples of Sri Lanka is a serious question that must be asked of this government
?
The loss that my mother and I have borne in silent solitude is known only to us and those who are near and dear to us.? ?
My father, as many would testify, was very fond of the children in his family namely his grand nieces and nephews, and as fate would have it he was not blessed with an opportunity to hold his only grandchild in his own arms- an experience I am well aware he would have cherished immensely knowing how much he would have wanted to have been a part of my daughter?s life.? ?
This is but one of the many losses my family has endured and yet once again we are being made to relive the numerous questions from peoples from all walks of life as to whether we have any part to play in this new investigation into the whereabouts of the missing commission file, all of which have been set under way by persons who wish to use the memory and name of M.H.M. Ashraff for their own political mileage and nothing more.? ?
QThere is also a controversial booklet that is being widely distributed. It is in Tamil titled ?Darussalam: Maraikkappatta Marmangal? (Darussalam;Hidden Mysteries). It contains several allegations concerning the present management of the SLMC headquarters ?Darussalam? which was your late father?s dream project. What is your opinion about that booklet?
I don?t wish to comment at length on this particular issue as I am aware of its sensitivity, but I will say this much: It would be wrong to presume or state that most of what is claimed in that publication is entirely false.? ?
?
?The pre-2000 era of the SLMC?s political lineage which stood entirely on principle and fostered the best of relationships with Tamil political parties and larger national parties of the day has today lost its status of respect, dignity, and trust in being a reliable political ally
?
QLet me ask you a few questions about the general situation in the country. The ?Good Governance? Govt of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has been in power for more than two years. The minority ethnicities particularly the Muslims voted overwhelmingly in support of the President and this Govt. Has the track record of the President and Govt lived up to the expectations of the Muslim voters who helped elect them?
This is a question that should be posed to the Muslim people living in Sri Lanka, particularly in the rural districts of Sri Lanka- in the North, East, South and Western provinces rather than someone such as myself. However, speaking entirely for myself and as a citizen of the country who voted for this government, I must confess to be extremely disappointed. What began as a peoples? revolution where for the very first time in this nation?s history, the people of Sri Lanka said ?ENOUGH? and elected to bring about a visible, positive change to Sri Lanka?s governance, we have sadly, in the last two years, seen only what can be best described as a superficial cosmetic change that may well pander to the interests of our international allies and media.? Whether this government has truly dug deep into the trenches and made genuine attempts to assess, evaluate and provide acceptable solutions to the long standing issues faced by the Tamil speaking peoples of Sri Lanka is a serious question that must be asked of this government. It is unfortunate that in the last two years, civil society together with the support of the private sector has had to step in and initiate measures to address a variety of issues faced by Sri Lankans all over the island, in place of the government machinery which owing to unknown factors, does not seem to be working as efficiently, nor with the expected degree of transparency promised to us we as citizens of Sri Lanka would have liked to have seen.? ?
?
?
QHas the Govt response been satisfactory or adequate in the case of recent communal violence in Gintota?
I am not fully versed with the facts of the Gintota incident and as such I do not feel it is my place to comment on it, especially whether or not the government?s response was adequate or not. However, I do have a question for the government in relation to this matter and it is simply this: given the assurances of the Yahapalanaya government and the security safeguards which were promised in relation to xenophobia and extremism which is visibly on the rise in Sri Lanka, my question is ? why did the Gintota incident even take place? Could it not have been prevented? Or are the actions of this government henceforth to be forever a case of shutting the stable doors after the horses have bolted??? ?
?
QThe Govt has taken the initiative in drafting a new Constitution. Among the issues being hotly debated is the proposed merger between the Northern and Eastern Provinces. What is your stance on this?Hypothetically if Mr. M.H.M. Ashraff was with us today ,what would have his position been?
My father?s position on this matter has always been very clear. He always maintained that if a separate district and electoral powers within such a district were to be given to the Tamils of Sri Lanka, then under those circumstances it would only be fair for the Muslims of Sri Lanka to also be given a separate electoral district. Whether in the present context of Sri Lanka?s current political progress such a move would be in the greater interests of the nation is questionable given that today the call from the youth of Sri Lanka, at least the youth who I move with and who represent all four religious denominations, is for a united Sri Lanka.? ?
In my humble opinion, given that the North and East of Sri Lanka constitutes Tamil and Muslim populations in the majority, and given the similarities of both races and their cultural practices, I see no reason why co-existence should be a problem for one another provided there is an acceptable devolution of power in equal share to both communities. For I fear that if devolution of power is not accorded in absolute fairness, a sense of inferiority from one community to the other may emerge and would result in being counterproductive to the entire nation building exercise. That being said, to quote my late father who used these words from the Holy Qur?an in parliament over two decades ago: ?A people?s destiny will not be changed unless the people change their destiny.??
?
QThe divide between Sinhalese and Tamils and the divide between Sinhalese and Muslims along with the Tamil - Muslim divide demonstrates clearly that there is an urgent need to bring about better understanding,harmony and unity among all ethnicities belonging to this country. What are your thoughts?
Education is by far the only feasible long term solution, in my humble opinion, to this crisis. However, even as far as education is concerned, a key factor to the ever expanding divide between these communities is the lack of a common language among them which they could all utilize as an acceptable bridge to better understand one another without having to compromise on nuances that are strengthened by differences in tradition, culture and religion. The bygone era of early 20th century Ceylon produced generations of Sri Lankans (then referred to as Ceylonese) who together irrespective of caste or creed, race or religion went on to achieve great feats for the country in numerous disciplines.? ?
?
As far as education is concerned, a key factor to the ever expanding divide between these communities is the lack of a common language between them which they could all utilize as an acceptable bridge to better understand one another without having to compromise on nuances that are strengthened by differences in tradition, culture and religion
?
QEnglish was the language common to all then?
Yes; the bridging factor here was evidently the English language and the immensely high standard at which it was propagated, not just within schools in Colombo but also at schools in the rural districts of Sri Lanka. I have been privileged to have met men and women from that Golden Age and having communicated with them, often wondered whether they were educated abroad at Oxford or an institution of similar stature. Imagine my surprise when I discovered that many of them were educated at modest institutions, and I use the term ?modest? with the greatest of respect implying only that they were institutions which were nowhere as celebrated as their peers such as Royal College Colombo or Trinity College Kandy. Yet, their command of the language coupled with the mastery of their chosen fields and the distinction with which they carried themselves made me yearn for an education that was somewhere near to what they received.? ?
We all know what happened and what changed. Perhaps it is time to seriously start asking ourselves whether we should revisit those standards.? ?
QLet me return to an earlier question. Have you firmly ruled out the question of entering politics?Do you not feel that you would be able to contribute productively in the national interest by taking a more active role in politics?
I don?t think I have ever stated publicly or in the media that I am against politics or that I am never going to enter politics. I have only always stated that I don?t believe I should enter politics purely for the sake of carrying on my father?s legacy or to serve any selfish ambitions of a party that may wish to utilize my credibility (as humble as it may be) for their own political mileage.? ?
I have always stated that I have no interest in politics at this present juncture and that is a stance I still maintain, for my priorities now are my professional career and the well being of my family. That being said, I will always do everything in my power to serve my country faithfully in any way that I can. I leave the rest in God?s hands, Insha Allah.? ?
QUnderstood. But let me ask you more specifically in view of the current situation facing the Muslim Congress. Would you not like to join the SLMC and try in your own way to make the party live up to the vision of your father who is almost a cult figure in Eastern Muslim politics today. An older generation of Muslims continue to revere and hero worship him. A new generation of Muslims has emerged that treats him almost like a mythological figure. In that sense as Ashraff?s only son would you not like to continue with the late SLMC leader?s political legacy?
I have never in my life done anything for the sake of merely doing it. That includes continuing my father?s legacy for you may rest assured that if he had any say in it and if the reasons were as you just pointed out - merely to continue his legacy - he would have been the first to send me packing. For as he once told me and a close relative of ours during a private discussion, he said to that relative, ?One sacrifice per generation is more than enough. I have made the sacrifice for my generation. As such, I forbid you from entering politics. If Aman wishes to enter politics, he may do so for his generation.?
So I have my father?s blessings should I ever decide to do so. But, with regards to me joining the Muslim Congress and transforming it back to what it once was, let me clarify my point of view. Contrary to what analysts of today may surmise in hindsight, there was a genuine need for a political entity like the SLMC three decades ago, where in the absence of a voice for the people in the East, the SLMC was able to assume the role of being the undisputed political platform for the Eastern Muslims. However, the political landscape in Sri Lanka today has changed and transformed immensely. In today?s digital age, where almost every citizen has the means to voice one?s concerns or aspirations irrespective of his or her socio-economic status, it is my humble opinion that the need for non-pluralistic political entities such as the SLMC now no longer exist. What?s more, its purpose and principles long since perverted post September 16th 2000, I truly believe that the party has gone beyond the point of resurrection, even if my late father were to miraculously come back alive.?
?QSo what is required then?
?What is required, is the emergence of a new pluralistic political entity led by individuals who are in sync with the aspirations and concerns of today?s generation whilst being absolutely sensitive to the traditions and cultural beliefs of every religious denomination which makes up the national fabric of Sri Lanka.I am merely reiterating my father?s own views, for many are still unaware, that near to the time of his passing, he recognized that communal based parties would have great limitations in relation to being able to effectively serve and play crucial roles in the nation building process of the country. He realized that what was needed was, as I mentioned beforehand, a pluralistic political party which would voice the aspirations of all Sri Lankans.? ?
QYou are referring to the NUA?
Yes. This realization led to my father?s formation of the National Unity Alliance(NUA).Unfortunately, he was unable to effectively present the NUA to the Muslims of the East and the nation as a whole, as his life was cut short tragically. Still,his concept of this party remains to this day a clear reflection of his convictions, which were in keeping with a national Sri Lankan Identity.? ?
As far as the Muslim youth and the myth of M.H.M. Ashraff is concerned, I fear the mythos created about him by the SLMC and others who would exploit his name has reached such heights that to reveal to this new generation the life of this simple man would be an exercise in vain.? ?
QThe myths being built around Ashraff do not reflect reality? Could you elaborate please?
My father was a man who lived a life of service before self, a man who gave his utmost to foster inter-communal relationships, a man who believed in a liberal free thinking Muslim identity, who advocated one?s right to question and never follow blindly;a man who was passionate about the arts, and who championed culture particularly Sri Lankan-Muslim cultural practices and not the imported variety; to reveal such truths about such an individual would in my mind be met with great disdain. For the Ashraff they have been bred to look unto, was a politician who cared solely for Muslims, and no-one else, whose views were conservative, bordering on extremism and so on and so forth. These myths are a fabrication of a man?s life and his personality which is as far from the truth than you can imagine. For it was his sensitivity and compassion to other communities, and the great strides he took to build bridges among them that enabled him and empowered him to do more for the Muslims of Sri Lanka.? ?
QA final question. This is about your mother Mrs.Ferial Ashraff. She has been an MP, Minister,Party leader and High Commissioner. When I spoke with her some months ago, she told me that she was now ?retired? and happily content being a grandmother to your child. But in recent times there have been media reports that she is going as an envoy to an Islamic country and that she is a potential mayoral candidate for Colombo etc. What exactly was the position? Is she contemplating a return to active politics?
You?re quite right, her priority now and for some time, has been the role of grandmother to my daughter. (Laughs) Rest assured, she is quite happy in that role as is my daughter in having her Waappamma (father?s mother) around. Any speculations to the contrary as reported in the media are?completely false.
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: NDB mobile banking customers walk away with Christmas vouchers
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 December 2017 12:00 am
NDB mobile banking customers walk away with Christmas vouchers
	
Over 150 new customers walked out with Christmas Bonanza vouchers at Arpico Hyde Park Corner after opening a new National Development Bank PLC (NDB) account and registering for NDB mobile banking.?
As Christmas approaches, NDB offered customers new and improved ways to save both time and money. While doing their Christmas shopping at Arpico Hyde Park Corner on December 16, 2017, NDB offered over 150 new customers the opportunity to register for mobile banking with a deposit of Rs.1000 and receive Rs.2000 worth of Arpico vouchers.?
Customers who arrived to do their shopping at Arpico were pleased to be a part of NDB?s Christmas Bonanza.
?The NDB mobile banking app is very useful during these busy times, when we have no time to visit a bank. We are very happy that NDB is taking the time to make things easier for customers while also giving us gifts, especially during the Christmas season,? one customer said.
?We only had to deposit Rs.1000 in a newly open account, make a transaction and then we were given a voucher of Rs.2000, which is in my opinion profit all the way.?
Vouchers were awarded to all new customers who downloaded the mobile banking app and made a transaction then and there, following the deposit.?
In the spirit of giving gifts during the Christmas season, NDB also had several mini-games with giveaways. The festive atmosphere was further amplified each time a participant won gifts or received a voucher.?
NDB now bears witness to customers from many walks of life making use of its app to carry out their daily banking activities without a hassle. It has allowed customers in the outskirts of Colombo to instantly pay any bank credit card bill without the burden of travelling.?
With the convenient facility of recharging any mobile network and the ?pay to mobile? facility, customers easily recharge mobiles of their loved ones instantly from wherever they are at any time of the day. The bank introduced its user-friendly mobile banking facility last year with the objective of bringing convenience and creating a trusted platform to carry out their day-to-day banking needs simply via the mobile device.The app also greatly convenience busy travellers who need guaranteed security for their credit card transactions. With the NDB mobile banking app customers now easily switch their credit card on or off from wherever they are. With the many other options of banking such as fund transfers, paying utility bills or transferring money to any other bank, etc. customers now get more time to enjoy life without having to rush while saving both time and money.
The bank strongly believes in making financial services more accessible to the dynamic working population since they require the ability to access information ?on the move?. In an era where practically everything has made its way into the mobile and the Internet, NDB has made it even easier, this Christmas, to save and shop at the same time.?
NDB remains dedicated to bringing its customers one step closer to accomplishing their lifelong ambitions and uplifting their standards of living through the range of services that is accessible through its growing branch network.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Now I am getting knocks on my head ; Harin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 08:42 am
Now I am getting knocks on my head ; Harin
	
Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure Minister Harin Fernando said that he could not give a single job to anyone from Badulla though he received more than 200,000 votes from that area and a a result now he was getting knocks on his head.
?I am helpless. I might be defeated next time, but can't help,? he lamented.(YP & AS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Priyan Mendis receives  highest  recognition  from Concrete Institute  of Australia
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 December 2017 12:00 am
Priyan Mendis receives  highest  recognition  from Concrete Institute  of Australia
	
?
At a special ceremony held recently in Adelaide, Australia , Professor Priyan Mendis of the University of Melbourne was presented with the highest accolade given to an engineer for his service to the concrete industry in Australia. He was awarded the Honorary Lifetime Membership of the Concrete Institute of Australia.? ?
The honorary lifetime membership is defined in its Constitution as an award presented to any person admitted as such whom the Council considers has made an outstanding contribution to the development and use of concrete in Australia. This recognition does not come as a surprise since his expertise in many areas such as high-strength and high-performance concrete, wind engineering for buildings, design of high-rise buildings to name a few, is recognised and appreciated worldwide. Many iconic structures around the world such as the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, UAE, Eureka Tower in Melbourne, Australia, the new Southern stand of Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) have benefited through his consultation.? ?
?
Professor Priyan Mendis receiving his award for Honorary Lifetime Membership from the Immediate Past President of the Concrete Institute of Austalia , Michael van Koeverden?
Professor Mendis is a past pupil of Royal College, Colombo and a graduate of the University of Moratuwa. He received his PhD from the Monash University in Australia. He has since resided in Melbourne with his loving wife and two children. He is a well-respected academic with a solid background of working as a Structural Engineer, designing a number of skyscrapers in the Melbourne city skyline. He is both a Chartered Engineer (Fellow of Engineers Australia) and an academic professor which is a feat achieved by only a handful in both the engineering and academic community. He is a Professor in the Department of Infrastructure Engineering at the University of Melbourne and the Leader of the Advanced Protective Technology of Engineering Structures (APTES) Group. He was also the Convener of the Australian Research Council?s (ARC) Research Network for a Secure Australia (RNSA) from 2004 to 2011. He also acts as the Director of the ARC Centre for Advanced Manufacturing of Prefabricated Housing (CAMP.H) which is providing the know-how to the Australian construction industry to use advanced manufacturing and construction techniques to build modular and prefabricated buildings in a matter of days. Having authored and co-authored more than 250 journal papers, conference papers and technical reports on high-strength and high-performance concrete, tall buildings, wind and earthquake engineering, fire performance of tall buildings and facades, explosion effects on buildings, design and analysis of concrete structures and bridges, and sustainable materials, Professor Mendis possesses one of the most colourful academic profiles of any Australian or world expert. He has also published the book titled ?Design of High-strength Concrete Members: State-of-the art? which is a heavily-used guide by the structural engineers who are designing tall buildings using high strength and high-performance concrete. The Electronic Journal of Structural Engineering (EJSE) was his brainchild and is a heavily referenced journal among engineers worldwide. Professor Mendis is the editor-in-chief for this journal which provides open-access to any viewer. Professor Mendis has previously been awarded the Eureka Prize which is the leading award in Australia for the best science-based research in Safeguarding Australia in 2013 and award for recognition of service to Protective Technology at the Safeguarding Australia Conference in 2006/2007.? ?
?
The fact that he resides overseas has not limited him from offering his services to his motherland and he is no stranger to both the Sri Lankan construction industry and academia. He provided the visionary leadership in establishing Sri Lanka?s first green-rating system for buildings
?
The fact that he resides overseas has not limited him from offering his services to his motherland and he is no stranger to both the Sri Lankan construction industry and academia. He provided the visionary leadership in establishing Sri Lanka?s first green-rating system for buildings and is the founding Chairman of the Green Building Council of Sri Lanka (GBCSL). His expertise in high-performance concrete and design of tall buildings has been sourced for a number of upcoming iconic buildings in Colombo such as the Colombo Lotus Tower, Cinnamon Life, Krrish Square, Colombo City Centre and the 96 Legends Square. He has also delivered many keynote speeches and lectures in Sri Lanka over the years sharing his expertise of many fields. Moreover, he has supervised a number of Sri Lankan graduates to obtain their PhDs at the University of Melbourne.? ?
As a prominent figure in the Sri Lankan community in Australia, Professor Mendis has been instrumental in establishing the Association of Sri Lankan Engineers in Australia (ASLEA) and was its first president. Over the last 25 years, this association has provided a platform for Sri Lankan engineers working in Australia to get together and carry out many benevolent tasks such as providing scholarships to engineering students in Sri Lanka and providing a platform to new engineers who migrate to Australia to build their professional networks.? ?
This article is unfortunately not big enough to cover all of Professor Mendis?s achievements, awards and contributions to the academic and engineering community. With so much professional recognition and respect around the world for his expertise in many areas, Professor Mendis still maintains his humble and down-to-earth personality. A well-respected and much loved professional amongst his peers and others alike, Professor Mendis is a great role model for any young Sri Lankan who desires to reach greater heights.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Something more than a miracle: Wattala Parish Priest
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 10:15 am
Something more than a miracle: Wattala Parish Priest
	
The picture of Jesus Christ where droplets of sweat were seen emerging from the forehead at St. Anne?s Church in Wattala depitcs something more than a miracle, St. Anne?s Church Parish Priest Rev. Fr. Sanjeev Mendis told Daily Mirror yesterday.
He said the miraculous incident enhanced the faith of the people in Jesus Christ more and motivated them to believe the presence of the Lord, the Savior.
?More people are flocking together and praying the Lord. People seem more repentant for the sins they have committed against the Lord. That?s really a deed of God,? Fr. Mendis said.
When speaking with the lay people who gather around the miraculous image of Jesus, Ushantha Rajapasa claimed it were actual tears of Jesus who was crucified and resurrected. ?I presume this will be a significant message from the Lord to renew the life of the people,? he said.
Ms. Shromi Nirmal said it was a visible symbol to signify that Jesus Christ is dwelling among us.
Mohan Kumarapperuma said a miracle has happened in his life after witnessing this miracle.
?It is something I have been looking for but nothing happened. Once I was praying before the image, I was informed that what we as a family were hoping for has become a reality. Praise the Lord,? he said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
Pix by: Waruna Wanniarachchi
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker to probe MPs' bash?
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 10:45 am
Speaker to probe MPs' bash?
	
A top official in Parliament is to lodge a complaint with Speaker Karu Jayasuriya against a group of MPs and some employees in the House who had allegedly held a party in the garage of the Parliamentary complex, inside sources said yesterday. It was reported that they had been consuming liquor.(YP & AS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka accedes to the Optional Protocol
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 December 2017 06:09 am
Sri Lanka accedes to the Optional Protocol
	
Sri Lanka has acceded to the Optional Protocol to the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment on December 5, 2017 and it will enter into force for Sri Lanka on January 4, 2018, a UN document stated.
This was announced by the United Nations Secretary-General, acting in his capacity as depository.
The Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was signed by Sri Lanka in 1984 and the provisions of the Convention were enforced in 1994 by the existing law of this country.
But, the government did not sign the 15-year old Optional Protocol under the Convention.
On November 14, this year, the proposal made by foreign affairs minister Thilak Marapana, for Sri Lanka to sign the Optional Protocol under the said Convention demonstrating the sincerity and the determination of the Government to combat Torture and to co-operate with the National and International mechanism for the purpose of compliance, for the regular inspection of the places of detention and to take necessary action to improve the welfare of the persons detained on Judicial Orders or otherwise, was approved by the Cabinet.
 
		
==============================
