## Title: ACMC member Rifkhan Bathiudeen resigns from NPC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 03:31 pm
ACMC member Rifkhan Bathiudeen resigns from NPC
	
Northern Provincial Council member Rifkhan Bathiudeen of the All Ceylon Makkal Congress (ACMC) has resigned today, party sources said.
Sources said he resigned on a party decision to allow another party member to be appointed to the Council.
ACMC member Alikhan Saarib is supposed to replace Mr. Bathiudeen in the NPC. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Actor wins on silver screen, but loses in life
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:00 am
Actor wins on silver screen, but loses in life
	
Life and love are entwined. No one would raise objections if someone says that life is incomplete without love. When one is obsessed with love the slightest misunderstanding among lovers could lead to serious consequences.? 
?The untimely death of Tele drama actor Dasun Nishan was the result of his illicit love affair? with another female artiste. Nishan?s wife has confirmed Dasun having had an illicit affair.??
Born in Senkadagala Pura as the first child of Lalitha Swarnakumari? Herath, Dasun had his primary education at Sumangala Vidyalaya Kandy. Circumstances made this family shift to Mirigama. In the absence of his father, Dasun was specially cared for by his mother. Having passed the Ordinary Level Examination while at Mirigama, Dudley Senanayake College, he entered Gampaha Bandaranaike Vidyalaya to complete his education. He obtained a BIT degree from the Colombo University.? ?
Giving up potential opportunities to serve the country as a software engineer, he opted to take to modeling
Giving up potential opportunities to serve the country as a software engineer, he opted to take to modeling. Later he stepped into the field of movie making and became an actor. To aid his chosen profession he shifted residence to Gorakapitiya, Piliyandala. He shared accommodation with some fellow actors. His mother and brother in the meantime resided in Kanthota, Nittambuwa.? ?
Dasun met his first love during his school days. By the time his love affair had reached 11 years his fiancee had become a teacher at an international school. By this time he was a popular actor. It was then that they decided to enter matrimony, as expected by their close associates.? Their marriage took place two years ago. However Dasun delayed taking his wife to his abode and start living under one roof as husband and wife. It was apparent that Dasun was aiming to climb the rungs of the acting ladder reach greatness.? ? ?
However, he surprised his close associates, his family and other artistes by ending his life. He chose suicide to end his life. A hurriedly written letter, left at the site he committed suicide, was the only proof that he committed suicide.? Informed sources revealed that he had preferred to stay away from attending rehearsals and acting in a Tele drama series that is being telecast now. The reason Dasun gave for his unavailability was that he was sick. His body was found hanging on the ceiling fan of his room.? ?
Informed sources revealed that he had preferred to stay away from attending rehearsals and acting in a Tele drama series that is being telecast now. The reason Dasun gave for his unavailability was that he was sick
Police investigations proved that Dasun had committed suicide. The inquirer into sudden deaths Ajith Wijesinghe, and the JMO of the Kalubowila teaching hospital DR PRasadani Senarath declared that the death was due to suicide.?
?
His mother Swarnakumari giving evidence at the postmortem revealed that her deceased son was married to a young woman from Giriulla. She said that a few months ago he had started a love affair with another young female artiste, an actress. She said that she had admonished her son several times about this illicit affair. Her son had visited her at her residence, but she had not noticed any unusual behaviour in her son and their was no indication that he was suffering from mental stress.? ?
Dasun?s wife said that they had known each other for the past 13 years. They had married and there was nothing unusual. However from January this year Dasun had developed a love affair with an actress and his wife had come to know of it later. When questioned he had admitted to the fact, but had sworn to his wife that he would not give up on her. This actress had even spoken to Dasun?s wife. Dasun?s wife suspects that due to some misunderstanding between him and the actress Dasun would have been dejected and had taken his own life.? ?
The little note left behind by Dasun and the live recording on his mobile of the scenes of his suicide proved beyond doubt that it was a suicide.? ?
Dasun, who played different characters in Tele dramas, had won the hearts of many viewers both young and old. His roles in Pahesara and Rathu Pichcha and his performances in ?Dedunu Akashaya? had left lasting impressions on television viewers.? ?
Many have criticized his decision to end his life. Many consider it as an idiotic thing to do. Many blame his death on this illicit love affair. Many questions remain unanswered following his death.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Are You Allergic To Hair Dye ?
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:15 pm
Are You Allergic To Hair Dye ?
	
?
?
Dying or colouring one?s hair has become a normal occurrence among both men an women. Maybe it is to get a new look, to hide your greys or a daring lifestyle change. But how safe are these hair dyes? Do we ever stop to think about the chemicals that are being applied on our hair and what it can do to us? Speaking to the Health Capsule Dr.Nayani Madarasingha, Consultant Dermatologist explained how allergies to hair dyes can occur after repeated use of such dyes. She also elaborated on how we can prevent such allergies.??
?
Types Of Hair Dyes
Kicking off with the types of hair dyes Dr.Madarasingha explained,?There are several types of dye.Temporary, semi permanent and permanent dye.How the dye works depends on the type, for example if you take a permanent hair dye the colour will be there for a longer period. But with the other ones the colour change will happen gradually, which is not an instant colour change, and it will fade?away quickly.???
?
Reaction To The Hair Dye
Moving on to the reaction to hair dyes she said, ?In permanent hair dye and even semi permanent hair dye there is a risk of a user developing a hair dye allergy. There are two types of contact dermatitis. Contact dermatitis is when you are exposed to something you can develop a skin reaction to it. One type is called irritant contact dermatitis and the other one is allergic contact dermatitis. With hair dye both of these can occur.???
?
Symptoms
?The symptoms can start immediately, within 48 hours or even later, after the application of the dye. Symptoms are not limited to just the scalp, they can also affect the hair margin, the ear, eyelids or even other areas like the back. Symptoms can be mild or severe.? ?
Mild symptoms include itchy scalp, redness, swelling. You can develop a severe reaction which can later lead to conditions such as eyelid swelling or hives. Very severe reactions which are known as anaphylaxis where your blood pressure can go down, can even result in death,? she said.??
?
Ammonia Is Not The Only Cause
Dr.Madarasingha explained that ammonia is not the only chemical hair dye users can develop allergic to. ?One thing that people know about is ammonia which is in hair dyes and they think that when hair dye is ammonia free they can?t get allergic to it. However ammonia can cause irritant contact dermatitis. Most of the allergic contact dermatitis is due to a substance called PPD. This type of allergy usually develops with repeated exposure. Because when you are repeatedly exposed to an allergant it develops a reaction to that and the next time it is applied it will be more severe than the former reaction. That is why people who are using the same dye will develop the allergic reaction later in life. Therefore, although people think that the more familiar dye is the safer option it can actually worsen the allergic reaction.???
?People also think that applying henna is completely okay. Natural henna is usually a red brown colour, not black. If it is black colour then it contains some amount of chemicals to give that black colourdness. For such things people can be allergic,? she added.??
?
Prevention
Dr. Madarasingha further stated, ?If you develop an allergic reaction you have to immediately see a doctor, depending on the severity. If it is very severe you should consider it as an emergency and you will have to rush to the hospital. Even if it is a mild reaction it is advised to see a doctor. Afterwards you will have to avoid that?particular dye.?
Explaining about the allergy test Dr.Madarasingha said, ?There are a few PPD free dyes available in the market, however, even these PPD free dyes can cause allergies for some people.This is why anyone who is undergoing the hair colouring process should do an allergy test beforehand. To do this you have to apply the dye on the skin or the backof the ear and ideally leave it for over 48 hours. If there is no skin reddening swelling or small blistering then you can go ahead and colour your hair. Ideally, it should be done everytime you colour your hair and not just the first time. Even if the label says that the dye is PPD free or ammonia free you still have to do the allergy test and then dye your hair. In addition to this there are a lot of alternative hair dyes that are being marketed and even these things are not completely allergy free, because there are other chemicals that can be allergants.???
?Even the person using the dye needs to take precautions, they have to wear gloves and it has to be done according to the instructions and it needs to be kept for the advised amount of time,? Dr. Madarasingha said.??
?
Advise
Dr.Madarasingha?s advice for those who dye their hair is as follows, ?You have to do it according to the proper instructions and always do an allergy test. Some people who are allergic take the allergy tablet and then dye the hair, which is ill advised because the next time you dye your hair ,the reaction can be more severe and unpredictable. If you?re allergic you should avoid that dye and use a PPD free dye instead. Around 50% of people who are allergic to PPD can have allergies to other chemicals in the dye as well. Thus every time you dye your hair doing an allergy test beforehand is a must.???
?
Other Complications?
Dr.Madarasingha further briefed on other complications that can occur when dying one?s hair, ? You can get contact leukodurma which is when you develop white patches on the skin. Some dyes can sometimes cause loss of existing pigment of the hair and some cause damage to the hair shaft.???
 
		
==============================
## Title: Attack on Rohingya refugees -- Wanted PC surrenders to CCD
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 07:51 pm
Attack on Rohingya refugees -- Wanted PC surrenders to CCD
	
The interdicted police constable, who was absconding court after being charged with unruly behaviour outside a UN safe house sheltering Rohingya refugees, has surrendered to the Colombo Crimes Division (CCD) today, Police said.
They said the suspect, 40-year-old Prageeth Chanaka Gunetilleke is a resident of Maha Wadduwa.
Three cases involving this PC are also at the Panadura Magistrate's Court on charges of attacking a Mosque and threatening the Panadura Girls school Principal.
The suspect was to be produced before the Mount Lavinia Magistrate's Court today. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bangladesh carving out forest land to shelter desperate Rohingya
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:29 am
Bangladesh carving out forest land to shelter desperate Rohingya
	
?
REUTERS, 5 October, 2017??
Hard-pressed to find space for a massive influx of Rohingya Muslim refugees, Bangladesh plans to chop down forest trees to extend a tent city sheltering destitute families fleeing ethnic violence in neighbouring Myanmar.??
More than half a million Rohingya have arrived from Myanmar?s western state of Rakhine since the end of August in what the United Nations has called the world?s fastest-developing refugee emergency.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: CARAT underwater operations
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:49 am
CARAT underwater operations
	
U.S. and Sri Lankan Navy divers conduct underwater demolition operations during the first-ever Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training (CARAT) at the Naval Base in Trincomalee
 
		
==============================
## Title: Catalan leader slams ?out of touch? Spanish king
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:30 am
Catalan leader slams ?out of touch? Spanish king
	
?
SPAIN, (Daily Mail), 5 October 2017 -??
The Catalan leader has slammed an ?out of touch? King of Spain for ?ignoring millions? who voted for independence as tensions escalated on the streets of Barcelona.? ?
Last night, pro-Spain protestors took to the streets of Barcelona, with the nation on the verge of being torn apart, with politicians in Catalonia suggesting that independence could be secured by Monday.??
Belgium?s Philippe Lamberts, the head of the Green grouping in the European Parliament said the crisis ?threatened the spirit of European integration, even more than Brexit?.??
Experts say tensions between Catalonia and Spain is at its highest since the end of the Franco regime in the 1970s, with clashes continuing in the days after the referendum on Sunday.? ?
After meetings in the regional parliament on Wednesday, pro-independence lawmakers called a full session next Monday to debate the final results of the vote.??
Mireia Boya of the radical leftwing separatist CUP said it would be ?a plenary to proclaim the republic? of independent Catalonia.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Creating a world where everyone is equal ?You and I are one?- Dirijaya Prathiba 2017
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:00 am
Creating a world where everyone is equal ?You and I are one?- Dirijaya Prathiba 2017
	
However difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at, says the well-known Stephen Hopkins.??
Adhering to these words is the fact that everyone is good at something. Talent is a gift impartially bestowed on all human beings and is like a hidden gem that has to be whittled out to the open by using the opportunities given to each one of us. One such opportunity comes through a musical drama titled, ?Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 - The Journey continues? where the spotlight will be directed on showcasing the talents of persons with disabilities, making them seen and heard.? ?
This musical drama will be?
staged by the Enable the Disabled Foundation (ETD).? ?
ETD is the CSR arm of the Management Club, a body of professional managers. It was founded in 2003 and registered with the Ministry of?Social Services.? ?
Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 is a step towards enabling Sri Lanka to become a disabled- friendly country
The foundation endeavours to create an atmosphere where the able and the disable study, work, play and live as one people. It strives to create a society where people are not segregated due to differences, physical or otherwise. The inaugural event was successfully held four years ago in 2013. This year, a heart warming cause has been included to the ?Dirijaya Prathiba 2017?in addition to the showcasing of their talents. Recognizing the importance of play in a child?s development, the ETD has initiated ?Play for all?, an all-inclusive kids park. It sprouted into existence through ETD?s desire to create a disabled-friendly nation. The event will act as a fund-raiser to build parks with equipment that provide opportunities for both abled and disabled children to have fun together.? ?
?I?d like to make an appeal to the people to come and support Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 and events of such nature. As people we need to intergrate those with disabilities into our society to make them feel needed and ensure them that we are here for them,? ETD President Jezaayar?Hassendeen said.? ?
The event will be graced by the presence of many celebrities in the local music and drama scene. Some of the artistes who will be performing alongside the participants in the talent extravaganza are Mariazelle Goonatilleke, Lahiru Perera, Bathiya and Santhush, Dushyanth Weeraman, Rukshan Perera, Stephanie Siriwardane and King South are. People will also be given the privilege of witnessing a fashion show organized by local dress designers Charini and Ramona.? ?
This is a golden opportunity for their talents to be recognized by the world. The participants are very excited to be performing?
Musician Dushyanth Weeraman is the Brand Ambassador to the event. He spoke of his interest in?the cause.??
??Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 is a step towards enabling Sri Lanka to become a disabled- friendly country. They should be made to feel specially-abled in different ways. Dirijaya Prathiba is a platform to recognize the talents of persons with disabilities and overcome social segregations. They should not be made to feel seperate or different,? he said. ?At the end of the day, it?s all about expressing love, care and respect for others. I am very glad and honoured to be part of the event as we work towards achieving the event?s motto -?obai mamai samai? (you and I are one.).?? ?
The participants will be from 75 schools and homes. Amila Indrajith, the oriental music teacher of the school for the blind, Ratmalana, expressing his opinion on the event said, ?The talents of persons with disabilities are often neglected in society. They should be seen as valued members of the society. This is a golden opportunity for their talents to be recognized by the world. The participants are very excited to be performing and they are looking forward to the event,? he said and stressed the need to hold such events every year.?
?Dirijaya Prathiba 2017?will be held at the Nelum Pokuna Theatre on October 21 beginning at 5:30 p.m. For inquiries of ticket sales please contact Nos: 0774775904/ 0777746735/ 0777369616.?
If it?s for a good cause, why stop midway? When a ticket is purchased, it will give a person with disabilities the chance to attend the event for free. ?Dirijaya Prathiba 2017?will be held at the Nelum Pokuna Theatre on October 21 beginning at 5:30 p.m. For inquiries of ticket sales please contact Nos: 0774775904/ 0777746735/ 0777369616. Persons with disabilities are willing to share their talents. You can play your part by being there to witness and support them. After all, talent has no purpose if it is not shared with the rest of the world. Be a part of something big, as Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 journeys to create a world where everyone is equal.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Curtains Up in the Surgical Theatre
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:23 pm
Curtains Up in the Surgical Theatre
	
?
?
Have you ever had to be under the mercy of a surgeon?s knife? The knowledge that your skin is split apart, the muscle layers separated, ultimately making way into a body cavity is a bit intimidating, even when it?s a ?minor? surgery. I was intrigued by the concept when I was around 10 years, when my sister fractured her arm which had to be operated on. Green dresses, covered faces, hushed voices, big lights barely glimpsed through closing doors, all intimidated me as well as aroused my need to discover the secrets inside the almost sacred chamber. It took more than 10 years to realize my goal, though I?m far from discovering even half of the secrets hidden inside the chamber. Since some of the readers of the ?Health Capsule? might be planning to undergo surgeries in the future, or are maybe having the same curiosity as me, I decided to give a brief introduction about the vast topic called ?surgery? in today?s interesting medicine.??
Evolvement of Western surgery itself is quite interesting. While physicians treated medical maladies, if a person needed a surgical procedure such as an amputation: which was common than we imagine, they had to go to a barber, or even a butcher, since they were the people having the ?skills.? To top this off, they were not given any anesthesia, but some documents actually suggest that in big ?surgeries? the patient was ?anaesthetised? by knocking him off with a blow to his head. This gradually changed with the introduction of anesthesia to surgery in 1840s and has grown fast to reach what it is.??
My first impression of a theatre as a ?sacred place? is not far off. There is a special set of rules called ?theatre etiquette? that every medical persona entering the theatre has to follow. Usually, in an average surgery, there are the nursing team, surgical team, anaesthetic team and the attendants. All these groups have special tasks assigned to them as well as special uniforms including shoes. When the patient is brought in, he or she is transferred to the operating table. Then the anaesthetician reassures the patient administers the sedatives. Everything is done under highly-sterile conditions. The participants scrub their hands with antiseptic, put on sterile gowns and gloves on top of the scrubs; they are prohibited from touching any other area other than the patient and the sterile equipment until the end of surgery. There is a special nurse practitioner in charge of the entire equipment tray.?
She keeps watch over the tray and the equipment like a hawk, warning away anyone who comes more than a few feet near the trolley. She also keeps count of each wad of gauze that is used and discarded, so the chance of one being left inside the body, like which happens in movies, is extremely rare.?
While the surgeon is bent over the patient, meticulously guiding the scalpel to reach his destination while avoiding all the nearby nerves and arteries, the anaesthetician is tasked with the equally, if not more, important job of keeping the patient stable. He does this with the help of all the monitoring equipment attached to the patient. Even the slightest change in blood pressure or oxygen level is attended quickly, to be brought back to normal levels.??
Talking about surgery, it would be extremely-careless of me not to mention laparoscopic surgeries, which is to be the future of all surgeries, from knee joint to bypass surgeries. I remember my first time witnessing a laparoscopic surgery.?
There was a huge TV situated in front of the surgeon and instead of the usual precise and long incision put by the surgeon?s sure hands, four tiny holes were made and instruments were inserted. We watched awestruck as the surgeon masterfully maneuvered the tools inside the cramped space with the guidance from the tube like camera inserted at one place, and the diseased gallbladder was skillfully taken out.??
As the field of surgery is expanding more and more, the size of the incisions made and the complications of the surgery are becoming smaller and smaller, while surgeons are reaching the nooks and corners of the body which until now were deemed impossible to reach.?
I hope this article gave the people awaiting surgery, prospective young surgeons and the ones thirsty for knowledge, an idea about? Surgery, and the dedication of the professionals involved. Though if you want to gain further knowledge on the subject by watching videos, I will take the precaution of warning off the faint-hearted; excuse my pun: since the images may be ?bloody.?? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Detoxification Decoded
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:12 pm
Detoxification Decoded
	
?
Our body is a place full of amazing activities, taking place in every spur of a second. Not only does it interact with cells, tissues and organs inside the body, but also with various external factors in the environment. The modern day environment is far more different than what we used to have decades back. It is full of toxic substances existing in all three forms; solid, liquid and gas.?
?
Frightening facts and figures
According to research, we have never been exposed to such a huge amount of toxins, as in the 21st century. The industrial revolution and advances in technology have paved the way for various new chemicals to be introduced into our world out of which most of them have not been tested properly to ensure our safety. In fact, there are about 100,000 new additions of toxins to the market where only about 10,000 have been tested by required means. Unfortunately, it is less than 5,000 which have been marked as safe for the human beings to be in contact with.? ?
Most of the toxins we come across in day to day life are hidden in plastics, polythene, synthetic fibres, pesticides, fertilizers, hormone injected animal food, flavours and food preservatives in the forms of heavy metals (arsenic, mercury, lead) and poisonous gases..? ?
So, we should not be surprised as to why we encounter various health issues on a daily basis, especially when there is a continuous exposure to toxins wherever step in to.??
We, humans absorb toxins through our skin, inhale with respiration, ingest with food and through several other ways. However, the ultimate outcome would be a heavy load of toxins in our body, which should be cleared as early as possible, before it leads to disastrous health ailments.??
Fortunately, our body is blessed with a unique and marvelous filtering system known as the Detoxification system which keeps on functioning to cleanse away agents which the body identifies as toxic.??
There are two major roles played by this system.
1. Detoxification of the body by excreting unhealthy toxins??
2. Anti-oxidant protection
What is Detoxification?
Detoxification is a simple yet effective process by which all the toxins are excreted from our body. It plays a major role in building the foundation for our optimal health and fitness.??
Respiratory system (lungs), skin, endocrine system, immunity system, lymphatic system, gastro-intestinal system, kidneys and liver are the major components through which detoxification is carried out. Additionally, nutrients are also required for the purpose of transportation of the corresponding toxins.??
An effective communication and collaboration between these are highly important to maintain a proper clearance of excretory products.?
?
Importance of various organs in detoxification Liver
This is a fascinating primary organ or ?Dirt-Cleansing Engine? present in our body which does the most important part of Detoxification.? Major processes carried out by the liver in?
detoxification include:??
?
?Filtering blood to cleanse out large toxins.??
	?Enzymatic break down of unwanted chemicals in 2 phases, where in the first phase it modifies chemicals in a simple arrangement and in the second phase modifies enzymes to act on.??
	?Synthesizing and secretion of bile for the excretion of fat-soluble toxins and cholesterol.??
Toxins usually exist in the form of fat soluble compounds in cells. The liver gradually converts them to water soluble ones by a process known as ?Glucoronidation? after which they bind to nutrients and get excreted through urine, sweat and bowel movements (faeces). Some fatty material, which have not been subjected to glucoronidation at first? due to some reason get deposited in the body?s fat layer. They cannot be cleansed out from the body and instead get accumulated over time, leading to a significant weight gain.??
?
Respiratory system
The respiratory system which consists of lungs and bronchi evacuate toxins in the form of carbonic gases. It also excretes phlegm which has entrapped most of the organisms entering through nostrils and undigested food particles. Unfortunately alveoli membranes do not have the capacity to filter solid waste, but chronic irritation by various particles like Asbestos and infectious microorganisms make the alveoli full of porous which tend to act as an emergency exit for toxins which are not been properly cleansed off by other detoxifying organs such as liver, kidneys and gastro-intestinal tract.??
?
Skin
Being the largest external organ in the body, skin has a major function in thermo regulation, secretion and excretion together with eliminating toxic substances which enter in to the body from the external environment.??
Skin eliminates various waste products in the form of crystals, soluble in liquid substances through the sweat glands. These are known to be the residuals of the metabolism of food containing protein (meat, fish, eggs, dairy products), uric acid and urea.??
?
Kidneys?
These act as filtering organs through which blood is purified by filtering toxic secretions to urine from the blood circulation. A proper hydration and an appropriate blood pressure are highly important in carrying out this mechanism in an optimal manner.??
?
Gastrointestinal system
This system which ranges from mouth to rectum carries a huge role in elimination of toxic substances from the body.??
When the first most steps of digestion are completed, nutrients such as the amino acids, sugars and vitamins are penetrated through the intestinal mucous membranes into venous capillaries which will then be transported to the liver. After the process of detoxification, taken place in the liver, these nutrients will get redistributed into the blood stream where filtered toxic agents such as drugs and heavy metals will be dumped into bile, secreted by the liver.??
Bile will in turn bind these substances and take to the small intestine and continue its pathway along the colon until it mixes with stools and eliminated from the body.?
?
Lymphatic system
This is a system which plays a major role in detoxification and defence. There are about 2 litres of lymphatic fluid which circulate inside the lymphatic vessels, distributed from top of the head to tip of the toes. This special type of lymph fluid penetrates the capillary membranes and make the waste products get evacuated via the venous blood stream, by the constant pressure?
gradient maintained.??
Spleen and Thymus which are known to be the other organs, producing lymphocytes fight against the infectious agents entering into the body by enhancing the production of white blood cells. As a result of the communication between lymph nodes and these organs, lymph nodes which are located closest to the site get swollen and become painful.?
?
The Importance of Anti-Oxidant protection
Free radicals are some unstable molecules, lacking an electron which try to get stable by acquiring electrons from body cells. As far as the origin is concerned, they are produced as some by-products of various metabolic activities taken place in the body including respiration, digestion and exercises.??
This will do no good to the human body rather than attacking the cells and resulting in their death by severe ?Oxidative Stress?, generated. Additionally, they tend to attack DNA as well, resulting in mutations which can lead to malignancies.??
Compounds such as Vitamin A, Vitamin E, Vitamin C, Beta-carotene, Selenium, and Lipoic acid are the commonest preventive anti-oxidants which effectively halt the oxidative stress?
from occurring.?
The Writer is a medical student
?
How can I know if I have toxic agents, accumulated in my body?
?
Poor functioning of any of the systems mentioned above along with nutritional deficiencies can lead to re-circulation of toxins and accumulation in the body resulting in various signs and symptoms-??
?
Weakness and fatigue??
	Gastric disturbances- Diarrhea, constipation, bloating??
	Headaches, migraine??
	Skin rashes??
	Memory loss (amnesia) and mental fog??
	Poor cognitive functions??
	Weight loss??
	Sleep disturbances??
	Metabolic syndrome??
Accordingly, maintaining an effective process of detoxification is not just important to our body, but ?Critical? to lead a health life style without getting susceptible to?
debilitating ailments.? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank launches special workshop series for MSMEs
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:04 am
DFCC Bank launches special workshop series for MSMEs
	
?
DFCC Bank has initiated a special series of workshops named ?Vardhana Sahaya Hamuwa? to nurture the growth of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Sri Lanka.?
The primary focus of these programmes is to increase the financial literacy and financial management abilities of the MSME sector in addition to the financial services offered.
The first two such workshops were held at the DFCC Bank branches in Balangoda and Kahawatte in August and September 2017.?
Dilhan De Silva, Senior Assistant Director at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, was the guest speaker at both events and shared his expertise on ?Entrepreneurship and literacy on finance management.? The audience consisted of more than 100 local MSMEs, spanning agriculture, industrial and service sectors. They actively engaged the speaker in questions and clarifications, making this event a vital learning opportunity for the entrepreneurs.?
?The government has identified the MSME sector as an important strategic sector in its overall policy objectives and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has supported this agenda in the policies implemented to boost this sector through technical and financial assistance. DFCC Bank is renowned for its SME banking expertise and has steadfastly supported this sector from our inception,? says Lakshman Silva ? CEO, DFCC Bank. ?We proactively engage in drawing down from several lines of credit available to us for MSME lending, and our commitment to the development of MSMEs outside the Western Province is significant. Our dedicated MSME unit has introduced these workshops in reflection of our commitment to the MSME sector, to encourage Sri Lankan entrepreneurs and to nurture their growth.?
In 2016, DFCC Bank?s dedicated MSME unit launched Vardhana Sahaya, a product created specially for MSMEs in Sri Lanka, which offers a range of financial services including loans, overdrafts, leases and bank guarantees.?
The loan facilities have been created with MSME needs and challenges in mind, and offer a wide range of options: loans for start-ups, for expanding or relocating machinery and operational activities, as well as for working capital.?
Vardhana Sahaya clients are also entitled to a special free insurance scheme developed by DFCC Bank. The MSME unit also provides information on creating financial plans and offers other personalized resources to help MSME clients grow their business and foster localized economic development throughout the country.
In response to the positive feedback and MSME engagement seen at the first two workshops, DFCC Bank plans to host these special MSME workshops at all their branches in the near future, providing a vital learning opportunity to entrepreneurs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Duty on agri equipment to be removed: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 02:12 pm
Duty on agri equipment to be removed: President
	
President Maithripala Sirisena, addressing the National Vap Mangul Ceremony, said today that the duty on agricultural technology equipment would be removed soon.
The National Vap Magul Ceremony was launched near the Thibbotuwawa Tank in Kekirava this morning under the patronage of President Sirisena.
President Maithripala Sirisena said the previous governments did not have clear Housing or Agricultural Policies and as a result the country is witnessing the destruction of vast swathes of paddy and coconut lands to be used for housing projects.
He said this had contributed to a shortage of coconuts and rice forcing the government to import these commodities.
The President said politicians and public servants have permitted businessmen to purchase these lands for housing projects and this is why it was vital for the government to introduce housing and agricultural policies to stop this kind of destruction before it gets even worse.
The President said most other countries in the world have such policies so that and houses can be only built in areas demarcated for housing construction.
?In Sri Lanka millions of metric tons of food items such as paddy, rice, vegetables, fruits and other crops are destroyed by monkeys, elephants, wild boars and peacocks. The damage they cause is huge,? he said.
The President said in the wake of the National Food Production campaign, the government would not permit any state institution to have uncultivated land and all heads of government institutions are required to identify such lands and use them for food, vegetable, fruits or alternative crop cultivation and provide a monthly report on the progress.
"There are cultivatable lands belonging to the rich people in Colombo. They sometimes do not even visit those lands. The Ministry of Agriculture, Mahaweli Development Authority and other State institutions involved in food supply will cultivate 800,000 hectares with paddy in the Mahaweli zones alone during the Maha season. To ensure the success of this campaign, the 2018 Budget will give tax relief to farmers for the purchase of agricultural equipment and machinery like tractors, water pumps, etc.," he said.
"This campaign is not a government endeavour or a party effort. It is a national movement aimed at improving the per capita income of farmers and their social status, to double the annual food production and put an end to food imports. The huge drought flash floods that devastated this country during past one and half years have severely affected food production compelling the government to import 500,000 metric tons of rice. The high price of coconuts has also been brought down with the involvement of the CWE. But if we do not find a sustainable solution to successfully handle food production notwithstanding whether there were floods or droughts, Sri Lanka would never be able to achieve self sufficiency in food and sustainable development," he said.
The President said this was a good opportunity for those who display posters, stage protests, launch strikes and picketing against the government and disrupting public life because they can join this noble campaign and become partners of development and contribute to the welfare of the people and farmers in particular.
He said the history of mankind involved a constant struggle with the nature.
"Floods, droughts and landslides are not restricted only to Sri Lanka. Other countries in the world have suffered more from natural disasters. The US, EU countries and Asia have been devastated by natural disasters this year leaving thousands of people in various degrees of destitution or degradation," the President said.
Agriculture Minister Duminda Dissanayaka and Deputy Minister Wasantha Aluwihare also spoke. (Sandun A. Jayasekera reporting from Kekirawa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: English:Our or their way?
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:00 am
English:Our or their way?
	
At the same time, concurrently English Our Way is the official policy regarding the teaching of the language in our schools, and I believe in our universities too
The problem with English Our Way, which I have written on elsewhere and have explored with unabated interest, is roughly the same problem with affirmative action policies?
Those who were elected to power, who then transformed a much needed social process to a narrow-minded, chauvinistic political process?
What?s forgotten here is that in as much as what transpired after 1956 was an uprooted social process, what existed before it could hardly be referred to as an arcadia
Anagarika Dharmapala
Because of the colonial baggage it?s associated with, English as a language is both a hiramanaya and kaduwa. It allures us and distances us. We love it and are afraid of it. We want it but can?t have it. At the same time, concurrently English Our Way is the official policy regarding the teaching of the language in our schools, and I believe in our universities too. The concept as such is easy: Sri Lanka must get rid of its colonial baggage and that by being empowered to speak the colonialist?s language the way its people want. Warts and all. Taken it itself, there?s nothing wrong with this line of thinking. The proverbial devil, however, and as always, is in the details.?
Regi Siriwardena ?
The problem with English Our Way, which I have written on elsewhere and have explored with unabated interest, is roughly the same problem with affirmative action policies, no matter how well structured and well intentioned they are, since at the end of the day both reward and even subsidise mediocrity. It?s one thing to praise your child when he or she plays the piano, it?s another thing to think of sending him or her to Juilliard even before the basics are picked up and mastered. English Our Way (which I will refer to as ?EOW? hereafter) substitutes complacency for precision, encouragement for pedagogy, and, probably worse of all, staticity for dynamism. A language can?t be predicated purely on how a collective wields it,?after all.? ?
In Sri Lanka and at the outset, English is still very much a marker of distinction, status, and privilege, as opposed to ability. The irony is that language being a great leveller has almost always been used, not to communicate, but to divide. The bigger irony with respect to English, however, is that its function as a social divider is based on how it is spoken. Not how it?s read or written. That?s why we still haven?t produced a great prose stylist, a great poet or novelist or even playwright, in English. Snobbery is and always will be, when based on a language, dependent on how the snobs, or the ?uppities? as I call them, articulate. Not on how they write, not on whether they?ve read, and not on whether they?re productive. It?s less a matter of learning to wield it at all than of learning to get through the elocution class.? ?
A language is nothing if it isn?t made to live, to breathe. English, in our country that is, hasn?t been made to live and breathe for a long, long time, particularly at the hands of those who insist on speaking it for the purpose of social mobility. It?s largely a variant of my earlier argument for cultural modernity: if we don?t take to the world outside without losing our grip on our cultural sphere, we can?t progress one inch.? ?
The problem with English here is that we are divided between the gama and the city. Those in the gama, proverbially speaking, are legitimately interested in gaining worldly knowledge (in terms of literature, philosophy, popular culture, etc) for the betterment of their society. They lack the requisite skills in lingua franca, however. Those in the city, again proverbially speaking, are less interested in worldly knowledge than in spawning their peers. They have those skills. It?s a division between those who can do but don?t have, and those who can?t do but do have. The one aren?t endowed but can do wonders, while the others are but, pathetically, can?t.? ?
I am amused whenever those who lived and were educated at elite institutions before the 1956 election and revolt contend that they lived in peace and amity because there were no linguistic barriers: both Sinhalese and Tamil, and Muslims and Burghers thrown in for good measure, spoke the same language. English. What?s forgotten here is that in as much as what transpired after 1956 was an uprooted social process, what existed before it could hardly be referred to as an arcadia. No less a person than Regi Siriwardena, who himself was no basher of English, called a spade a spade when he cogently pointed out the mistake of this pre-1956 generation: confusing their privileged childhoods for the notion, and myth, that a completely English education had done away with the inter-ethnic rifts which were to emerge in the fifties, sixties, and seventies. It?s in this context that what happened after swabasha must be assessed.? ?
Swabasha wasn?t a misconceived project, but like EOW, its intentions, laudable as they were, concealed certain deplorable flaws. The thinking behind the movement that bred swabasha, which was contorted politically to yield Sinhala Only, was that no nation was going to develop without coming to terms with its history, its heritage. On the other hand this did not and does not mean a rubbishing of the colonialist?s language, or for that matter his customs. Anagarika Dharmapala, that much vilified national figure, was therefore careful in differentiating between absorbing the West and aping it: for him, we were preoccupied with the latter, not the former. That is why, as records indicate, he went to the extent of teaching the Sinhalese to eat with a fork and a spoon. Malinda Seneviratne wrote on this and observed the following: ?Acquiring the weapons of the enemy or in the very least picking up mannerisms [makes] it harder for the enemy to distinguish himself/herself from the ?rabble?.?? ?
Naturally then, swabasha never meant ?letting go? of English. But that?s what we did. Those who were elected to power, who then transformed a much needed social process to a narrow-minded, chauvinistic political process, made it a habit to condemn the elite and the language of the elite while wallowing in it. They praised the game iskole, the sangha, veda, guru, govi, and kamkaru, while ensuring that their kith and kin didn?t go to that celebrated iskole but would learn their letters and obtain their higher education in the big city school and overseas. This dichotomy between practice and precept has been sustained all these decades, Sadly. One comes across them in very many speeches, by our officials, even today, when they speak about the wretched and the helpless. These officials aren?t bothered by the wretched and the helpless, of course: they just want to turn their sympathy for them into political mileage.?
?
By letting go of the lingua franca we gave into what those we fought against ? the elite theoreticians and ivory tower scholars ? had wanted all along: a different and more insidious form of social discrimination. What swabasha did was to hide away social divisions without really hiding them. By temporarily consoling the underprivileged, 1956 repressed their concerns and anxieties and at the same time sustained those divisions which had been ailing them until then. The problem wasn?t with the movement, clearly, but with the people who had been elected to direct it. It was as much an attempt at levelling our society as it was at getting that society closer to the kind of cultural modernity, rationality, and industrialisation that the likes of the Anagarika here and Tagore there, during the Bengal Renaissance,?had envisioned.? ?
It didn?t take long for those concerns and anxieties, of the underprivileged, to re-emerge. There?s a symbiotic relationship in any country between the language of the discriminating minority, the language of the rabble, and the insurrections and revolutions such a rift provokes. It happened in Russia, where the mother tongue was discarded in favour of French (which readers of War and Peace will know is what the aristocrats speak), and it happened in Sri Lanka, twice: in 1971 and 1988. While it would be simplistic to root these in language barriers, they did have a say, and still have a say. Because those who are rather mediocre in the language fear it, they believe that their inability is a sign that it shouldn?t be learnt at all, which is why the children of 1971 and 1988 are the hardcore radicals the children of 1956, who were their fathers and mothers, were not. The latter were more often than not idealists, who genuinely believed that the country had opened up to them. It has not. Not yet.? ?
So after all these insurrections and calls to arms, after the stalled revolution that was 1956 was aborted, what do have today? A program that teaches us that language standards are very many, that there is no one standard or yardstick which can be used to assess ability and mediocrity. I am no originalist, and when it comes to English there probably are several standards (Indian, Jamaican, Singaporean, etc) which can be coupled with and separated from its birthplace. But there?s a difference between those countries and ours. That difference, which I pointed out above, is that we are still carrying that burdensome colonial baggage. India has, for the most, let go of this baggage: that?s why they aren?t bothered with diction and accents and even elocution (the latter of which I studied, and was chastened by). They don?t have the English-as-she-should-be-spoke mentality we do, which is how they developed over the years.? ?
To be sure, not everything in India should be emulated, after all theirs is a vastly different territory. But when it comes to the dissemination of English, which is so voluminous that it deserves a less sketchy treatment than mine, our neighbours provide a good starting point. Which is where I rest my case, for now: the more you give into the notion that mediocrity in a powerful language is alright, the more you give into the rift between the uppities and the underprivileged, between the have-nots and the snobs. Language is still potent, a divider as opposed to a leveller. It remains a sign of cultural hegemony. Even in India, and especially in Sri Lanka. English Our Way, by the looks of it therefore, may well be an extension, no matter how well paved with intentions the road to it is, of what we saw after 1956, 1971, and 1988.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Enough of sil redi,sari pota and saataka
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:00 am
Enough of sil redi,sari pota and saataka
	
Making a comeback JVP clung on to CBK?s Sari pota, and won 39 plus seats
	The Governor, the next day, playing second fiddle to her CM, hurriedly summoned an inquiry into the osari affair
Acute malnutrition in children below 5 years is an unhealthy 14 percent. 29 percent of kids who are between the ages 5 and 10 years are under nourished.? ?
Though insignificant compared to the billions squandered by the Rajapaksa regime, 600 million had been siphoned out of state coffers and busted on a Sil Redi campaign to boost former strong man?s image. This was done during the run up to the Presidential polls in end 2014. Committing two crimes in one stroke? waste or misappropriation of tax-payer?s money and the violation of Election Laws- resulted in two public officers sentenced to three-years rigorous imprisonment. They were in hospital for a few days only to be sent back home.??
?Some disgruntled politicians like Gammanpila and Wimal Weerawansa, leftovers of yesteryear?s dominant Marxist forces like Vasu and Bhahu, Prof. Vitharana, DEW and the JVP, along with politicians from several minority parties, who are desperate for straws, have mastered the art of evading uncertain or tricky positions during a general election. Out of all politicians, who have a liking or weakness for clinging, members of the JVP own the greatest record. They have the experience in hanging on to the Sari pota [CBK] Osari pota [Sirimavo], Sataka pota[MR] and Elephant tail [RW].??
?The JVP in 1970 got a hold of Sirimavo?s Osari pota, but within 12 months staged an amateurish ?armed revolution? only to be crushed by the security forces. However, Sirimavo had a soft corner for the leaders of the rebellion who escaped death. But they had to languish in jail for a few years before JRJ committed a blunder in 1978 by releasing them. The master strategist thought he could pit them against Sirimavo, whom he feared most for her charisma and popularity, which he himself lacked. The JVP turned its guns on him after the infamous referendum in 1982, then came the ?83? Black July programme which they used to vandalize state property. This provided JRJ with an excuse to stage the next blunder; he banned the outfit altogether. Few years later the underground organization resorted to terrorism using the T-56. Wijeweera honeymooned with Premadasa for a short time in 1988. The JVP hung on to his sarong pota for a short while and turned its guns on his autocratic rule. A year later Wijeweera was thrown alive into the incinerator at the crematorium. The new-look JVP didn?t ditch its? old habits. Making a comeback it clung on to CBK?s Sari pota, and created history by winning 39 plus seats in the legislature in 2004. But within 12 months the JVP discarded her to hang on to MR?s Sataka pota. The rest is history. [It appears that they are presently clutching RW?s elephantine tail, but loosely with one hand].??
Ashraff and the Sari pota
It happened in the 10th Parliament under CBK?s PA rule (1994-2000). The final session in parliament was in progress, and Speaker K. B. Ratnayake was to take the vote on the Budget at the end of the committee stage. Minutes before that, Srimani Athulathmudali, Minister of Transport, environment and Women Affairs walked in to the chamber and took her seat next to M.H.M. Ashraff, Minister of Ports and Shipping and leader of Sri Lanka Muslim Congress .??
The JVP in 1970 got a hold of Sirimavo?s Osari pota, but after a 12-month revolution was crushed by security forces
The fair minister, widow of Lalith, apparently had lost her calm and was in an irritated mood. As soon as she took her seat near Ashraff she fired the first salvo, ?You think you are the beginning and end of everything?.??
The leader of Sri Lanka Muslim Congress knew that it was intended for him. He retorted, ?Don?t shout, why are you shouting at me? This is not the place for you to raise these matters?.?
The exchange was on shipping policy and in the manner in which the Ministry of Ports and Shipping handled it. Athulathmudali didn?t give up, she retorted ?You think you can have your way in all these things?. Minister A H M Fowzie and Minister Indika Gunawardena, closely observed the drama. ?The President has asked me to expedite the matter, and this is not the place to raise your voice,? Ashraff, who hailed from Samanthurai, replied.??
?Do you think.... you know the whole lot, you are hiding behind the sari pota,? Athulathmudali responded. Finally, Gunawardena was compelled to intervene and asked Athulathmudali, ?Madam why are you losing your cool????
Three-and-a-half km Bridal Sari Pota
The Chief Minister, undoubtedly the best out of the present lot, was seen playing the role of an interlude entertainer instructing 8-12 year-old kids in school uniform to hold the three-and-a-half km Osari pota of a bride. All this was in an attempt to establish a world record! The Governor the next day, playing second fiddle to her CM, hurriedly summoned an inquiry into the osari affair and discharged the CM, who is her name sake, and blamed the education officials for the ?blunder?. This reminds this writer of how the Prime Minister rushed to defend his man responsible for the unprecedented Bond Scam that ruined the economy and the deposed king?s unreserved declaration of his ?legal order? in defence of the Sil Redi Scam. The National Child Protection Authority, which is clueless about the percentage of kids under age five, who suffer from acute malnutrition, and those between the ages 5-10 who are undernourished, also rushed to the rescue of the kids. This was while parents and the children seemed quite happy with this new experience. Instead of clutching on to a Osari pota the mature Kandyans could have suggested a better alternative to the bride and the groom, if they really intended entering the Guinness Book of World Records.??
Activists, professional groups, corporate leaders, media, intelligentsia and the right-thinking politically neutral people should stand up firmly against this unmanageable extremism and corruption and influence the youth and peace loving people of this nation to abhor the petty-minded politically biased pseudo patriots whose only aim is to grab power or remain in power and also secure their slots in political parties and the state with the help of certain NGOs and out-dated pressure out-fits that aid and abet them in committing frauds and plundering the assets of this country.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fixing a frozen shoulder
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:31 pm
Fixing a frozen shoulder
	
?
A very painful shoulder with lots of stiffness and inability to lift the arm above the head might be due to a condition called frozen shoulder. The more complicated medical term given for this is ?adhesive capsulitis ? but this name is not used often. There are many reasons for frozen shoulder and also various treatment options available.??
?
?
People between the ages of approximately 40-60 might be affected and yes it affects more women than men. There are a few underlying conditions that might cause a frozen shoulder. Here are a few facts about frozen shoulder that might tweak your interests.? ?
Many patients think that this condition affects the bones of the shoulder. Which is a myth. The shoulder joint with its bones are healthy and unaffected. The condition affects a covering outside the shoulder joint called the joint capsule. Usually this capsule/cover protects the joint from various outer impacts.??
Imagine a rubber hose with all the ability to bend in any direction. The elasticity of the rubber hose allows all sorts of movements. But if some external factor reduces the elasticity, the hose would end up as a rigid structure.??
Similarly the elastic rubbery nature of the joint capsule needs to be preserved in order for the shoulder joint to move in any direction. If this is lost, the shoulder will become painful and stiff. In some cases both shoulders are affected.??
?
Fixing a Frozen Shoulder Underlying Conditions
Diabetes, especially uncontrolled sugar level is a key reason that predispose the patients to frozen shoulder/ adhesive capsulitis. Thyroid gland problems, trauma to the shoulder region are a few?
other reasons.??
So how do patients present? There are a few phases any person undergoes. Initially patients complain of severe pain especially when moving away the arm from the body, and try to lift it over the head. Then later they have pain and stiffness both. Stiffness prevents them from lifting the arm even if they can withstand the pain. The arm feels stuck / frozen at the shoulder level. Movements like scratching the back of chest or touching the back of head are difficult or impossible. The third phase is when pain disappears and stiffness remains. The forth and the final phase is when everything returns to normal. However not all patients experience?
these phases.?
Other than frozen shoulder there are many conditions that could mimic the symptoms. Shoulder joint inflammation/swelling because of conditions like rheumatoid arthritis can cause pain and stiffness. The stiffness is worse in the mornings and gets better as the day progresses. There are conditions called sub-acromial bursitis and supraspinatus tendinitis. Again lifting the shoulder in these diseases can cause pain. Problems with the neck/ upper part of spine can cause referred shoulder pain.?
Osteoarthritis can present with shoulder pain too. There is pain and stiffness after prolonged periods of rest. In osteoarthritis patients have features of wear and tear of other joints such as the knees.?
Ultimately the shoulder is involved in most of the things that we do. Imagine eating, brushing your hair, shaving, washing the face or even reaching out for a cup. All these movements require the shoulder. This is the reason why frozen shoulder causes so much agony among the patients.?
?
Prevention and Treatment
So what are the solutions? First of all, the underlying condition/ cause should be properly treated. If I put it in a simple way, when the consultants prescribe treatment to a patient, there are certain things that we expect back from the patient himself. In badly controlled diabetes, proper blood sugar levels achieved through medication, diet and exercise is vital. It is the same when it comes to thyroid gland problems.??
Pain relief is achieved through non steroid anti-inflammatory agents(NSAIDS). These are not just painkillers like paracetamol or morphine. They somewhat modify the joint structure so that patients regain some independence in mobility. Your consultant will decide whether the NSAIDS are suitable or not. A certain category of patients require NSAIDS for several weeks to reap?
the benefits.??
Steroids like prednisolone and methylprednisolone are tried as well. Steroids have side effects like escalating the blood sugar levels in a diabetic patient, weight gain etc.. But if the benefits outweigh the disadvantages, a short course of these tablets are very useful. Steroids are given in the form of an injection as well, which is a very effective intervention.??
Shoulder joint mobilisation is a must for all who have frozen shoulder. In fact, that is one of the few steps we try initially in any patient who presents to a hospital in United Kingdom. Mobilisation is done through extremely simple exercises which can be practiced at home. The diagrams of how to do exercises are provided and the patient is given?
specific instructions.??
If the muscles are very stiff, certain tablets which relieve muscle spasm are used for a short duration. Prolonged pain causes muscles to contract, and the tired muscles release lactic acid. This acid in turn further aggravate pain and this goes on as a vicious cycle. In order to break the cycle, we give muscle relaxants.??
Usually the above methods are bound to work but occasionally if stiffness persists, we refer the patient to the orthopaedic surgeons. For frozen shoulder there are several excellent surgical solutions like manipulation under anaesthesia, arthroscopic capsular release and hydrodilatation.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gammanpila files FR petition against EC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 08:45 pm
Gammanpila files FR petition against EC
	
A Fundamental Rights petition was filed in the Supreme Court today by Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) leader Udaya Gammanpila requesting the Elections Commission (EC) to hold elections to the Sabaragamuwa, North Central and Eastern Provincial Councils without delay.
He told media that Article 78 of the Constitution had been violated by bringing amendments to the Provincial Councils Act.
?Filing the petition is a wake up call to the Elections Commission which is in a lethargic mode. We hope this will push the officials to hold PC polls,? Mr. Gammanpila said and added that the Attorney General and the Speaker were to blame for not calling a referendum on the PC Bill.
He proceeded to say that both the Attorney General and the Speaker were responsible. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: H?tota protest: 26 arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:08 pm
H?tota protest: 26 arrested
	
At least 26 people, who were protesting at the Indian Consulate office in Hambantota, were arrested by the Hambantota police for behaving in a violent manner, Police said.
The police used tear gas and water cannons to disperse the protestors this morning.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Half of Iran?s banks should close or merge, top banker says
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:06 am
Half of Iran?s banks should close or merge, top banker says
	
REUTERS: The number of banks in Iran should at least halve over the next six years, with closures and mergers needed to modernise an industry laden with toxic loans, one of the country?s top bankers said.
Parviz Aghili, Chief Executive of Middle East Bank, estimated at a conference in Zurich that a full re-organisation of the Iranian banking sector?s roughly US $ 700 billion balance sheet would cost US $ 180 billion to US $ 200 billion.
?And we cannot afford it,? he said. Instead, Aghili, a former HSBC banker, favours a multi-step programme to eventually bring Iran?s banking industry in line with new Basel III global standards.
Management would get three years to improve their balance sheets. After that, banks whose trading book assets remain less than 6 percent of total risk-weighted assets would be ?completely shut down,? he said.
By contrast, banks whose ratios range from 6 percent to 10 percent could merge and seek new capital to survive, with dividends forbidden until they have stocked their balance sheets with adequate capital.
?Over the course of six years, we would get - at least out of the 35 banks we have - about 13 to somewhere around half of them surviving,? Aghili told more than 200 people at the Europe-Iran Forum, an annual event to promote closer economic ties.
?The government has to be gutsy, whether we like it or not, and shut down some of those banks,? he said.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Having a closer look?
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:39 pm
Having a closer look?
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa is studying the draft of the Constitution, which was presented in parliament recently, at his official residence in Colombo. Pix by Shantha Ratnayake
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heavy traffic in Town Hall
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 05:36 pm
Heavy traffic in Town Hall
	
Heavy traffic was reported along the Dharmapala Mawatha in Town Hall due to a protest which was being held outside the Ministry of Buddha Sasana, Police said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: HNB serves Anuradhapura entrepreneurs under Citi-CCC programme
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 10:59 am
HNB serves Anuradhapura entrepreneurs under Citi-CCC programme
	
?
Citi Bank in collaboration with the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and Hatton National Bank initiated the ?Rural Economic Empowerment Programme? in June 2015 with the objective of empowering rural entrepreneurs through improving their financial literacy and business management skills as well as facilitating micro financing through mainstream banks.
The first phase of the project assisted over 400 rural entrepreneurs in four rural villages in Matara and Ratnapura districts.?
Satisfied with the success of the first phase of the project, Citi provided the financial assistance to continue uplifting of livelihoods of people in rural areas by implementing a second phase of the project targeting a few more remote villages.
Under the second phase of the project, Hatton National Bank provided loan facilities to 30 micro and small scale businessmen in Nochchiyagama, Nachchaduwa, Nuwaragampalatha and Galnewa DS Divisions of Anuradhapura district on 22nd?
September, 2017.?
Citi ? Ceylon Chamber Rural Economic Empowerment Programme especially selected the remote villages in these four DS Divisions as the rural entrepreneurs in these areas needed assistance to improve commercial viability of their businesses.
These beneficiaries were first identified by the Anuradhapura District Chamber of Commerce with the active support of Divisional Secretaries and relevant officials of the respective DS Divisions.?
Citi ? Ceylon Chamber Rural Economic Empowerment Programme first created awareness on the project and services offered under the programme among the interested beneficiaries and they were subsequently trained on financial literacy, identifying commercially viable businesses and preparation of business plans for commencing new businesses or expansion of existing businesses.?
They were also given necessary guidance on ways and means of sourcing finance from the formal financial sector. During the loan disbursement event held on this day, the beneficiaries with viable business plans were given loans by Anuradhapura, Nochchiyagama and Thambuttegama branches of HNB.?
The beneficiaries, who received loans were engaged in micro scalefood processing, ornamental fish cultivation, mushroom cultivation, making school bags, operating audio-visual businesses and running auto repair and maintenance workshops.?
Asela Ratnayake, Vice President and Head of Institutional Finance Group,Citi Sri Lanka, Shanaka Waduge, Head of Corporate Affairs, CitiSri Lanka, Jude Fernando, Deputy General Manager ? SME and Development Finance, HNB, Senior Managers of HNB in the North Central Region and Chandrarathna D. Vithanage, Senior Assistant Secretary General of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce took part in the event, representing their respective organizations.
Chandrarathna D. Vithanage, Senior Assistant Secretary General of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, in his opening remarks highlighted that though the programme facilitates micro finance, this differs from a usual micro finance programme as Citi-Ceylon Chamber Rural Economic Empowerment Programme focused on providing an integrated package of services including improving financial literacy and business management skills, providing technical know-how and business development services and exposure to the best practices in order to make their chosen businesses commercially viable, which will help them access financial services from formal baking system.? ?
Speaking at the event, Jude Fernando, Deputy General Manager ? SME and Development Finance of HNB mentioned that the HNB has been supporting the rural entrepreneurs through ?Gemi Pubuduwa? programme for over two decades and is privileged to partner with Citi- Ceylon Chamber Rural Economic Empowerment Programme, which was funded by Citi and implemented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.?
Shanaka Waduge, Head of Corporate Affairs, Citi Sri Lanka commenting on Citi?s Rural Empowerment CSR initiative, declared Citi Sri Lanka was proud to partner with HNB and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce.?
Elaborating on Citi Sri Lanka?s programmes in line with its global initiatives, she stressed on Citi?s efforts to help nurture rural micro scale businesses lacking in adequate access to finance and technology.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: HNB to offer doubled rewards throughout October
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:02 am
HNB to offer doubled rewards throughout October
	
Sri Lanka?s most customer-centric bank, HNB PLC, announced the return of its extremely popular Singithi Savings Month that will give children across the island a chance to save and receive valuable gifts from 21st September to 31st October.
?This time the popular annual promotion returns with an even greater pool of gifts and rewards for young depositors, the Singithi Savings Month is designed to help inculcate the savings habit in children of all ages as a first step towards a more stable and secure financial future and is one of the longest running promotions for children.
?As part of the promotion, children who make a deposit of Rs. 5,000 will receive a Bluetooth LED fidget spinner, while deposits of Rs. 10,000 and above will receive action figures or dolls. Deposits of Rs. 25,000 stand to receive a racing car, flying minion toy or dolls, while deposits over Rs. 50,000 can receive either a Barbie Doll set, a Smart Watch or a remote controlled drone.
?Deposits of Rs. 100,000 will receive a 16? BMX Bike, while deposits of Rs. 150,000 will receive a 20? Mountain Bike and deposits of Rs. 200,000 will receive a 24? or a 26? Mountain Bike. Notably, deposits of Rs. 500,000 and Rs. 1,000,000 will receive half a gold sovereign and a full gold sovereign respectively.
?World Children?s Day is celebrated on the 1st of October around the world as a day dedicated to celebrate children and conduct initiatives to promote mutual exchange and understanding among children and secondly to initiate action to benefit and promote the welfare of the world?s children.?
?It is always a true pleasure to announce the start of the HNB Singithi Savings Month. This promotion offers one of the most extensive rewards schemes available and comes at a time when we all work hard to build a sincere engagement with our youngest customers.
??By making the act of savings exciting and fun, we teach these children vital lessons about the importance of developing a savings habit from a young age and the tremendous positive impact that it can have on their lives. Therefore, we invite all parents and children to visit any HNB branch throughout the month of October and make even a small deposit and take advantage of this valuable offer,? Kalum Wijesooriya, Assistant General Manager ? Deposits and Remittances and Chief Employee Experience Officer of HNB said.
?Depositors during this year?s Singithi Savings Month will also be eligible for both the ?Double Thagi? Carnival as well as the HNB Jumbo Land gift scheme for Singithi Account Holders, effectively giving kids the chance to win twice as many prizes for the simple act of making a deposit.
?In addition to these extensive offerings, HNB also announced a series of fun-filled activities specially organized in celebration of Singithi Savings Day on 28th October 2017 including its popular annual art competition for Singithi Account holders in two categories groups between the ages of 4-7 and 8-12 years of age. This year will also see the launch of the Singithi Singing competition between the ages of 8-16 and a Fancy Dress parade which will be open to children of all ages.
?In addition to the art competition, a hose of other thrilling activities including games, and face-painting have also been organized while this year, HNB will also be conducting workshops and presentations for parents on savings, in order to build greater awareness and engagement with the whole family.
?Another notable addition to this year?s Singithi Savings Month is the inclusion of a Singing Competition, with 450 winners above the age of six from all the competitions being awarded together with the month?s top 100 depositors with an exciting educational, tour organized by HNB.
 
		
==============================
## Title: ICAN wins Nobel Peace Prize-2017
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 02:55 pm
ICAN wins Nobel Peace Prize-2017
	
The Norwegian Nobel Committee today awarded the Nobel Peace Prize-2017 to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN).
?The organization is receiving the award for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons,? the Nobel Committee said.
The ICAN is a coalition of non-governmental organizations from around 100 different countries around the globe.
Through its work, ICAN has been a driving force in prevailing upon the world?s nations to pledge to cooperate with all relevant stakeholders in efforts to stigmatise, prohibit and eliminate nuclear weapons.
To date, 108 states have made such a commitment, known as the Humanitarian Pledge.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Inmate?s death: Divulapitiya Acting Crimes OIC remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 04:02 pm
Inmate?s death: Divulapitiya Acting Crimes OIC remanded
	
The Acting Crimes OIC of the Divulapitiya Police, IP Saman Priyanka, was remanded till October 10 when he would be produced for an identification parade. He was produced in the Negombo Magistrate?s Court today.
He was arrested by the Negombo Police on Thursday (5) over the death of a suspect who was detained at the Negombo Prison.
An investigation was launched after a 50-year-old prisoner at the Negombo Prisons died after being admitted to hospital the previous day. (Hubert Fernando)
 
		
==============================
## Title: JO protest tear-gassed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 12:31 pm
JO protest tear-gassed
	
Police fired tear gas and water canon to disperse Joint Opposition protestors who staged a protest at the Indian Consulate office in Hambantota a short while ago.
Joint Opposition MPs Namal Rajapaksa, D.V. Upul, Arundika Fernando, Kumar Welgama, Mahindananda Aluthgamage and Chamal Rajapaksa participated in the protest.
The Hambantota Magistrate Court yesterday issued a restraining order preventing protests by MP Namal Rajapaksa and D.V. Upul in the vicinity of the Hambantota Port, Indian Consulate and the roads leading to the Hambantota Port today.
?
Video by Roshan Gunasekara
 
		
==============================
## Title: Laying solid financial footing with NDB Wealth Kid?s Saver plans
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:08 am
Laying solid financial footing with NDB Wealth Kid?s Saver plans
	
?
On Children?s Day 2017, celebrated in Sri Lanka on October 1st, don?t just spend money on toys or treats, instead take a serious decision to invest in your children?s dreams, and enable them to take a significant step forward in achieving a financially independent future for themselves.?
?Putting your money into a children?s savings account, which holds it for years with only minimal interest earned, is just another way to stop you from achieving financial independence for your kids, for instance when they require it to pursue their dream career?, noted Dilan Jayakody, a concerned parent, and Retail Sales Manager at expert financial planner NDB Wealth.?
Further, NDB Wealth recommends those who are truly worried about their kids look into investing in higher impact investment plans, such as Kid?s Saver and Kid?s Saver Plus, both from NDB Wealth, which allow access to real, and smart, savings.
In particular, the compounding of interest, or earning interest on interest, is one very important factor that parents must consider when it comes to smarter savings, and especially long-term savings as is often the case with children. Consider an initial investment of Rs. 100,000, with an additional Rs. 10,000 contributed per month for 15 years. With most banks children?s savings, you earn a rate of return of around 5.5 percent. But, with the NDB Wealth Kid?s Saver plan, the rate of return increases to around 10 percent. So, undoubtedly, the additional earnings at the end of 15 years will likely be quite significant.
Beyond earning higher interest rates only, NDB Wealth Kid?s Saver and Kid?s Saver Plus plans also allow for withdrawals at any time, as well as ?ploughing back? every rupee earned into your children?s account.?
To get started, you can visit the NDB Wealth website to check out available plans for children, women, families and retirement income. You can even access the website?s ?Auto Wealth Planner? function to custom design a plan that meets your individualized financial need. Alternatively, you can call or visit NDB Wealth to contact a Relationship Manager, enabling an even more personalized level of service.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Medical student arrested for abandoning 12-day old infant
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 06:05 am
Medical student arrested for abandoning 12-day old infant
	
A young female medical student who was arrested on charges of deserting her 12-day-old infant son outside a dispensary in Saliyapura was produced before Anuradhapura Chief Magistrate and was later released on a personal bail of Rs.100,000.
Police told the court that the 22-year-old woman was a university student and a resident of Polonnaruwa and had an affair with a youth in her village.When she became pregnant, reportedly by the youth, she had rented a house at Puliyankulama where she lived by herself until she entered the Anuradhapura Hospital for the confinement.
In her statement to the police she admitted to having deserted the baby to keep this matter hidden from her parents and fellow students.
The police had rushed to the scene after receiving an anonymous telephone call to find the child wrapped in a piece of cloth.
A DNA report obtained from the Genetec Institute in Borella in proof of the suspect?s culpability was submitted by the police.
Anuradhapura Police Women?s and Children?s Bureau informed the court that they would seek the Attorney General?s advice to institute further action. The police said the infant was admitted to the Anuradhapura Hospital and was in a stable condition.
Anuradhapura Chief Magistrate and Additional District Judge Harshan Kekunawela passed the order. (Upali Ananda)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Myth Buster
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:21 pm
Myth Buster
	
MYTH: Wearing someone else?s spectacles can damage your eyesight.??
BUSTED: ?No, it will not cause any harm to the eyes. If you wear someone else?s spectacles it may not be compatible and there might be some discomfort.. If you wear a spectacle that is compatible for you, for example if the person is myopic lets say 1.5 and the other person is wearing the same lenses then nothing will happen. If the type is different then there will be a certain amount of discomfort but nothing will happen to the eye. When you remove the glasses the discomfort will go,? explained Dr. M. Wijetunge, Retired Consultant Eye Surgeon of the Ragama Teaching Hospital.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nanda Malani receives Darshana Soori Sammana
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:51 pm
Nanda Malani receives Darshana Soori Sammana
	
Veteran artiste Nanda Malini was awarded with the Darshana Soori Sammana Degree by Visharada Sanath Nandasiri during the University of Visual and Performing Arts? s Convocation held at the BMICH on Friday. Pics by Gayan Amarasekara
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: National Vap Magul Ceremony
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 04:00 pm
National Vap Magul Ceremony
	
?
President Maithripala Sirisena today launched the National Vap Magul Ceremony which was held in the vicinity of the Thibbotuwawa Tank in Kekirawa. The President is seen on a modern ploughing tractor. Pix by Damith Wickramasinghe
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Numbers that shape your destiny ? from 61 to 72
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:35 am
Numbers that shape your destiny ? from 61 to 72
	
?
So far we have discussed the significance of numbers from 11 to 60 determined on their numerical and vibrational or consonance value.?
We have been discussing so far the significance the numbers arrived at on the basis of the aggregate value ascribed to a name and the date of birth.? In this article we propose to examine the significance of the final numbers from 61 to 72 determined on that basis.?
Number 61:? The subject is fond of good society and a comfortable living. But his plans are not executed as his interests are normally confined to day-dreaming.? He has a bent for travelling and living close to the sea or to some spread of water.
Number 62: This number signifies an austere lifestyle.? The subject would work hard and set aside a part of his earnings for a rainy day.? He would enjoy the fruits of his hard work during the latter part of his life.?
Number 63: This number signifies enthusiasm, a pioneering spirit and an aggressive bent.? The subject would achieve success in financial and religious spheres. . His aggressive spirit would make enemies who may cause him harm.?
Number 64:? The subject is not cut out for pursuits in trade and commerce.? But he would make a success of his career as an academic.?
Number 65:? The subject would achieve success thanks to the patronage of those holding high office.? He is assured of marital happiness.? But he may suffer injuries on the body.?
Number 66:? Results similar to those for Number 57
Number 67:? ?Results similar to those for 58
Number 68: Results similar to those for 59
Number 69:? This number signifies success and good fortune. The native would receive the assistance of a member of the opposite sex. But the successes he achieves are mainly due to his hard work and initiative.
Number 70:? Results similar to those for Number 7
Number 71:? Results similar to those for Number 53.
Number 72:? This is a number that holds out potential for great success through initiative, endurance and perseverance. The subject would pursue his goals undeterred?
by obstacles.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: OMP: UK Minister meets families of disappeared
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:03 am
OMP: UK Minister meets families of disappeared
	
UK Minister for Asia and the Pacific Mark Field met family members of the disappeared from both Sinhalese and Tamil communities to hear of their hopes for the Office of Missing Persons (OMP).
Minister Field arrived in Sri Lanka on a two-day visit from October 5 to 6.
During the visit, he also held discussions with Foreign Affairs Minister Tilak Marapana and Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan in Colombo.
In a tweet, the UK High Commission said discussions were based on Constitutional reforms and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and UK's dynamic vision for CHOGM-2018.
 
		
==============================
## Title: People?s Bank reaffirms commitment in driving SME sector
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:03 am
People?s Bank reaffirms commitment in driving SME sector
	
?
As per its vision to propel the expansion and expertise of Small and Medium Businesses, People?s Bank held its ?Entrepreneurial Glory? programme at the Pavilian Restaurant Monaragala.
The programme features a series of seminars tailor-made to provide insight and expertise to entrepreneurs looking to start or expand their business.?
The two speakers at the occasion were renowned Skills Development Specialist ? Sanath Gamage and Bandula Haputanthri- Commissioner, Inland Revenue Department? ?Amongst the other speakers from People?s Bank were K. B. Rajapaksa ? Senior Deputy General Manager (Enterprise Banking), Wickrama Narayana - Assistant General Manager (SME) and Prasad Marasingha Monaragala Regional Manager.
The seminar aims at providing vital information for entrepreneurs to increase their knowledge on Business planning, Marketing, accounting, financial and time management whilst providing key information on taxes and banking procedures. From its inception, People?s Bank has supported SME?s, as it is the engine of growth for the economy by providing them a variety of financial solutions. Via the Entrepreneurial Glory programme, the bank goes a step further by providing valuable know-how to these businesses to drive the economy is a more productivity manner.
 
		
==============================
## Title: point to an accomplice:  Police
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:31 am
point to an accomplice:  Police
	
?
The Las Vegas gunman who killed 58 civilians and injured hundreds more before killing himself on Sunday had originally hoped to survive his shooting and flee justice - and likely had an accomplice, it has emerged.? ?
Stephen Paddock, 64, had planned to escape the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel after firing on the Route 91 Harvest country music festival, Las Vegas Sheriff Joseph Lombardo revealed in a press?
conference Wednesday.? ?
Lombardo declined to reveal why he believed that Paddock had an exit planned.? ?
Several law enforcement sources told NBC that investigators are looking to speak with a woman who was seen with Paddock in his last days, when his girlfriend was out of the country. They don?t know if she?s connected to the attack but want to speak with her to fill in their timeline of the lead-up to the attack.? ?
Lombardo said Paddock lived a ?secret life? and ?meticulously planned on the worst domestic attack in United States history.?? ?
Lombardo also said he thought it was likely that Paddock had an accomplice, given the 23 rifles and piles of magazines in the room, the additional firearms in Paddock?s homes, and the electronic devices recovered from his Mesquite house.?
US, (Daily Mail), 5 October 2017 -??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Port City investor pumps in $1bn for Financial City complex
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 08:58 am
Port City investor pumps in $1bn for Financial City complex
	
The Chinese investor which develops the Colombo Port City has already decided to invest US $ 1 billion in constructing a high rise building to house the proposed International Financial City, officials said yesterday. This is in addition to the original investment of US $ 1.5 billion for reclamation of land from the sea.
China Harbour Engineering Company builds the port city. It is an investment of US $ 1.5 billion for the reclamation of 269 hectares of land from the sea adjacent to the Colombo seaport.
It has registered a company named ?CHEC Port City Colombo (PVT) LTD?. Project Director Nihal Fernando told the Daily Mirror that the investor would invest US $ 1 billion in two stages in addition to the original investment of US $ 1.5 billion to put up the building for the International Financial City.
It is slated to be a 40 to 60 storey building. Mr. Fernando said 45 per cent of land reclamation work had been done.
The land is reclaimed by filling it with sand dredged from two identified locations in the sea. Mr. Fernando said sea sand reclamation and breakwater construction would complete by June, 2019.
He said though any permanent construction could take place after that, there would some temporary structures to be built before that as the pavilion and sales gallery.
?That will happen in three months? time. Besides, the permanent building will be constructed later by the Chinese party to house the international financial centre which the government is talking about. They have already worked out preliminary project details for it,? he said. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Produce only suspects in courts, not used condoms: Police HQ
## Section: Weird News
## Date: 6 October 2017 05:55 am
Produce only suspects in courts, not used condoms: Police HQ
	
All policemen in countrywide police stations had been instructed not to produce used up condoms as courts produce along with sex workers, when they are being produced in courts of law for engaging in prostitution.
The Police Headquarters has recently issued a circular to all the police stations directing not to submit condoms as courts produce when producing females who are being arrested in brothel raids and alleged prostitution.
DIG Legal, Discipline and Conduct Range had issued the circular following a recent report of that several women who were arrested in a brothel had been produced in the court along with the condoms.
A senior police officer told the Daily Mirror that it is also a human right violation to produce a condom as a court produce since it is a protective source under medical grounds.
They said the Heath Ministry was also approved the use of condom as a measure to prevent Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD), and therefore, keeping a condom in possession could not be counted as an offence.
Also, another vital reason believed to have caused the sudden directive to prevent the used condoms being produced in the courts, was the chances of STD being spread, it is learned. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rajive Dissanayake appointed to HNBA, HNBGI boards
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:01 am
Rajive Dissanayake appointed to HNBA, HNBGI boards
	
HNB Assurance PLC (HNBA) announced the appointment of Rajive Dissanayake as a Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director to the boards of HNBA and its fully-owned subsidiary HNB General Insurance Limited (HNBGI) by the vote of Hatton National Bank PLC (HNB), the parent shareholder of HNBA.?
Accordingly, the board of directors of HNBA comprises of Rose Cooray, Sarath Ratwatte, Mahendra Jayasekera, K. Balasundaram, Dilshan Rodrigo, Siromi Wickramasinghe, Dr. Sivakumar Selliah, Deepthi Lokuarachchi and Rajive Dissanayake.?
The board of directors of HNBGI comprises of Rose Cooray, Faizal Sallieh, Dilshan Rodrigo, Marina Tharmaratnam, Deepthi Lokuarachchi and Rajive Dissanayake.
Dissanayake is a Chartered Financial Analyst as well as a Certified Global Management Accountant and a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.?
Dissanayake obtained his Bachelor?s degree in Business Administration from the University of Colombo and has served several sectors including banking and capital markets for nearly two decades.
Dissanayake started his career at National Development Bank and then moved to HNB Stockbrokers (Pvt.) Ltd as Head of Research. He joined Hatton National Bank PLC (HNB) in 2008 and currently holds the position of Assistant General Manager Strategy/Chief Strategy Officer of HNB.
In addition, he also serves as a Director of HNB Grameen Finance Limited, Acuity Partners (Pvt.) Ltd and Acuity Securities Ltd.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Role of corporate banking in national development
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:09 am
Role of corporate banking in national development
	
Banks have been the cornerstone of economic growth and national development for over eight centuries. Their contribution towards the promotion of economic activity within a nation and across borders is unparalleled.?
There is no other institution more key to the financial growth of a country than a bank as there is no other institution that is able to encourage a culture of savings with the public while simultaneously funnelling those collective savings towards productive channels for the nation?s benefit.?
Infrastructure, agriculture, energy and telecommunications are among the many sectors that have benefited from the rapid capital infusion provided by banks. Arguably this has helped propel nations forward and allowed them to successfully manage the public?s growing needs.
Today banks continue to hold a position of strategic importance as providers of vital financial services that fuel the economy. Chief amongst these services is corporate banking. Sampath Bank Senior Deputy General Manager Corporate Banking Shashi Kandambi Jassim highlights the impact corporate banking has had on Sri Lanka.?
?At Sampath Bank, we believe that corporations, just like the government, can make huge positive impacts on the direction a country takes. For this reason, we believe it is in our best interest as well as the nation?s to make sure that they are well-informed and supported in their endeavours. Just like individuals, corporations need money to fund various aspects of their business and ensure future growth. At Sampath Bank, we provide our corporate clients with an array of services ranging from credit, trade, treasury and corporate finance.
However, key amongst our services is the team of specialists we provide each client. These specialists provide our clients with expert knowledge on relevant industries such as construction, agriculture, energy, hospitality and many others. We believe that this service above all else allows our clients to gauge the current and future needs of the country,? she said.
She went on to explain that globally, governments too are financed by banks through their investment in government securities and the purchasing of treasury bills. In Sri Lanka, Sampath Bank has taken a more active role in this aspect through its participation in government-led infrastructure projects in the past. The bank plans to continue in this role with larger-scale investment in future projects with a primary interest in the central express highway and energy sector.
?The energy sector is a key area of importance for Sri Lanka evidenced by an annual increase in consumption of 4 percent, driven by the domestic and hospitality sectors that have put a strain on the electrical grid, which led to the islandwide blackouts we experienced last year.?
However, it is not simply energy but clean and sustainable energy that interests us. Sampath Bank has the largest investment in renewable energy amongst all the local banks. This is because we also believe that when we invest in a hydropower or solar plant, it is not only the sponsors of the project but the community in that area as well that benefit. Their lives change for the better and for us that is invaluable,??said Shashi.
?A lot of people look to us to finance their renewable energy projects because we don?t just provide them with loans but instead enter the project as a partner.?
We believe this is the best way to ensure the success of the project.?
We provide them with the necessary consultations such as with the Central Environmental Authority and Ceylon Electricity Board as well as with engineers. We make sure that every aspect of the project is thoroughly vetted before we commence,? she added.
This approach of innovative collaboration and service differentiation is key to Sampath Bank continuing to enjoy a position of leadership in the market.?
This, coupled with its mandate as a responsible corporate citizen to address the challenges that hinder the progress of the Sri Lankan people by working to help them grow and prosper, makes Sampath Bank a positive force for the growth of our nation.?
An example of this is highlighted in its dealings with manufacturers who primarily produce goods for the export market. These exporters are currently finding it difficult to be competitive in the world market because the cost of manufacturing in Sri Lanka is higher than in neighbouring countries.?
This puts them at a disadvantage, especially when the interest cost of the loan is considered. For this reason, Sampath Bank through its Foreign Currency Banking Unit (FCBU) offered these exporters lower interest rates to help them achieve competitiveness in foreign markets.
It should be noted that this is not a refinancing scheme or that it is it being funded by foreign banks. Instead it is an innovative mechanism put in place by Sampath Bank to help promote exports at a time when Sri Lanka?s exports growth is low and we are being outpaced by other countries in the region.
?We believe that as a national bank we have a duty to support our exporters and we take it very seriously, which is why we have provided them with this special facility. We also support those clients with foreign direct investments by allowing them to do their local banking in Sri Lanka through our branch network and offshore banking unit. Additionally, we have invested in systems and agents in the Middle Eastern countries to support Sri Lankan employees in the region. Incidentally, this is the sector generating the highest export revenue for the country,? said Shashi.?
In addition to being an intermediary for the transfer of funds, Sampath Bank has also facilitated the transfer of knowledge through seminars and forums with international guest speakers covering many important topics.?
It does this for its corporate clients to ensure that they, as stewards of the country?s development, are well informed of the advances taking place in the world and how best they can implement them in?
Sri Lanka.
These activities of Sampath Bank?s corporate banking arm, which contributes 60 percent to the company?s bottom line, highlight the dominant role corporate banking has come to play in rapid economic development and the promotion of industries that lead to a stronger, stable nation.?
Since its inception, Sampath Bank has viewed the role it plays in the lives of the Sri Lankan people paramount to all its?other tasks.?
Today, through its actions, it is actively ensuring that Sri Lanka will have a brighter future and its people more prosperous lives.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Saudi king makes historic visit to Russia
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:26 am
Saudi king makes historic visit to Russia
	
?
HINDUSTAN TIMES, 5 October, 2017??
Saudi Arabia?s King Salman, on the first official trip to Russia by a ruler of the oil-rich Sunni powerhouse, was set to meet President Vladimir Putin to discuss energy contracts despite discord over the Syrian conflict.??
While they are partners on the oil market, on the foreign policy front, Moscow and Riyadh are on opposite sides of the war in Syria, with Russia supporting President Bashar al-Assad while Saudi Arabia supports the opposition.??
Salman and Putin are expected to discuss major defence and energy contracts, as well as extending oil production cuts ahead of the OPEC oil cartel meeting in November.??
Saudi Arabia and Russia are heavily dependent on oil exports and the global plunge of the price of crude that began in 2014 lashed both of?
their economies.??
Members of OPEC, of which Saudi Arabia is the biggest producer, have joined with non-member Russia and other countries in cutting crude output in a pact that has helped prop up prices.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Spread awareness and save lives...
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:32 pm
Spread awareness and save lives...
	
?
?
EACH YEAR, THE MONTH OF OCTOBER IS CONSIDERED AS THE WORLD BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH. THIS BEING THE MOST COMMON CANCER AMONG FEMALES WORLDWIDE, MILLIONS ARE DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER EACH YEAR, WHILE THOUSANDS SUCCUMB TO THE DISEASE ANNUALLY. THE INCIDENCE OF BREAST CANCER IN SRI LANKA IS AROUND 8 PER 100,000 PEOPLE. RESEARCH REVEALED THAT EARLY DIAGNOSIS REMAINS THE KEY TO SURVIVAL IN BREAST CANCER; THUS JUSTIFYING THE ALLOCATION OF AN ENTIRE MONTH FOR AWARENESS OF BREAST CANCER. THIS WEEK, HEALTH CAPSULE FOCUSES ON THE IMPORTANCE OF SPREADING AWARENESS OF BREAST CANCER, ITS DIAGNOSIS, PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND BEYOND.
?
Who are at risk???
It is said that being female, aeging and having a family history of breast cancer are the biggest risk factors. In addition, estrogen is considered to have some influence in development of breast cancer and therefore women who have an early menarche and a late menopause, women who are on hormone replacement therapy, women who don?t have children or have children late in their lives are considered to have a higher risk when compared with other women, based on the theory that they are exposed to more estrogen. Lifestyle also affects the causing of breast cancer with obese women, smokers and those who consume excessive alcohol being at a higher risk for breast cancers. Interestingly, breastfeeding is supposed to reduce the risk, therefore women who breastfeed longer, have a lower chance of getting the disease. However, it should be noted that many women who are diagnosed with the disease may have none of these risk factors, while women who have many or most risk factors never develop breast cancer.??
?
Types of breast cancers??
The type of cancer depends on the cell type that the mutation has occurred in and its invasiveness. There is a group of cancers that does not go beyond the duct or area it originated from and therefore has a very little or no effect on the body. There are however other types that spread to the lymph nodes and other organs around, which makes treatment a challenge.??
?
Recognising risks??
The National Cancer Control Programme (NCCP) advises all women above twenty years of age to perform a self-examination of breasts once a month to detect any change occurring during early stages. The test is best performed a week after menstrual period starts, and in women who do not have menstrual periods, in a fixed date every month.??
?
What to look for
Change or wrinkling of the skin of the breast, the appearance similar to an orange peel, recent onset asymmetry of one breast, recent onset nipple changes, ulceration of the breast-lump in the breast or in the armpits, unusual discharge from the nipple are the usual symptoms.
In addition, women who are between the ages of 20 and 40 are advised to go for a clinical check-up of breasts once every three years, while women above 40 should get a clinical breast examination annually. If a woman has a family history of breast cancer, meaning that she has a close relative who had breast or ovarian cancer before the age of 40, she is advised to start her check-ups even earlier in life.??
Ideally, a breast cancer is identified through a method called ?triple assessment,? which has three steps; A good history and examination, imaging and tissue biopsies.??
Imaging can be done through mammography or Ultra-Sound Scanning of the breast. Mammography is preferred in older women while Ultra-Sound Scan yields better results in younger women.??
?
?
Treatment??
The main treatment method is to remove the malignant parts, in combination with chemotherapy and radiotherapy as needed. Surgery may involve removing just the tumour or removal of one or both breasts, depending on the spread of the cancer.??
In the minority where the disease is too advanced, palliative treatment would be started to keep the patient comfortable while prolonging life as much as possible.??
Prognosis is quite high in breast cancers if detected early. It also depends on the type of cancer. Some cancers have a better chance of cure than the others.??
?
After treatment ends??
It is extremely-important to attend regular check-ups as decided by the doctor, even after your treatment course is finished, since even one or two cells which may have gone undetected may insidiously row into a tumour again.??
Depression and anxiety are common but significant problems that a person goes through. Having a supportive group of friends and family around her can make a huge difference.??
Even if the cancer is cured, losing a breast can be devastating for a female no matter her age. With the cleavage she took for granted gone, she may not be able to wear her usual clothes, and may feel that her identity and sexuality is removed along with the breast. There are reconstructive surgeries available with the remaining breast tissues and implants. Prosthetic breasts are also available. Use of prosthesis is not a reason to be ashamed of as some women believe since its equivalent of any other prosthetic device used in other parts of the body.??
Most importantly, breast cancers are not exclusively female. From Sri Lankan statistics, an average of 2% of patients diagnosed with breast cancers are male. Unfortunately, it?s also been observed that males usually wait until the disease is quite advanced to seek treatment, reducing their chance of complete cure. Therefore any male who observes a change in his nipples or chest should seek immediate medical care, since you are not safe contrary to the belief ?breast cancer is a female cancer.???
Finally, if a loved one of yours is going through a battle with breast cancer; or any cancer for that matter, always be supportive, holding their hands when they need the most, while reminding them to not let a group of mutated cells to keep them from leading a full and a happy life.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Teachers? Day 2017
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 07:15 pm
Teachers? Day 2017
	
A ceremony was held at the Sri Bodhi Primary College in Gampaha today with the participation of the tutorial staff and the students of the college. Pix by Kushan Pathiraja?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tear-gassed?
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2017 02:44 pm
Tear-gassed?
	
Police fired tear gas and water canon to disperse Joint Opposition protestors who staged a protest at the Indian Consulate office in Hambantota this morning. Pix by Sanath Gamage
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Line of Saturn  or  Fate Line
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:37 am
The Line of Saturn  or  Fate Line
	
?
There is no definite starting point for the line of Saturn which is often called the Fate line.
?
Location
It starts from many places, very often from the base of the hand and runs towards the Mount of Saturn. In certain cases, the line originates from the base of the palm and runs towards the Mount of Saturn after a series of breaks.
?
What the line signifies
The Fate line signifies the career of the subject. The line is considered a favourable marking on the hand, for it is said to bring luck to the subject depending on the degree of its strength.
This line is missing from many hands. But it does not mean that the subjects are unlucky.
It has been found that certain persons having no Fate line nevertheless have achieved success as businessmen and entrepreneurs by the dint of hard work.
?
Material success
In some cases, the Fate line originates from a point on the Life line and runs to the Mount of Saturn. Such subjects would achieve material success in life and also greatly benefit from the assistance extended by relatives. If the Fate line rises from the Mount Luna or Moon, the subject would gain wealth thanks to the financial assistance or guidance from a female, possibly mother.
The Fate line starting from the centre of the palm and running towards the Mount of Saturn signifies success in life by one?s own efforts. He is the architect of his own fortune.
When the line rises from the upper part of the hand, the best period of one?s life would begin at the latter stage of one?s life. If the line rises at the base of the left hand, but it rises at a higher point in the right hand, it indicates the original career plan of the subject has varied due to his laziness, or the influence of an outside source or a disappointment in love.
If the line is deep and distinct, the subject would possess capabilities the use of which would bring him?great success.
?
Short line indicates period of good fortune
If the line is short, the good fortune would be restricted to the period of life it represents.
A thin Fate line indicates the presence of opportunities for success, but the subject should take the advantage of those opportunities to attain his full potential.
A broad and shallow Fate line is little better than having no line. If this is the only thin line in the hand, when the other lines are thick and deep, the subject would confront many obstacles in life at frequent intervals.
A chained Fate line would mean a career marked with hardships. But if the chaining is confined only to a part of the line, the hardships too would be confined to the period the chained part represents. Islands on the Fate line in certain cases indicate conjugal infidelity. An island on the Fate line of a woman with a chance line running from Mount of Luna to it would mean love for a married man.
An island at the start of the Fate line would mean some trouble relating to a parent which would affect the subject?s home life. It may also relate to prolonged delicate health or financial difficulties affecting parents.
Cross-bars cutting the Fate line represent impediments to the career. Both hands should be examined to ascertain whether the breaks are part of the natural plan as represented by the Fate line or whether the breaks point to circumstances such as ill health or results of wrong calculations made or wrong actions committed at different times in life.
?
Other peculiarities
In many cases, the Fate line is clearer and deeper on the left hand than on the right hand which signifies that many? troubles are self-made and we can alter our fate if we really want to.
Should the Fate line end at the Head line, the career of the person would meet a serious check or a radical change. A new line starting from the Head line would men a new career.
A deep Fate line stopping at the Head line signifies a misfortune causing a setback to the career or a deep disappointment in love. All lines cutting the Fate line cause setbacks to the subject at the ages that the lines cutting the?line represent.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tory civil war erupts into the open
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2017 11:28 am
Tory civil war erupts into the open
	
?
UK, (Daily Mail), 5 October 2017 - Cabinet ministers rallied to prop up Theresa May today as the Tories descended deeper into civil war after her conference speech nightmare.??
Plotting against the Prime Minister has reached fever pitch after a sore throat saw her cough and splutter through an agonising 65 minutes on the stage in Manchester.? To make matters worse, a notorious prankster achieved an extraordinary security breach to approach the podium and hand Mrs May a P45 - before letters started falling off the slogan position in full view of TV cameras behind her. The premier appeared close to tears as she finally finished the address, and husband Philip rushed up to comfort her.? Dozens of Tory MPs are believed to be ready to call for the PM to go - but not the 48 required to trigger a formal vote of confidence. Instead, they are hoping to pressure Mrs May into stepping down voluntarily, potentially as early as Christmas.??
Former minister Ed Vaizey said this morning that ?quite a few people are firmly of the view she should resign?. Pressed on whether he thought she should go, the MP said: ?I am finding it increasingly difficult to see a way forward at the moment and it worries me.???
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trinco oil tanks: Indo-SL groups talks focus on joint venture
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 10:02 am
Trinco oil tanks: Indo-SL groups talks focus on joint venture
	
The Joint Working Group (JWG) between India and Sri Lanka is currently having negotiations on the establishment of a joint venture to develop the Trincomalee Oil Tank Farm, an official said yesterday.
The JWG has been set up to explore developments of roads, the petroleum sector and the Trincomalee port and power projects.
Managing Director Lanka Indian Oil Company Shyam Bohra told the Daily Mirror the government to government talks were taking place through the JWG to work out modalities for the development of the Oil Tank Farm in Trincomalee.
However, he said no final decision had been taken yet in this regard. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed in this regard earlier.
LIOC uses 15 out of 99 tanks for fuel storage at the moment. The joint venture is to be established to operate the remaining 84 tanks in the upper farm.
Asked about fuel prices, Mr. Bohra said LIOC would revise the prices this month unless the government reduced taxes.
?We can survive if taxes are reduced. Otherwise, we have to revise the prices,? he said. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UN expert on transitional justice to arrive in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 04:43 pm
UN expert on transitional justice to arrive in SL
	
The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence, Pablo de Greiff, would undertake an official visit to Sri Lanka from October 10 to 23, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said today.
In a statement, the OHCHR said Mr. de Greiff would arrive in Sri Lanka to examine the progress made in redressing the legacies of massive past violations and abuses, including those that resulted from the conflict.
In 2015, the Government of Sri Lanka committed itself to designing and implementing a comprehensive transitional justice strategy.
?My visit aims to review the progress made thus far, to identify obstacles and bottlenecks in the implementation of the transitional justice and reform process and to discuss opportunities with the Government and Sri Lankan society to overcome these,? Mr. de Greiff said.
He is scheduled to meet Government officials at central and provincial levels, representatives of the legislature, members of the judiciary, the armed forces, law enforcement officials, religious leaders, political parties, the Human Rights Commission, civil society, victims? groups, academics and representatives of the international community.
The human rights expert would present his preliminary findings and recommendations at a press conference to be held on Monday 23.
The final report on the visit would be presented to the Human Rights Council in September 2018.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Video shows police officer attacking protester
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2017 06:09 pm
Video shows police officer attacking protester
	
A video footage captured following the joint opposition-led protest held at Hambantota today, showed a senior police officer assaulting an arrested protester.
Meanwhile, posting the video on his Twitter page, MP Namal Rajapaksa asked, ?A.S.P. Daluwaththa, is this Yahapalanaya?? ?
When contacted, Police spokesman Ruwan Gunasekara said he was yet to see the video.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Vitamin Vitality
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 6 October 2017 01:25 pm
Vitamin Vitality
	
?
?
For a diet to be a balanced one, it should contain all essential nutrients in the right proportions. These nutrients include carbohydrates, proteins, fats, minerals, vitamins, fibres and also water. Vitamins are only needed in small amounts but if a vitamin deficiency occurs, the consequences become a large threat to health. So it is vital that the importance of vitamins is understood. Addressing this matter, Dr. Kosala Karunaratna, Consultant Paediatrician of the Colombo Lady Ridgeway Hospital, shed light on the importance of vitamins.
?
?
What are vitamins?
?Vitamins are organic chemicals. They are essential nutrients that should be included as part of a balanced diet,? explained Dr. Karunaratna.??
?
Types of vitamins?
According to Dr. Karunaratna,vitamins are classified into two categories. They are fat soluble vitamins and water soluble vitamins.?
?Fat soluble vitamins include vitamins A,D,E and K. Vitamin B complex and vitamin C fall under the category of water soluble vitamins,? he said. The B complex consists of different types of vitamin B. This includes vitamins B1,B2,B3,B5,B6,B12, folic acid and biotin. Vitamin C is also known as ascorbic acid.??
Some vitamins can be synthesized by our bodies. Vitamin D is produced by the skin. Vitamin A is produced by the liver.??
There are micro-organisms that inhabit the large intestine. Bacteria known as E.coli and Enterobacter aerogenes are found in the large intestines of the human body, synthesize folic acid, biotin and Vit. K.? ?
Importance of vitamins
?Vitamins are needed for the metabolism of the body and for the maintenance of good health. Each vitamin serves an important function,?stated the paediatrician.??
?
Functions of fat soluble vitamins
?Vit. A helps in maintaining healthy skin and helps eyesight. It is essential for growth of the body as well.Vit. D facilitates the absorption and utilisation of calcium and phosphorus contributing to healthy bones. Vit. E helps maintain healthy muscles.Vit. K. helps the clotting of blood,? explained Dr. Karunaratna.??
?
Functions of water soluble vitamins
Vit. C helps in the synthesis of especially collagen tissue. This vitamin contributes to the healing of wounds and fighting infections. The vitamin B complex also serves in many functions. Vit.B1,B3,B5 and biotin helps in metabolic activities of the body. In addition to serving metabolic purposes, Vit. B2 helps maintain healthy skin and eyes. Folic acid aids in the formation of red blood cells. Apart from metabolism, Vit. B6 and B12 help in the synthesis of haemoglobin, antibodies and maintenance of a healthy nervous system respectively.??
?
Vitamin deficiencies
?Dr. Karunaratna explained that vitamins are required in small quantities. He warned that although they are needed in minute amounts, in case of a deficiency, it will result in specific disease symptoms.??
Night-blindness is the result of Vit. A deficiency. Rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults arise due to Vit. D deficiency. Vit. E deficiency could lead to anaemia. Vit. K deficiency may cause complications of blood clotting.??
Beri beri is caused by Vit. B1 deficiency whereas skin issues may arise to lack of B2 and biotin in the diet.Vit. B3 inadequacy causes pellagra. Deficiencies in Vit. B6,B12 and folic acid leads to anaemic conditions. Vit. B5 affects muscles increasing risk of cramps.??
Vit. C deficiency causes scurvy.??
Sources of vitamins
?Green and yellow vegetables are the best sources of Vit. A,? mentioned Dr. Karunaratna. Fish liver oils are popular sources of Vit. D. Exposure to sunlight helps formation of Vit. D by the skin. Other sources include milk, cheese and egg yolk. Vit. E sources include egg yolk, milk, butter, green vegetables and nuts. Leafy vegetables especially spinach is a good source of Vit. K.??
Yeast, liver, meat, fish, egg yolk, cereal,pulses, nuts,beans and soy beans, rice polishings as well as dark green vegetables are some of the foods that supply Vit. B to the body.??
?Citric fruits like oranges are well known as Vit. C sources,? said the doctor.??
?
How common are vitamin deficiencies in Sri Lanka?
According to Dr. Karunaratna, vitamin deficiencies are quite common. ?The most common deficiency is Vit. A,? he said. ?Since Sri Lanka is a country that receives a lot of sunlight, Vit. D deficiencies are not so prevalent. But there are instances where absorption of Vit. D is hindered by certain foods.???
The paediatrician also stated that in the case of deficiency, vitamin supplements are prescribed. Vit. K is said to also delivered to the patient in the form of a vaccine.??
Though complications are mostly due to deficiencies, an excess of vitamins, particularly fat soluble vitamins is unhealthy. When water soluble vitamins exceed the required amount, excess is passed off with urine. But in the case of fat soluble vitamins, if a person suffers from liver malfunctions, fat soluble vitamins will not be absorbed. The reason for this is the bile produced by the liver is important for the absorption. In these instances, the patient may suffer from toxicity signs.??
 
		
==============================
