## Title: Celebrating a decade
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
Celebrating a decade
	
?
While the majority of the world seemed unaware, Sri Lanka and its diverse citizens grappled with a 25 yearlong civil war throughout most of the ?80s, ?90s and the 2000?s -- a war that pitted race against race, religion against religion and districts against districts. Many of the young people born into this war were fated to know nothing more than the division and segregation it caused across the country.
As the civil war drew to a close, the initiators of Sri Lanka Unites (SLU) recognised the need for reconciliation amongst the younger generation in order to ensure that the wounds of prejudice do not deem the country to be divided in years to come. ??
Sri Lanka Unites is a movement initiated by Prashan De Viss as he took the opportunity to replace a culture of divisiveness and conflict and be a voice for change, hope and reconciliation. As the name suggests, SLU?s vision was to unite the youth of all ethnic and religious groups across Sri Lanka thereby creating a peaceful and prosperous nation for future generations. ??
The movement began with a small team of volunteers but 10 years on, due to its growth and impact, SLU now has a team of full-time employees who work alongside to oversee projects throughout all 25 districts of Sri Lanka. SLU describes the heart of their movement as the SLU clubs in schools throughout all districts, which now has 20,000 members of different gender, race, and religion, all working towards one goal; a united Sri Lanka. ??
Through events such as the Future Leaders Conference which brings together the top student leaders from around the country for five days, SLU catalyses the process of integration and reconciliation.
The conference enables student leaders to meet their peers from various parts of the island and provide them the opportunity to challenge the prejudices they may have inherited, empowering them to be agents of change and part of the solution. Furthermore, the recently-established reconciliation centres in Mullaitivu, Kalmunai, Matara and Monaragala aim to provide education to youth in these districts through Information Technology and language and entrepreneurial education skills. Providing counselling and career guidance, many of the graduates from these educational hubs go on to pursue higher education, creating employment opportunities and making them a symbol of hope and reconciliation in their own regions. ? While celebrating their 10th anniversary, SLU will be recognising the pioneers who forged a path for reconciliation and peace in our beautiful nation. The 10th anniversary celebrations will include the acknowledgement of eight key individuals who have made significant contributions to the cause of peace and reconciliation in Sri Lanka by the awarding of the ?Outstanding Sri Lankan Role Model.? Among the eight recipients of the award are Mrs. Visaka Dharmadasa, Chair and founder of the Association of War Affected Women, Dr. Jayantha Dhanapala, former UN Secretary General for Disarmament, Mr. Kushil Gunasekara, founder of the Foundation of Goodness and Dr. Selvy Thiruchandran, Trustee and Board member of the Women?s Education and Research Centre (WERC). ??
As the next generation moves into leadership, the future of this nation is in their hands. The hope that they make choices for peace and unity is the vision and mandate of Sri Lanka Unites. As we celebrate a decade of their efforts, we can join hands with this movement to ensure all generations and the ones to come only know of a reconciled and unified Sri Lanka. ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Crown Prince of Sri Lankan Politics But never crowned King
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
Crown Prince of Sri Lankan Politics But never crowned King
	
By D.B.S. Jeyaraj
That ?Politics is a blood sport? was a famous saying by former Sri Lankan President Junius Richard Jayewardene. In the cut-throat competitive world of Sri Lankan politics there have been many casualties, who aspired to high office but failed to fulfil their ambitions. Even people with powerful bloodlines in Sri Lanka?s dynastic political realm fell or were felled in this blood sport arena.One such striking political personality was Anura Bandaranaike who passed away nine years ago on March 16, 2008 . ??
?Anura as he was generally known was the son of two Sri Lankan Prime Ministers and was often referred to as the ?crown prince ? within the context of Sri Lanka?s dynastic politics. Though Anura did hold several high posts during his eventful political career, the offices of Prime Minister or President he yearned for eluded him. In that sense he was the political crown prince who was never ever crowned as king. ??
I have interacted with Anura Bandaranaike in my professional capacity as a journalist during 1977 to 88. I have met him on several occasions and engaged in several conversations with him -- both on and off the record. I once interviewed Anura at length for an Indian publication. For some reason the interview was never published. When I told him about it not being published, Anura took it lightly and said, ?I know it was not your fault?. I have also written about Anura on earlier occasions and would be drawing from such writings in penning this piece about him. ??
Anura Priyadarshi Solomon Dias Bandaranaike was born on February 15, 1949. Being the youngest child he was called ?Malli? and regarded as the family pet. Unlike his father S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike who studied at St. Thomas?College and then went to Oxford university, Anura went to Royal College and then to a University in London where he read for a BA degree specializing in history and political science. His political detractors had a field day raising doubts about his educational qualifications. They ridiculed him as ?Anura Gona? and claimed that he had not even passed his GCE O?levels. Anura was compelled to display his certificates publicly at one point. Among Anura?s contemporaries at Royal were Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and de-facto opposition leader Dinesh Gunawardena. ??
Upon his return to Sri Lanka in 1974, Anura plunged with zest into the family ?Vocation? of politics. He was placed in charge of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) youth wing and also appointed as a director of the National Youth Services Council. Young Anura was then the heir apparent to the party?s crown and national leadership. It was expected that he would have his inevitable tryst with destiny in due course. But fate decreed otherwise. The ?Crown Prince? kept waiting and waiting to be crowned but the expected coronation never materialised. Finally he departed uncrowned as the prince who never became King at the age of 59 on March 16th 2008. The saying ?Always the bride?s maid never the bride? applied appropriately to Anura Bandaranaike. ??
?
Three degrees of greatness
Greatness,was of three types, said the Bard of Avon. Some are ?born great? and some ?achieve greatness? while there are also some who have ?greatness thrust upon? them. Anura Bandaranaike was an embodiment in different degrees of this greatness as defined by Shakespeare.He was born great as the only son of Solomon West Ridgeway Dias Bandaranaike and Sirima Ratwatte ? hailing from aristocratic low-country and Kandyan Sinhala families ? who were both prime ministers of this country. ??
The accident of birth enabled Anura to have greatness thrust upon himself to some extent. Being elected as a twenty-eight year old member of Parliament in an unfamiliar electorate on his maiden effort was more due to his family background rather than his intrinsic merits. So too was becoming the Leader of the Opposition at the age of thirty-four. ??
Anura also achieved limited greatness. He was both cabinet minister and speaker. He was also in Parliament continuously from 1977 till his death in 2008.Yet he never realised his full potential as a political leader or attained his ambition to be Premier and/or President. ??
While Anura?s sisters Sunethra and Chandrika were left of centre in their political beliefs, Anura was firmly to the right. In terms of ideology and political outlook Anura was closer to J.R.Jayewardena than many of his party colleagues. He was class conscious and was for class solidarity cutting across party lines. Anura engaged in talks with JR about an anti-left UNP-SLFP alliance in the seventies. When a by ? election to Kalawewa was held in 1974, JR announced that the United National Party would not field a candidate if Anura was the SLFP choice. This did not happen as Anura was not the SLFP candidate then. Later JR was to wish Anura ?many more years as leader of the opposition? on his birthday. ??
Pedigree played a crucial part in Anura being an MP, opposition leader, speaker and cabinet minister etc at different times. Yet in his own right Anura Bandaranaike was an impressive orator in both Sinhala and English. He extensively researched facts before his Parliamentary speeches. He was one MP who made full use of the Parliament library delving deep into past Hansards. He was also well-versed in Shakespeare?s plays and the Bible and would often quote from them. Anura?s address on the occasion of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher?s visit in 1985 was a splendid effort. It was perhaps the best indication of Anura being a chip of the old block as his father SWRDB had been dubbed ?silver ? tongued orator?. ??
?
Anura Bandaranaike was an impressive orator in both Sinhala and English. He extensively researched facts before his Parliamentary speeches.?
He was one MP who made full use?of the Parliament library
Anura Bandaranaike was to the Manor (or Walauwe) born and the tragedy of his life was that he was always conscious of it. He thought that being a Bandaranaike entitled him to the highest offices of the land. That however was not to be. Many persons would have been delighted to have gained at least a part of what Anura Bandaranaike had had in terms of political office. But the man had set his sights on something he thought was his birthright. Being born with the proverbial silver spoon in his mouth Anura expected everything would be delivered to him on a platter. This never happened and so he was disillusioned and disappointed . ??
Anura Bandaranaike was the grandson of Maha Mudliyar Bandaranaike and Ratwatte Disawe. The marriage of his father Solomon Bandaranaike and mother Sirima Ratwatte was hailed then as a political union between two prestigious Low Country and Hill-Country Sinhala families.The wedding was the beginning of a new political dynasty- What a political dynasty that was! In the first sixty years of independence from 1948 to 2008 there has always been a Bandaranaike in the legislature (Parliament or Senate ) except for 10 months from Sep 1959 to July 1960. Members of the family have been Prime Ministers for 21 years; President for 11 years; leaders of the opposition for 14 years; With Anura?s demise that dynasty has come to an end.(Unless Chandrika?s children Yasodhara and/or Vimukthi enter politics). ??
?
Family based political succession
The phenomenon of ??family based political succession? in Sri Lanka began not with the Bandaranaikes but the Senanayakes when Dudley Shelton succeeded his father Don Stephen Senanayake as Prime Minister in 1951. Then came the Bandaranaikes? turn when the widowed Sirima became Prime Minister in July 1960. SWRD was assassinated in 1959. India?s Jawarhalal Nehru who was Prime Minister for 17 years died in 1964. His daughter Indira Gandhi became premier in 1966. The Nehrus and Bandaranaikes were regarded as close, both politically and personally. ??
There is a famous photograph of both families where Nehru, Bandaranaike, Indira and Sirima are seen with their children Rajiv, Sanjay, Sunethra, Chandrika and Anura.There is an interesting story about this picture.When the photograph was taken only Nehru and Bandaranaike were premiers. But soon Sirima and then Indira also became Prime Ministers. Who of the children would become Prime Minister first? was the question. ??
The elder Rajiv became a pilot and married Sonia from Italy. He did not evince any interest in a political career. It was the younger Sanjay who got engrossed in politics with his wife Maneka. But Sanjay died in a plane crash soon after he became an MP in 1980. A reluctant Rajiv was forced to fill in as MP and then after his mother?s assassination in 1984 became Prime Minister. He too was assassinated by the LTTE in 1991. Rajiv?s widow Sonia Gandhi heads the Congress party and is an MP. ?Son Rahul Gandhi is also a parliamentarian and is seen as Rajiv?s political heir. Incidentally Sanjay?s widow Maneka and son Varun are also MP?s. Maneka Gandhi is a minister in Modi?s?
BJP government. ??
As for the Bandaranaike siblings both Sunethra and Chandrika are elder to Anura and were in the political limelight to an extent before Anura?s entry into active politics. Sunethra who played an important role in the Socialist Study circle was co-ordinating secretary to her mother when she was PM. Chandrika after a stint at Sorborne was director at the Land?
Reforms Commission. ??
Yet it was the younger brother Anura who became an MP first in 1977 when he was just 28 years old. Six years later he became Leader of the Opposition at 34. ??
Since his father was leader of the opposition from 1952 till he became Premier in 1956, Anura also was expected to be PM in the same manner. Indeed he may very well have been PM if his mother had won in 1988 and become President. But that was not to be. ?
?
Anura was a decent human being ! A gentleman-gentle and genteel, in the old fashioned way. In that sense he was a misfit in today?s hurly-burly world of cut-throat politics.?
?
Anura?s sister Chandrika had broken off from the SLFP with her husband Vijaya Kumaratunga and formed a new party the Sri Lanka Mahajana Pakshaya (SLMP). After her husband was assassinated by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) in 1988 Chandrika left for London in a state of self ? exile. Chandrika however returned and re-joined the SLFP. This led to tensions between Anura and Chandrika and also between mother and son. Accusing his mother of favouring the daughter the son walked out of the party and joined the arch-rival UNP. ??
When the SLFP heading the Peoples Alliance came to power in 1994 it was Chandrika who became Prime Minister in August. In November she contested the Presidency and won in a landslide. Sirima was made Prime Minister. The Bandaranaikes who made history as the first husband-wife prime ministerial duo had made history again as the first father-mother-daughter premier trio and also as the first daughter President ? Mother Prime Minister combination. Anura with his record-creating ambition was out in the cold. ??
?
Constituency of Maskeliya-Nuwara Eliya
When Anura first contested elections in 1977 he did not do so in the Gampaha district where the Bandaranaike family had much political clout. Instead he went to the Central province and contested in the three-member constituency of Maskeliya -Nuwara Eliya. It was only a few months before elections in Sri Lanka that parliamentary polls were held in India. Angered by the excesses of emergency rule the Indian voters delivered a resounding blow to the Congress which had been in power for 30 years since Independence. Both Indira Gandhi in Rae Bareilly and Sanjay Gandhi in Amethi lost. ??
The UNP notably JR Jayewardena and Ranasinghe Premadasa hoped for and sought a parallel result in Sri Lanka. Just as the cow(Indira) and calf (Sanjay) lost in India the Cow (Sirima) and calf (Anura) will lose their seats here also, thundered the UNP. The SLFP suffered a disastrous defeat in 1977 winning only eight to the UNPs 141 in a Parliament of 168. But both Sirima and Anura won. The SLFP suffered a temporary split in the opposition when Anura along with people like Maithripala Senanayake and Haleem Ishak rebelled against Mrs. Bandaranaike?s leadership. President Jayewardena tried to widen the intra ? SLFP chasm further. The crisis was ultimately resolved and Anura was politically re-united with?
his mother. ??
In 1983 the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) lost their seats as they refused to take oaths disavowing separatism under the sixth amendment to the Constitution. Mrs. Bandaranaike had been deprived of her civic rights in 1980 and was out of Parliament. So Anura became Leader of the Opposition. He succeeded Appapillai Amirthalingam. S.Perinbanayagam was the opposition leader?s secretary. When Perinbanayagam appealed to Anura that he be retained as secretary to Bandaranaike also, the SLFP leader consented despite the political differences. That was Anura the magnanimous. ??
In 1988 Anura, Kumar Ponnambalam and Dinesh Gunewardena went up to Vavuniya to meet with former LTTE political commissar Narendran alias Yogi. But that trek came to naught as the tigers refused to play ball. ??
It was in the early nineties of the 20th century that Chandrika returned to SLFP folds again. Mrs. Bandaranaike felt that Chandrika was better equipped to lead the SLFP to victory and favoured her. Anura resented this and instead of resisting such attempts within the party, crossed over to the UNP in 1993. He became the Minister of Higher Education and National Reconciliation under Dingiri Banda Wijetunge. In 1994 the UNP was out of office after 17 years. Anura was in the opposition again. ??
Mrs. Bandaranaike?s declining health and consequent death saw an end to sibling enmity. There was rapprochement among both the sisters and brother. After the 2000 October election Anura was elected unanmiously as Speaker in Parliament. ??
As Speaker Anura distinguished himself by upholding the independence and supremacy of the Legislature during a difficult period. Anura later broke ranks with the UNP and re-joined the SLFP in 2001. The UNP came to power a few months later but once again Anura was in the opposition. ??
It was finally in 2004 that Anura came to be on the winning side. He was instrumental in forging an alliance with the JVP. Anura was made Investment Promotion, Enterprise Development and Industries Minister in the Govt headed by sister Chandrika Kumaratunga. Anura was appointed Foreign Affairs Minister after Lakshman Kadirgamar?s death in August 2005. ?
?
?
Mahinda played second fiddle to Anura
When S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike crossed over from the UNP in 1951 it was President Mahinda Rajapakse?s father D.A. Rajapaksa who followed him in the house. Thereafter he remained a loyal deputy to the Bandaranaikes. In 1970 Mahinda entered Parliament as its youngest MP. Though Anura was not an MP, ?Mahinda used to play second fiddle to him then. People compared the Anura-Mahinda duo to the SWRDB-DAR duo of old in political terms. In fact Mahinda and some of his siblings referred to Anura as ?lokka?. It was both a term of respect and endearment. Later it turned derisive. ??
Fluctuating political fortunes saw Mahinda?s stock rise and Anura?s fall. It was Mahinda who became PM in 2004 and also Presidential candidate in 2005 after Chandrika. Anura was to be a running mate of sorts. He would be Prime Minister if Rajapakse was elected President. But then Anura was always star-crossed. ??
He did not co-operate in the presidential campaign as he ought to have. Thus when Rajapakse won due to the tiger enforced boycott, Ratnasiri Wickremanayake was made PM instead of Anura Bandaranaike. Anura was made Tourism Minister and later ?demoted? to National Heritage Minister in a cabinet re-shuffle. With Rajapakse becoming President the spotlight shifted from Horagolla to Medamulana. The Bandaranaike dynasty declined. The new ?Ruhunu Rajapakse? dynasty emerged within the SLFP. ??
A disgruntled Bandaranaike described the Mahinda Govt as a ?carnival of clowns? and revolted twice. The first was with Mangala Samaraweera and Sripathy Sooriaraachi in Feb 2007. Within two weeks he was back again with Mahinda.The second was on the 2007 Budget voting day when he crossed over rashly to the opposition. Realising that he had been taken for a ride Anura walked out of Parliament. Once again he mended fences with Rajapakse but restoration of ministerial portfolio was delayed due to his declining health. He had been afflicted with cancer and received medical treatment in Singapore. Though he showed signs of recovery, the situation took a turn for the worse shortly after his 59th birthday party on Feb 15th 2008. Anura?s physical condition rapidly deteriorated and he was bed -ridden in March. And then came the final farewell on March 16th 2008 when Anura bade adieu to the world. ??
Anura Bandaranaike had a peculiar sense of humour and was fond of playing pranks and practical jokes on his friends. He would however be miffed if he was at the receiving end of jokes and tricks. But his ?anger? never lasted long. Anura was fond of wining and fine dining. He dressed with sartorial elegance. He used to smoke Havana cigars occasionally. Anura was also an avid reader of books and magazines. He had a fine collection of contemporay fiction as well as biographical books. Another of his passions was watches. He collected them. Among his possessions was a Cartier watch presented by former Malaysian premier Dr. Mahathir Mohammad. Anura also prized a watch bestowed with blessings by India?s Sathya Sai Baba at his Puttaparthi ashram. Anura was a Sai baba devotee. ??
Anura was also an aficionado of films since childhood. As a schoolboy he had an album where he pasted newspaper and magazine articles about the films he had seen. Later on he acquired an impressive collection of DVD?s and also set up a state of the art home theatre system. Anura had a Japanese made luxurious armchair on which he reclined watching English and Hindi films. Despite having this arrangement at home, Anura liked to watch current films in movie theatres. Speaking of films the year 2017 saw the movie ?La la Land? win six Oscars. The film was set in the ?City of Angels? Los Angeles. Had Anura been alive he would have loved to see ?La la Land? as Los Angeles was his favourite city. He would visit LA at least twice or thrice a year sometimes staying for weeks at a stretch. ??
For all his follies and faults and foibles, few could be ?angry? with Anura or nurse grudges against him. Neither could Anura Bandaranaike be ?angry? for long with others. This personality trait was his greatest asset. He may not have been very lovable but like Billy Bunter of Greyfriars, was not entirely unlikeable either. ??
?
Anura was not corrupt or vindictive
Above all, Anura was a decent human being ! A gentleman-gentle and genteel, in the old fashioned way. In that sense he was a misfit in today?s hurly-burly world of cut-throat politics. Anura had two characteristics that were rarities or oddities among most politicians. He was not corrupt and he was not vindictive. But was snooty and a ?snob?. Due to this snobbishness Anura always looked down upon his brother-in-law Vijaya Kumaratunga. ?However Anura did bequeath the bulk of his property and assets to his nephew Vimukthi. ??
Time and tide waits for no man, they say. In the case of Anura his sense of political timing was atrocious. He frequently made the wrong move at the wrong time and so was always in the wrong place. He regularly ?missed the tide in the affairs of men?. Against that backdrop Anura Bandaranaike was truly a tragic figure of Sri Lankan political history. ??
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Denmark orders extradition of daughter of ousted  S. Korean president?s friend
## Section: International
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
Denmark orders extradition of daughter of ousted  S. Korean president?s friend
	
?
COPENHAGEN REUTERS March 17 ? -Denmark will extradite to South Korea the daughter of the central figure in an influence-peddling scandal that led to the ouster of its president, the Danish public prosecutor said on Friday, but her lawyer said she will fight the order in court. ??
?South Korea has been thrown into political turmoil by the widening corruption and influence-peddling scandal involving former President Park Geun-hye and her friend Choi Soon-sil, and will now gear up for an early May election to choose a successor for Park. ??
?Chung Yoo-ra, a 20-year-old dressage rider and daughter of Choi, ?is to be extradited for the purpose of prosecution in her home country,? the public prosecutor said in a press release. ??
Chung has been accused of criminal interference related to her academic record. ??
?Choi is accused of colluding with Park to pressure large South Korean businesses to contribute to non-profit foundations. Both Choi and Park have denied wrongdoing.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Extradite fisherman murder case accused from SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 03:36 pm
Extradite fisherman murder case accused from SL
	
A public interest litigation petition (PIL) was filed in the Madras High Court Bench on Friday seeking a direction to the Centre as well as State Government to extradite the accused in a case registered in connection with the death of Rameswaram fisherman K.Britjo (21) who was allegedly shot dead by the Sri Lankan Navy on the high seas on March 6.
The case, filed by D. Raju of Naam Tamilar Katchi, has been listed for hearing before a Division Bench of Justices A. Selvam and N. Authinathan on Monday.
Claiming that around 600 Indian fishermen had been killed so far on the high seas allegedly by the Sri Lankan Navy, the petitioner said that none of the accused in those cases was ever brought to book and made to face trial.
Striking a comparison with the prosecution launched against Italian marines who reportedly shot dead two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012, the petitioner said that the Centre had adopted a soft approach against Sri Lankan Navy personnel alone despite there being an extradition treaty between the two countries for surrendering criminals to each other for prosecution.
The petitioner also accused the Centre of not providing proper protection to the Indian fishermen despite a specific direction issued by the High Court Bench in 2011 to deploy adequate number of Coast Guard vessels to monitor the movement of vessels across the International Maritime Boundary Line besides maintaining air surveillance over the area.
?By taking advantage of the fact that there was no proper protection... the Sri Lankan Navy personnel are attacking the Tamil fishermen, snatching away their boats, damaging them and even killing the innocent fishermen... Incidents of the fishermen being shot dead by the Sri Lankan Navy are continuing to happen in quick succession,? he said and accused the governments of inaction.(The Hindu)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. amends H'tota Port Project Agreement
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 06:54 am
Govt. amends H'tota Port Project Agreement
	
The Government is reported to have amended the agreement with China Merchants International Ltd. on the Hambantota Port Development Project with the inclusion of a proposal, among others, for a 60 per cent equity swap instead of 80 per cent as proposed in the initial agreement.
The Cabinet Committee on Economic Management is said to have discussed the amended version at its meeting this week. A memorandum containing the salient features of the amended version was presented to the members. Daily Mirror learns that the Chinese Company has agreed to do away the provision in the previous draft agreement that the Sri Lankan authorities should stop any port development activity within a 50-kilometre radius of the Hambantota Port.
According to the new agreement, the port security is a matter for the Sri Lankan authorities and that a 20 percent equity of the proposed joint venture can be sold to a third party.
The amended version of the agreement has been sent to the Port and Shipping Ministry for perusal. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Israeli plane shot down after raids near Palmyra: Syria
## Section: International
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
Israeli plane shot down after raids near Palmyra: Syria
	
?
DAMASCUS AFP March17, 2017 ??
Syria?s army said on Friday it shot down an Israeli plane that had carried out pre-dawn raids on a military target near Palmyra, the famed desert city it recently recaptured from jihadists. ??
??Four Israeli planes penetrated our air space at 2:40 am (0040 GMT) via Lebanese territory and hit a military target on the way to Palmyra,? the army said in a statement carried by state news agency SANA. ??
??Our air defence engaged them and shot down one warplane over occupied territory, hit another one and forced the rest to flee,? it added. ??
The incident is the most serious between the two countries, which remain technically at war, since civil war broke out in Syria in 2011. ??
The Israeli air force had earlier said it carried out several strikes on Syria overnight and that Syria had fired surface-to-air missiles in response. ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kusal, Thisara,Danushka return to ODI squad
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 07:31 am
Kusal, Thisara,Danushka return to ODI squad
	
Sri Lanka's ODI squad to face Bangladesh will be captained by Upul Tharanga once again, with three players returning to the fold.
Kusal Perera, Thisara Perera and Danushka Gunathilaka will return for Sri Lanka in the one-day international series against Bangladesh.?
After being left out of the two Tests against Bangladesh, the trio are in line to feature in the three-match series that begins in Colombo on March 25.?
Upul Tharanga will captain the 15-man squad in the absence of Angelo Mathews, with stand-in Test skipper Rangana Herath retired from the format.?
A loss of form saw Kusal left out of the squad for the Test clashes with Bangladesh this month and he will hope to return to the top of his game in ODIs after managing just one century and a fifty last year.
Thisara and Danushka return after missing the tri-seres against West Indies and Zimbabwe, as well as the 5-0 defeat in South Africa. (Sportal)
??Sri Lanka squad: Upul Tharanga (captain), Niroshan Dickwella, Dhananjaya de Silva, Kusal Mendis, Asela Gunaratne, Dinesh Chandimal, Kusal Perera, Danushka Gunathilaka, Suranga Lakmal, Lahiru Kumara, Vikum Sanjaya, Thisara Perera, Sachith Pathirana, Seekkuge Prasanna, Lakshan Sandakan.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Laptop with secret files on Trump, Hillary stolen
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 05:30 pm
Laptop with secret files on Trump, Hillary stolen
	
The U.S. Secret Service is reportedly ?freaking? after one of the protective agency?s laptops containing pertinent national security information was stolen, CBS News reported Friday.
The laptop reportedly went missing Thursday morning in New York City. That?s when the New York Daily News reported an individual stepped out of a car and then took the laptop from the Secret Service agent?s vehicle, which was parked in the agent?s driveway.
The individual was then seen walking away from the agent?s vehicle while carrying a backpack.
CBS News justice and homeland security correspondent Jeff Pegues broke the story Thursday.
Politico?s Kenneth Vogel said that the agency charged with protecting President Donald Trump and his family is ?freaking? over the incident.
?Source tells me that protective perimeter pins & other @SecretService communication equipment also was stolen, and that USSS is FREAKING,? Vogel tweeted.
Trump?s wife, first lady Melania Trump, and their 10-year-old son Barron Trump are ?living in Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan while Barron Trump finishes out the school year.
The ?stolen? laptop reportedly contains floor plans of Trump Tower, along with evacuation procedures should the first family need to exit the skyscraper due to any threat. The Daily News reported the computer also has information related to the investigation into former Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton private email server.
The Secret Service agent?s access key card was also reportedly taken, although it wasn?t clear what the key card is used for. The agent?s security clearance also was not immediately clear.
The Secret Service issued a statement Friday, confirming the breach but withholding details for now.
?Secret Service issued laptops contain multiple layers of security including full disk encryption and are not permitted to contain classified information,? a statement read.
?An investigation is ongoing and the Secret Service is withholding additional comment until the facts are gathered,? the statement said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Man shot dead at Paris airport,3000 evacuated
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 04:47 pm
Man shot dead at Paris airport,3000 evacuated
	
A man was shot dead Saturday after wrestling a soldier to the ground at Paris' Orly Airport and trying to take her rifle, officials said. No one else in the busy terminal was hurt, but thousands of travelers were evacuated and flights were diverted to the city's other airport, international news agencies reported.
Police did not provide a motive for the attack but the Paris prosecutors' office said its anti-terrorism division was taking over the investigation.
French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the attacker, whom he did not identify, assaulted three Air Force soldiers who were patrolling the airport. He said the soldier who was attacked managed to hold on to her rifle and the two soldiers she was with opened fire to protect her and the public.
Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux said the man was linked with a carjacking earlier in the morning in a northern Paris suburb and that police and intelligence services know who he is.
In that incident, the Paris police office said, a man fired birdshot at officers who stopped him during a traffic stop, wounding one in the face. He then fled and stole a woman's car after threatening her with a weapon. That car was found near Orly.
French national police said that only one man was involved in the airport attack and denied reports of a possible second attacker.
Officials said about 3,000 people were being evacuated from Orly, where passengers told of gunshots and panic. Traffic was jammed near the airport and people were wheeling suitcases down the road.
A witness identified only as Dominque said on BFM television: ?The soldiers took aim at the man, who in turn pointed the gun he had seized at the two soldiers.?
Another man said on BFM that three soldiers were targeted, and they tried to calm the man who seized the weapon. Then the man said he heard two gunshots.
The soldier who was attacked is part of the Sentinelle special force installed around France to protect sensitive sites after a string of deadly Islamic extremist attacks. The force includes 7,500 soldiers, half deployed in the Paris region and half in the provinces.
Orly is Paris' second-biggest airport behind Charles de Gaulle, serving domestic and international flights, notably to destinations in Europe and Africa.
The shooting came after a similar incident last month at the Louvre Museum in which an Egyptian man attacked soldiers guarding the site and was shot and wounded.
Saturday's attack further rattled France, which remains under a state of emergency after attacks over the past two years that have killed 235 people. It also comes just days before the first anniversary of attacks on the Brussels airport and subway that killed 32 people and wounded hundreds of others.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Oppose UN resolution on SL, Vaiko tells Modi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 05:23 pm
Oppose UN resolution on SL, Vaiko tells Modi
	
India's MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Friday urged the Indian government to oppose the resolution in the United Nations that would give two more years to Sri Lanka to submit its report based on investigation into alleged war crimes against the Tamils.
?With all sincerity and anguish, I would request you that the Indian Government should oppose this resolution,? he said. If India supported the resolution, then it would be recorded in the history as a country that supported the genocide of Tamils, he warned in his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A copy of the letter was released to the media here.
Noting that Tamils were terribly shocked to know that the US, the UK, Northern Ireland and Macedonia had sponsored a resolution in the UNHRC, He said the ?most unkindest cut? was the newly added provision that said only with the Sri Lankan government?s consent foreign jurists, lawyers, rapporteurs could enter Sri Lanka in relation to this issue.(The Hindu)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC grants leave to proceed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 09:37 am
SC grants leave to proceed
	
The Supreme Court Bench comprising Justices Eva Wanasundera and Nalin Perera yesterday granted leave to proceed with the fundamental rights petition filed by MV Avant Garde's Ukrainian Captain challenging his arrest and detention.
Court fixed April 4 to consider interim relief and fix the date of the hearing.
Petitioner 49-year-old Gennadiy Gavrylov said he was arrested in October 2015 outside Sri Lankan territorial waters and was being detained at the Galle remand prison.
He said he had no political affiliations to any group or political party in Sri Lanka and that by some misfortune had been embroiled in a political tug-o-war prevailing in the country.
The petitioner cited the CID OIC, CID Director, CID DIG and Rakna Arakshaka Lanka Limited (RALL), a government-owned business undertaking affiliated to the Defence Ministry, Avant Garde Maritime Services (AGMS), Sri Lanka Shipping Company Limited, Lanka Maritime Services Limited, the Defence Secretary and the Attorney General as respondents.
He said the MV Avant Garde was chartered by Avant Garde Maritime Services belonging to Sri Lanka Shipping Company and was seized while in international waters in the wake of the change of government in Sri Lanka.
The petitioner said some of the respondents subjected him to cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment through falsely accusing him of entering Sri Lankan territorial waters in the vessel which he took over as captain on July 24, 2015.
He said SLNS Nandimithra had accosted ?MV Avant Garde? and took it into custody while in in international waters 15 nautical miles from the baseline.
The petitioner said Galle's Deputy Harbour Master, who is also the Acting Residential Manager of the Galle Port in his statement had admitted to the vessel being seized outside the territorial waters of Sri Lanka.
Manohara de Silva PC with Arinda Wijesurendra appeared for the petitioner. Romesh de Silva PC with Kuvera de Zoysa PC and Sugath Caldera appeard for the Avant Garde Maritime Services (AGMS) and Sri Lanka Shipping Company Limited. Deputy Solicitor General Ayesha Jinasena appeared for the CID, Defence Secretary and the Attorney General. (S.S. Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: THE GOTA PROJECT
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
THE GOTA PROJECT
	
A STRONG, STABLE, MODERN NATION
?
US-based Hafeel Farisz has written a double-barrelled critique of Gotabhaya Rajapaksa and me, though as he says, I am the primary target because of the intellectual dimension or pretensions that I bring to bear. It is quite tempting for me to respond at the level of theory, but that would be a diversion. That is not what this entire matter is about.?
Farisz? critique takes place in a certain context. One aspect of it is my formula that Gotabhaya Rajapaksa should be the Presidential candidate and Mahinda Rajapaksa the Prime Ministerial candidate of the opposition at the national elections scheduled for end-2019/2020. But there is a broader context, and that is the ideological, or more crudely, propaganda battle that has now triggered. That battle swirls around three interconnected projects, namely the new Constitution, the new Geneva resolution and the new economic policy direction.?
My advocacy of a Gotabhaya Presidential run and a ?Gota plus Mahinda ticket? comes in the context of and is proposed as an answer to a serious and deepening crisis.?
That crisis is multifaceted. There is a push for a new Constitution which will remove the executive Presidency?a factor for stability and economic growth, introduced for that purpose by J.R. Jayewardene?further empower the Prime Minister whose role in the massive bond scam has yet to be clarified, and transfer more power to the provinces including the Northern and Eastern. The Northern ?Province has only recently passed a resolution calling for re-merger and ?self-determination.? Its Chief Minister?s political behaviour is borderline subversive of the Constitution. A new Constitution which shifts power to these entities is an exercise in dangerous lunacy.?
What is still more dangerous is that a referendum would give the restive North and East the same opportunity that the British provided Jinnah, and Mustafa Barzaniis just about to exercise in Iraqi Kurdistan?a referendum in those particular areas, after which it can be proclaimed to the world that the Tamil people of the North and East have rejected the idea of living within a unitary state and Constitution and therefore have a right to exercise self-determination.?
In the meantime, this government seeks to sell off national assets and the national space, also permitting the economic annexation of Sri ?Lanka by the Behemoth next door. Free trade agreements are its only doctrine and free trade is best described in Che Guevara?s words as ?a free fox among free chickens!??
Thus, we in Sri Lanka today face an existential crisis. Our country is being robbed from us. Our vote has been robbed from us and we have a 16-member pseudo-opposition while a 51-member opposition formation is unrecognised as the parliamentary opposition.?
We, the vast majority of Sri Lanka?s citizens, need to take Sri Lanka back and put it back on track; on an upward trajectory to be the best place we can be. And we need the best possible team to do it. That is where Gotabhaya and Mahinda come in. I would have said Mahinda and Gotabhaya except for the realities of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution. This time round, Mahinda has to be the booster rocket.?
What then of my earlier critique of Gotabhaya? I was the only one to criticise Gotabhaya publicly at the time, and certainly the only one to do so from within the Mahinda camp. That tells the story. My criticism of Gota was that he was taking an excessively hard, hyper-securitised line, as distinct from Mahinda?s instinctively-pragmatic balancing. So it was a preference at the time, of Mahinda?s line over Gota?s. Today, the choice is not one that takes place ?within? a patriotic MR government, between MR?s and GR?s line.?
Today, we are back to 2005 where MR, GR, BR, NR and the JO have to fight together to save the country from the Ranil-Chandrika partnership which seeks to dismantle the State and sellout the country, rolling back the gains of the war of liberation and reunification waged by our armed forces. The only difference between today and 2005 is that due to changed Constitutional and social realities, GR will have to be the vanguard element?rather like the role of the elite Special Forces -- while MR is the leading force and the JO the main force.?
Gota has demonstrated his developmental vision and capacities beyond any reasonable doubt. He is not only a decorated warrior who knows how to defend his country even at the risk of his life, but is also a man with a constructive, modernising vision and capacity. That is a combination of qualities?fighter and builder?that this country, and indeed any country, needs and should be proud to have.?
I brought in Kumar Gunaratnam for a simple, symbolic reason. I don?t believe a society can tackle all its major tasks at the same time, nor do I believe that any leader or political option can do so either. I am convinced that a Gotabhaya Presidency based on a Mahinda Prime-Ministership can take Sri ?Lanka to the same place that an earlier leader I worked closely with, President Premadasa, wanted to: Mahathir Mohamed?s Malaysia. I am convinced that no one but Gotabhaya can do so.?
However, in my lifetime, I would like to see Sri Lanka eventually evolving beyond that, to an unlikely cross between Cuba and Singapore; a society with a Singaporean ?brain? and a Cuban ?heart and soul?; a fair and just society in which ethnic and religious factors can be transcended in a new fusion, a new identity. Of those I see around me, a combination of Kumar Gunaratnam and his FSP comrades and a JVP led by Sunil Handunnetti and Bimal Ratnayake (minus its pro-Ranil rightwing) seem to have the necessary consciousness. That is the task for the next generation; not ours.?
However, for that to be possible, the country needs to reach a level of economic and educational advancement; of urbanisation and scientific development?all of which will be within a globally competitive national capitalist framework, not a socialist-oriented one.?
This historical task of building the modern material foundation of a future social democracy under a ?next generation? democratic left government, can only be fulfilled today and tomorrow under the strong, patriotic, modernising leadership of Gotabhaya, backed by Mahinda.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trumperary
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
Trumperary
	
50th Day of the Gilbert and Sullivan Comic Opera ?Anime,? playing in Washington ?DC?
?
?Today, China has stood up.? Mao tse Tung - October 1, 1949
- China will make the Chinese great-
?Today, I have stood up.? Donald Trump - January 20, 2016
-I will make Americans great-
Barack Obama, serving as President of the United ?States, was a class act, one who was difficult to emulate. He, an aesthete (successor, vulgarian Donald Trump, went on the campaign trail boasting that his primary hobby was to ?hug pussies?), was a Professor of Law at Harvard, a scintillating prose stylist shorn of deadening language, his writing skills being revealed in his two books ?Dreams of my Father? and ?The Audacity of Hope.? A Nobel Prize winner, he was a persuasive public speaker and a master policy formulator. An attempt to succeed him as President would be like trying to succeed a Mandela or a Chou en Lai. Donald Trump did become the U.S. President but could he sustain it? On the day of his inauguration, he promised that his first act, which he would implement that day itself, would be to repeal Obamacare. Fifty days has lapsed and Trump admitted lamely that Obamacare was ?incredibly complex,? which meant that when Trump gave his undertaking, he had not read systematically through its provisions. Trump, to be a lame duck from day one? The jury is out.?
Health is a major activity in the US, covering 20% of her economy. In Sri Lanka, a patient needing healthcare would go to a government hospital to be attended without payment. In the U.S., no hospital would admit a patient without prior assurance of payment. If the patient has no funds, it was his or her hard luck. A U.S. citizen or his family suffers or dies if he/she cannot fork out the enormous funds required to deal with that condition. Obamacare was an entrepreneurial system by which insurance companies were brought into the equation. It is unlikely that the fundamentals of Obamacare will be repealed: such a repeal would make 10 million U.S. citizens not great but sick again. Repeal of Obamacare would be a luddite act, like, if Edison?s electric bulb were prevented from production because it would make candle-makers go bankrupt. But the repeal of Obamacare was a No. 1 priority of the government. There will be a substantial downside for government if it does not repeal it.?
Though the U.S. has less than 4% of the world?s population, she generates 25% of world GDP, making her the unchallenged economic hegemon of the world. The dimensions of her war budget are disturbing. In the region of US$ 650 billion and increasing, it exceeds the war budgets of the next eight countries. Nero - the Roman Emperor- delighted himself playing the fiddle while Rome was burning (there is a body of established historical opinion that it was he who was the arsonist). In the dominance of homo sapiens which started 70,000 years ago, there had emerged a number of empires - Mesopotamia (the land where Abraham roamed), the Incas, the Aztecs, the Roman, the Alexandrian, the Ptolemaic, the Islamist, the Mauryan, the Mongols. In none of them could the emergence of madmen like Idi Amin or a Pol Pot, enable the ruler to destroy the whole world in one stroke, as a U.S. President is enabled now to do, if he playfully felt so inclined. This is not a fantasist?s view. George Bush destroyed Iraq (the former land of Mesopotamia) claiming that she had weapons of mass destruction when she did not: the real reason for Bush to do so was his personal dislike of Saddam Hussein. Hillary Clinton, the then U.S. Secretary of State, gloated over the sodomising murder of Gaddafi and the destruction of the welfare State of Libya, exclaiming, ?we came, we saw, we killed Gaddafi. Wow!?The execution of unresisting Osama bin Laden was conveyed in real-time from Abbottsville, ?Pakistan, to a salivating U.S. Cabinet. Despite feminine delicacy normally precluding a woman from being an eyewitness to such executions, Hillary Clinton - like Madame Defarge perched at the foot of French Revolution?s guillotine - was a drooling onlooker of Osama bin Laden?s murder, though this tricoteuse was not knitting (A photograph of the scene went viral on the internet). One of the few positives for Trump could be that he prevented a corrupt (Whitewater and a close collaborator with Wall Street) Hillary Clinton, from becoming the U.S. President. Hillary would have shed more human blood than even Attila the Hun ever did.?
On 10.02.2016, Nayomini Weerasooriya (nayominiweerasooriya@gmail.com) - a senior journalist, writer and PR professional- wrote an Op-Ed in the Daily Mirror raising the question; ?As entrepreneurs, what lessons can we learn from President Trump?? ( She assumes that Trump was an entrepreneur though he suffered five bankruptcies). She claimed that the election of Trump ?showed the will of the people and the silent majority had spoken.? The silent majority? Trump trailed Hillary Clinton by 2.5 million votes. Trump owed his appointment as President to a Constitutional quirk: the President of the U.S. is not elected by direct vote but in a two-stage process. After the direct vote, an electoral college is appointed which is expected to represent electoral proportions but, on occasion, does not: earlier, George Bush beat Al Gore despite receiving a lesser number of votes.?
A true indication of Trump?s popularity is shown in the events of next day. Normally, after an election defeat, the supporters of the losing candidate repair to their homes to lick their wounds (in Sri Lanka, to safeguard their houses). In the case of Trump, a larger number than those who were at the inauguration, gathered the next day and protested vigorously. Trump, in true third world politician fashion, blamed the press, claiming it had understated the inauguration turnout (by 500,000) and overstated the size of the next day?s leaden - eyed protests. Like a third world dictator, he called the ?press an enemy of the people,? a true sign of an emerging dictator, as John McCain (a Republican nominee for an earlier presidential election) pointed out. Nayomini?s assertion that Trump represented the majority, silent or otherwise, is unsupportable.?
Nayomini explains that, ?her focus is to draw out lessons from Trump, for he has many lessons to teach the rest of the world.? She lists a number. The first is that Trump had kept his word. Politicians, as they try to implement rash promises made in the heat of an election campaign, take steps which appear not the wisest. Within one week of assuming duties, Trump issued an Executive Order banning Muslims from seven selected countries entering the U.S. This was the implementation of an election promise. This order created a furore. The judicial system turned it down, showing Trump to be a bigoted dumbo, hardly offering a lesson which entrepreneurs, businessmen and women could absorb. Similarly, in Sri Lanka, the newly-elected Prime Minister of 1956, implemented an election promise to make Sinhala the sole official language within 24 hours. The consequences were devastating. Sri Lanka took over half a century to recover from this decision. Election undertakings are like lover?s promises, offered to seduce and gain an objective. Once that objective is achieved, the promise is abandoned, if there is no further advantage in its pursuit. Wisdom does not necessarily emerge from the romantic. Once in office, reality checks stream into place, deterring starry-eyed implementation of grandiose election promises. Nayomini may consider such reneging a letdown. But then, Nayomini is a senior journalist, writer and a PR professional. What do they of politics know, those who of politics have no elective experience, substituting its lack through books and gossip. It is an ersatz knowledge.?
The second lesson Nayomini claims Trump could teach is that ?Trump had gone to work from day one.? How Nayomini knows this is not revealed. Of course, Trumps? residence and office are next to each other: both are in the White House. Where else would Trump go after breakfast than to his office next door? Or, perhaps, the lesson that Nayomini wishes be spread to her readers, businessmen and entrepreneurs is that that they should build their residences next to their offices. Does Nayomini think that after arduous years on the campaign trail, Trump is going to take his ease after his election victory? Nayomini seems to be caught in a catch 22 situation, of being mesmerised by her own unbalanced stereotypes of a politician.?
The third lesson which Trump could teach is unbelievable. She writes, ?Trump has got his team in place!?. The White House is in total disarray. Within a week of inauguration he sacked his newly-appointed acting Attorney General for refusing to defend an Executive Order which the judiciary subsequently held to be illegal. Within a fortnight, Trump?s nominee as Cabinet Minister for Labour resigned. Within these two weeks, Trumps? appointee as the head of National Security Council (NSC) resigned: it turned out that he was an agent of a foreign government. (The NSC is a prestigious, powerful and secretive institution. Henry Kissinger was head of the NSC before he was promoted Secretary of State, as were Colin Powell and Condoleeza Rice). Trump?s nominee, as successor to the one who resigned, turned down the invitation. In the next week, in separate decisions, the secretaries of the Army and the Navy resigned. No one, it seems, wants anything to do with Trump.
The White House, loaded with relatives, is in a shambles, each one at each other?s throats. It mimics an act in Verdi?s opera Un Ballo in Maschera, where, it is not clear who is on whose side, as each circled one another cautiously and with fixed smiles, daggers at the ready for offence or defence. Never in the history of U.S. Cabinet making have so many top officials left their posts in such a short period of a month after Presidential inauguration and in such numbers. Nayomini, without a trace of irony, writes; ?Trump has built a team which can assist him ably in his work.??
Nayomini concludes that ?the fact Donald Trump was a successful businessman should not be lost on any entrepreneur.? Was he all that successful? Five of his enterprises went bankrupt. Being a businessman need not necessarily make an individual an entrepreneur. If so, every second hand car dealer in Sri Lanka would be an entrepreneur. What were Trump?s lines of business? They were casinos (he is big in Las Vegas), Golf Clubs, brokering land deals and participating in T.V. reality shows. Would Nayomini consider marriage brokers in Sri Lanka as entrepreneurs? The Trump University, which set out to teach land deal management went bankrupt, not because the idea was bad but because of incompetent management. He had to buy out irate students who filed a class action claiming damages.?
It is important to distinguish a businessman from an entrepreneur.Trump is no entrepreneur but a businessman.?
Trump, like Woodrow Wilson in 1914, succeeded to U.S. Presidency to reshape the world. One of the innovative measures of Woodrow Wilson was the creation of the League of Nations. It had its shortcomings and eventually failed. If it had continued, it could be argued that WWII would not have occurred. Trump, not having a sense history, wishes to disengage himself from the United Nations, the creation of the post-WWII consensus. This would be a disaster and strongly to be condemned. The emergence of the human species, about 70,000 years, led to its evolution through natural selection, so that it has been able to occupy every evolutionary niche and dominate it. But its dominance has led to its anti-theses of possible worldwide destruction. Whether Trump could accept the challenge or even understand the nature of it, is a challenge.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP hopes to appoint three deputy leaders
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 11:45 am
UNP hopes to appoint three deputy leaders
	
United National Party (UNP) seniors are expected to meet next week to discuss the proposal to appoint three deputy leaders to the party, sources said yesterday.
They said the proposal to make changes to the party came up at the working committee meeting held on March 8 and at this meeting it was also decided that senior party members like Ranjith Madduma Bandara and several others including Minister Sarath Fonseka should be appointed to the working committee.
However, the final decision on the new appointments will be taken at the next working committee meeting to be held next month. (YP)
 
		
==============================
## Title: US claims Syria strike, denies targeting mosque
## Section: International
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
US claims Syria strike, denies targeting mosque
	
?
AL JINEH AFP March17, 2017-The US said it carried out an air strike in Syria against an Al-Qaeda meeting but denied deliberately targeting a mosque where a monitor said on Friday 46 people were killed. ??
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said most of the dead in the Thursday evening raid on Al-Jineh, in the northern province of Aleppo, were civilians. ? ?The US-led coalition has been bombing jihadist groups in war-torn Syria since 2014, with hundreds of civilians killed in the country and in neighbouring Iraq. ? ? ?We did not target a mosque...?, said Colonel John J. Thomas, spokesman for US Central Command. ? ? ?More than 100 people were wounded,? Observatory head Rami Abdel Rahman said on Thursday, adding that many were still trapped under the collapsed mosque in the village of Al-Jineh, just over 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Aleppo. ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: US conservation group wins $1m grant for SL project
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 March 2017 01:31 pm
US conservation group wins $1m grant for SL project
	
BERKELEY, California ?A Berkeley-based organization- Seacology-has won a grant of almost $1 million for a conservation project in Sri Lanka.
The Berkeley-based organization is a winner in this year?s Water Window Challenge sponsored by the international Global Resilience Partnership. A goal of the competition is to bolster the resilience of flood-prone communities in Central and East Africa and South and Southeast Asia against climate change and natural disasters.
Seacology?s Sri Lanka Mangrove Conservation Project aims to protect the Indian Ocean island nation?s remaining mangrove forests, replant thousands of acres of deforested coastline, and offer microloans and business training to tens of thousands of disadvantaged women who otherwise would cut down mangroves to sell as charcoal, according to a news release. The project is in collaboration with the local non-governmental organization Sudeesa, also known as Small Fishers Federation of Sri Lanka.
?This project makes Sri Lanka the first nation in the world to protect all of its mangrove forests,? Duane Silverstein, Seacology?s executive director, said in the release. ?This is very important as mangroves sequester more carbon than other forests and thus play a vital role in the battle against global warming.?
The grant will allow Seacology to expand the project to northern and eastern portions of Sri Lanka that were disproportionately impacted by a 26-year-long civil war, fueled by ethnic tensions between the nation?s Buddhist Sinhalese majority and Hindu Tamil minority, that was officially proclaimed ended in 2009.(East Bay Times)
 
		
==============================
## Title: US ?strategic patience? with North Korea has ended: Tillerson
## Section: International
## Date: 18 March 2017 12:00 am
US ?strategic patience? with North Korea has ended: Tillerson
	
US secretary of state Rex Tillerson (C) stands with US Gen. Vincent K. Brooks (3rdR), commander of the United Nations Command, Combined Forces Command (Hindustan Times) ?
?
?
SEOUL AFP March17, 2017 ? -The United States? ?strategic patience? with nuclear-armed North Korea is over, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said in Seoul on Friday after visiting the Demilitarised Zone. ??
The announcement signals a clean break from the stance of the previous administration under Barack Obama, when the United States ruled out engaging the North until it made a tangible commitment to de-nuclearisation, hoping that internal stresses in the isolated country would bring about change. ??
??The policy of strategic patience has ended,? Tillerson said at a joint press conference with his South Korean counterpart Yun Byung-Se. ??
??We are exploring a new range of diplomatic, security, economic measures. All options are on the table.? Tillerson is in Asia for his first foray into crisis management, and his remarks came a day after he said in Tokyo that 20 years of efforts to denuclearise the North had ?failed? and promising a new approach, without giving specifics. Leaving the North with its present level of weapons technology was not an appropriate goal, Tillerson said in Seoul. ?That would leave North Korea with significant capabilities that would represent a true threat.? The United Nations has imposed multiple sets of sanctions on the North over its nuclear and missile programmes, but its main diplomatic protector and trade partner China is accused of not fully enforcing them. ??
 
		
==============================
