## Title: Arrest of WikiLeaks?s Assange a ?priority?: US top cop
## Section: International
## Date: 22 April 2017 12:00 am
Arrest of WikiLeaks?s Assange a ?priority?: US top cop
	
?
WASHINGTON AFP April21, 2017- The arrest of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is a US ?priority,? Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Thursday, as media reports indicated his office was preparing charges against the fugitive anti-hero. ??
??We are going to step up our effort and already are stepping up our efforts on all leaks,? Sessions, America?s top cop, said at a news conference in response to a reporter?s question about a US priority to arrest Assange. ??
The Justice Department chief said a rash of leaks of sensitive secrets appeared unprecedented. ??
??This is a matter that?s gone beyond anything I?m aware of. We have professionals that have been in the security business of the United States for many years that are shocked by the number of leaks and some of them are quite serious,? he said. ??
??Whenever a case can be made, we will seek to put some people in jail.? Prosecutors in recent weeks have been drafting a memo that looks at charges against Assange and members of WikiLeaks that possibly include conspiracy, theft of government property and violations of the Espionage Act, the Washington Post reported, citing unnamed US officials familiar with the matter. ??
Several other media outlets also cited unnamed officials as saying US authorities were preparing charges against Assange.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: C.V.Wigneswaran  hurts Christian sentiments
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 22 April 2017 12:01 am
C.V.Wigneswaran  hurts Christian sentiments
	
?
By D.B.S.Jeyaraj
?
Northern Province chief Minister Canagasabapathy Visuvalingam Wigneswaran, who possesses a remarkable flair for getting embroiled in controversial issues, is in the eye of a storm again. This time it is over some remarks made by him during the course of a media interview on April 14th 2017. Mr. Wigneswaran was interviewed by a Tamil website called ?Thinappuyal? meaning ?Daily Storm?. Well, the interview has certainly caused a storm centring around the Northern?
Chief Minister.
While responding to a question by the interviewer, Mr. Wigneswaran had referred to Jesus Christ and Swami Premananda in a manner that appeared to draw an analogy between both. This reference has hurt the sentiments of Christians, who regard Jesus Christ as the ?Son of God? and believe in him as their ?Lord and Saviour?. Many are angry that the Chief Minister was comparing Jesus Christ to a ?Swami? or ?God man? who was convicted of rape and murder by the Indian courts.
The You tube posted on the web by ?Thinappuyal? showed the interviewer asking Mr. Wigneswaran about his being a Premananda devotee and whether it was correct to be a devotee of a man convicted as a criminal by the courts. The ex-supreme court judge responded to the question by saying Jesus Christ was convicted 2,000 years ago but people were worshipping him now as God.?
Mr. Wigneswaran re-iterated his point about Jesus Christ by saying again in Tamil ?Avar oru Kuttravaali. Avarukku Marana Thandanai Theerkkappattathu. Aen Innum Kireesthavargal Avarai Iraivanaahap Paarkkiraargal?? (He was a criminal. He was convicted and given a death sentence. Why are Christians still seeing him as God?? The point Mr. Wigneswaran was trying to make through his counter question seemed to be that like Premananda, Jesus Christ too had been convicted 2,000 years ago.
Mr. Wigneswaran?s remarks and question about Christians regarding Jesus Christ as God touched a raw nerve among Christians of all folds - Catholics, Protestants and Evangelicals. It became a heated issue as the YouTube was shared widely via social media. Mr. Wigneswaran came in for heavy criticism for what was seen as a comparison between Jesus Christ?
and Premananda.?
			Dinesh did not accompany Anura to meet LTTE in Vanni
			?
			Colombo District MP and MEP Party leader Dinesh Gunawardena has in an electronic mail sent through his son Mr. Yadamini Gunawardena stated that he did not accompany former MP Anura Bandaranaike to the Vanni in 1988 for meeting with the LTTE as mentioned in my column ?Crown Prince of Sri Lankan Politics but Crowned King? published in the Daily Mirror of 18 March 2017. ?
			I had written ?In 1988 Anura, Kumar Ponnambalam and Dinesh Gunewardane went up to Vavuniya to meet with former LTTE political commissar Narendran alias Yogi.?
			While confirming that Mr. Bandaranaike did go to the Vanni with Kumar Ponnambalam and several others, Mr. Gunawardena says that he himself was ?not part of any mission to meet the LTTE?.?
			I thank Mr. Gunawardena for the correction and apologize to him for my mistake. Mr. Gunawardena?s letter is published below in full:
			-DBSJ
			Dear Jeyaraj,
			In your article, ?Crown Prince of Sri Lankan Politics but Crowned King?, in the Daily Mirror of 18 March 2017, you write:
			?In 1988 Anura, Kumar Ponnambalam and Dinesh Gunewardena went up to Vavuniya to meet with former LTTE political commissar Narendran alias Yogi.?
			While I respect you as a journalist, I regret to inform you that this is incorrect.
			I was not part of any mission to meet the LTTE. To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Anura Bandaranaike, Mr. Kumar Ponnambalam and several others took part.
			I was quite surprised when I first heard about it, which was when Mrs. Bandaranaike informed me that there was no news about them. It was only then that I came to know of any such mission. I should be obliged if you would make a correction.
			Best regards,
			Dinesh Gunawardena, MP
			
		
Even several Tamil speaking Muslims took umbrage at this remark about ?Eesaa Nabhi? as ?Prophet? Jesus is referred to in Islamic tenets.
Tamil Catholics vehemently protested against Mr. Wigneswaran?s remarks. Many young members of the Catholic Laity wanted to stage widespread protest demonstrations against the Chief Minister.?
They were restrained by the Catholic clergy, who did not want an ugly situation to develop. A significant section of the Catholic clergy in the North and East has been strongly supportive of Mr. Wigneswaran?s hawkish political approach in the recent past. These sections were agitated and upset over the new development.
A public statement condemning Mr. Wigneswaran?s comments was issued by Mr. Anton Punithanayagam, the president of the Mannar Diocese Catholic Federation. (Mannaar Maraimaavatta Katholikka Ondriyam)
The senior lawyer is also the adviser on legal affairs to the Dioceses of Mannar and Jaffna. Mr. Punithanayagam called upon Mr. Wigneswaran to withdraw his comments and issue an apology to the Catholic Church. If not the Chief Minister would have to face questions and protests from Tamil and Sinhala Catholics warned, Anton Punithanayagam.
Bishop Emeritus Kingsley Swampillai
There is currently no Bishop for the Mannar Diocese after Bishop Rayappu Joseph retired. The Bishop Emeritus of Trincomalee-Batticaloa Diocese, Most Rev. Kingsley Swampillai is functioning in Mannar as the Apostolic Administrator. Bishop Swampillai contacted senior Jaffna district MP Somasuntharam Senathirajah alias ?Maavai? Senathirajah and informed him that Catholics were deeply hurt by Mr. Wigneswaran?s remarks.?
He made an amicable suggestion that the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) as a party could intervene in the matter and engage in damage control. Thereafter the TNA leader and Leader of the Opposition R. Sampanthan communicated with his hand-picked Northern Chief Minister and asked Mr. Wigneswaran to issue an?
unqualified apology.?
Meanwhile, the Central Committee of the Ilankai Thamil Arasuk Katchi (ITAK) is scheduled to meet in Batticaloa on April 29th. It is expected that the Wigneswaran issue would be raised and discussed at length?on that occasion.
In order to understand the hurt feelings of Christians over this comparison more fully, it is necessary to know more about the personality of Swami Premananda, who was convicted on charges of rape and murder by the Pudukkottai Sessions Court in India?s Tamil Nadu State.?
He was sentenced to life imprisonment in August 1997. Consequent appeals made against the verdict by Swami Premananda to the Madras High Court and to the Indian Supreme Court were dismissed in December 2002 and April 2005 respectively.?
Premananda died of acute liver failure on February 21st 2011, while serving his jail term at the Cuddalore?Central Prison.
Though Premananda was convicted in India and died there, he was actually born in Sri Lanka. Premananda whose real name was Somasundaran Premakumar was born in Matale on November 17th 1951. His father was from Thanjavoor in India while his mother was from Matale, Sri Lanka.?
Premakumar transformed into Swami Premananda in 1971 and established an Ashram in Matale. Subsequently he set up an Ashram in Puliyankulam in the Northern Province in 1975.?
Swami Premananda was also known as the Matale Swami and Ravi Swami. His Ashram cum Orphanage in Matale was burnt by mobs in July 1983. Premananda relocated to the North and then to India in 1984.He founded the 150 acre ?Premananda Ashram? at Fathimanagar near Trichy town in the Tiruchirappalli District of Tamil Nadu.
?
Wikipedia Entry
A Wikipedia entry under the heading ?Swamy Premananda?(guru) discloses pertinent details of Premanananda?s downfall in India. Here are?
relevant excerpts -
?Originally from Sri Lanka, He moved to India with his followers in 1984 to escape the Sri Lankan Civil War, bringing with him undocumented Sri Lankan orphans who had been in his care. He initially opened an ashram in a rented building in Tiruchirappalli, then moved to Fatimanagar in 1989.The ashram there covered 150 acres of land with plantations of flowers, fruit, and teak. The ashram served as a shelter for women and orphan children. About 200 people lived in the ashram, most of Sri Lankan origin. Branches of the ashram later opened in the UK, Switzerland, Belgium and other countries?.
?In 1994, one of the girls living in the ashram, Arul Jyothi, escaped and reported that she had been raped and was pregnant. The All India Democratic Women?s Association provided moral support and legal aid to the victims.?
?On 15 November 1994, the Police started an investigation. Two ashram residents also reported that another, called Ravi, had been murdered for attempting to expose the happenings at the ashram?.
?Trial took place in the Sessions Court in Pudukkottai, presided over by a woman judge R. Banumathi. Noted Criminal lawyer Ram Jethmalani was among those representing the Swami. The defence claimed that Premananda had divine powers and was capable of performing miracles, which included materializing vibhuti and regurgitating small Shiva lingams. To debunk this myth, an illusionist was invited into the courtroom; he performed both in court?.
?Ram Jethmalani argued that the women had consented to sex. The court noted that in some cases the consent was obtained by deceit, such as promising a cure for ailments such as asthma or by saying that sex with the swami was ?service to God?.?
The court also noted that some of the girls had been threatened with dire consequences and that some of the victims were below the age of consent (16 at the time of trial) when they were raped. Jethmalani also said that the trial was unfair because witnesses and the accused had been subjected to?Police brutality?.
?The murder victim?s remains were found buried on the ashram premises and were presented as evidence. DNA samples from Arul Jyothi, her aborted foetus, and Premananda were also introduced as evidence. The prosecution argued that the results established his paternity. The defence hired an expert witness from the UK, Wilson Wall, who took DNA evidence back to the UK and analysed it; his results were that Premananda was not the father and that analysis by the Indian scientists was mishandled?.
?
Life Imprisonment Sentence
?On 20 August 1997, Premananda was sentenced to life imprisonment and fined INR 67.3 lakhs for 13 counts of rape, molestations of two girls?and a murder.?
?Failure to pay the fine was to carry an additional term of 32 years and 9 months. He was also convicted of cheating the residents of his ashram, which carried another one-year sentence. Six others were also found guilty of conspiracy to commit rapes and destroying evidence. Five were given life sentences. In view of the severity of the crimes, the judge denied them any future remission of their sentences or amnesty by any state or central government. Premananda appeared unperturbed by the sentences and while talking to reporters, said: ?Truth will ultimately triumph?.
?In January 2000, the Madras High Court ordered that INR 36.4 lakhs from Premananda?s frozen accounts be placed in a fixed deposit for three years and the resulting interest should be paid to the victims as compensation.?
The original guilty verdict was appealed to the Madras High Court and was rejected in December 2002.In April 2005, the Supreme Court of India rejected an appeal?.
?On 5 February 2009, the Madras High Court rejected a habeas corpus petition, keeping in view the recommendations of the district sessions judge at the time of conviction and the previous Supreme Court order. On 26 June 2010, however, the same court accepted Premananda?s petition requesting a three-month parole to undergo medical treatment. As of 2005 a European named Doris was running the ashram, who said that Premananda was innocent?.
?Premananda died on 21 February 2011 of acute liver failure, while being held in Cuddalore Central Prison. Until his death, he continued to say he?was innocent?.
The above excerpts from Wikipedia about Swami Premananda sums up the charges against him and the trial, conviction and imprisonment.?
Against that backdrop it is easier to understand why Mr. Wigneswaran?s references to Premananda and Jesus Christ have saddened and angered those of the Christian faith.?
Hurt and indignant feelings were further exacerbated by the fact that the mouth from which these words emanated belonged to a respected retired Supreme Court judge who was elected chief minister by a majority of Hindu and Christian voters.
Whatever the discerning public or outside world may opine about Premananda, he is yet the Swami to thousands of his followers. Some perceive and worship him as an incarnation of God. The most distinguished disciple of Premananda in Sri Lanka is arguably Mr. C.V.Wigneswaran, who became his devotee in 1981. Mr. Wigneswaran remains faithful to the Swami despite Premananda?s trial, conviction, imprisonment and death. Many others lost their faith in the Swami after the judicial proceedings involving Premananda but not?
Justice Wigneswaran.?
In fact Mr. Wigneswaran?s conduct in support of Premananda came in for much criticism then.
?
Peoples Union of Civil Liberties
When allegations were made against Premananda, few expected constructive legal action would be done as the Swami had much money power and powerful political connections. However the All - India Democratic Women?s Association affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) and the Peoples Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) led by respected lawyer and human rights activist K.G. Kannabiran took up the case and extended support to the women and child victims. The PUCL gave shelter to the victimized children and women. It was the pressure mounted by these organisations with media support that led to the detention and trial of Premananda and other officials at the Ashram.
When the trial began at the Pudukkottai sessions court before the woman judge R. Bhanumathy, a formidable legal team was mobilised on behalf of Premananda. Chief among these was well-known lawyer Ram Jethmalani. Many eminent notables gave evidence in support of Premananda. Among these was C. V. Wigneswaran who was the defence witness No 16. Unfortunately much of the testimony was disbelieved by the Sessions Court judge despite Mr. Wigneswaran being a Judge?
in Sri Lanka.?
The Sessions Court judge R. Bhanumathy later became an Indian Supreme Court Judge.
According to sources from legal circles, Mr. Wigneswaran had persisted with his efforts on behalf of Premananda during the appeals before the Madras High Court and Indian Supreme court. It is alleged that Wigneswaran sought personal meetings with the Judges hearing the appeals and attempted to influence them in?favour of Premananda.?
PUCL lawyers had to intervene and seek a re-constitution of the bench as a result of this alleged lawyer sources.
?
Kannabiran Memorial Lecture
There was however an ironic twist in this matter in 2014. The PUCL President K.G. Kannabiran had passed away in 2010. C. V. Wigneswaran who retired as Supreme Court judge had contested polls and on the Ilankai Thamil Arasu Katchi (ITAK)symbol of house and been elected as Northern Province Chief Minister. The PUCL organised the first Kannabiran Memorial Lecture in Chennai in November 2014. The Northern Chief Minister was invited to deliver it. Apparently PUCL officials were unaware that Defence witness No. 16 in the Premananda case was now the Northern Chief Minister.
Mr. Wigneswaran made PUCL officials painfully aware of who he was, by first visiting the Premananda ashram in Trichy. Upon knowing this, the PUCL was horrified by the fact that they had unwittingly invited Mr. Wigneswaran to deliver the first Kannabiran Memorial Lecture. It was too late to cancel the lecture. As a result several Lawyers, Judicial officers and human rights activists kept away from the Kannabiran Memorial Lecture delivered by Mr. Wigneswaran.
Mr. Wigneswaran?s efforts on behalf of Premananda ashram continued even after he became Northern Chief Minister. Though Swami Premananda was no more three other Ashram officials convicted along with him were yet serving their term of life imprisonment in the Puzhal jail. In an unprecedented move the Chief Minister of the Northern Province of Sri Lanka wrote a letter directly to the Prime Minister of neighbouring India seeking the release of the three convicts. Many had expected Mr. Wigneswaran to make legitimate requests to the Indian Govt. and Prime Minister for assistance to help reconstruct and develop the war affected Northern Province after he became Chief Minister.?
Mr. Wigneswaran had not done so. But now he was defying norms to seek clemency for three persons convicted for criminal offences under Indian law.
?
Times of India News Report
A Times of India news report dated April 24th 2015 stated as follows -
?Chief Minister of Sri Lanka?s Tamil-majority Northern Province C V Wigneswaran has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release three life convicts in the sensational Swamy Premananda case. The three -Kamalananda, Balan alias Balendiran and Sathis alias Sathishkumar - were convicted and sentenced along with Premananda for raping 13 girls, including minors, and conspiring to murder an inmate in the godman?s ashram near Trichy?.
?They were sentenced to double life imprisonment, and the punishment was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2005. While Premananda died in Cuddalore prison in 2011, the other three are currently lodged in Puzhal jail in Chennai. All the four were Sri Lankan Tamils?.
?In his letter, Wigneswaran, a former judge of Sri Lanka?s Supreme Court, said Kamalananda and the others were falsely implicated in the case.
?Premananda?s ashram and its properties have to be maintained. No one is there to take care of them. Please immediately release them as they are innocent,? he said.?
Some senior officials expressed surprise and shock over Wigneswaran questioning the Indian judicial system and describing the convicts as innocent?. ?Premananda died in 2011 at the age of 59 in due to multiple health problems, including an acute end-stage liver disease. Kamalananda, a close associate of Premananda, Balan and Satish were convicted for abetment in the rape of the girls and the murder of Ravi whose body was buried inside the sprawling ashram at Fathima Nagar near Trichy?.
?Kamalananda?s wife Dr. Chandradevi, who was charged with terminating the pregnancies of some of the rape victims, was convicted and sentenced to a 39-month jail term. She completed her prison term and was released on payment of a fine of Rs 30,000. While Kamalananda and Balan are engineering graduates, Satish had completed higher secondary. All of them have completed 16 of the 40 years of their sentence?.
?
Appeal To Narendra Modi
?Declining to reply to queries emailed to him by TOI, including one on whether it was right to seek the release of the life convicts, Wigneswaran merely admitted to sending an appeal to Narendra Modi for their release. He added that the case history was known to senior advocate Ram Jetmalani, who had defended?the convicts?.
?A Sri Lankan, Premananda had set up the ashram in the 1980s. In 1994, he was charged with raping the 13 inmates, all Sri Lankan Tamils. The case came to light after one of the victims escaped from the ashram. Another victim became pregnant and a DNA test established that Premananda was the culprit. On August 21, 1997, the then Pudukottai district and sessions court judge R Banumathi (now Supreme Court judge) sentenced Premananda to double life imprisonment and a cumulative fine of Rs 66.4 lakh?.
Mr. C. V. Wigneswaran in his Chief Ministerial capacity has been the target of a lot of criticism for his poor performance amounting to virtual non - performance. Sadly the Northern Provincial Council elected to office amidst great expectations has been woefully inefficient in the discharge of its duties. It has set a record in passing irrelevant resolutions.?
The Chief Minister is known for making speeches all year round. Funds allocated by the Colombo Govt are under-utilised. Corruption is rampant. The Northern Governor Reginald Cooray says openly that the people of the North are approaching him in large numbers to solve their problems despite an elected council and Chief Minister being there. Mr. Wigneswaran has made a name for himself as a Chief Minister who made provocative statements about matters outside his purview instead of concentrating on administering the Provincial Council constructively.
?
Sri Poobalakrishna Temple
Even as Mr. Wigneswaran is being heavily faulted for his performance as Chief Minister, the Premananda devotee can take credit for one accomplishment. He was instrumental in constructing a temple and erecting a statue of Swami Premananda in Puliyankulam.?
The temple deity is a statue of Lord Krishna known as ?Poo Bala Krishna?(Poo means flower and Bala is child). It is claimed that Swami Premananda materialised the statue out of flowers and consecrated it at Puliyankulam many years ago.?
A new temple was constructed mainly due to the efforts of Mr. Wigneswaran. The Sri Poobalakrishna temple was ceremonially declared open on February 2th 2015 at Puliyankulam. A statue of Swami Premananda was carried in procession into the premises to the accompaniment of a band and dancers.
A visibly elated Wigneswaran made a speech on the occasion. An extract from his speech is as follows -
?It is indeed a dream come true! Here we are today, gathered together at the opening of this Sri Poobalakrishna Temple in Puliyankulam. At the time of Swamiji?s Samadhi we had no idea that such a temple would ever be built or opened. Even when I became the Chief Minister of the Northern Province in 2013, I still had no idea that this temple could be built. When I laid the foundation, installing a small statue of Balakrishna into it (One that had been materialized by Swamiji and given to my family), I could not imagine how this temple would ever come to be constructed, nor how soon it would be completed. But slowly the dream started unfurling, a dream which Swamiji slowly instilled into our minds, into our hearts, into our psyches. Then the desire to build came; the finances to start the work came; help came from many quarters. Our synchronized activities have now melded to create this wonderful result?.
?
Devotee Of Swami Premananda
It is therefore very clear that Mr. C. V. Wigneswaran is a true, genuine devotee of Swami Premananda. The fact that Premananda was convicted and sentenced on charges of rape, molestation and a murder conspiracy does not matter to a sincere believer.?
In spite of being a Supreme Court judge Mr. Wigneswaran opines that Premananda?s conviction was a travesty of justice. His belief is that Premananda and his cohorts were the victims of a conspiracy aided and abetted by the law enforcement agencies and judiciary of India. Each man is entitled to his beliefs and faith.
However, when a person of Mr. Wigneswaran?s stature and eminence asserts his faith in a Person like Premananda he is very much likely to be challenged by the public.?
Since Mr. Wigneswaran has been elected to high office by the people, democratic practice decrees that Mr. Wigneswaran be questioned about his devotion to Premananda. Mr. Wigneswaran however strives to seek a parallel to justify his stance on Premananda. In a bid to portray Premananda as being unjustly persecuted, he draws an analogy between Premakumar of Matale and Jesus of Galilee. This naturally infuriates those of the Christian faith. This is what seems to have happened in this instance.
What is of importance is that the comparison of Jesus Christ with Premananda was made by Mr. Wigneswaran himself. The ?Thinappuyal? interviewer did not refer to Jesus Christ in his questioning. He only asked the Mr. Wigneswaran about Swami Premananda. It was the Northern Province Chief Minister who referred to Jesus Christ in the conversation and tried to draw a parallel. He added insult to injury by posing the question as to why Christians regard Jesus Christ who was sentenced to death as a criminal 2000 years ago as God?
?
Mathiabaranam Abraham Sumanthiran
Furthermore it is a moot-point as to whether Mr. Wigneswaran?s analogy between Jesus and Premananda was appropriate or substantially correct! TNA Jaffna District Parliamentarian and official spokesperson Mathiabaranam Abraham Sumanthiran has in a Facebook entry pointed out the fallacies in Mr. Wigneswaran?s attempt to strike a parallel between Jesus Christ and Swami Premananda. Mr. Sumanthiran who is both a lawyer and a Christian has outlined three important differences to be considered between Jesus Christ and Swami Premananda.?
?
They are as follows -
1. Jesus was never accused of rape or murder. The accusation was that he tried to liberate his people from the Roman Empire and declared himself ??King of the Jews? (?Now Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked Him, saying, ?Are You the King of the Jews?? Jesus said to him, ?It is as you say.? - (Matthew 27:11)
2. There was no judicial inquiry in Jesus? case like we have today. No witnesses were cross-examined, no two appeals thereafter at which brilliant lawyers appeared and argued. More importantly, Jesus was never found guilty even once. (?Now Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked Him, saying, ?Are You the King of the Jews?? Jesus said to him, ?It is as you say.? Pilate said to them, ?What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?? They all said to him, ?Let Him be crucified!? Then the governor said, ?Why, what evil has He done?? But they cried out all the more, saying, ?Let Him be crucified!? When Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, ?I am innocent of the blood of this just Person. You see to it. (Matthew 27:11, 22-24)
3. Jesus rose from the dead (This is what those who regard him as God celebrate on Easter Day)?
This 3rd point is a matter of personal faith. But the first two points are narratives that have been confirmed even by non-Christian historians. Therefore in my humble opinion it is not appropriate to compare these two persons.
?
Mr. Wigneswaran?s Apology
This then is the crux of the matter. Upon seeing some reports in the Tamil media that Mr. Wigneswaran had issued a statement clarifying his position, I e-mailed the Chief Minister requesting that he send me a copy of his statement in full. This was because the statement purportedly issued by Mr. Wigneswaran did not appear to be an unqualified apology. Apart from complaining against the website, which interviewed him and emphasizing that he won a prize at Royal College for the study of comparative religions by reading the Gospel according to St. Mathew and that he participated at the annual St. Anthony?s feast, there was very little substance in the statement. Also Mr. Wigneswaran?s apology seemed half -hearted and confusing. He expressed regret if he had hurt the feelings of Christians but also said that he had not done so by his actions. When reading the statement in Tamil, I was quite doubtful whether the statement had been accurately published. This was because the statement was so confusing, meandering, contradictory and did not address the issue at hand properly. It did not appear to have been drafted by a retired Supreme Court Judge.
In a bid therefore to ascertain whether the statement had indeed been issued by the Chief Minister, I requested that he send me the statement in full in English. There has been no response so far. As such I was unable to incorporate Mr. Wigneswaran?s viewpoint in this article. It is to be hoped that I receive a positive response from Mr. Wigneswaran in due course.
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Debate on M'totamulla disaster may not take place on Monday
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 07:10 am
Debate on M'totamulla disaster may not take place on Monday
	
Joint opposition leader Dinesh Gunawardena yesterday said that Speaker Karu Jayasuriya informed him last morning that the debate on the Meethotamulla mishap will probably not be taken up in Parliament on Monday (24).
The MP told Daily Mirror, the debate will most probably be postponed owing to Prime Minster Ranil Wickremesinghe?s visit to India next week.?Most of the ministers who should take part in the debate are scheduled to accompany the Prime Minister on his visit to India,? he said.
However, he said they would request the Speaker to set another date for the debate, with the most likely date being May 3, the day the regular parliamentary sessions begin after the New Year break.
During the the time Parliament is on a break, the Speaker has no authority to convene Parliament. The sessions could however be convened after getting the permission of the Prime Minister.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe on Thursday agreed to the request made by the JO for a Parliamentary debate on the Meethotamulla garbage dump mishap.
According to Indian media, the Premier is scheduled to visit India on April 25 to set the agenda for Prime Minister Narendra Modi?s visit to Sri Lanka that was scheduled to take place next month. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: EU Parliamentary group opposed to SL tariff concession
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 09:08 pm
EU Parliamentary group opposed to SL tariff concession
	
A European Parliamentary group has tabled a resolution in the EU Parliament against granting the GSP+ tariff concession to Sri Lanka for its exports to the 28- member bloc, citing concern over Colombos "worryingly slow" progress on key issues like human rights, the PTI reported.
The motion if approved by 376 out of 751 members would see the non granting of the concession which would have made Sri Lankan exports to the European Union (EU) cheaper and contributed to its export growth vital to boost external reserves.
The resolution will be taken up at the plenary session to be held next week.
The resolution contends "existing breaches of Human Rights in Sri Lanka raise concerns about the appropriateness of granting the GSP+ status while there is inadequate real progress. "
The process of repealing and replacing the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) has not yet been accomplished.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has noted a number of shortcomings in the ILO conventions.
"Sri Lankan government is suspect of not adequately tackling the culture of impunity by rewarding military officials accused of human rights violation with government positions," the resolution says.
The Sri Lankan government sources said they were working on meeting the EU conditions on replacing the PTA with new legislation to meet international standards.
However, the EU resolution says the progress has been "worryingly slow. "
The current government was keen to restore the facility after it was stopped by the EU in 2010 citing grave human rights abuses and violations related to International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).
Sri Lanka was granted 18 months by a UNHRC resolution in October 2015 to initiate a credible investigation into the nearly three-decades long civil war with the LTTE.
It has sought two more years from the UN Human Rights Council to probe the alleged war crimes committed during the conflict with the LTTE.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fighting corruption is good for Sri Lanka: British HC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 08:55 am
Fighting corruption is good for Sri Lanka: British HC
	
Making progress in the fight against corruption is good for Sri Lanka, for Sri Lankans and for Sri Lankan businesses, British High Commissioner to Sri Lanka James Dauris said.
Speaking on ?Corporate Governance: staying ahead of the risk of corruption,? the High Commissioner said if corruption was tackled properly, it will be easier for Sri Lankan business to proper.
?Get it right, at least get it better, and it will be easier for Sri Lankan businesses to prosper, will help companies and country alike to attract investment, and will enhance the country?s international reputation,? he said.
He said he is proud of the work the High Commission has been doing, at the invitation of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to share experience of tackling financial crime with practitioners in Sri Lanka.
?We have had colleagues from our Serious Fraud Office working in Colombo with local agencies, sharing expertise and providing training that we hope will help to lead to successful prosecutions,? he said.
The High Commissioner said in the 2016 Corruption Perceptions Index prepared by Transparency International, Sri Lanka is ranked 95 out of 175 countries, with a score of 36%.
?India is ranked 79 with a score of 40%. The report comments that the year?s results highlight the link between corruption and inequality. In turn, Transparency International assesses, the interplay between corruption and inequality feeds political populism,? he said.
He said the UK can?t and don?t claim to have beaten corruption but the country do take it seriously. ?We take the fight against it seriously, and we demand that companies with links to the UK take it seriously,? he said.
In May 2016, the UK hosted the first Anti-Corruption Summit for heads of state and government ? its purpose to step up global action to expose, punish and drive out corruption in all walks of life
?It was good to have President Maithripala Sirisena representing Sri Lanka at the Summit, at which he said that Sri Lanka would be working towards making the public service corruption-free at all levels, and addressing corruption within the private sector.
These are laudable goals. The recent passing of the Right to Information Act provides a useful tool to help advance these goals,? he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Garbage disposal-Missed opportunities end in M'mulla tragedy
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 04:33 pm
Garbage disposal-Missed opportunities end in M'mulla tragedy
	
The tragedy at Meetotamulla could have been avoided had one of the several offers made by some private companies and foreign organizations were accepted by the previous governments, former chief ministers, mayors and Colombo municipal councillors said yesterday.
They said the first such offer was from the World Bank to the CMC in 1997, when Speaker Karu Jayasuriya was the Mayor of Colombo. The WB offered US$25 million to dump garbage in Meepe a land fill on a temporary basis. However, the project failed to materialise as a result of the political agendas of certain individuals.
Former Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) member Hemantha Kumara Weerakoon said another opportunity was missed when the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA) offered to assist the CMC to recycle garbage. This too failed because the Urban Development Authority (UDA) refrained from releasing a land to dump garbage temporarily. ?JICA waited for two years before giving up on the project,? he said. Another opportunity was missed when a private company offered to dump garbage in Muthurajawela. He said the opportunities were missed because of CMC members who always wanted commissions from any organizations that made such offers from time to time.
?So many opportunities were lost even during the time of the UNP-backed spectacle group that administered the CMC. Once the UNP and UPFA members of the CMC hit the JVP members with glass tumblers when we opposed the move to hand over the collection of garbage to the same company which repeatedly failed to recycle garbage according to the agreement,? Mr. Weerakoon said.
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa had also mentioned recently that the opposition to dump garbage in Puttalam, was one of the reasons for the Meetotamulla tragedy. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gazette notice: no solution to garbage crisis - JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 05:02 am
Gazette notice: no solution to garbage crisis - JVP
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) yesterday condemned the gazette notice issued by the President declaring that garbage disposal by local government bodies was an ?essential service?.
It said this move was not a solution to the garbage crisis.
The JVP said it was an attempt to suppress the people's right to protest out of a reasonable fear that garbage would be dumped in the vicinity of their homes while those responsible for taking the lives of innocent people by haphazard garbage dumping were free.
It said the President had issued a gazette notice instead of formulating a scientific garbage recycling and disposal project by educating the people on garbage disposal.
The JVP said it was reasonable for the people to protest against improper garbage disposal in various places, after the Meethotamulla catastrophe and urged the government to formulate a scientific garbage recycling project immediately
?People protested when the previous government dumped garbage in Meethotamulla. But they forcibly did so by attacking the people and suppressing protesters. It is not the people who forcibly dumped garbage in Meethotamulla who sacrificed their lives, but the people who protested against the dumping of garbage,? the JVP said.
They requested the President and the government to rescind such repressive orders imposed to suppress reasonable protests by the people. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Japan lawmakers? group visits Yasukuni shrine for war dead
## Section: International
## Date: 22 April 2017 12:00 am
Japan lawmakers? group visits Yasukuni shrine for war dead
	
?
REUTERS, 21st APRIL, 2017- Dozens of Japanese lawmakers, including one cabinet minister, visited a shrine to Japan?s war dead on Friday, in a move that could spark protests elsewhere in Asia where the shrine is regarded as a symbol of Japan?s past militarism. ?
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sent a ritual offering to the Yasukuni Shrine spring festival, which takes place as Japan seeks greater cooperation with China and South Korea in the face of rising tensions over North Korea?s nuclear and missile programs. ?
Asian neighbours have been outraged in the past by Japanese politicians visiting the shrine in downtown Tokyo as it honours 14 Japanese leaders convicted by an Allied tribunal as war criminals, along with the other war dead. ?
Around 95 members of parliament paid their respects en masse on Friday, NHK national television said, including Communications Minister Sanae Takaichi, who usually visited during the shrine?s twice-yearly festivals and on August 15, the anniversary of Japan?s World War Two surrender. ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Legislation to enforce garbage recycling
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 12:26 pm
Legislation to enforce garbage recycling
	
The Government will, within two months, introduce legislation to enforce the recycling of garbage, informed sources said yesterday.
They said the Prime Minister was monitoring the progress of the new Bill, which is now under preparation.
?Sri Lanka is one of the few countries in Asia that does not have specific laws pertaining to recycling of garbage and therefore the government has decided to introduce laws pertaining to this issue,? a source said adding that this matter was being expedited in the aftermath of the Meethotamulla tragedy which killed more than 30 people. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: M'mulla garbage dump may explode: Japanese researchers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 10:08 am
M'mulla garbage dump may explode: Japanese researchers
	
Visiting Japanese research experts yesterday warned of a methane gas explosion caused under pressure from within the Meethotamulla garbage mountain at any moment and result in more lives being lost.
A member of the Japanese Scientific Research Team which arrived in the country on Thursday made their first field inspection tour of the garbage dump last morning and urged authorities to evacuate the residents in the vicinity.
Initial tests by the researchers showed the environment to be highly polluted and while there was no methane gas released from the upper area of the garbage dump, there were pockets of gas trapped inside the mountain.
They said at least 16 per cent of the air pockets contained methane gas and this could be lethal when compared with a maximum of 1.5 percent at a normal level.
The scientists also advised the backhoes taken to the top of the mountain be brought down immediately, because the methane gas could cause the machines to explode making matters even worse.
They said a report would be compiled as soon as investigations were completed. (Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: M'thotamulla: Two children without parents
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 02:40 pm
M'thotamulla: Two children without parents
	
The National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) said yesterday they had identified two children who had lost both parents in the Meethotamulla catastrophe while two other children had lost one of their parents.
NCPA Deputy Chairman Sajeeva Samaranayake said they had submitted a report to the Department of Probation and Child Care Services on the plight faced by the four children.
The Probation and Child Care Services Officer of the Kolonnawa Divisional Secretariat said the two children who were orphaned were in the custody of their relatives and were being closely monitored by officials of the NCPA and the Department of Probation and Child Care Services. (Ajith Siriwardana)
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?My Wedding? Bridal show
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 22 April 2017 06:10 am
?My Wedding? Bridal show
	
?My Wedding? Bridal show got underway at the BMICH yesterday. The exhibition showcased bridal dresses, accessories, shoes and decorations. Hair dressing and bridal specialists exhibited their skills at the show which will continue till Sunday (23). Pix by Kithsiri De Mel
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Playing the music of pharaohs and prophets
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 April 2017 12:00 am
Playing the music of pharaohs and prophets
	
?
Michael Levy is a unique figure in contemporary world music. He recreates ancient Hebrew music, playing instruments of antiquity such as the 10-string Biblical lyre known as the Kinnor, and his YouTube videos have been seen by millions of viewers. But (and surely this is one of the commonest paradoxes and anomalies of contemporary music) he has to work at several part time jobs to support his music career. His prodigious energy is derived from a passion for the unknown -- for music created 3000 or more years ago exists only in fragmentary form, and it can only be re-discovered by stretching our creativity and imaginations to the limit. Discovering the past can sometimes be harder than predicting the future.?
For Levy, who graduated in 1989 with a ?vocationally useless? philosophy degree, the discovery of music did not come by chance. He attributes his current success to three ?eureka? moments. One was the discovery at age 14 of a cassette tape containing a reconstruction of medieval music by David Munrow. As he puts it in his own words:?
?Music alone, almost like a magic carpet, had the power to take the mind on a fabulous journey of time travel, back to simpler times, when magic was perceived to be part of the very fabric of the universe, there was still the awe of the pantheon of the gods, and there was a greater appreciation of the fragility and brevity of life.??
The second ?eureka? occurred with ?Together,? an old LP by classical guitarists Julian Bream and John Williams ? as Levy says: ?Their arrangement of Ravel?s ?Pavane for a Dead Princess? sent shivers down my spine, and for the first time, it?s haunting, evocative harp-like tones and the middle section where the melody magically modulates into the hauntingly poignant ancient Greek Phrygian Mode.??
The third moment came in 2006, when Levy stumbled upon a CD titled ?Music From the Time of Jesus and Jerusalem?s Second Temple? by the San Antonio Vocal Ensemble. This album is an attempt to recreate the lost sounds of ancient Jewish music (the Levitical Ensemble and Levitical Choir in the Temple of Jerusalem).?
The music, evoking the sounds of Levy?s ?very ancient Levite ancestors,? obviously struck a strong chord inside him. This was his first introduction to the Biblical Kinnor, the 10-stringed lyre. He was astonished to learn in the liner notes that this ancient instrument is still made today, and Levy decided to buy one on eBay: ?My journey into attempting to evoke the lost sounds of the lyre of antiquity had begun.??
He lost no time in posting on YouTube (very much a novelty in 2006) his first grainy webcam videos of the Klezmer music which he had picked up while teaching himself to play the Klezmer fiddle. Levy is a multi-instrumentalist who can play, along with the lyre and the fiddle, the piano (which he calls an ?instrument of torture?), the mandolin, the banjo, and a ?bit of guitar and ukulele.??
Encouraged by a fan, he decided to put together his first album titled ?King David?s Lyre: Echoes of Ancient Israel,? which featured mainly traditional Jewish instrumental Klezmer music and sacred Jewish melodies arranged for the Biblical lyre; it was posted on August 31, 2006.?
But matching this ancient music to digital recording technology was no easy task. In his arrangement of the technically challenging ?Odessa Bulgar,? Levy experimented with an ancient style of lyre playing still heard in Eritrea, East Africa, known as ?block and strum,? which he compares to ?playing the guitar backwards.? When the only recording studio he had access to shutdown in May 2009, Levy bought an affordable compact digital recorder to mix and produce his album ?An Ancient Lyre? all by himself. Eventually, he met Dominic Johnson who has mixed every album Levy has recorded since 2010.?
There is much thought and painstaking technique behind Levy?s ethereal sound. People used to the visual bombardment of miles of wires and a bewildering array of electronic instruments and computers associated with modern pop music would be bewildered by the complex range of tones semitones and microtones produced by a dedicated musician on this seemingly simple instrument. People visually intimidated into being impressed by all the high-tech wizardry (and the expense) would need a new musical education, starting from zero, to comprehend the tonal beauty of these ancient acoustic instruments, which go straight to the heart without reverb and an array of compressors.?
In his original compositions, Levy compromises between unplanned improvisation and pre-planned composition. He has an array of techniques at his disposal, including alternating between rapid plectrum and finger plucked tones, playing pure finger-plucked intervals with the left hand to accompany a plectrum-plucked melody in the right hand, using tremolo in the actual melody line, the use of accidentals, portamento and microtones by using the left hand thumb nail as a moveable fret on the string and the use of parallel motion ? using finger-plucked and plectrum-plucked tones generally an interval of a third apart in sections of a melody. The technique of hitting the strings percussively with a wooden baton like a hammered dulcimer is something he picked up from bas-relief carvings of lyre players from Babylonia and Cyprus.?
All these techniques mean that he can achieve an amazing degree of tonal depth, richness and variation, making his lyre sound like two instruments.?
In this touching musical odyssey, Levy has been helped not by gods and goddesses but ordinary mortals connected via YouTube ? fans, recording engineers and researchers of ancient music.
Archaeologists and amateur enthusiasts discovered much of ancient art and culture from Paleolithic times to the iron age but the music was little known despite the discovery of ancient instruments made of bone and ivory. Today, the music of ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt, Israel, Greece, India and other cultures has been reconstructed in varying degrees thanks to enthusiasts like Levy, who make enormous sacrifices for little or no financial gain, spurred on by the belief that some of the world?s most enchanting music is yet to be discovered.?
That does not mean he is a musical hermit visible only through YouTube channels. He has held concerts in the Middle East and Greece to wide acclaim, spreading the message that music doesn?t have to be electronically manipulated, mixed from multiple tracks and ear-splitting to produce a feeling. The sight of this bearded figure in a long robe playing his lyre is reassuring ? musical fads may come and go, but some things truly last and Michael Levy connects us with things eternal with an authority powered by the strength of?
his convictions.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL asylum seeker let himself be tortured to support his bid to stay in UK-Judge
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 April 2017 01:22 pm
SL asylum seeker let himself be tortured to support his bid to stay in UK-Judge
	
Asylum seeker from Sri Lanka let himself be tortured with hot iron bars to support his bid to stay in Britain
#The man, 35, said they showed how he was badly treated in his native country?
#The Court of Appeal ruled it was a ruse called 'self-infliction by proxy' or SIBP
#Lord Justice Sales also raised doubts over his relationship with the Tamil Tigers?
An asylum seeker from Sri Lanka allowed himself to be tortured with hot iron bars to support his bid to stay in the UK, judges have ruled.
He claimed five scars on his back were evidence of how he was badly treated by authorities in his native Sri Lanka.
But rejecting his claims, the Court of Appeal ruled that he probably consented to the torture in as part of a ruse called ?self-infliction by proxy? or SIBP.
It added that a ?cooperative and clandestine? doctor might have put him under general anaesthetic while the heated iron rods were placed on him.
In a 22,000-word appeal ruling, one of the country?s most senior judges, Lord Justice Sales, questioned why the 35-year-old man had not experienced any significant infection as a result of the burning.
The judge said an earlier immigration tribunal which threw out the man?s asylums claim was justified in highlighting the ?highly unusual? type of scarring as a ?central implausibility? in his account.
It also raised doubts about his relationship with the Tamil Tigers and his alleged detention and escape from the country.
The man arrived in the UK on a fake passport six years ago before claiming asylum. He is thought to have racked up enormous legal bills at taxpayers? expense in his desperate bid to avoid deportation.
He claims that he was detained in the aftermath of a Tamil Tigers attack on Colombo airport in 2007 over possible links to the organisation.
His alleged torture occurred in August 2009, where it was claimed he ?felt intense pain from the first burn? before falling unconscious while receiving other burns.In support of his torture claim, he produced a medical report from a professor that backed the theory.
The man also claimed he would face ?a real risk of persecution? if deported because authorities would regard him as having been ?actively involved? with the Tamil Tigers.
Dismissing his appeal, Lord Justice Sales said the earlier tribunal hearing ? which rejected the asylum seeker?s claims ? had ?conscientiously balanced the probabilities of infliction of the scarring by SIBP and by torture?.
It was entitled to assess that SIBP was the ?only real possibility? that could not be discounted, he added.
In a majority decision, Lord Justice Sales and another senior judge, Lord Justice Patten, rejected the challenge by the claimant, identified only by the initials KV.
It was not clear last night if he planned to make a final appeal to the Supreme Court.
The Ministry of Justice refused to confirm whether he is receiving legal aid.
The Home Office declined to say whether he is in custody pending the outcome of the legal proceedings.(Daily Mail)
 
		
==============================
