## Title: Alleged Killing Of  18 Navy and  8 Army Prisoners  by LTTE In Jan 2009
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:02 am
Alleged Killing Of  18 Navy and  8 Army Prisoners  by LTTE In Jan 2009
	
?
?
By D.B.S. Jeyaraj
President Maithripala Sirisena held successive discussions with two Tamil delegations in Colombo on Thursday (19) on the issue of Tamils detained in various prisons under the Prevention of Terrorism Act(PTA) in general and the hunger strike undertaken by three such detainees at the Anuradhapura Prison in particular.?
The focus at both discussions was more on the situation regarding the three prisoners on hunger strike as much as concern expressed with regard to their physical condition.? ?
Three Tamil men, 30-year-old Mathiyarasan Sulakshan from Karanavaai, 40-yr-old? Rasathurai Thiruvarul from Velanai and 28 year old Ganeshan Tharshan? from Nawalapitiya who were detained at the Anuradhapura Prison commenced a hunger strike on September 25. They were all former members of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). All three had been indicted in the Vavuniya High Court but the Attorney-General had suddenly transferred the case to the Anuradhapura High Court.? ?
Thiruvarul, Sulakshan and Tharshan embarked on a hunger strike demanding that their case be transferred back to the Vavuniya High Court. Their physical condition began deteriorating as a result of the strike. On Sept. 29 Ganeshan Tharshan was taken to the A?pura prison hospital. Then on October 5 Mathiyarasan Sulakshan and Rasathurai Thiruvarul were warded there as well. On Oct. 9 all three were transferred to the Anuradhapura General Hospital as their health had deteriorated drastically, so much so that on October 15 the trio were transferred to the Intensive Care Unit(ICU) of the hospital. Unconfirmed reports say the three have been brought back to the Anuradhapura prison hospital now and are in a stable condition.? ?
President Sirisena?s first meeting at 12 noon was with family members of the three prisoners on hunger strike. Rasathurai Thiruvarul?s wife, Mathiyarasan Sulakshan?s mother and aunt, Ganeshan Tharshan?s mother and brother were among the relatives who met the President. Sulakshan?s sister Krishanthy a first year student at the Jaffna Varsity was not part of this delegation as she was a member of the Jaffna varsity student group which also met the President on the same day. The family member group was accompanied by two members of the Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization(TELO). One was ex-Jaffna district MP and present Northern Provincial councillor M.K Sivajilingam. The other was former Batticaloa district MP and ex-Eastern Provincial Councillor Govinthan Karunakaram.? ?
?
Northern Governor Reginald Cooray
The President?s meeting with family members of the prisoners who were on a hunger strike was arranged by Northern Province Governor Reginald Cooray on a request made by Sivajilingam. Governor Cooray was also present at the meeting. Among others present at the meeting were Law and Order Minister Sagala Ratnayake, Rehabilitation and Prisons Reform Minister D.M.Swaminathan, State Minister for Defence Ruwan Wijewardene, Deputy Minister of Justice and Buddha Sasana Sarathie Dushmantha, Defence Secretary Kapila Waidyaratne, Secretary to the President Austin Fernando and key officials from the Attorney-Generals Department.? ?
The second meeting the President had was with the Jaffna Varsity students and it started at 1.30 p.m. It was also facilitated by Northern Province Governor Reginald Cooray, who was also present. The same set of ministers, deputy ministers and key officials who were present at the earlier meeting took part in this one too. The Varsity delegation was led by the Jaffna University Students Union (JUSU) president Krishnameenan and it?s Secretary Jackson. Sulakshan?s sister Krishanthy was also part of the group. Earlier the Jaffna Varsity Arts Faculty had launched a fast unto death campaign unilaterally. However the JUSU stepped in and got it deferred.?
According to informed sources President Sirisena had listened to representations made by the two delegations with great empathy. He also listened with interest to requests made about releasing all the prisoners under an amnesty.However, he seemed troubled and offended at one point when the outspoken Sivajilingam reportedly said? People are saying if Mahinda Rajapaksa could release 12,000 ex-tigers why can?t Maithripala Sirisena release a hundred ex - tigers??? ?
?The President however assured these delegations that he would arrive at a concrete decision regarding the case involving the three ex-LTTE cadres next week. He said that both Justice Minister Thalatha Atukorale and Attorney-General Jayantha Jayasuriya were out of the country and were scheduled to return only on Monday (23). He said he would discuss the matter in detail with them first and thereafter with the Cabinet of ministers before giving his decision.? ?
?President Sirisena said he would take a positive decision by Wednesday (25). When family members said that the condition of the prisoners on a hunger strike could worsen and could end in a fatality, the President assured them saying nothing of that sort would happen. The President told family members that he had instructed prison and hospital authorities in Anuradhapura to ensure that the condition of the three prisoners who were engaged in the fast does not deteriorate to a life-threatening level.?
?
?
Complicated and Controversial Matter
The case concerning Rasathurai Thiruvarul, Mathiarasan Sulakshan and Ganeshan Tharshan is a complicated and controversial matter. In order to understand its complex ramifications a brief re-run into some of the war related events of 2009 is required. The LTTE during its long war with the Sri Lankan armed forces had at times been able to capture alive members of the Police ,Army.Navy and Air Force. A contingent of such defence services personnel were kept as prisoners by the Tigers in the Thiruvaiyaaru area of Kilinochchi in 2008.? ?
When the battle for Kilinochchi was raging and the army began edging closer, the LTTE shifted the prisoners further north to Murasumottai near Paranthan. Though the army tried very hard to reach Kilinochchi town the LTTE with its ?trench and bund? defensive strategy managed to hold them off for many months. However the situation changed dramatically when the 58 division led by Gen.
Shavendra Silva advanced from west to east along the Poonagary- Paranthan road axis and reached Paranthan on December 31st 2008. With the fall of Paranthan the LTTE had to move out of Kilinochchi which was seized by the Army on Jan 2nd 2009. Likewise the LTTE had to withdraw from the Kilaly - Muhamalai-Nagarkovil defence line within the Jaffna peninsula also. This led to the re-taking of Elephant pass by the armed forces on Jan 7th 2009.? ?
This dramatic reversal of the military balance in January 2009 compelled the LTTE to retreat hastily from the Kilinochchi regions into the North - eastern Mullaitheevu district?s littoral and hinterland regions. The defence services members incarcerated by the tigers as ?Prisoners of war? were also relocated into Mullaitheevu district. The prisoners comprising Eighteen persons from the Navy and Eight from the Army were moved to a tiger base in a place called Vannipunam in the Vallipuram Grama Sevaka division within the Puthukkudiyiruppu AGA division of Mullaitheevu district. It was in Vallipunam that 61 schoolgirls were killed on August 14th 2006 in aerial bombardment. The schoolgirls between 14 to 18 had been forced by the LTTE to attend a first aid training camp at Vallipunam. The Govt maintained that the Air Force had bombed a LTTE training camp.? ?
The rapid advances made by the 58 and 53 divisions from different directions towards the Devipuram area in Puthukkudiyiruppu made the Vallipunam tiger base quite vulnerable.The LTTE therefore decided to vacate Vallipunam and withdraw further. The question of the Navy and Army prisoners loomed large. It was then that the dreaded LTTE intelligence chief Shanmugalingam Sivashanker alias ?Pottu Ammaan? issued the order to execute the prisoners detained at Vallipunam. The captured navy and army personnel were under the authority of the LTTE intelligence division. Incidently the beleaguered LTTE also killed or forced to commit suicide, several seriously injured tiger cadres in those times because they could not provide adequate medical treatment. Likewise transporting and detaining the defence personnel captives was also a problem for the retreating Tigers.Thus 26 prisoners comprising 18 Navy and 8 Army personnel were executed in cold blood in Vallipunam. Their bodies were dumped in a pit and set on fire.Later it was filled with sand. This had reportedly happened on January 16th 2009.? ?
?
LTTE Intelligence Chief ?Pottu Ammaan?
The Tamil prisoners on a hunger strike are allegedly part of the LTTE squad which detained the 18 Navy and 8 Army personnel as prisoners and then executed then in cold blood on the orders of Pottu Ammaan. (The LTTE intelligence chief reportedly killed himself on May 18th 2009 in Mullivaaikkaal but his body was not found). Protracted investigations by various intelligence organs of the State as well as probes by the Police Terrorism Investigation Division(TID) have reportedly uncovered information of the trio?s alleged complicity in the killings. Furthermore it is said that Sulakshan, Thiruvarul and Tharshan have also tendered ?confessions? to a magistrate while in custody. In addition three other ex-LTTE members with first hand knowledge of the incident have agreed to become state witnesses. It is on the basis of all these that the Attorney - General has seen it fit to indict the three for the alleged murder and for allegedly aiding and abetting the murder of 18 Navy and 8 Army personnel on or about the 16th of January 2009.? ?
Rasathurai Thiruvarul, Mathiyarasan Sulakshan and Ganeshan Tharshan surrendered to the army in May 2009 and were initially detained at Omanthai. Thereafter they were reportedly taken to Colombo and Boosa and brought back to the North again. After intensive interrogation an indictment (2491/13)was filed at the Vavuiya High court in July 2013 against Mathiyarasan Sulakshan and Ganeshan Tharshan. Rasathurai Thiruvarul was not charged initially. Almost four years later an amended indictment was filed in June 2017. In the amended indictment Rasathurai Thiruvarul was named as first accused with Sulakshan and Tharshan as second and third accused respectively. 67 Witnesses were also listed.? ?
Most of the listed witnesses were members of the Army,Navy, Police and Prisons Dept officials. However among the witnesses listed in the indictment are three Tamil youths. According to the indictment they are Sinnarasah Ganeshkumar of Navakiri in Putur, Aarumugam Jyotheeswaran of Lindula and Vanniyasingham Sujeevan of Kumarapuram, Paranthan.All three are former members of the LTTE who were detained for some years after May 2009 and released after undergoing rehabilitation. It is believed that the testimony of these three witnesses could strengthen the prosecution?s case against Thiruvarul,Sulakshan and Tharshan.? ?
The trio of Sulakshan, Thiruvarul and Tharshan have been detained for more than eight years since 2009. They were transferred to Anuradhapura jail after the Vavuniya prison riots in 2012. Their case became rather a protracted exercise after the original indictment was filed in 2013. The case was taken up many times and postponed for many reasons including lack of translated documents, unavailability of witnesses, absence of key officials etc. During this period Mathiyarasan Sulakshan engaged in several hunger strikes demanding that he be released or brought to trial. Each time the hunger strike would be ended after receiving assurances from Govt ministers,officials or Tamil political leaders.? ?
?
Up Country Tamil From Nawalapitiya
Mathiyarasan Sulakshan and Rasathurai Thiruvarul are Jaffna Tamils while Ganeshan Tharshan is an up country Tamil hailing from Nawalapitiya in the Central province. Thiruvarul is from Ward 6 in Velanai west. Velanai is one of the Islands off Jaffna falling under the Kayts constituency.
Mathiyarasan Sulakshan is from Karanavaai north in the Vadamaratchy sector of Jaffna. According to relatives Sulakshan?s father Arlvarpillai Mathiyarasan was a minor politician who served as an elected member of the Vadamaratchy South West Pradeshiya Sabha for many years. He passed away in 2015. Apparently Sulakshan too is highly political and possesses leadership skills. He was in the forefront of several non - violent agitations while in prison. The Tamil media in Sri Lanka and abroad has been giving much prominence to Sulakshan alone in this matter.? ?
The Police TID has since January this year been arguing that cases featuring sensitive testimonies of ex-LTTE witnesses should be heard in southern courts. In the case of ?Thiruvarul-Sulakshan - Tharshan? witnesses did not turn up when the matter was taken up at Vavuniya on August 1st 2017. Counsel from the A-G dept then stated that the case needed to be transferred to a court in the south to enable the attendance of witnesses. The case was put off by three weeks.? ?
When the case was taken up at the Vavuniya high court in the third week of August , Sulakshan,Thiruvarul and Tharshan began a fast unto death campaign demanding that their case should be heard in Vavuniya and not transferred to another court in the South. However when the case was heard in Vavuniya before High court judge Balendra Sashi Mahendran, witnesses failed to turn up. Judge Sashi Mahendran who is highly respected in judicial circles was the chairman of the three bench trial - at - bar which heard the schoolgirl Vidya Sivaloganathan rape and murder case in Jaffna. When state counsel said that the case may have to be transferred outside Vavuniya to ensure witness attendance Judge Sashi Mahendran took positive action
?to remedy matters.? ?
?
According to Lawyer Anton Punithanayagam who has been appearing for the three suspects at the Vavuniya courts , Vavuniya High court judge B.Sashi Mahendran had said that he would not let matters drag on like this and would take steps to expedite the case. Thereafter the judge had fixed three successive days in September for the case to be heard. The dates were September26th, 27th and 28th respectively. Letters were sent out by courts to all 67 witnesses informing them that they should be present in court during those days.?
? But what happened was that just one week before the case was to be heard again in Vavuniya , the Attorney-General Jayantha Jayasuriya transferred the case to the Anuradhapura High Courts?, Anton Punithanayagam told me over the telephone.?The A-G is authorised under the PTA to transfer cases from one court to another ? added lawyer Punithanayagam.?
?
?Vavuniya High Court Judge Sashi Mahendran
Sulakshan, Thiruvarul and Tharshan who started a hunger strike in August had abandoned the fast after three days upon hearing that the Vavuniya High court judge Sashi Mahendran had assured the case will be heard in full in September. But when they heard that the A-G had transferrred the case to Anuradhapura the trio launched a hunger strike again from September 25th. This move by the three has met with tremendous support from the Tamil people at large particularly the student community of Jaffna and Baticaloa varsities.? ?
?Several Tamil politicians and MP?s have also extended support. There is a rising tide of opinion within the Tamil community which voted overwhelmingly for President Maithripala Sirisena in the Jan 2015 polls that the ?Nallaatchi Arasaangam? (Good Governance Govt) is not playing fair by them. So great is this sentiment that even the Tamil National alliance(TNA) boycotted the President?s visit to Jaffna on October 13th. A protest Hartal saw the North being at a stand-still. An amusing sideshow was the unorthodox interaction between President Sirisena and a group of black flag waving protesters in Jaffna.? ?
There have been many instances in Sri Lanka where cases against members of the armed forces have been transferred out from the North and East to courts in the south. This has been done in the interests of the accused based on the principle of presumption of innocence unless or until proven guilty. In some of these cases Sinhala speaking juries have let the accused go scot free despite evidence to the contrary. In this instance the same consideration does not seem to have been extended to the accused. The case concerning Tamil speaking accused has been transferred to Anuradhapura where the language of the courts is Sinhala. This will cause many problems to the three mono lingual Tamil accused. For one thing they may find it exceedingly difficult to obtain proper legal representation. Their present lawyer Anton Punithanayagam told me over the telephone that he would not continue if the case was to be heard in Anuradhapura. Mr. Punithanayagam said that the case had been assigned to him by the Center for Human Rights and Development (CHRD) headquartered in Bambalapitiya.? ?
What is the reason for the Attorney - General?s controversial decision to transfer this particular case from Vavuniya to Anuradhapura? According to informed legal sources the A-G is very keen that justice should be done in this case as 18 Navy and 8 Army personnel have been executed in cold blood and their bodies burnt. Even though ?confessions? have been obtained from the three accused the A - G is not sure whether they will be adequate to prove guilt beyond a shadow if doubt in a court of law. Confessions made to authorities while being detained or under interrogation are admissible under the PTA but not so in normal law. There have been precedents where judges have disregarded confessions obtained under duress and granted the benefit of the doubt to the accused. Besides the government has taken a policy decision to repeal and replace the draconian prevention of terrorism act(PTA) in due course.? ?
?
Evidence By Three Former Tiger Witnesses
As such the A - G is relying very much on the evidence to be given by the three former tiger witnesses. According to knowledgeable legal circles the witnesses in question are extremely worried and anxious about giving evidence in open court in Vavuniya. Since this case concerns what may very well amount to a ?war crime? committed by the tigers the potential witnesses fear for their physical safety and security if the case is heard at a court in a Tamil area. They feel that they would be safer in a court situated in a Sinhala majority area. One of the witnesses Vanniyasingham Sujeevan has left Sri Lanka already and indicated that he would be willing to return voluntarily and testify in a Sinhala area court. However exaggerated or imaginary these fears may be the sentiments cannot be discounted by the A- G. The Attorney-General needs these witnesses to testify voluntarily to clinch his case. Hence the decision to transfer the case to Anuradhapura.? However sources stated that the Attorney - General would have no objection to the case being heard in Vavuniya if his key ex-LTTE witnesses are ready to give evidence there. For this guarantees of full security have been given. If the would be wtnesses accept such guarantees and are prepared to give evidence in Vavuniya the A-G too is ready to conduct the case in Vavuniya. Otherwise he will continue with the case in Anuradhapura. A source close to Mr.Jayasuriya said ?Jayantha is an upright, honourable lawyer with experience as a prosecutor in the International criminal tribunals of Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. He must have agonized a great deal before transferring the case to A?pura. He would have done it only because he had no choice in the pursuit of justice?.? ?
?
The indictment of Rasathurai Thiruvarul, Mathiarasan Sulakshan and Ganeshan Tharshan is a politically volatile issue. The LTTE has been implicated in a case where 26 members of the armed forces held prisoners have been executed in cold blood. This charge if proved beyond doubt would amount to a ? war crime?
?
Opposition Leader Rajavarothayam Sampanthan
TNA leader and Leader of the Opposition Rajavarothayam Sampanthan moved an adjournment motion in Parliament on October 17th. The motion was seconded by M.A. Sumanthiran MP. Mr. Sampanthan while speaking in support of the motion took up the issue of Tamils being in prison for alleged LTTE links even now. Sampanthan also referred to the transfer of the case in question from Vavuniya to Anuradhapura. The veteran MP From Trincomalee who is also a lawyer explained in detail the consequences of such a transfer. This is what Mr. Sampanthan said.? ?
?An unnecessary complication has been created by the transfer of some cases from Vavuniya to Anuradhapura. If witnesses needed protection, such protection could have been provided without the cases being transferred?.? ?
?The accused in the cases to be transferred from Vavuniya where the Language of the Courts is Tamil to Anuradhapura where the Language of the Courts is Sinhala are from the North-East and are Tamil speaking and not proficient in Sinhala. Their cases being transferred to Anuradhapura where the Language of the Courts is Sinhala is a denial of their constitutional right to have their Cases heard in Tamil a language which they can understand. In a criminal prosecution the rights of an Accused person are fundamental. He has a right to fully comprehend the evidence and the Case presented against him?.? ?
?By such transfer the Accused is also denied the opportunity and the right to Legal Assistance of his choice. These and other factors could prejudice a fair trial. The proposed transfer reflects a measure of insensitivity to the fundamental rights of an accused person. The Prisoners have been continuously carrying on a Fast against such transfer. This situation needs to be addressed on an urgent basis?.? ?
TNA spokesperson and Jaffna district parliamentarian MA Sumanthiran who seconded Sampanthan?s motion also spoke about the issue of releasing Tamil prisoners. Incidently Sumanthiran had arrived from a trip to New Delhi on that day and driven straight to Parliament to second and speak on Sampanthan?s adjournment motion. Sumanthiran had left the previous week as part of the Sri Lankan delegation led by Fisheries minister Mahinda Amaraweera to discuss the Indo - Lanka fishing dispute with Indian officials. Before leaving for India, Sumathiran had met with President Sirisena, Justice Minister Thalatha Atukorale and Attorney - General Jayantha Jayasuriya when the Justice Ministry Oversight Committee report was formally handed over to the President. Sumanthiran had raised the issue of the three fasting prisoners with the President on that occasion and urged that the case be transferred back to Vavuniya.? ?
?
Prisons Reforms Minister D.M. Swaminathan
?After Sampanthan and Sumanthiran spoke, Law and Order Minister Sagala Ratnayake, Rehabilitation and Prisons Reforms Minister D.M. Swaminathan and Deputy Justice Minister Sarathie Dushmantha also spoke during the adjournment motion debate. Mr. DM Swaminathan emphasised strongly that the physical health of the prisoners on a hunger strike was fine and there was nothing to fear. Sarathie Dushmantha said he would convene a high level meeting to discuss the situation. However he later shelved the idea because President Sirisena himself had two meetings with Tamil delegations and said he would take a decison by October 25th.? ? The indictment of Rasathurai Thiruvarul, Mathiarasan Sulakshan and Ganeshan Tharshan is a politically volatile issue. The LTTE has been implicated in a case where 26 members of the armed forces held prisoners have been executed in cold blood. This charge if proved beyond doubt would amount to a ? war crime?. However the case must be conducted in a manner that would demonstrate to the world at large that the judicial process is working fairly and freely.? ? ?For as the British Lord Chief Justice Hewart ruled in a landmark case in 1924 ?It is of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done?. As such the onus is on the government to ensure that justice should be done and seen to be done by persuading the Attorney - General to re-transfer the case to Vavuniya and extend full protection to all witnesses testifying in the case.? ?
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: An all-inclusive relief package via 2018 Budget: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 08:19 am
An all-inclusive relief package via 2018 Budget: President
	
The 2018 Budget is expected to offer an all-inclusive relief package for loans obtained from banks and other financial institutions by low income families, President Maithripala Sirisena said.
He said he was aware of the huge burden placed on poor families when repaying their loans and that especially the families in the North East have become victims of private banks and financial institutions under the ?Micro Finance? programmes launched by them after the war.
Addressing the inauguration of the ?Gramashakthi Peoples Campaign? held at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium, the President said private banks and financial institutions descended on the North and East soon after the war and motivated most of the families to obtain loans under their Micro Finance? programme. He said this was before state banks and approached these cash-strapped families.
?The officials of those banks and finance companies filled the forms and offered loans to low income families. Now they are forcing them to repay their loans with interest which is beyond the means of these people. I have been told that officials have even threatened them with forfeiture of their houses and their lands if they failed to pay back the loans. Therefore, the government has decided to offer a relief package in the 2018 Budget to save these people from the burden of loans obtained from private commercial banks and finance companies targeting low income families,? the President said.
He said the people in the North and East accepted those micro loan packages without thinking about the repercussions.
The President said the main objective of the ?Gramashakthi? programme was to lift the living standards of the lowest segment of the society by eradicating poverty, hunger, ill health and achieve sustainable economic progress.
He said statistically, the poverty ratio in Sri Lanka was around 7% of the population or those who live on less than US$2 a day. "But we are focussing on minor employees of the state and private sector who draw extremely meager salaries. Are we aware of the self employed people who struggle to earn enough to feed their family. Have various government projects such as Samurdhi, Gemi Diriya have been able to eradicate poverty," he asked.
Presidential Secretary to President Austin Fernando delivered the welcome address and an introduction to the programme while Minister S.B.Dissanayala also addressed the gathering. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: An unexpected visitor    arrived from the  heavens
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:00 am
An unexpected visitor    arrived from the  heavens
	
?
A dazzling fireball lit the skies in Sri Lanka last Wednesday, (18). The light was visible from most regions in the country. Eye witnesses in the southern regions had seen the shooting star that blazed across the sky as bright as daylight with a sizzling sound. The?Dailymirror spoke to Astronomy experts in SL to gain more insight into the occurrence.?
Prof. Chandana Jayaratne - Director of Astronomy and Space Science Unit, University of Colombo?
?Undoubtedly it was a meteoroid. According to reports so far, a dazzling and smoking fire ball had been seen around 8.35 pm or 8.40 pm on October 18, moving from west to east in the night sky. It had been moving at a speed of about 65 -70 kmph and we guess it would have been around 10 - 50 cm in diameter,? Prof Jayaratne explained.? ?
?The elements on a meteoroid can be identified by carefully observing its colour. This meteoroid was more yellowish with hues of green and blue, which indicated this as a stony iron-fortified meteoroid. Simply put, it must be a type of iron or stone. The meteoroid had blown up with a loud bang in the air, apparently above 50 - 200 km from sea level. This estimate was drawn by calculating the difference between the sight and the sound of explosion,? he explained.? ?
?
Prof Jayaratne warned? citizens of touching any debris left from the explosion since they might be highly radio active or poisonous. If any debris was found, he advised to shelter it with a wash basin or some other suitable-? cover to prevent the debris coming into contact with water and inform Astronomy and Space Science Unit in Colombo University immediately. But he said finding debris from an explosion of a ?stony? meteoroid is rare.? ?
The giant fire ball was seen and the noise of its explosion was heard by many residents in the southern parts of Sri Lanka, mostly in Galle and Matara districts including Pitabeddara, Akuressa, Deniyaya, Pitiduwa, Habaraduwa, Weligama, and Hambantota. It has been visible from areas including Colombo, Hanguranketha, Matale and even Nuwara Eliya.? ?
?
The giant fire ball was seen and the noise of its explosion was heard by many residents in the southern parts of Sri Lanka, mostly in Galle and Matara districts
?
?The meteoroid had appeared to be moving horizontally, after it rushed in from a great height,? he said.? ?
Explaining the probable causes of how the meteoroid appeared here, he said the collision of two neutron stars in space has nothing to do with this incident. ?Even though we are moving closer to the comet Hale- Bopp these days, it is most unlikely this meteoroid originated from the comet; it is too big,? Prof Jayaratne opined.He also informed that a meteor shower will be visible near the Orion Constellation from October 20 to 22.? ?
It is definitely a meteoroid
?According to what we gathered from local media, this is definitely a meteoroid. A similar occurrence had taken place in Russia in 2013.? Saraj Gunasekera, Senior Research Scientist - Arthur C. Clarke Institute for Modern Sciences, Moratuwa, said.? ?
Clarifying the misleading news in the social media and gossip sites, he said there is no relationship with the collision of two neutron stars in space with this meteoroid.? ?
He requested eyewitnesses to send any genuine video footage they may have with them to the Arthur C. Clarke Institute to analyze them and submit? a scientific explanation.? ?
?This meteoroid was dark and as such it is of a kind that is difficult to observe hovering in space and foretell its time of arrival. However, the level of brightness and explosion makes this meteoroid special,? he said.? ?
A web site named ?Space Weather? reported there were 1847 potentially hazardous asteroids near Earth on October 20, 2017.? ?
An asteroid called 2017 TD5 with a diameter of 36 miles was predicted? to pass Earth on Oct 18, missing it just by 11.2 LD (Lunar Distance or earth - moon distance). There was another much bigger Asteroid, 2006 TU 7 with a 148 mile diameter. Scientists noted that 2017 TD 6 - an asteroid was forecast to move much closer to Earth on October 19, missing Earth by 0.5 LD. ?It is possible that the same asteroid hit Sri Lanka on Oct 18.? scintist Gunasekera said.? ?
What happened back in 2013 in Russia??
?A small asteroid exploded over the city of Chelyabinsk, Russia, on Feb. 15, 2013. The shock wave it generated shattered glass and injured about 1,200 people. Some scientists think the meteor may have briefly outshone the sun. The blast was stronger than a nuclear explosion, detected by monitoring stations situated as far away as in Antarctica.?? ?
?The incident was another reminder to space agencies about the importance of monitoring small bodies in space that could pose a threat to Earth. ? -(https://www.space.com/33623-chelyabinsk-meteor-wake-up-call-for-earth.html)?
According to space scince literature available online, this meteor was known as a superbolide, a super bright meteor. It exploded at a height of 20 km above Earth releasing 500 kilotons of energy. Scientists were surprised to find a 650 kg meteorite (rock) from Lake Chebarkul in the debris after the explosion
The Chelyabinsk air burst seconds the ?Tunguska Event? in 1908, the explosion of a 50 - 100 m wide fireball above the remote Taiga Forest in Siberia, flattening about 80 million trees near the Tunguska River. The area was uninhabited. The Tunguska event is considered to be the most powerful meteoroid explosion in history that produced 185 times more energy than the Hiroshima atomic bomb.?
?
?
What is a meteoroid?
According to NASA?s website, asteroid and meteoroids are types of space rocks. An asteroid is a small rocky body orbiting the sun.? ?
NASA explains that most asteroids in our solar system are found in the main asteroid belt, a region between Mars and Jupiter. But they can also hang out in other locations around the solar system. For example, some asteroids orbit the sun in a path that takes them near Earth.? ?
NASA clarifies that when two asteroids smash into one another, small pieces break off and those are called meteoroids. If the meteoroid enters Earth?s atmosphere, it vapourises and turns into a meteor (a small rock) known as a shooting star.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dad, could you come back and stay a while
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:00 am
Dad, could you come back and stay a while
	
Our dad, the late Sherard de S. Wijeyeratne was born into this world with the blessings of almighty God on 10th April, 1919 and he received his call from Jesus on the 22nd of October 1987. It is exactly 30 years since he left his beloved wife Linnette and his twelve grieving children.? ?
Even though he left us 30 years ago, it still gives me great joy to write a few words about our dad who was our greatest friend, mentor, guardian and role model.? ?
He was absolutely fond of his children and was proud to speak about their achievements; nevertheless he was a strict disciplinarian. He maintained a very high standard of discipline at home and always guided his children in the right direction.? ?
He, together with our Mum always made sure that we got the right kind of education and more importantly that we learned the right values and obligations in life, but never forgot to encourage us to take part in sports. If anyone of us was taking part in a sporting event, be it cricket, soccer or athletics, he was always the first spectator on the field. He gave us confidence and lifted our spirits by cheering us to achieve success but also taught us to be graceful in defeat.? ?
He lived a very simple life, practiced his religion and never forgot to help the poor. There were many instances where we could recall how he would help people in need, but the one that is etched in our memories to this very day is, when we were very small, travelling in our car to our estate in Puttlam, somewhere past Madampe,? ?
Dad saw a small boy standing on the road beside a fallen man. Not many people were on the road but the few cars that were on the road just whizzed past this boy.? ?
But dad immediately stopped and got down from the car, put his arm round the small boy and asked him ?who is this fallen on the ground?? and the boy said that it was his father.? ?
Down went dad on his knees and checked the pulse of the fallen man and spread some water on his face. After sometime the man was able to recover, open his eyes and speak to our dad. During the conversation this man said that he has not had a proper meal for three days and was walking with his son to the town and had suddenly fainted. Dad got both of them to get into the already crowded car, took them to the town and bought some food for them to eat. He also got more food for them to take home. Just before sending them off, dad asked the father of the boy whether he would give his son to him so that he can educate him, but the father of the boy said he has only one son and he wants him to be with him. Our dad gave our address to them and wished them well and sent them off.? ?
This incident really surprised our small minds. Our dad had twelve children to look after but still he was asking for another child. We later realised that is the type of love he had for children and also that he would go out of his way to help the poor.? ?
To our dad we wish to say this loud and clear
Could you come back and stay a while,? ?
We want to hear your voice and see your smile,? ?
We want to hold you tight and never let go,? ?
And tell you how much we love you.? ?
Years and years have gone by, since you left us,? ?
But not a day has passed without your loving thoughts,? ?
Each time we think of you we need to cry,? ?
We always wish that you were still with us.? ?
Eternal Rest Grant unto him O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him. May he rest in peace.
V.P. de S. W
 
		
==============================
## Title: General Amnesty for army deserters from Oct. 23 to Nov. 15
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 10:39 am
General Amnesty for army deserters from Oct. 23 to Nov. 15
	
A general amnesty would be announced from October 23 to November 15, 2017 to the Army deserters to receive legal discharge from the Army, Military Spokesman Maj. Gen. Roshan Seneviratne said.
Addressing a press conference he said that the opportunity was given to Army deserters in line with the 68th Army anniversary and added that absentees in the SLA Medical Corps would not be eligible for this amnesty.
?The Defence Ministry had offered two general amnesty periods last year for deserters who were serving in the three armed forces to seek legal discharge. During the last general amnesty period, which ended on midnight December 31, 2016, a total of 8877 deserters including 34 officers and 8843 ranked personnel had reported to their respective services seeking legal discharge. Since January 2017, authorities stepped up operations to arrest these deserters,? Maj.Gen. Seneviratne said.
He further said that the Army absentees should report to their respective Regimental Headquarters to receive legal discharge. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Health Minisry has no information about NFTH: GMOA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:10 pm
Health Minisry has no information about NFTH: GMOA
	
The Health Ministry had admitted they had no information about the Neville Fernando Teaching Hospital (NFTH) including its staff details even though it had claimed that the hospital was acquired by the government, the GMOA said.
Its Media Spokesman Samantha Ananda told a news conference that the GMOA had requested for the information, from the Health Ministry Secretary in August, under the Right to Information Act and that they had received a response after two months.
?A letter dated Oct.6, 2017 by the Director of Medical Services states that the Health Ministry does not have any information with regard to the staff of the NFTH. The same director has been appointed by Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne to the NFTH?s Director Board,? he said.
Dr. Ananda said it was evident from these facts that the NFTH has not yet been acquired by the government and it was doubtful whether the Health Ministry could take the responsibility for the treatment carried out by the NFTH and its staff irrespective of the statements made by Minister Senaratne.
He said despite such a situation a huge sum of public funds had been invested in the NFTH and as such would complain to the Financial Crimes Investigation Division (FCID) against the misappropriation of state funds. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: It takes a world to end violence
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:00 am
It takes a world to end violence
	
From Left to right : Miss, Thien from Myanmar. Ronnie from the Philippines, David from Sri Lanka and Miss Meghla from? Bangladesh. Speaking on Youth involvement in ending violence against children.?
?
Faith leaders and youth advocates joined by child-rights activists from 15 countries issued a call in Colombo to end violence against children in the Asia Pacific during the October 16 launch of a Global Campaign by the international aid agency, World Vision titled It takes a world to end violence against children.
More than 150 participants joined from multiple global faith networks, regional bodies, Governments, NGOs and youth leaders.? ?
Dr. Rinchen Chophel, Director General of the South Asia Initiative to End Violence Against Children, challenged child-rights activists and agencies to unite.? ?
?The time of working in isolation in compartments is over,? announced the medical doctor trained in international humanitarian law.? ?
?This campaign may have a big approach, but it needs to be meaningful to small constituents,? he said.? ?
Chief Guest Chandrani Senarathne, Secretary of Sri Lanka?s Ministry of Women and Child Affairs said that the violence against children included all forms of physical, sexual and mental violence.? ?
?We know the goal to end violence against children may sound too ambitious, after all we are not only aiming at reducing violence, but actually saying ENDING Violence against children! And, we believe it can be done in this generation,? she said.? ?
Youths nominated to attend from Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Philippines, Bangladesh and Myanmar shared their experiences living through and advocating against violence, encouraging leaders to do more.? ?
?I feel so sad that there are many girls or children like me who are victims of child marriage and other forms of violence. It took me a lot of courage to speak up. If I had not spoken to my teacher, I wouldn?t be here today. That?s why I encourage youths to share their views and feelings,? said Meghla Akter from Bangladesh.? ?
Faith network panellists included: Brahmachari Darshan Chaitanya from the Hindu Organisation Chinmaya Mission.? ?
?
Daniel Selvanayagam, World Vision?s Senior Director of Operations for East Asia, cited research from the US-headquartered Pew Centre of how more than four out of 10 countries had an official State or preferred religion, and more than eight out of 10 individuals globally identified with a faith.? ?
?
Ven. Galkande Dhammananda from the Buddhist Walpola Rahula Institute based in Colombo; Atallah Fitz Gibbon from the UK-headquarted humanitarian organization, Islamic Relief Worldwide, and; Moses Akash De Silva, an orphan-turned-pastor with the Sri Lankan non-profit, Voice for Voiceless Foundation.? ?
Facilitator and reverend, Christo Greyling, World Vision?s Director of Faith Partnerships for Development, opened the panel by striking a note of honesty.?
?
?I can only speak for Christianity, but we have to be honest that sometimes faith leaders are part of the problem [of perpetuating violence against children],? he told the audience. ?For any child who has been hurt by a faith leader, I apologise to you.?? ?
?Children may have a biological father and mother, but they belong to all of humanity,? added Brahmachari Darshan Chaitanya from Chinmaya Mission.? ?
?Religious leaders play a great role in changing the thinking and behaviours to end violence against children. We are all responsible for their well being.?? ?
Daniel Selvanayagam, World Vision?s Senior Director of Operations for East Asia, cited research from the US-headquartered Pew Centre of how more than four out of 10 countries had an official State or preferred religion, and more than eight out of 10 individuals globally identified with a faith.? ?
?Whatever the news headlines may have you believe, we are a people and polity driven by faith, not violence,? he said.? ?
The event concluded with all participants signing a personal pledge that concluded, ?It takes a world to end violence against children and I want to be a part of that.?? ?
World Vision is rolling out the campaign with partners across 17 Asian countries with a focus on ending child marriage, sexual abuse, child trafficking, child labour, physical violence in schools and the home, and corporal punishment.? ?
Participating countries include: Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Myanmar, Mongolia, India, Indonesia, Nepal, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam.? ?
World Vision is a Christian relief, development and advocacy organisation committed to helping children enjoy life in all its fullness. In the Asia Pacific region, World Vision works in 17 countries in nearly 600 project areas. It serves 1.25 million children who are sponsored by donors, along with their families?and communities.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pakistan extends detention of Mumbai attacks suspect
## Section: International
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:00 am
Pakistan extends detention of Mumbai attacks suspect
	
?
LAHORE AFP Oct19, 2017 -Pakistan on Thursday extended the detention of the chief suspect in the 2008 Mumbai attacks for a month, government officials said.? ?
Firebrand cleric Hafiz Saeed, who heads the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) group and has a $10 million US bounty on his head, has been under house arrest since January following a government crackdown on the outfit.? ?
??Hafiz Saeed?s detention has been extended for a period of one-month,? a senior government official told AFP on condition of anonymity.? ?
He said the detention was extended by a three-member review board of Lahore High Court headed by Judge Yawar Ali.? ?
JuD, listed as a terror outfit by the United Nations, is considered by the US and India to be a front for Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the militant group blamed for the attack on India?s financial capital which killed more than 160 people.? ?
India has long seethed at Pakistan?s failure either to hand over or prosecute those accused of planning the Mumbai attacks.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pollution kills nine million annually
## Section: International
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:01 am
Pollution kills nine million annually
	
?
Air pollution, water contamination and exposure to man-made chemicals claimed nine millions live last year, a major study concludes.??
Researchers discovered at least one in six deaths across the world were caused by the three forms of deadly pollution.??
The biggest killer was air pollution, which accounted for 6.5 million deaths on its own, a report published in the prestigious medical journal The Lancet found.??
Worldwide, the biggest impact from pollution was felt in regions undergoing rapid development and industrialization.??
In the most severely affected countries, India, Pakistan and China, up to a quarter of all deaths were caused by pollution.??
Around 2.5 million people in India were killed by pollution in 2015 - nearly a quarter of all deaths - and 1.8 million in China.??
Scientists at the Icahn School of Medicine in New York City put the majority of the deaths down to heart disease, stroke, lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD).? ?
Professor Philip Landrigan, co-author of the study, said: ?Pollution is much more than an environmental challenge.? ??It is a profound and pervasive threat that affects many aspects of human health and well-being.?? ?He added: ?It deserves the full attention of international leaders, civil society, health professionals, and people around the world.??
New york, (daily mail)
Oct19, 2017
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rains likely to continue
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 02:44 pm
Rains likely to continue
	
The prevailing rains in the South-Western part of the country is expected to continue while a spill gate of the Kukule Ganga had to be opened as a result of the heavy rains during the past week, the Department of Meteorology said.
It said showers or thundershowers were expected at times in the Western, Sabaragamuwa, Central, North-Western and Southern Provinces and that heavy rains of about 75-100 mm could be expected at some places with rain occurring in the Northern Province and in the Anuradhapura district while the possibility of afternoon thundershowers was also increasing.
?The low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal to the North-east of the island is likely to develop into a depression and move away from the island and surrounding sea areas during next few days,? the Met Dept said.
It said the seas off Mannar to Batticaloa via Kankasanturai and Trincomalee and the seas off Matara to Pottuvil via Hambantota could be rough at times with the wind speeds increasing up to 50-60 kmph.
Disaster Management Centre (DMC) Assistant Director Pradeep Kodippili said a landslide warning had been issued in the Ratnapura District. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rectifying errors in LG Elections Bill: Party leaders to meet next week
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 06:31 am
Rectifying errors in LG Elections Bill: Party leaders to meet next week
	
Political party leaders in Parliament will meet next week to decide on rectifying the errors in the Local Government Election Amendment Bill.
The meeting was decided when joint opposition parliamentary group leader Dinesh Gunawardene proposed that the errors should be rectified through a resolution in the House.
?It is better to rectify the errors through a resolution than via amendments so as to prevent the postponement LG polls," he said.
Mr Gunawardene accused the subject minister of attempting to delay the polls.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said would be no need to postpone the elections because the Attorney General's opinion could be sought. ?Attorney General is in Bahamas and will be in Sri Lanka next week. Therefore party leaders can discuss this matter with him and decide what needed to be done," he said.
Speaker said the amendment could be taken up in the House next week. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Russian warships dock in Philippines as Manila cultivates new ties
## Section: International
## Date: 21 October 2017 12:00 am
Russian warships dock in Philippines as Manila cultivates new ties
	
MANILA REUTERS Oct 20-Three Russian warships, including two anti-submarine vessels, docked in Manila on Friday to unload what navy officials said was weaponry and military vehicles donated to the Philippines as part of a new defence relationship.? ?
?It was the third port visit this year by Russian warships as part of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte?s moves to engage closely with Moscow, an arch-rival of Manila?s former colonial master and closest defence ally, the United States.? ?
?The load included 5,000 assault rifles, a million rounds of ammunition and 20 army trucks, Russian and Filipino navy officials said.? ?
?The visit was timed to coincide with the arrival next week of Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, who is attending a regional defence meeting, and U.S. counterpart Jim Mattis, a Philippine navy spokesman said.? ?
?Russia and the Philippines are expected to sign a security deal on military logistics next week.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sellers can't decide at what price to sell imported rice: Sathosa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 04:57 pm
Sellers can't decide at what price to sell imported rice: Sathosa
	
The 200,000 metric tonnes of rice, which was scheduled to be imported from Burma, Thailand, India and Pakistan would not be allowed to be sold at prices higher than was stipulated by the government, Lanka Sathosa Chairman T.M.K.B Tennakoon said.
Addressing the media he said the rice stocks would be imported by the end of the year. He said that the rice would be distributed using a Government distribution mechanism as well as through private importers.
?The stock of rice would be distributed via Sathosa, Cooperatives (MPCSs) and major super markets while it will also be sold to retailers by Sathosa,? he said.
?The selling price of rice will be monitored by the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA). Those selling rice cannot do so after keeping a large profit margin and they cannot decide at which price it should be sold,? he said.
?There is an Maximum Sales Retail Price (MSRP) set by Sathosa. Sellers from rural areas should sign an agreement with us, adhering to the controlled price at which they are allowed to sell. That price can include their transport cost and profit,? the Sathosa Chairman said.
Accordingly the details of the sellers and their agreed selling price would be given to the CAA for monitoring. However, he said that local millers could decide on their own prices and the MSRP set by Sathosa would not affect them. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL will continue to work with UN, other firms by aligning govt. policy with SDGs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 06:05 pm
SL will continue to work with UN, other firms by aligning govt. policy with SDGs
	
Sri Lanka will continue to work with the United Nations (UN) and other institutions by aligning the government?s policy strategy with the ?Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Targets? to be achieved by 2030, Finance and Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera said.
Addressing the World Bank/International Monetary Funds annual meeting in Washington recently, Minister Samaraweera said Sri Lanka?s broad development strategy had focused on a three-pillared agenda i.e. democratization, reconciliation, and sustainable and equitable development with employment generation that transmits the benefits of growth across the wider society.
?Sri Lanka?s growth model would be private sector driven with exports and Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) as key pillars, supported by technological advancement and innovation. In this process, we are committed to improve human capital and skills, set up globally recognized regulatory mechanisms and investment practices, in addition to the improvement of physical infrastructure, and create the best possible enabling environment for Sri Lanka to attract more businesses, trade and investment to become a higher income country,? he said.
He said the government had introduced three well thought-out frameworks to manage the country?s fiscal policy, monetary policy and foreign exchange operations to ensure sound macro-economic policies and added that State Owned Enterprises were also being reformed to ensure efficient management and strengthen financial viability.
He also said that they were working, with commitment, to move to a flexible inflation targeting regime in the medium term to ensure sustained low inflation and to an exchange rate regime based on clear parameters to achieve a competitive currency.
?Measures are being taken to boost market access through deepening and widening the current Free Trade Agreements (FTA) with India; invigorating the FTA with Pakistan; signing new economic partnership agreements with China and Singapore. This will result in preferential access to markets with over 3 billion people, which is expected to boost domestic and foreign investments going forward through leveraging the trade/investment nexus,? he added.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka Navy rescues seven Indian sailors
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 October 2017 06:35 pm
Sri Lanka Navy rescues seven Indian sailors
	
Sri Lanka Navy rescued the 07-member India crew from a Maldives-bound Indian Merchant Vessel, which had sunk in the seas south of Sri Lanka due to a mechanical fault.
Sri Lanka Navy said that upon being informed by the Maldivian government about the ill-fated ?Maria Iurudaya?, a medium-scale merchant vessel sinking in the seas 68 nautical miles south of the Galle lighthouse, the Navy Headquarters alerted all merchant ships plying in that area as well as SLN ships/craft patrolling in the southern seas to render assistance.
Subsequently, the Navy was informed of a drifting life-craft with sailors on board by a multi-day fishing trawler named ?Sahan Putha?. The Fast Attack Craft P490 was dispatched immediately to the location for the rescue. The Indian crew in distress was rescued accordingly and brought safely to the Galle Harbour this morning (21 October). All seven Indian sailors are in good health and arrangements have been made to hand them over to the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka for repatriation.
 
		
==============================
