## Title: All is fair in love and election time
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:04 am
All is fair in love and election time
	
?
This top team member who made it to Diyawanna council from the gem-rich district is known to be one not usually given to angry outbursts. However, the politico took his supporters on the home turf by surprise the other day when he launched a broadside at a character known as ?Paala ?at a public rally.?
?
The top team member at this rally gave lucid details about how Paala had used public funds meant for development to ?develop? a select few.? Those who attended the rally say that the most interesting revelation the politico made was the one about the ?20 per cent commission?.?
By the way, according to informed sources, ?Paala? the top team member referred to, is said to be busy making plans to become the chief purohita of a certain province and a group of Diyawanna members had already come forward to thwart Paala?s ambitions.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: An evening of songs for a worthy cause ?Swetha Bhumi Gee Miyesiya?
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 November 2017 12:09 am
An evening of songs for a worthy cause ?Swetha Bhumi Gee Miyesiya?
	
By Sarah Muiz
An evening of classical music awaits music lovers country wide as ?Swetha Bhumi Gee Miyesiya? is all set and ready to hit the stage with high notes this week, Friday (November 24). The show will be held at the Maharagama Youth Centre auditorium from?6.30 p.m onwards.
A fund raising project aimed at donating a computer lab to the Monaragala Dehikindagama Vidyalaya, the musical show also stands out as the very first initiative organised by the Aorta Sri Lanka Foundation. The Foundation itself is a new found organization with its mission focused on extending a helping hand to the less fortunate.? ?
Commenting on their first huge initiative, Founder and Instructor of the Aorta Sri Lanka Foundation and Medical Officer of the Neuro Surgical Unit of the National Hospital of Colombo, Dr. Upul Narandeniya explained that the school is located in a rural area and lacks the facility of a computer lab, which is felt as a vital need for various academic purposes. ?The Principle of the Monaragala Dehikindagama Vidyalaya is Mr. D.M.L. Dissanayke and the school boasts of having a high rate of students who successfully pass the grade 5 scholarship examination.
Friday (November 24). The show will be held at the Maharagama Youth Centre auditorium from 6.30 p.m onwards
Pursuing our motive to raise funds for this project we have planned to host a live musical show with a number of popular musicians from Sri Lanka. The musical show will feature talented musicians such as Romesh Sugathapala, Karunarathne Diulgane and Samitha Erandathi Mudunkotuwa in the forefront,? Dr. Narandeniya said.? ?
Dr. Narandeniya noted that all members of the organization, including? Pasindu Yatawara (President), Sarath Chandrasiri (Secretary) and Suresh Boralessa as Treasurer, are working diligently to make this fund raising project a success.? Scheduled to be held as a classical event, ?Swetha Bhumi Gee Miyesiya? will be spearheaded by the music direction of Sagara Wijesinghe with Prageeth Wijesooriya working as the music compiler.? ?
Tickets are available at the rates of Rs.1000.00, 2000.00 and 3000.00 and can be purchased online from tickets.lk or at Sarasavi Book Shop branches in Maharagama and Nugegoda or at the Sadeepa Book Shop located in Borella. Tickets can also be purchased at the Wanapetha Book Shop in Dehiwala, Yamaha Music Center, Ranfer Tea Shop Colombo 03, Abans main showroom, Colombo 03 or can be purchased on the day of event at the counter.? ?
?In future we are planning to conduct more social service programmes to uplift the living standards of our society. Those who are interested in extending their help for such services are most welcome to make their generous contributions to either the current fund raising project or any similar event organized in future through our current account at Bank Of Ceylon (Maharagama Branch). The account Number is 81681666. We welcome the public to contact Mr. Sudesh Boralessa via 0771430155 or Mr.Pasindu Yatawara via 0779304624 for further queries regarding tickets or if they wish to make contributions? Dr. Narandeniya said.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Attempt to arrest Gotabhaya
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 07:34 am
Attempt to arrest Gotabhaya
	
The former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said yesterday, that there is a plan by the government to take into custody the former Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa.
The main thrust of this government is to imprison him and members of the Rajapaksa family, MPs who are supporting him and senior state officials, he said further.
The former President stated these facts while addressing the 20th conference of the Samurdhi Development and Agricultural Research Production Assistant officers held at the Colombo Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium.
He said further that State officials are being imprisoned using the term public property, and the FCID has been established to take revenge from the Rajapaksas and those State officials who are with them. (Amaradasa Silva)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! CBK to PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 04:57 pm
Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! CBK to PM
	
Former president Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga in a personal message praised Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe for appearing before the Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) into the Issuance of Treasury Bonds.
Mrs. Kumaratunga has praised it as a brave decision taken by Prime Minister Wickremesinghe and added that she would support him in this most challenging task.
The message as follows:
?Dear Prime Minister, Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! My homage to you for taking the brave decision to testify before the Presidential Commission. This is the beginning of Free and Democratic Governance,?
?My unstinted support is with you in this most challenging task. You and I will remain till the end of our days in two opposing political parties, but there can be no disagreement when the Vision is to build a better country for all Sri Lankans, a country where Freedom, human decency and honest, pro people governance will reign supreme. Wish you much strength and courage!,?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Brothel raid: 10 including three Thai women arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 08:23 am
Brothel raid: 10 including three Thai women arrested
	
Ten women including three from Thailand and seven Sri Lankan women had been arrested last night on charges of allegedly running a brothel under the guise of an Ayurvedic massage parlour at Bauddhaloka Mawatha, in Kollupitiya, Colombo 4, the Police said.
They said the raid was conducted following a tip off to the Kollupitiya Police.
Another two suspects were also arrested for managing the alleged brothel.
The women suspects arrested were aged 20, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28 and 40. They were from Piliyandala, Kalubowila, Anuradhapura, Galle, Delgoda, Kadawatha, Bibila and Dematagoda areas and the arrested Thai women were aged 29, 36 and 40, the Police said.
They are to be produced before the Fort Magistrate today. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Calls to COPE members are a ?Major Issue?: Dayasiri
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:44 pm
Calls to COPE members are a ?Major Issue?: Dayasiri
	
Co- Cabinet Spokesperson Minister Dayasiri Jayasekara today admitted that there was a ?major issue? in the fact that members of the COPE Committee had conversations with Arjun Aloysius.
?Yes of course there is an issue. We will all be able to see the outcomes of this once action is filed,? he said, in response to questions by journalists at the weekly cabinet media briefing yesterday.
However, Jayasekara defended the two calls and meeting he had with Aloysius and said that he found need to declare meeting Aloysius at any point.
?Yes I met with him once and we spoke on the phone twice. But I don?t think it was needed to declare to anyone that I met him,? he said.
Jayasekara, while admitting that there were more than two conversations with Aloysius went on to say that he knew Aloysius previously.
On the day of the first revelation of the phone calls however, Jayasekara told the media that there were only two calls and a meeting -?I have had nothing else to do with him (Aloysius)?, Jayasekara said last week.
However, yesterday Jayasekara admitted to previous communications.
?I knew him from before. I was not a member of parliament at the time of the 7th COPE when I was in contact with Arjun Aloysius (first call between the two were July 10, 2015). There were only two calls between him and me whilst I was a member of the COPE? he said.
Jayasekara admitted that the latter communications and meeting were meant to influence the COPE investigations.
Thereafter Jayasekara was asked if he reported the communications to any person or authority, to which he answered in the negative.
When repeatedly questioned by journalists as to the fact as to if he found no need to declare the meeting of communications with Aloysius given the fact that the calls were made to influence Jayasekara?s investigation he said that there was no such need.
?No I didn?t find the need to tell anyone. As a politician I talk to a lot of people and this was one such conversation. What you must look at is the side that I was on, what I have said during the COPE hearings. I have been the most vociferous against the scam throughout this time? he said.
When journalists pointed out that the stance he took was inconsequential and the question at hand was regarding his dealings with Aloysius, Jayasekara remained resolute.
?No there was no need to declare my meeting with him (Aloysius) to anyone. I may have told one or two people. In fact when he first called me Minister Anura Yapa was next to me in the vehicle. But that was it?
Journalists continued to question Jayasekara giving background of Aloysius? attempts to influence witnesses during the Bond Commission hearings.
Drawing example The Daily Mirror pointed out that Richie Dias the Treasury Head of Pan Asia Bank was attempted to be influenced by Aloysius, and Dias informed the Commission of the attempt. (Sandun Jayasekara and Hafeel Farisz)
Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: China donates rice
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 22 November 2017 03:12 pm
China donates rice
	
At the request of the Sri Lankan Government, the Chinese Government agreed to donate 2,752 metric tons of rice for emergency humanitarian relief. The project is implemented by COFCO Corporation. The first batch of 1000 MT of rice to Colombo was handed over to Sri Lanka at the Colombo Port today. Minister Anura Priyadarshana Yapa and President?s Secretary Austin Fernando accepted the first batch on behalf of the government. It was handed over by Chinese Ambassador Yi Xianliang. Pics by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Do away  with this unfair education system
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 November 2017 12:00 am
Do away  with this unfair education system
	
I often wonder when and where the education system of our beloved country got hijacked! Could we ever forget those halcyon days when we just walked into school??
?
This was a time when our parents didn?t carry the burden and experience the harassment of trying to figure out when, where and how they were to come up with the horrendously exorbitant donations and afterwards the fees that followed? Did this change happen when international schools were allowed and the existing schools felt the need to be competitive? What we are witnessing and what parents of today have to cope with are the staggering demands being made on them. We did have rich schools and less affluent schools, but not with such huge discrepancies.? ?
We did have rich schools and less affluent schools, but not with such huge discrepancies
	There must be a reasonable control on the donations demanded by the schools
	Does the present generation think whether the education system would be subject to further drastic changes ?
The gap that exists was created by our erudite Ministry of Education. The burning rhetoric is the fate of the poor child. The poor children of our country have no education. Why? Because they don?t have the finances to meet the dispassionate demands made on them. So, don?t the poor kids of our country have a right to education? Is that the bottom line Mr. Minister? Why does the Ministry of Education not lay down the ground rules? There must be a reasonable control on the donations demanded by the schools in connection with the enrolling of children in academic institutes. This also applies to the subsequent fees and several other financial demands made on parents, not forgetting the expenses for tuition.? ?
Tuition? ?
Speaking of tuition, do present teachers even have the right to be teachers? In some schools, children in the first grade are struggling to read full sentences. Living in this country, could we walk into a classroom where children are the same and know that the knowledge they receive will help in a new way to make them more sensitive to the issues that exist in the world around them?
There are many questions to which there are sadly no answers. Hence, the crying need for tuition! In most instances, tuition is given by the so called teachers themselves. Something has got to change Mr. Minister, but how is that change going to occur? WHEN and WHERE and HOW? It isn?t something you can keep putting off. It?s something you have got to address fast! It?s equally distressing to note that the people who have accepted the current situation have done so because they feel no change is possible.? ?
Moving on, about children of forces personnel? We have one inadequate school for so many of them. A Police Sergeant will have to enroll his son at a remote school because he can?t meet the demands for a donation made by a popular school. Some of these parents, serving a security forces establishment, would have made huge sacrifices for this country. Yet, I dare to ask, how easy is it for the Forces children to get into a school? Where is the justice in all this? Why does their education have to be effected by our miserable system of education?
A change is possible?
Many questions await your answers Mr. Minister. Most of them need to be addressed immediately! I refuse to go on pretending that we are a just society when everything around me is unjust. I believe that? a change is possible. We can no longer afford to ignore the things around us which are wrong and wait for someone else to change them.? ?
I know this sounds idealistic, but I also realize that unless we force ourselves to accept that changes are necessary, nothing will ever change.? I wonder whether the present generation is thinking whether the education system would be subject to further drastic changes in the future! Could it be far worse than it is today?
Did this change to be competitive in education take place with the opening of international schools ?
We must keep working and not allow ourselves to fail. It is then only that someday we will succeed in building a country in which we can all take pride in. Let us show the world and the present generation of children that we won?t accept slack. We are so much more than that! It?s time we apply knowledge that we possess to create a productive atmosphere for our children; all our children, rich and poor alike and do away with this unfair?education system.? ?
(Over to you Mr. Prime Minister! yes, I say prime minister because you are one of the very few who has the courage to address grievances. The education of our children is the foundation that we will continue to build on and I am certain if any action is taken, despite the heavy demands of your office, you will be the one to find a solution to this problem.)?- Karen
 
		
==============================
## Title: Drug trafficker nabbed in Chilaw with 2 kg of heroin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:23 am
Drug trafficker nabbed in Chilaw with 2 kg of heroin
	
The Narcotics Unit of the Excise Department seized 2 kg of heroin valued at Rs. 20 million during a raid at Karukapane beach in Chilaw last night.
The Department officials said a suspect was also arrested with the contraband during the raid and expressed suspicion that the drug would have been smuggled into the country from India via the sea.
The arrested suspect was a resident at Kolaniwella in Chilaw and to be produced before the Chilaw Magistrate today.
?
Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Epic partners APBSL as platinum sponsor for 29th Anniversary Convention
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:33 am
Epic partners APBSL as platinum sponsor for 29th Anniversary Convention
	
From left: APB Vice President C. Amarasinghe, APB Assistant Secretary Sisira Kumara, APB Senior Vice President Asanka Ranhotty and APB President Senarath Bandara receiving the sponsorship from Epic Technology Group Chairman Dr. Nayana Dehigama, Epic Technology Group Group Director and CEO Viraj Mudalige and Epic Technology Group Corporate Communication Vice President Pradeep Carvalho
?
Epic Technology Group, synonymous for innovative and superior ?FinTech? solutions has partnered with the Association of Professional Bankers - Sri Lanka (APBSL), as Platinum Sponsor for its 29th anniversary convention titled ?Changing Dynamics - Bank of the Future?.
The ?Epic Mobile Wallet? will be showcased at the anniversary convention of the APB; it is a state-of-the-art payment instrument, and a world?s first for payer and payee. The Epic Mobile wallet is fast changing the entire payment ecosystem locally as well as globally; participants at the ABP can experience this innovation at the ?Epic Mobile Wallet? Experience centre.
The agreement signing was held recently with officials from the Association of Professional Bankers and Epic Technology Group.
 
		
==============================
## Title: General amnesty for absentees ends today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:03 am
General amnesty for absentees ends today
	
The extended general amnesty period offered to Army absentees (Absent Without Leave) to receive their legal discharge after reporting to their respective Regimental Headquarters ends today (22), the Army said.
They said a total of 10,112 Army deserters, including 12 Officers, 09 Officer Cadets and 10,091 Other Rankers had been discharged as of Tuesday (21) afternoon.
They have reported back to receive their legal discharge accordingly from respective Headquarters.
Army said they would take action to arrest the army deserters who had not reported to receive legal discharge during the amnesty period. They said island-wide law enforcing authorities have been advised to launch operations to nab the remainder of those absentees in hiding.
Provision of employment or harbouring any Army absentee or deserter amounts to breach of existing law in the country and is an offence punishable in Court as per section 133 of the Penal Code.
All those remaining absentees are therefore advised to make use of this special amnesty and receive their legal discharge by Wednesday (22).
The general amnesty for legal discharge came into effect on October 23, 2017 on a decision made by the Ministry of Defence and the Commander of the Army.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gintota Mayhem Political Parasites Inflamed Communal Disharmony
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 November 2017 12:34 am
Gintota Mayhem Political Parasites Inflamed Communal Disharmony
	
There are different versions of the tense situation that occurred in Gintota last week. The villagers criticize the media and social activist groups for spreading wrong versions regarding what happened in Gintota and being biased. Daily Mirror visited the affected families of both Sinhala and Muslim communities in?the village.? 
A minor accident turned into an ethnic violence
	Clashes intensified after certain politicians entered the area?
	Former PC member ?Kiyaz? fuelled the clashes
	Security arrangement was ?biased?
	Several houses and property were damaged
	People slept outside their houses
?
Turning a tiny personal?dispute into a?communal riot
Gintota faced a heavily tense situation with impending riots between Sinhalese and Muslims. The root of the havoc was a very small incident. In an accident where a Muslim mother and child were knocked down by a motorcyclist identified as a Sinhalese was the cause of the violence. The accident issue had already been solved. However, according to villagers, two groups of youth, representing both the communities including the friends of the the accident victim, led to an argument.? ?
This issue was personal until those so-called groups allegedly led by a former Provincial Council Member in the area had physically attacked those who earlier engaged in the argument, their houses and some houses of others? who were not involved in this incident. Affected villagers said the attackers threw acid towards their houses and burnt down a few shops.? ?
The day after the attack, the rival group conducted a meeting in the village with the participation of outsiders coming from? Boossa and Rathgama. After the meeting, the group began their retaliation by damaging houses, set fire to shops and vehicles belonging to the?rival group.? ?
Gintota, a village boasts of rich harmony between communities
Muslims and Sinhalese have been living in Gintota without any ethnic issues for centuries. People from both communities described how they shared religious and cultural ceremonies and how they helped each other during the natural calamities. ?During the last floods, our temple and mosque had joined hands in helping the affected villagers. None showed objection. Everyone gathered to help the displaced people regardless of their race. We buy clothes from the shops that belong to Muslims. Our favourite restaurants are owned by Muslim businessmen. There had never been a disparity between us and them,? 21-year-old?Sandun said.??
Riyaz, another youth from Gintota said, ?We share Watalappan during Ramazan with all Sinhala families in our area, and they never forget to visit us with plates full of sweets during the Sinhala New?Year festival.???
Political hand behind the riots
Villagers from both communities admitted the fact that former PC member? Mohomed Kiyaz alias Kaif Hussain added fuel to the fire. He was later arrested and is now in remand custody on charges of provoking people.? ?
The Gintota people said this was a planned political act targeting the upcoming Local Government Elections.? ? ?It was a political clash in the run up to the forthcoming Local Government Elections rather than a communal clash. We questioned the withdrawal of the STF from the area prior the incident on November 17. The sudden withdrawal of the STF led the attacks to worsen. We are quite sure that some politicians must have instructed to remove the STF?. Mohommed Yazir, from Ampitiya, Gintota said.??
Ariyarathna Gamage, Justice of Peace and a resident of Gintota said the politician in question would have been so desperate to project himself as a hero among the Muslim voters. Therefore he would have created this vortex from a tiny incident.? ?
Villagers are not happy with the security arrangement
Although the government has assured the situation in Gintota has returned to normalcy, it has not. The communal unrest has created panic among communities. Some villagers don?t even sleep in their houses at night. Despite the STF and policemen patrolling the area, people leave their houses by 6.00 pm and return on the?
following morning.??
Some villagers claimed that they had noticed an obvious favouritism in providing STF protection.? ?
?If you visit the entire village, you could see STF personnel almost in every feet in some areas where the ?other group? members reside. But here we have no protection and no one knows until someone kills us. Even in temples, there is hardly any STF or Police security deployed in the aftermath of the riots,? Gamage said.??
What happened in?Gintota?from voices?of the?affected people
They threw acid to our house?- Shyama Sandamali?
?We had no clue about such accident or brawl until our house was attacked by a group of Muslims led by a politician in the area who expects to contest in the coming Local Government Elections. Mobs led by Kiyaz who was also present in front of my house, were breaking window panes? and causing havoc here. When I tried to stop them, they even harassed me.??
They had thrown acid in to my house. Scars and marks on the floor would bear witness. Fortunately, my in-laws and nephews who were in house during the attack had left and were hiding somewhere safe.??
I didn?t forget to present the video footage to the police, but so far none of the attackers has been arrested.???
My trishaw was set ablaze by petrol bomb?- Mohommed Ali
?A group of around 200 Sinhala people came around 8.30 pm and started breaking our gates and damaging our properties on November 17. My three-wheeler was set ablaze by a petrol bomb. Our house was under attack for around two hours. We kept calling police, but to no avail.???
My son was sent to child probation centre - Shriyani Fernando
?My 17-year-old son was attending a funeral when he was taken into custody on charges of? assaulting Muslims. He was an innocent and had no involvements whatsoever with the said brawl that took place between two groups.? ?
Due to fabricated charges, he is now at the Child Probation Centre till November 30. I heard people say that was a good place. But, who knows how they would treat my son?? ?
We don?t sleep in our houses at night due to fear - Nazardeen
?Around? 60 people started attacking all the houses in this area. Some officers from Galle police were in the lane next to ours but didn?t do anything to stop the attack. Due to the fear, we don?t sleep in our houses at night. We leave the house by 6.00 pm and come back by 6.00 am. We have no assurance given that the attackers would not come back. This time our people were not physically beaten. Not sure whether they would spare us next time.???
They beat my son and threw him into the drain - M.W.Gunapala?
?My elder son (25) was sitting on his motorcycle with two of his nephews when a group of Muslims wielding metal poles and bottles of acid attacked him severely. My younger son (21) ran out of the house looking for his brother, was also beaten by the group.? ?
They hit my younger son and threw him into a drain. Both had somehow run into the house and the violators threw acid to the house. However none was injured by the acid attack.
Later, police took my sons into custody. I am asking them why did they arrest my sons who were subject to severe beating by the attackers. They should have arrested those who had come to our area and started attacking our people.???
They attacked innocents; not Kiyaz or his gangs? - Mohammed Yazir?
?Just after hearing the noises of attackers, I took my children and my wife and went to the half built upstairs of our house to hide. The attackers entered my house breaking the gate and the locked door. They did not only destroy my properties but also robbed my wife?s gold jewellery. We were watching the entire incident from upstairs without being noticed by them or uttering a single word. If we did, we thought that they would attack us.? ?
A brawl had taken place between two rival groups consisting of Muslims and Sinhalese. Those who have been living in this area had never contributed to any kind of racist, religious or ethnic violence. All were living in unity and harmony for years. We don?t know why we were attacked in this manner.??
It is reported that politician ?Kiyaz? fuelled the incident. However, the attackers attacked innocent people like us, not Kiyaz?s house or his gangs.?? ? ?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Have the scary blue coloured veins surfaced?
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:55 am
Have the scary blue coloured veins surfaced?
	
?
A comfortable & sedentary lifestyle, modern fashion and special postures adopted while performing professional duties have contributed to increased incidence of a set of diseases unheard of in the past. Varicose veins are one of them and is a direct result of a sedentary life style, adopted by modern youth. Varicose veins have become very common at present. According to an estimate, 15 to 20 per cent of the population in our country (India) is suffering from varicose veins
?
??
Ladies suffer from varicose veins four times more than their male counterparts. There is an increased risk among young females of developing varicose, especially those who wear tight jeans and high-heeled sandals.??
?
Blue-colored spiders?
Varicose veins are actually abnormal veins lying just beneath the skin of your leg and thigh. These varicose veins are prominently visible, corkscrew like, entangled in one another. It looks as if a number of earthworms or blue-coloured spiders are lying under skin of your leg. In these veins, the mechanism of carrying impure blood from lower limb back to heart gets deranged either due to defective valves of vein or the absence of valves by birth. The function of these valves is to control blood flow in the veins.??
Veins are those blood pipes, which collect impure blood from your lower limbs and carry it back to the heart and then the lungs for purification. The ob of vein is difficult, as it has to push blood upwards from leg against gravity towards the heart. This function of the vein is made possible by valves which open up and allow blood to flow only in one direction. But when a person stands up these valves close to prevent blood from flowing towards the feet. In other words these valves of veins constantly maintain a unidirectional flow of blood that is always towards the heart. When these valves are absent or become defective, these varicose veins fail to control the blood flow in a one-way direction and in the process become dilated and swollen under the skin due to high back pressure. This results into pooling of impure blood in the feet.??
View from the surface?
Varicose veins cause permanent swelling and heaviness in the feet. The skin in the leg develops black or blue coloured patches. In the thighs and legs, under the skin, develops snake or earthworm like blue coloured veins, resulting in the legs and feet?being distorted.??
A person suffering from varicose vein, develops pain in foot and leg while walking or on standing for prolonged periods. If varicose veins are not treated effectively, skin in the leg will develop eczema and an ulcer that never heals. These ulcers caused by varicose veins are called varicose ulcers.
Sometimes massive bleeding occurs as a result of varicose ulcers. Ultimately, the person is forced to become disabled.??
?
Causative factors?
In 40 % of the patients, varicose veins occur due to hereditary reasons and is present in families for many generations. The other important causative factors are obesity, lack of exercises, abnormal pressure on veins during pregnancy, abnormal lifestyle, prolonged standing and prolonged sitting with legs down.? Due to the advances human have made, being overweight and lack of exercises, veins in the legs become very weak. They therefore develop into varicose veins. Due to obesity, a lot of fat gets deposited in the leg. This weakens the support system in veins and result in veins becoming dilated and tortuous.??
In the modern age, many occupations have sprung up where a person is required to either constantly standup for a long time or made to sit with legs hanging down for a considerable time. Computer professionals, receptionists, security guards, traffic policemen, salesmen working at counters in shops and departmental stores and persons doing desk jobs day in and day out are the worst sufferers of varicose veins. A previous fracture in a bone during road traffic accidents, previous deep veins thrombosis or a previous incidence of clotting in the veins are significant contributors to developing varicose veins and varicose ulcer.??
?
Why ladies?
Among females, due to some hormones, the veins in the walls become enlarged and dilated. Besides, during pregnancy, because of lot of pressure on the veins in the legs, they (veins) become weak and varicosed. In the majority of women, after delivery, varicosity disappears on its own and veins assume the normal diameter and shape. In some ladies, due to tumor of uterus or tumor in the abdomen, varicose veins are likely to develop. One should be vigilant during such times.??
Fashion creates havoc in ladies. High heeled sandals, tight belts and panties are significant contributors to developing of varicose veins, as these items obstruct the normal flow of blood in the veins.??
Here?s what to do?
In our country people are quite ignorant of this disease. Patients with varicose veins, largely due to ignorance, either go to a general surgeon, a general physician or a bone specialist for consultation. When varicose veins get complicated and turns into a varicose ulcer, these patients then go to either a skin specialist or a homoeopath for treatment of so-called eczema & skin problem. Sometimes varicose veins are misdiagnosed as arthritis or sciatica. Because of misdiagnosis, a patient with Varicose Veins keeps shuffling from one specialist to another. This leads to a considerable delay in treatment and the?disability increases.??
If any person is having blue colored visible spider-like veins or blue- colored long threads under skin and dark colored patches or ulcer in legs, immediately consult a Cardiovascular or a Vascular Surgeon instead of a general surgeon. If the suspicion of varicose veins arises, never delay in seeking consultation and treatment by a Vascular Surgeon, because timely intervention may prevent further complications.??
?
Treatment for Varicose Veins
For the effective treatment of Varicose Veins, seek a hospital where services of a full-time Vascular are available??
In the early stages of Varicose Veins, exercise and sometimes medical treatment including sclerotherapy suffice.??
In advanced stages of Varicose Veins, surgery is required. There are various surgical treatments, like phlebectomy and vein stripping. In phlebectomy, small- sized varicose vein are removed while in stripping long- sized Varicose Veins are removed. There are no harmful effects on the body or legs after removal of?Varicose Veins.??
Sometimes special techniques like endoscopy are used during Varicose Veins operations, especially in cases of Varicose Ulcer. In this technique, the connecting channels are tied under endoscopic vision to prevent pooling of impure blood in the feet, which minimizes the chances of ulcers from recurring.??
At present, new techniques like laser treatment (EVLT) as well as radio frequency ablation technique (RFA) are also employed during Varicose Veins treatment, which drastically shortens the duration in hospital and significantly minimizes the number of cuts in the skin. Almost no stitches are required when using these techniques. The patient can return home the next day and resume his office work soon afterwards.??
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Insurance industry records 14% in GWPs growth in 1H17
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:30 am
Insurance industry records 14% in GWPs growth in 1H17
	
The insurance industry recorded a growth of 13.87 percent, in terms of Gross Written Premium (GWP), during the first half of year 2017 when compared to the same period in the year 2016. This growth is relatively lower than the growth experienced in 1H16, i.e. 17.01 percent.
The GWP for Long Term Insurance and General Insurance Businesses for the six months up to June 30th 2017 was Rs.76,162 million compared to the first six months of 2016 amounting to Rs.66,886 million. The GWP of Long Term Insurance Business amounted to Rs.33,657 million (1H16: Rs.30,306 million) while the GWP of General Insurance Business amounted to Rs.42,505 million (1H16: Rs.36,580 million) during the first half of 2017. Thus, Long Term Insurance Business and General Insurance Business witnessed a GWP growth of 11.06 percent and 16.20 percent respectively when compared to the corresponding period of year 2016.
?
Total Assets
Total Assets of insurance companies have increased to Rs.533,075 million as at June 30th 2017 when compared to Rs.478,427 million recorded as at June 30th 2016, reflecting a growth of 11.42 percent. The assets of Long Term Insurance Business amounted to Rs.375,159 million (1H16: Rs.323,604 million) indicating a growth rate of 15.93 percent year-on-year. The assets of General Insurance Business amounted to Rs.157,915 million (1H16: Rs.154,823 million) depicting a growth rate of 2.00 percent, at the end of first six months of 2017.
Investment in Government Securities
At the end of first six months of 2017, investment in government debt securities amounted to Rs.175,627 million representing 46.81 percent (1H16: Rs.158,239; 48.90 percent) of the total assets of Long Term Insurance Business, while such investment compared to the total assets of General Insurance Business amounted to Rs.30,933 million representing 19.59 percent (1H16: Rs.31,986; 20.66 percent). Accordingly, the total investment of assets of both Technical Reserve of General Insurance Business and Long Term Insurance Fund of the Life Insurance Business amounted to Rs.206,560 million representing 38.75 percent (1H16: Rs.190,224; 39.76 percent) of the total assets as at June 30th 2017.
Claims incurred by Insurance Companies
The claims incurred by insurance companies in both Long Term Insurance Business and General Insurance Business was Rs.32,249 million (1H16: Rs.29,171 million) showing an increase in total claims amount by 10.55 percent year-on-year. The Long Term Insurance claims, including maturity and death benefits, amounted to Rs.11,991 million (1H16: Rs.11,068 million). The claims incurred in General Insurance Business, including Motor, Fire, Marine and other categories, amounted to Rs.20,258 million (1H16: Rs.18,103 million). Hence, during 1H17, there is an increase in claims incurred by 8.34 percent and 11.91 percent for Long Term Insurance and General Insurance Businesses respectively, when compared to the corresponding period of year 2016.
Profit (Before Tax) of Insurance Companies
The profit (before tax) of insurance companies in both Long Term Insurance Business and General Insurance Business has decreased to Rs.4,660 million (1H16: Rs.5,259 million) showing a negative growth rate of 11.38 percent. The profit (before tax) of Long Term Insurance Business amounted to Rs.738 million (1H16: Rs.3,434 million) while the profit (before tax) of General Insurance Business amounted to Rs.3,922 million (1H16: Rs.1,825 million) during the first half of 2017. Thus, profit (before tax) of Long Term Insurance Business witnessed a negative growth rate of 78.5 percent whereas the General Insurance Business witnessed a positive growth of 114.9 percent, when compared to the corresponding period of year 2016. The main reason for negative growth rate of profit (before tax) of Long Term Insurance Business was the loss of Rs.2,260 million recorded by Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation (SLIC) for the quarter ended June 30th 2017.
?
?
Insurers
Out of 27 Insurance Companies (Insurers) registered with the Board as at June 30th 2017, 12 are engaged in Long Term (Life) Insurance Business, 12 companies are engaged in General Insurance Business and three are composite companies (dealing in both Long Term and General Insurance Businesses).
Insurance Brokers
60 insurance brokering companies, registered with the Board as at June 30th 2017, mainly concentrate in General Insurance Business. Total Assets of insurance brokering companies have increased to Rs.4,134 million as at June 30th 2017 when compared to Rs.3,809 million recorded as at June 30th 2016, reflecting a growth of 8.53 percent year-on-year.
 
		
==============================
## Title: LEAD SMELTING FACTORY in Bingiriya ?chokes? employees
## Section: Expose
## Date: 22 November 2017 09:22 am
LEAD SMELTING FACTORY in Bingiriya ?chokes? employees
	
?
Controversy surrounds how approvals have been granted to a lead smelting factory in Bingiriya by the North Western Provincial Environment Authority bypassing the National Environment Act. North Western Provincial Environment Authority (NWPEA) has come under severe criticism for granting Environment Protection License (which is given to confirm that any hazardous emission isn?t discharged to the environment) to Nico Battery Manufacturers situated at Vihara Mawatha, Panawewa, Bingiriya. The battery manufacturing company has possessed this licence since 2005.? ?
?
According to Bingiriya Medical Officer of Health (MOH), Dr. Narada Ranasinghe the emissions from the kiln that smelts lead is extremely hazardous not only to humans, but also to animals. Although Dr. Ranasinghe had made a request, by letter dated July 31, 2013, to the Director NWPEA not to extend the licences given to the lead smelting battery manufacturers until an impartial emission test is conducted, the request had been ignored. However the authority had continuously extended the licence to this company.? ?
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, Dr. Ranasinghe said how disappointed it is for the NWPEA to issue licences to Nico when he as the MOH had made a request not to extend the licence given to this factory which brings a health hazard. He said that his requests had fallen on deaf ears.? ?
?It?s up to the respective Pradeshiya Sabhawa (Local Council) to take action against any factory that causes damage to the environment. But it isn?t happening in this instance. There were few cases filed by the police against this factory and I too was asked to give evidence, but we weren?t given any opportunity to tell the courts how detrimental it is to have such a factory that releases lead particles to the environment. Meanwhile the CEA and the NWPEA were arguing with each other in court to show what the approved agency is that issues licences for the factories. Failing to make a statement in court, I once requested the Bingiriya Divisional Secretary to appoint a national committee regarding this issue as Nico Battery Manufacturers are going to cause adverse health conditions in residents in the area. Initially the Industrial Technology Institute (ITI) in one of its reports said that there is lead in the soil and in the emission. But now they are claiming that the industry is following all the safety measures and the soil isn?t contaminated with lead or Sulfuric Acid and nor does the kiln release lead particles. The Government should appoint an independent committee comprising environmentalists, produce a report regarding this industry and take a final decision,? Dr. Ranasinghe said.? ?
Dr. Aloy Gunaratne of Medical Centre Bingiriya too shared the same views that of the MOH. Dr. Gunaratne revealed how the people in the area are suffering from Bronchiole Asthma. ?The number of patients that take treatment for asthma is increasing. I suspect this is due to the inhalation of tiny lead particles floating in the air. Even I was told that the odor during the smelting process too is unbearable and causes breathing problems. If this factory is allowed to continue the future generation will suffer from brain damages or even nerve breakdowns. Why are the authorities concerned allowing such detrimental factories to operate in residential areas?? Dr. Gunaratne queried.? ?
Former OIC Bingiriya Chief Inspector R.M.P. Ratnayake said how the police once took a tipper into custody which was trying to unload waste contaminated with lead and sulfuric acid which are extreme health hazards. ?All attempts made by the police to take legal action against this factory have failed as the complainants are given money. There were two or three occasions when we had to withdraw the cases because the complainants refused to appear in court,? Ratnayake added.?
?
A haven for hazardous industries
Meanwhile Director Presidential Task Force on Environmental Conservation, Upali Indrasiri told the Daily Mirror how President Maithripala Sirisena as the Environment Minister accused the NWPEA for granting approval for hazardous industries in the North Western Province without considering the adverse impact to the environment.? ?
It is learned that the North Western Province has become a haven for all hazardous industries that don?t receive approval from other provinces. This is because the North Western Provincial Environmental Authority (NWPEA) is acting as a savior to all of industries, alleged to be functioning for personal gains.? ?
When Environment Minister, President Sirisena himself, is making a painstaking effort to protect the environment, the illegal procedure followed by the NWPEA, violating National Environmental Act No: 47 of 1980 (amended), is making environmentalists concerned as to why Environmental Protection Licences (EPL) are issued to factories that dispose hazardous waste. By doing so these factories are not only polluting the environment, but also causing severe health problems to the residents in the vicinity.? ?
According to Indrasiri, President Sirisena, in his capacity as the Environment Minister, on August 30, 2016, had a meeting with the high ranked officials of the Environment Ministry, Central Environment Authority (CEA), North Western Provincial Council members and officials of the NWPEA to discuss about the complaints he had received against the NWPEA. This is regarding the issuing of licences to factories that aren?t environmental friendly. ?The president accused the NWPEA of not taking action against the factories in the province that have violated the environment laws of the country. He blamed Saman Senanayake, the then Director NWPEA, for his alleged involvement in supporting factories that destruct the environment.?
He also blamed the Chief Minister who is the Provincial Environment Minister and the Chief Secretary for allowing an official ? Saman Senanayake- to remain as the Director during the past 25 years.? ?
Meanwhile Assistant Director CEA, D.M.K.Dissanayake, when contacted by the Daily Mirror, said that he had informed the President as to how Senanayake was illegally issuing licences to the industries that can?t be granted permission to operate.? ?
?The President had received many complaints against the NWPEA in general and Saman Senanayake in particular. That was why this meeting was held on August 31, 2016. When the President informed about the complaints, as the then Assistant Director CEA Kurunegala, I told him how this officer was issuing licences to industries that had been rejected by other provinces. The President then instructed the Chief Minister to remove Senanayke from the post immediately as he doesn?t wish to see an environment polluted country, something which had never happened till September 2017. He also instructed us to ensure that there is no adverse impact to the environment from any of the factories in the country. The President queried as to why Senanayake has been allowed to continue in the same post for more than 25 years despite the allegations levelled against him for issuing licences for personal gains in return for favours granted to him (Senanayake) by the industrialists,? Dissanayake said.? ?
Adverse health conditions reported from Bingiriya in Chilaw due to lead contamination, once again point the finger at Senanayake for granting approval to a factory that manufactures lead slabs for the foreign market.? ?
Approvals given to Nico Battery Manufacturers Ltd, by Senanayake despite of the CEA?s continued objection since early 2005, have caused severe health conditions in the residents in and around Bingiriya.
Having started to manufacture batteries in 1992, the company had then switched to smelt the lead obtained from old batteries and manufacture lead slabs. These slabs are exported to India, according to Nico Batteries Chairman Sampath Guneratne.? ?
According to Dissanayake the lead which is obtained from used batteries are smelt in kilns where small particles are discharged to the air, during the smelting process. As a result, the particles are deposited everywhere within a radius of more than 5km. Once the lead contaminated food or water is consumed this hazardous metal enters the bloodstream which causes diseases that can?t be treated. ?The air has become contaminated with lead particles and according to the Medical Officer of Health Bingiriya, the number of patients suffering from breathing difficulties has increased over the years,? Dissanayake claimed.? ?
Dissanayake further revealed how the CEA issued the licences to this company when they were manufacturing batteries, but stopped once the hazardous lead smelting process started. ?After the NWPEA took over the licence issuing process, claiming they are the legal authority to issue licences for the North Western Province, and despite objections from CEA, Senanayake issued the environmental recommendation, the EPL licences and the Scheduled Waste Management licence to Nico Battery Manufacturers,? Dissanayake said.? ?Meanwhile it?s learned how Senanayake, who had issued the licences to Nico, to continue in their environmental hazardous industry, filed a case against the same company. Senanayake?s complaint was against environment pollution and he later got a ruling from the Hettipola Magistrate Court to close down the factory. ?Realizing that the Bingiriya Police, following complaints lodged by the residents in the area, was to file a case against Senanayake for issuing the licences without the approval of the CEA (which is the authorized government institution to issue the licences) Senanayahe went to courts and obtained an order to close the factory. After a few months, Senanayake got one of the industrial institutes that issues chemical and micro biological reports to give a report in favour of Nico and got the court approval to re-open the factory,? revealed Dissanayake.? ?
Dissanayake added as to how Nico Battery has dumped the lead slag in many places in Chilaw. This company, during a case, had informed the court that the slag was being exported to China.? ?
?The documents clearly state how Nico Battery Chairman told court that the slag is being exported. When we asked him to produce the customs documents that show the slag had been exported, he failed to produce any document,? Dissanayake added.? ?
Meanwhile, Convener, Bingiriya Environment Protection Organization, Manjula Ranjith said how the case filed by the Bingiriya Police had to be withdrawn later. This was after the complainants refused to appear in court. ?Most of the complainants had been paid and due to lack of petitioners, the police informed the court that they can?t proceed further and withdrew the case. After a few years the police once again filed a case against Nico and there again the police had to withdraw the case as most of the complainants were given money once again. The majority of residents in the area are extremely poor and when money is given, they can be brought over easily,? Ranjith said.? However, the Daily Mirror is in possession of a copy of the EPL issued to Nico Battery Manufacturers by Director NWPEA Saman Senanayake leaving a blank space for the date for the Manufacturer to fill it when necessary.? ?
?If Senanayake could issue the EPL for the smelting of lead scrap why couldn?t he type the date like the way he had typed the text? This isn?t the only instance he had issued licences keeping blank spaces for the industrialists to fill in the dates according to their wishes,? Ranjith alleged.? ?
Ranjith, a former member of the Bingiriya Pradeshiya Sabhawa, further said that this factory hadn?t obtained approval for the building, before the constructions took place, nor the trade licence for the current year.? When contacted Pradeshiya Sabha Bingiriya Secretary W.M.D.R. Wickremasinghe to find out whether Nico Battery had obtained the building approvals, he said that he wasn?t aware and added that he needed to have to check the files.? ?
?This area was submerged a few years ago and most of our files were washed away. I must see whether the particular file still exists before making any comment,? responded Wickremasinghe.? ?
According to Wickremesinghe, the local authority can?t take any action against the industry in question unless the Medical Officer of Health (MOH) states that this factory releases hazardous lead particles.? ?Paying with their health?
Those who spoke to the Daily Mirror on terms of anonymity revealed how the doctors warned them not to have babies as the children run the risk if being born with brain damage.? ?
?We were also told that due to the high lead levels in our bodies, our kidneys are more prone to malfunction in the years to come. The doctors also said that we would lose body strength. We can?t talk openly against this company as they are supporting us financially in order to keep us silent. But knowing the fact that this factory is putting the peoples life in great danger, we can?t remain silent,? one of the sources revealed.? ?
These sources further said how they were asked to split the old batteries with small axes. This makes the battery acid (Sulfuric Acid) run all over. ?This acid had made one of our former employees totally blind, but the management didn?t compensate her although she requested for money to get herself treated. It?s the same with the lead as well. We had to remove the lead from our fingers. Since we weren?t provided with any gloves, we had to separate the lead using bear fingers. As we weren?t aware of the fact that lead is so poisonous, none of the employees took any precaution. Most of the time we had our meals using lead contaminated fingers. According to the doctors who treated us at Ratnam Hospital Colombo, the lead had entered our bodies due to our ignorance,? the sources claimed.? ?
Twenty-five-year-old Dinusha, a resident in Bingiriya, said how he underwent treatment at Ratnam Hospital after the medical reports revealed the lead content in his body had a reading of 72%.? ??I joined Nico Battery in 2012 and removed the lead from used batteries.?
Although the management now claims that we were provided with safety gear, they never offered them. If they provided us with safety gear we would have worn them. However after one year, we were taken for a medical checkup and the reports conformed that there was 72% led in my body. About six of us were taken to Ratnam Hospital in Colombo given medication. Once in a fortnight we were taken to Colombo. I have a severe pain in the body and the doctors say that it is due to the presence of high lead levels. Recently a doctor from the National Hospital in Colombo visited this area and spoke to the people who had worked at this factory. I told him what was in the report. Since the reports weren?t given to us by our employer, the doctor said that if there is 72% lead in the body it will not only effect my body. But if I get married and have children, from birth these children will either be deformed or be born with brain damages. I am now engaged and don?t know what to do,? said Dinusha.? ?He further revealed as to how he wanted the management to pay for his treatment obtained from private doctors to which the company had paid Rs.2 lakhs, on three occasions.? ?
?Sampath Sir gave me Rs.1 lakh and then Rs.50, 000 each on two occasions. Since the doctors are asking me to bring my medical reports that state the lead level in the body, I requested the management to hand over the reports, but all these pleas had fallen on deaf ears. I lodged a complaint with the Bingiriya Police on October 21, 2017. The factory Supervisor was present at the inquiry and when the police wanted him to submit my medical reports, the Supervisor wanted me to withdraw the complaint. Although I withdrew the case and went to the office to obtain the report I was told that my report wasn?t with them. Now they are claiming that I haven?t worked for them. Since I was on contract I wasn?t issued with appointment letter, hence I can?t prove my claim,? Dinusha said.? ?
R.M. Lamaethana too is now suffering from multiple diseases and she too had been deprived of her medical reports.?I too worked for this factory for more than three years. I have gone partially blind now. The doctors say that Sulfuric acid had entered my eyes. Although I underwent two eye operations my right eye has gone totally blind and the vision in my left eye is fast deteriorating. I too lodged a complaint to obtain my medical reports. I was asked to withdraw the complaint which I did, but the reports weren?t released to me and I was chased away from the office,? Lamaethana said.? ?
?
?I am now on retirement, talk to the present Director?
- Former Director NWPEA, Saman Senanayake
When contacted Saman Senanayake said that he cannot make any comment as he is not in service now.? ?
?I am now on retirement and it is not proper to make any official comment. Please talk to the present Director for any comment,? Senanayake said.? ? ??
?
NWP faces Environment Issue
The North Western Provincial Environment Authority has granted license to Nico Battery Manufacturers at Vihara Mawatha, Panawewa, Bingiriya.
	Now the factory has become a health hazard according to the residents of the area.
	Despite many people being affected and many complaints being lodged with the authorities concerned, the factory continues to function.??
?
?We are a responsible employer??
-Nico Battery Chairman
Refuting allegations Nico Battery Chairman Sampath Guneratne said that they got the employees tested for lead levels in the body not because they showed any symptoms, but as a responsible employer.? ?
?Not only the employees in the factory have lead in their bodies, but everyone of us has a certain level of lead. We check the employees regularly and three years ago found around six of them with high lead levels. If we have more than 40 mg per DeccaLiter, we have to give the Heavy Metal Killation Therapy to bring down the lead level. We have to look after our employees. It?s the fault of the employees not to wear the safety gear that was provided by the company. It is a must for all my employees to undergo the medical checkup as I am so concern about their well-being. We are willing to get the medical reports of the employees, who are now accusing us, checked if they make a request,? said Guneratne.?
When asked as to why the medical reports are not given to the former employees, Guneratne said that they aren?t employed by them now. ?When we gave the reports to them they were returned to us. That was why we disposed them,? he added.? ?
?
Everyone of us has a certain level of lead. We check the employees regularly and three years ago found around six of them with high lead levels. If we have more than 40 mg per DeccaLiter, we have to give the Heavy Metal Killation Therapy to bring down the lead level. We have to look after our employees. It?s the fault of the employees not to wear the safety gear that was provided by the company
However, Guneratne said that he hasn?t operated his business without obtaining approval. he claimed that the move behind the protest against him to close down the factory has been orchestrated by a minister in the Government. ?This minister?s brother too is in the same business and they want to close down our factory,? Guneratne alleged.? ?
According to Guneratne the ITI reports that are obtained once in six months over the years haven?t revealed that the chimney releases lead particles nor that the people have fallen sick after inhaling polluted air. The NWPEA gave us the environment recommendation in 1991 and we got the EPL in 1991.? ?
Although Guneratne said that the lead slag was earlier exported to China and it is now stored within the premises. They are making this claim as they cannot dispose it in Sri Lanka. When requested to show the slag exportation documents, Guneratne failed to produce the customs documents.? ?
?
?
?NWPEA misinterpriting the constitution has caused damages to the environment?
- Jagath Gunawardena
Attorney at law specialized in Environment laws Jagath Gunawardena said although NWPEA tries to portrait itself as the sole legal authority to issue licenses, the misinterpretation of the constitution by the NWPEA has caused damages to the environment.? ?
?Some people can manipulate the system when there is disagreement between different Government bodies. The NWPEA always tries to portrait them as the sole legal authority on matters such as pollution controlling. The NWPEA has failed to discharge the duty as seen by this particular instance too. There is no point in gathering and asserting powers if they are unable and unwilling or under pressure to exercise such powers?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: LG Polls: Anura slams ?planned conspiracy?
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 09:52 pm
LG Polls: Anura slams ?planned conspiracy?
	
Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake said today they were ready to join any political force or group to win the elections if the Government conspired to postpone the elections.
He told Parliament that the JVP as a party would take every possible legal action to expedite the elections.
He said certain things could not be achieved through the Judiciary and stressed that they would take to the street to get the elections soon.
"We will join any force or movement despite our political differences in the struggle to win the elections. We will invite the Joint Opposition members and civil society groups to join us in the struggle," he said.
He said the case filed in court to postpone the election was not done with good objectives but it was the use of court to fulfil petty political objectives.
"We condemn the use of court for petty political objectives. This is a clear attempt made by the Government to postpone the election. The President was elected on January 8 to ensure democracy. It is not enough to talk about Good Governance and democracy on the stage but they should be put in practice," he said.
He said they urged the President of the Appeal Court to take up this case before December 4.
Mr. Dissanayake also pointed out that Provincial Councils Minister Faiszer Mustapha was aware of the mistake in the Gazette and charged that Minister Mustapha purposefully neglected it.
"Minister Mustapha should resign from his portfolio. He has gone abroad when a case was taken up in court against him. He should have been in court. This is a planned conspiracy," he said. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: LG Polls: MR questions continual postponements
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 08:50 pm
LG Polls: MR questions continual postponements
	
While claiming that the Joint Opposition members were against the attempts made to further postponement of the local Government elections, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said today it was the responsibility of the Government to hold the elections without delay.
He told Parliament that people were expecting the elections and added that there was confusion in the country about the elections being postponed.
"Now it will run into three years since the election being postponed. Why are these elections postponed? It is a small election. The full responsibility to hold the elections is on the part of the Government. It is the Government that postponed the elections," he said.
The leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella said they were also against the postponement of elections.
"We need an election. We have finalised nominations. The candidates have already begun their election campaign," he said.
Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake said this was an issue about the democracy and pointed out that the Stay Order was a result of the Government's attempt to postpone the elections.
He charged that some Ministers used their Secretaries and confidantes in the case filed to postpone the elections.
TNA MP M. Sumanthiran, who joined the crosstalk, said they also want the election held soon. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lines of Mars say what you are
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:18 am
Lines of Mars say what you are
	
Human Hand ? Trailblazer of Human Civilization ? Part 30
?
?
The lines of Mars rise from the lower part of the Mount of Mars or from near the initial part of the Life line and proceed towards the Mount of Venus.
There can be one or more lines of Mars and they can be thin, thick or very faint. Whatever their nature, if they originate from the Mount of Mars, they can be called the lines of Mars.
?
Geniuses and great intellectuals
There are two main types of Mars lines. One type proceeds alongside the Life line and in some cases they run parallel to the Life line up to the latter?s end. People having such lines are geniuses and great intellectuals. They are gifted with extraordinary perceptive and discerning powers. They are capable of taking independent decisions and adhere to them.
?
They are trustworthy
These subjects are physically robust and enjoy good health. They are emotionally stable and do not act in anger or on impulse.?
The second type of lines: They do not run all the way alongside the Life line. These lines reach the Mount of Venus.
?
Careless and emotional
People having such a line or lines are careless by nature. They are emotional and would act rashly under provocation. They keep company with people below their status.?
?
Destined to attain a high position
Some have thin lines branching off the line or lines of Mars and moving upwards. Such people cherish many desires and leave no stone unturned to fulfill such desires. If such sub-lines meet the Fate line, the subject would attain a rise in his position. He is very sentimental if the sub-lines join the Heart line.
If the line of Mars is strong, prominent and dual, the subject would be a murderer. If the line is not dual, the subject would attain a high position in a security force.
?
Energetic and ambitious
If sub-lines rising from a line of Mars cross the Life line, the subject would be energetic and would want to rise in life. Sub-lines reaching the Head line or the Sun line indicate generation of a mental force as an aid to achieving success in life. Similar result would occur if a sub-line merges with the line of Saturn.
Following positions of the Mars line or lines and the results indicated against them may be noted for guidance:
(1) The presence of a clear line of Mars in a hand where the Life line deep and clear and the Mount of Venus is prominently large: The subject is prone to excessive indulgence of sexual appetite (a clear Head line and a Strong thumb can restrain such propensity)?
(2) A sub-line off the Mars line cuts the Apollo or Saturn line: The excessive indulgence has affected the career of the subject
(3) In the case of (2) above if the Apollo line terminates in a Dot, Bar, or a Cross: The subject would suffer loss of reputation
(4) In the case of (2) above, if such a rising line cuts a Line of Affection: Domestic life would be in ruins
The line of Mars by itself is a good indication, but there is an element of danger depending on its direction. In a hand where all main lines are strong, a good Mars line would reinforce the subject?s ability and power to achieve success.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Living with diabetes
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 22 November 2017 12:51 pm
Living with diabetes
	
?
We?ve heard the lamentations of the older generation ?apey amma muttha kalewath mehema leda thibila na?, (We didn?t have these kind of diseases during our parent?s time), when talking about Diabetes and other non communicable diseases. The number of patients with Diabetes is undoubtedly at an all time high and keeps amplifying. That?s why, on the week that we celebrate World Diabetes Day (falling on 14th November), we consulted Dr. Prasad Katulanda, Consultant Endocrinologist and Senior Lecturer at the Faculty of Medicine, Colombo, and the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Diabetes Federation to find out the reasons behind this rise in numbers. We also obtained the doctor?s advice on how best to cope with this condition, on behalf of? readers, who have to live with diabetes.? ?
?
How big is the problem?
When it comes to Diabetes, there are two major types. Type 1 diabetes is the kind where the small children suffer from. In this group of patients the tissues don?t produce insulin at all, which requires lifelong insulin therapy. Today we?ll be focusing more on adult onset Diabetes also called type ii Diabetes, because it?s the disease which is most common and keeps the number of patients increasing.? ?
If the readers of Health Capsule aren?t victims of diabetes themselves, it is highly likely that at least one of their loved ones are suffering from this disease. Exactly how common is diabetes? ?According to data from the islandwide survey done in 2010, 10% of the general population were suffering from Diabetes. But today, based upon the data from smaller scale surveys, we assume that at least 15% of the general population are suffering from diabetes. This is even more of a problem in the urban areas, of which we expect more than 20% of the population to be diabetic. In addition, another 15% of the general population is expected to be in the pre-diabetic stage. These people run a high risk of developing diabetes later in life,? explained Dr. Katulanda.??
?
Why the increase?
It all lies in the gap between the energy gain and expenditure, according to Dr. Katulanda. If we turn the pages of time, humans were working hard for generations. As hunter gatherers, then farmers and manual workers, we have been burning large amounts of calories per day. With the industrial revolution, our machines are doing most of the work, while we sit and direct them with our fingers. In addition, to replace the grains, vegetables and food that contains fiber we had those days, we have delicacies made of refined flour and sugar; which are hard to resist. ?This lack of exercise as well as eating more means that the gap between our energy gain and energy expenditure is widening every day,? explains the doctor further stating that the storage of excessive energy as fat in the body causes obesity and leads to diabetes.??
?
Focus on control
?Diabetes is defined as the chronic elevation of blood glucose. When uncontrolled diabetes continues for a considerable time, blood sugar levels reach high figures than they are meant to be, which can harm the body tissues,? said Dr. Katulanda.? ?
??We have something called classical complications of Diabetes,? he explained. These classical complication comprise of? ?
Retinopathy- Damage to the eyes??
Nephropathy- Damage to the kidneys??
Neuropathy ? Damage to the nerves??
In addition, people who are having uncontrolled diabetes are prone to develop problems in their feet, including poor wound healing capacity, which may even cause them to lose their feet, according to the doctor. They are also at a risk of developing heart attacks at a very young age? and are more susceptible to ?Silent Heart Attacks?, the latter presents with no chest pain, making the diagnosis harder.??
?
Living with illness?
Diabetes is a lifetime disease, needing a patient to alter his lifestyle to minimize future complications. Dr. Katulanda explained that the hardest part of living with diabetes is making those alterations. ?We can?t ask a patient to stop eating. Even though we ask them to exercise, it?s a big commitment too. Such a practice takes time and doing it every day needs to be made a habit,?said Dr. Katulanda.?
But do it in a way that ensures your future health and well-being. Energy needs differ with the individual, depending on various circumstances. For an example, a manual labourer will need more energy in his meals compared to a sedentary worker like a software engineer or a telephone operator who needs less.? ?
?It?s generally assumed that a person leading a relatively sedentary lifestyle will require one cup of rice per meal which is equivalent to 6/8 string hoppers, 2/3 pieces of bread or 1 ? cup of grain,? advised the doctor.??
He explained that limiting a patient?s food intake in itself is not enough because some foods contain higher energy and some the opposite, hence the food needs to be balanced out. Some types of food like green vegetables (string beans, cabbage, ladies fingers, dambala, green leaves)? can be taken in abundance. Yellow vegetables like pumpkin and carrot should be taken in lower quantities since they contain higher levels of sugar. This can be combined with moderate amounts of animal food like fish, lean meat and eggs. ?Refined sugar should be avoided as much as possible, or stopped altogether, since they pose the most danger,? he affirmed.??
A person should have at least 150 minutes of exercise per week, which needs to be spread through the week, according to Dr. Katulanda. ?The accepted method is 30 minutes per 5 days of the week,? he stated, adding that these activities need to be balanced out with a combination of aerobic and strength training exercises. ?When it comes to children, they need at least 7 hours of exercise per week, which is more compared to an adult,? he added.??
In people with disabilities, the need for exercise remains the same. But he cautioned that these patients shouldn?t make their conditions worse due to the strain of exercise. Ideally, expert opinion should be sought, from a physiotherapist or an exercise specialist.??
?
Women and diabetes
This year?s theme for World Diabetes Day is women and diabetes, with Sri Lankan theme modified into ?Healthy women, Healthy Nation?. ?Why the special interest in women??, we asked the doctor, who is deeply involved in the organizing of the Diabetes Day activities in Sri Lanka. He had an extremely intriguing answer. ?Sri Lankan women play a central role in the family. They are the ones who usually decide on the types and the amount of meals for the family, the ingredients and how healthy they should be. They have a big influence over the physical exercise of the family too,? he explained. ?Women?s health when it comes to diabetes is also extremely important. Women are susceptible to the disease called Gestational diabetes during the pregnancy, which carries huge risks. In addition, prevalence of diabetes in women is higher than with men, especially in Asian countries like ours,? he continued.??
?
Husband prone to get diabetes if wife is obese
?Having an obese wife substantially increases the risk of Diabetes in older men?, reveals a study conducted in England during 2002 - 2015. We?ve known all along that relatives of the Diabetic patients have a higher risk of getting diabetes. But how does the wife?s BMI affect the husband? The doctors who conduct the study believe that this has much to do with the fact that women were more responsible for the diet of the family. One more reason for the menfolk to pay more attention to your wife?s health and fitness!
?
Myths surrounding treatment
?There are many myths when it comes to treatment for diabetes, and almost all of them are baseless. I see people more worried about the treatment than they are about their blood sugar levels,? the doctor stated, talking about treatment for diabetes.? ?
?There are many treatment options with newer drugs being added to the list frequently. Your doctor will decide on the optimum treatment method for you, based on individual specific factors. Follow your doctor?s advise and take proper treatment without being misguided by the myths surrounding very effective drugs like insulin and metformin,? concluded the doctor.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Losing face by backing a lost cause
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:03 am
Losing face by backing a lost cause
	
?
A Green party purohita who recently secured an audience with Number One expressed his unhappiness over blocking a particular news website.?
?
The purohita argued that blocking or banning websites was not advisable at a time when they were concentrating on digitization and besides, it was unfair to block one that supported them at a critical time.?
Number One who gave the purohita an attentive hearing later angrily demanded why those holding a brief for the website in question were keeping quiet when it was slandering him and his family members. ?They can?t play with me the kind of games they played with the former boss.? I know who are behind vilifying me and my family!??
The purohita soon bade goodbye to Number One realizing that further arguments with him in his nasty mood would serve no purpose.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Making hay while the Sun shines
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:09 am
Making hay while the Sun shines
	
?
A political high-up in yahapalanaya is making a bid to acquire a big building that stands in the heart of the city of Sri Dalada.
?
The politico who has planned to start a business venture in this building valued at Rs. 150 million is said to be bargaining hard to buy it at the lowest possible price. The bigwigs representing yahapalanaya in the central hills have already posted the political authorities at the centre on the prime property interests of the politico, they say.??
The politico is one who had been so fortunate as to find the portals of Diyawanna council open for him to hold high office no matter whether he won or lost at the polls.
An owner already of two cozy mansions in the hills, the politico is also busy setting the stage to introduce his offspring too into politics.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Narcolepsy Dealing with daytime sleep attacks!
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:53 am
Narcolepsy Dealing with daytime sleep attacks!
	
?
Travellers napping is a common sight when using public transport in the morning as well as in the evening. During the rush hours of the day, one or two people in an office doze off during working hours.? ?
?It?s common to feel sleepy after meals, while being inactive for a long time just after meals. Anyone getting a little sleepy around 2.00 pm is also common because of the circadian rhythm (the biological clock ticking inside the human and controlling the sleep-wake cycle). Being unusually sleepy or having a strong urge to sleep, appearing to be sleep deprived for 40 - 72 hours a day aren?t good signs. This sleepiness disturbs the day-to-day activities and is uncontrollable. This is a rare condition known as narcolepsy, a chronic neurological and sleep disorder with the tendency to fall asleep excessively at any time. There is a probability of 1 of 2000 people developing this condition,? Clinical Neurophysiologist at the National Hospital Dr. Sudath Gunasekera said.?
?Signs?
?The clearly recognizable sign of Narcolepsy is sleep attacks occurring at any time of the day, Dr. Gunasekera said. It?s difficult to identify narcolepsy without a proper clinical diagnosis (Multiple Sleep Latency Test - MSLT). No other illnesses are associated with narcolepsy. If a mother or a father has a strong genetic link with narcolepsy, then there is a possibility of their children developing this condition. A narcoleptic will fall asleep even during an exciting activity. This is often erroneously diagnosed as, epilepsy, drug side - effects or depression? Dr. Gunasekera further clarified.? ?
Cataplexy
In cataplexy, the patient suddenly collapses after losing muscle tone. According to internet sources, it has been identified that cataplexy and narcolepsy are related and there are people suffering from both diseases.? ?
Sleep paralysis?
Sleep paralysis is yet another complication related to narcolepsy. Those affected are unable to fall asleep no matter how hard they feel the urge to sleep. Scary hallucinations are also a common characteristic of sleep paralysis, according to?the doctor.? ?
Clarifying on the age group of narcolepsy patients he told ?Usually the young suffer more from narcolepsy.?? ?
Treatment
There are medicinal as well as behavioural treatments for narcolepsy. A CSH Test and a daytime sleep study and multiple sleep latency tests are available to determine the disease. Having short naps from time to time throughout the day will help ease off sleepiness, said the doctor.? ?
Pay close attention?
?Anyone who suspects to have narcolepsy signs and symptoms should pay close attention to own sleep habits, regardless of whether they know when they are falling asleep or not. Some experience the sudden loss of moments, where he or she falls asleep unconsciously. These sleep attacks could appear while someone is driving, cooking or engaged in any dangerous day-to-day work,? Dr. Gunasekera explained.? ?
Medication and lifestyle help change a narcoleptic?s life for the better. Even if it is considered incurable, a narcoleptic can have a positive life too, concluded Dr. Gunasekera.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: NFF General Secretary resigns
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:51 am
NFF General Secretary resigns
	
General Secretary of the National Freedom Front (NFF), Priyanjan Vitharana has resigned from his post yesterday due to personal reasons.
He handed over his resignation letter to the Central Committee of the party yesterday.
Kapila Gamage, the Deputy Secretary of the party has been appointed as the acting General Secretary by the party?s Central Committee.? ? ?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: No issue with COPE members? calls: Rajitha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:36 pm
No issue with COPE members? calls: Rajitha
	
Co-Cabinet Spokesperson Rajitha Senaratne today said that there was no issue with COPE members speaking to Arjun Aloysius, who was under investigation.
?It was COPE members who should speak to him. No one understands the issue regarding Bonds. Even I had to get it clarified by three well-known economists. So what is wrong with COPE members speaking to Aloysius for clarification?? he asked.
He said that the issue would arise only if a non- COPE member had dealings with Aloysius.
?It is more appropriate and justifiable if and when a member of the Parliamentary oversight committee COPE speaks to them,? he said.
The Minister was visibly annoyed when journalists questioned the Minister as to the dealings by former Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake, who was not a member of the COPE committee.
Journalists pointed out that the evidence revealed that Karunanayake and his family had spoken to Aloysius over 750 times despite his evidence at the Commission to the effect that he did not know Aloysius intimately.
?You go and ask that from Ravi Karunanayake. I am not his lawyer and he isn?t paying me a fee to represent him,? he said.
He then questioned the dealings between Journalists and Arjun Aloysius and Mahendran. Journalists pointed out that contact with Mahendran was in the capacity of Journalists.
He also found fault with the revealing of the details of the phone conversations during the testimony but insisted that he found nothing wrong with COPE members maintaining contact.
?That is why I say that the bond scam has to be investigated by a team of foreign experts who are highly knowledgeable on this subject. Otherwise, we all are groping in the dark on this issue and truth will hardly come out on what exactly happened. Besides, COPE is not a court of law and its objective is to find the truth. However, it is wrong if the COPE Chairman spoke to Arjuna. I spoke to a number of economic and bank experts and all of them were of the view that bond scam was extremely controversial and difficult issue to give a complete solution,? Minister Senaratne stressed.
Minister Senaratne said he was fully against the appointment of Arjuna Mahendran as the Central Bank Governor in 2005 and added a speedier and thorough court inquiry was necessary to go to the bottom of the bond scam and punish those involved.
Minister Senaratne said the PCoI has instructed the CID through the Attorney General?s Department only to obtain details of telephone conversations between Arjuna and certain MPs and not what they talked.
?The entire country has confidence in President Maithripala Sirisena will do the needful after the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) handed over its report on bond scam to him on December 8. The legal process that will follow the recommendations of the PCoI will be fast and transparent,? Minister Senaratne said.
Minister Senaratne said no one could correctly pinpoint the size of the loss if any of the bond scam. That is why some say the loss could reach Rs. 1 trillion. Do they exactly know what a trillion means? he asked.
Minister asked journalists as to why they never questioned what the friendship Arjuna had with MPS LIKE Namal Rajapaksa and who helped Rajapaksa family to deposit millions of dollars in Dubai bank accounts during the Mahinda Rajapaksa regime.
Minister Senaratne reiterated his displeasure over the slow progress of legal action against big sharks of financial and other crimes of the previous regime and added 17 files of major criminal acts are gathering dust at the AG?s Department and only three big cases of corruptions have been referred to the Bribery Commission for legal action. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: On a bad pitch again!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:09 am
On a bad pitch again!
	
?
The sports purohita and the one presiding over the popular game had an encounter with the political scion of the Giruwapattu political dynasty in the council lobby the other day.?
?
The duo asked the Giruwapattu kid why he was opposed to the ongoing moves to unite the Pohottuwa with the Hand.
Pat came the reply: ?I have got enough reasons and am dead against these moves!?
The sports duo tried to explain the importance of party unity as the need of the hour pointing out that a clear choice was before them:? to swim together or sink together.
?Everyone remembers the need of the unity when they are sunk up to the nose level,? retorted the Giruwapattu scion.? I am opposed to all peace moves being made while happily riding elephant back!?
He added: ?Don?t think that you can intimidate us into coming crawling back to you!? You have already done enough harm to us! Have you got any more harm to do to us??
After giving vent to his strong feelings, the young man walked away as the sports duo looked on speechless.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Opinion poll puts him in a bad light
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:07 am
Opinion poll puts him in a bad light
	
?
A key purohita in yahapalanaya had recently conducted an opinion poll to measure the popularity of the Blue party in Rajarata.?
?
He had so designed the poll as to ascertain the approval ratings of some prominent political characters in the province. In fact, he had been keen on finding out the standing of a certain young politico hailing from a well-known political family in the province.?
The purohita who conducted the opinion survey while confiding the findings of the survey to a group of his colleagues had made a particular reference to the approval rating of the young Blue stalwart ruling the roost in Rajarata at the moment. ?People seem to believe that he may not fare well even at a simple IQ test designed for the 10- 15 age group!?
?What you say makes sense,? one of his colleagues had opined. ?Every time he opens his mouth, he puts his foot into it!??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Peace issue gives them no peace
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:07 am
Peace issue gives them no peace
	
?
Constant peace overtures being made by the interested sections of the Blue party have led to a new burst of infighting in the JO group, they say.
?
A big row had broken out in the JO group with the firebrand from Gampaha political family turning his guns on colleagues who had sent out positive signals to the peace moves. He had even lashed out at a member of the former royal family for advocating Blue party unity.?
Incidentally, even the members of the former royal family are said to be divided over the unity issue which has placed the former strongman too on the horns of a dilemma.
However, the former boss who has got a firm grip on the JO group is expected to announce his final decision shortly, they say.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM at Kollur temple
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 22 November 2017 09:29 am
PM at Kollur temple
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe seen leaving after offering prayers at Sri Mookambika Temple at Kollur in Udupi district in Karnataka, India on Tuesday.(The Hindu)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President to visit South Korea next week
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 01:22 pm
President to visit South Korea next week
	
President Maithripala Sirisena would?visit South Korea next week on a state visit in line with?the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, Seoul's presidential office Cheong Wa Dae said Wednesday.
According to the Korea Herald, President Sirisena would?visit Korea?on Tuesday on a three-day visit that will include a summit with South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
"The two leaders will discuss ways to increase the countries' practical cooperation in various areas, including in the international community," Cheong Wa Dae spokesman Park Soo-hyun has told a news?briefing.
He said they will also hold frank discussions on ways to enhance the friendly relationship between the governments and people of the two countries.
"We expect President Sirisena's visit to South Korea will?help realize the country's New South Policy by helping to expand the area of our foreign policy to Southwest Asia following President Moon's trip to Southeast Asia," Park said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ranil, wife Maithree offer prayers at Kollur temple
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:18 am
Ranil, wife Maithree offer prayers at Kollur temple
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and his wife Maithree offered prayers at the famous Kollur Sri Mookambika temple, Karnataka, India on Tuesday, India's Deccan Chronicle reported.
The couple and their entourage arrived in Mangaluru, took a helicopter ride from the airport and landed at Areshiroor helipad near Kollur around 10.15 am.
The security was beefed up for Mr Wickremesinghe?s visit, and as soon as he arrived at the temple, he was given a grand welcome by the temple authorities.
Archak Narasimha Adiga told reporters that Mr Wickremesinghe participated in the Poornahuthi of the 'Shatha Chandi Yaga,' which was offered on his behalf at the temple.
The ritual started two days ago and Tuesday was the third and final day. Ganapathi Homa, Gayathri Homa and other rituals were also held on the first two days. On the third day ?
Tuesday ? the Poornahuthi for the Shathachandika Yaga was held in the presence of Mr Wickremesinghe.
Ranil and his wife arrived at the temple at 11 am and left at 12.45 pm after Poornahuthi. They also had light food at the temple.?
Temple sources said that they were not aware of the reason for the yaga at the temple. They, however, said that the Shathachandika Yaga is held for Loka Kalyana (welfare of the world) and Ishtartha Siddi (fulfillment of prayers).?
Mr Wickremesinghe and his wife offered prayers to all the deities at the temple. The family was scheduled to come to Kollur in August, but had to cancel the visit due to bad weather.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rebel infighting sparks fears in east Ukraine
## Section: International
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:27 am
Rebel infighting sparks fears in east Ukraine
	
?
DONETSK AFP Nov21, 2017-? Armed men in military fatigues without insignia on Tuesday patrolled streets in the rebel stronghold of Lugansk in eastern Ukraine amid a spike in infighting between rebel factions.??
Men wearing balaclavas blocked access to several administrative buildings in the city, controlled by separatists, and defied the self-proclaimed leadership?s calls?
to disperse.??
One of the men said their appearance in the city centre was part of ?planned joint exercises? ordered by the interior ministry, according to video footage broadcast by a local television channel.??
The patrols began after Igor Plotnitsky, leader of the self-proclaimed Lugansk People?s Republic, sacked the rebel region?s interior minister on Monday.??
In a statement released Tuesday, Plotnitsky accused ?the illegitimate leadership of the interior ministry? of seeking to destabilise the situation and called on Lugansk residents to remain calm.??
??Right now the leadership of the Lugansk People?s Republic is doing everything in its power to secure the safety of residents,??
he said.??
??I can confidently say that attempts of certain people to remain in power at the cost of destabilising the situation in the country are futile and will soon be completely neutralised.? The sacked minister, Igor Kornet, for his part refused to step down, while employees of the interior ministry released an open letter saying they would like to continue working under his command.??
The rebel region has been blighted by leadership squabbles and several senior rebels have been assassinated.??
A conflict between Russia-backed fighters and Ukrainian troops has killed more than 10,000 people since 2014, when pro-Russian forces declared parts of eastern Ukraine independent following Moscow?s annexation of Crimea.? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rs.700mn for Commonwealth Games bidding is missing
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 01:28 am
Rs.700mn for Commonwealth Games bidding is missing
	
It was revealed in parliament yesterday that over Rs. 700 million including nearly Rs.200 million State funds deposited in a current account by the CWG Hambantota 2018 Pvt. Ltd. for the purpose of bidding to host the Commonwealth Games in Hambantota had been spent without any trace of the transactions.
In response to a question raised by JVP MP Nalinda Jayatissa, Public Enterprises Development Minister Kabir Hashim told parliament that a large amount of money had been deposited by several State institutions and several private companies in the account.
He said there was no money found in the account by now and added that there was no trace of information how the money was spent.
He said they failed to obtain more information from the bank as an order from the CID was required for that.
Mr. Hashim said he learnt that a group of more than 100 people including the former Central Bank Governor had gone to the Saint Kitts Island and hosted a party from the funds.
In response to a question raised by Mr. Jayatissa regarding the expenditure on bidding for the Commonwealth Games, the minister said they could not obtain more information under the purview of the ministry adding that a Commission is required to be appointed to do so.
Mr. Jayatissa said billions of rupees would have to be spent if the games were hosted by Sri Lanka and asked who decided to take such a decision.
The minister said a national event held at State level should be usually organized by the Sports Ministry but CWG Hambantota 2018 Pvt. Ltd. had opened the account for bidding purpose for the Commonwealth Games. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Russia denies nuclear incident after contamination reports
## Section: International
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:06 am
Russia denies nuclear incident after contamination reports
	
?
MOSCOW AFP Nov21, 2017 - Russia on Tuesday denied there had been an incident at any of its nuclear facilities after the country?s weather service reported radioactive pollution that exceeded background levels by 986 times.??
A station close to the Mayak nuclear facility in the Chelyabinsk region detected ?extremely high pollution? of the radioactive isotope Ru-106, Russian meteorologists said Monday.??
But a representative of Rosatom nuclear corporation told AFP ?there have been no incidents at nuclear infrastructure facilities in Russia,? adding that the concentration detected posed little threat.??
The Mayak facility in the southern Urals, which is under Rosatom?s umbrella, also said the contamination ?has nothing to do with Mayak?s activities?.? ?The facility, which reprocesses nuclear fuel, said it has not produced Ru-106 for many years.??
And it said the level detected ?poses no danger to human health and lives? as it is 20,000 times smaller than the ?allowed annual dose.? Mayak was the site of one of the worst nuclear disasters in history?
in 1957.? In what is known as the Kyshtym disaster, an explosion at Mayak broke a container holding radioactive waste, prompting the evacuation of nearly 13,000 people from the area.??
Russia?s consumer watchdog Rospotrebnadzor also said the levels registered by the weather service were safe, giving a different figure of ?200 times below? a level that would be considered unacceptable.??
The highest concentration registered by the weather service was near the town of Argayash located about 20 kilometres from Mayak, and Greenpeace on Monday pointed to the facility as the likely culprit.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: SANCTUARY On the trail of feathered friends
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 November 2017 12:11 am
SANCTUARY On the trail of feathered friends
	
A photographic tribute to Sri Lanka?s enchanting wilderness
The journey that we made to produce this book has been sustained by the combination of two simple interpretations of the word Sanctuary.? ?
Firstly, Sanctuary, in its original meaning, is a sacred place. By using such places as a haven, and by extension, the term signifies any place of safety. When we speak of the Sanctity of something, it is to suggest holiness, and that which must be treated with a great deal of respect and devotion. Therefore, an animal or plant sanctuary, whether protected by law or otherwise, is a place where all living beings within, must be guaranteed the immunity to function as partners of a?natural ecosystem.? ?
These protected or respected enclaves will be the benchmarks against which we humans must interpret our interactions with the natural world. Eventually, these shelters will be the only means we will have recourse to, if we are to preserve what little remains of the natural world. They are our only hope of successfully challenging the rapid diminution of the heritage of future generations.
Whilst we, the human species, arrogantly decide for all the other life forms on our planet, as to which spaces are to be set aside and protected for conservation and preservation, we sadly ignore the other places which many species, in innocent ignorance of our superior plans, regard as safe retreats. Only too often and too late, do these species learn that our designs and their lifestyles aren?t compatible. Whilst there is something to be said about the protection of that which we are legally required to defend, our initiatives are still woefully inadequate.? ?
There are these spaces, both large and small, independent and disconnected, which are coverts for many species of fauna and flora, but not protected. Make no mistake though, as these unregulated sanctuaries are as important as those which have official recognition. Over half of the images portrayed in this book were captured in such vulnerable areas.
A different concept?of peace?
Secondly, we both find our spiritual Sanctuaries in the wild places of Sri Lanka. Both of us, having been close friends for over thirty years through our involvement in tennis during the early years of our lives, reconnected eight years ago and discovered an even more absorbing commonality, in an arena far removed from the tennis court and in many aspects, far more demanding. While placing no less importance or value on the very different dimension of the Sanctity we find in our family lives, the jungles, forests and open spaces of Sri Lanka have offered us a different concept of peace, freedom?
and fulfillment.? ?
In those small moments when we are in the embrace of the physical and spiritual fabric of the wild, we become one with all the other species we share that bit of our earth with; we recognize the depth and complexity of the shelter and the protection it offers. Nothing can harm us, nothing can touch us. The only sounds you will hear are the twittering and buzzing of birds and insects, the occasional croak of a frog, the rustling of leaves, the creak of branch against branch and the muffled tinkle of naturally running water. Your senses are soothed by the comforting smell of damp earth and crumbling leaf matter. The murmur and bouquet of the wild have been our collective anodyne from other harsh realities. Whilst we find bliss in these brief passing moments, we are also humbly and constantly aware of the fact, that the preservation of these places of safety is the thin line between life and extinction, for all else we share?this earth with.? ?
The images of this book are the result of countless enchanting hours, quite often stolen from other commitments, spent during eight years of our lives in the true Sanctuaries of Sri Lanka, both the protected and the endangered. They also reveal the untold story of innumerable failed attempts, fruitless forays and anguished missed opportunities. But there wasn?t a single moment of regret. We have joyfully accepted failure, as, often, the journey itself was reward enough.? ?
During our expeditions, as a result of commitment and good fortune, in addition to many local rarities, we have been able to capture the images of over a dozen very rare migrants and vagrants who made the fortuitous decision to make Sri Lanka their winter retreat during the migratory seasons during the last decade. The argument for the need for conservation of our sanctuaries is made here once again, to ensure that our friends have a safe haven in which to spend their cold winters. Some of these guests to Sri Lanka have either only been recorded a handful of times previously, or, for the first time. In this book, we have endeavored to weave a tapestry of these images, in a manner that best illustrates the beauty of our visiting friends.? ?
Through these images, we hope to invoke in the reader and the viewer, the same emotions we experienced in our journey, in the belief that as more and more of us come alive to the often-hidden beauty of this country and what it has to offer, that the platform will broaden, for the advocacy and activism for the preservation and conservation of all its Sanctuaries and all life forms that they harbour.? ?
Two young men?
Isuru Gunasekera and Somanath Fernando, two young men engaged in different fields, but united in a common passion for wild-life photography, have collated the combined efforts of almost a decade in pursuit of their interest, in an elegant, exquisitely choreographed, coffee table offering.? ?
The highly professionally crafted images cover a wide variety of bird-life, with some very rare migrants being featured along with indigenous species. Also featured are arresting photographs of other animal species as well. What is unusual about this book, and that which should distinguish it from many others of the genre, is that the story behind many of the images is narrated separately by the photographer, either Isuru or Somanath. Clearly, their separate and sometimes combined journeys, have been as absorbing and as satisfying, as the destinations.? ?
Central to the theme of pictorial depiction is a plea from the two men, for the need for the preservation of habitats, presently unregulated and unprotected, as some of the best images have been captured in commonplace locations, unconnected with the legally protected animal habitats; hence the title, ? Sanctuary?.? ?
The introduction to the book, reproduced here , explains Isuru and Somanath?s philosophy?and motivation.? ? ?
The book will be on display and available for sale, on the 25th and 26th , from?
9 am to 8 pm, at the Harold Peiris Gallery, Lionel Wendt Theatre, Colombo 7.?
Anura Gunasekera? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sensational savings this season with Union Bank debit cards
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:35 am
Sensational savings this season with Union Bank debit cards
	
Union Bank Debit cardholders will have the opportunity to enjoy sizeable savings on their seasonal shopping with a range of discounted offers on clothing, textiles, accessories, electronics, groceries, stationery, homeware and furniture at leading retail outlets island wide.
Union Bank Visa International Debit Shopping Card will offer up to 30 percent savings this season at popular shopping destinations including The Factory Outlet, Adidas, Cool Planet, Hameedia, The Kidz Warehouse, Fashion Bug, Bata, Steel Blue and Raymond. The cardholders can also avail discounts at popular bookshops such as Expographics and Sarasavi and enjoy savings at Laugfs supermarkets islandwide on selected days in December. Helping clients enhance their lifestyles this season, Union Bank Debit Cards will offer a number of lifestyle offers from leading merchants in the country including Alpha Industries and United Motors Lanka PLC.
Introduced in both Platinum and Classic, the Union Bank Visa Debit Card incorporates an extensive range of features, enabling cardholders to access attractive offers and discounts while enjoying the ease of online shopping and convenient bill payments.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL Police not anyone?s private property: IGP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 03:15 pm
SL Police not anyone?s private property: IGP
	
IGP Pujith Jayasundara yesterday criticized the verbal order, given by an individual during the previous regime, to stop the construction work of the Attidiya Police University within 24-hours and said the Sri Lanka police was not anyone's property.
Addressing those present at the opening of the new administrative building of the Weeraketiya Police Station on Tuesday, the IGP said the Sri Lanka Police had to grapple with an unfortunate incident during the previous regime.
?We received a verbal order to stop the construction of the Police University on an 18-acre block of land at Attidiya within 24 hours. It was being built at an estimated cost of Rs.365 million. Did the person giving the order thing that the Sri Lankan police was somebody?s private property,? the IGP said.
He said if police personnel were able to improve their higher educational levels, the outcome would not be for personal benefits but to the public efficiently and in a better way.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Slugging while jogging
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:10 am
Slugging while jogging
	
?
Time: 6.15 in the morning
The scene:? The Sports Ministry jogging track
?
A purohita was jogging with a group of buddies in tandem. And another purohita is seen jogging followed by a group of his pals from the opposite direction.?
?
The purohita ?B? on seeing his colleague heading towards them, stops in his tracks and shouts: ?Amethithuma, why are you going round calling me a thief???
The purohita ?A? too comes to a halt. He looks angry.?
?What?s wrong with calling you that?? That?s the truth??
The purohita ?B?: ?How dare you call me that??
?I am calling you a thief because you are thieving. I don?t mind calling you that to your face!?
Both the purohita ?B? and his pals look stunned. They head for their vehicles and got into them in a hurry. The purohita ?A? and his buddies are seen looking on until the vehicles disappear in the distance and then resume jogging.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Stay order against the implementation of LG Gazette
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:20 am
Stay order against the implementation of LG Gazette
	
The Court of Appeal has issued a Stay order preventing the implementation of the Gazette notification regarding the number of members to all local government bodies, until December 4.
The petition was taken up, before a three-member judge bench comprising President of the Appeal Court, Justice L.T.B. Dehideniya, Justice Kumudini Wickramasinghe and Justice Shiran Gunaratne.
Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sujeewa violated Standing Orders: Dinesh
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 November 2017 06:17 pm
Sujeewa violated Standing Orders: Dinesh
	
Joint Opposition MP Dinesh Gunawardane said today that State Minister Sujeewa Senasinghe, who criticised the conduct of the President at a press conference on Tuesday, had violated the Standing Orders and the Constitution by doing so.
He said the Constitution and the Standing Order 78 had provided clear guidance with regard to the conduct of the President.
"Mr. Senasinghe had made a statement criticising the President during a press conference. It was a violation of the Standing Orders and the Constitution to criticise the President and the country," he said.
Mr. Gunawardane requested Speaker Karu Jayasuriya to look into the matter adding that allowing to do so, would lead to the violation of SOs and the Constitution in future.
The Speaker informed Parliament that he would look into it.
MP Ranjith Zoysa said the statement made by the State Minister was undermining the Presidential Commission appointed by the President to look into the issuance of Central Bank Bonds. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: They are to call his bluff
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 22 November 2017 10:05 am
They are to call his bluff
	
?
A brag made by a purohita that the ?JO guys? would be treated to a good body massage if they visited the estate sector for politicking has triggered a sensation in political circles.?
?
The purohita aspiring to ascend the throne in the estate-kingdom has been talking big and throwing his weight about in the hill country ever since the decline of the ?cockerel? dynasty, they say. Reacting angrily to the purohita?s boast, the JO big guns have decided to call his bluff.
The JO will soon visit the purohita?s home turf itself to meet his challenge.? They have also planned to give the purohita a call to announce their visit on time for him to be ready with his ?masseurs?, they say.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tourist misunderstands passing remarks in Sinhala
## Section: Weird News
## Date: 22 November 2017 06:37 am
Tourist misunderstands passing remarks in Sinhala
	
An individual heavily intoxicated had confronted a woman tourist and had attempted to teach her morals, and the woman not understanding the language had gifted the intruder with a cigarette, as reported from a tourist hotel in a coastal area near Galle.
There had been a wedding reception at this tourist hotel, and relatives of the newly married couple from several outstations had been there. Among the participants there had been a family from an interior village few kilometres away from Galle. The beach close to the hotel was a hive of activity, with many tourists strolling along in Bikinis and other bathing costumes.
A close relative from the interior village who had taken more of the spirits, could not remain quiet seeing the tourists movement, and started walking towards the sun bathing foreign woman determined to give a piece of his mind, confronted them and began scolding them in Sinhala and berating them for their skinny clothes and educating them on culture and morals.
One of the woman who had been smoking and failing to understand what the local man was telling, offered him a cigarette and also gave the lighter which she had in her hand.
The man who promised to give a good lesion on culture and morals was seen returning back to the hotel with a lighted cigarette and sending smoke into the air. The members of his family seeing him had made fun out of him, and not being able to meet them had slowly retired. (Kanchana Kumara Ariyadasa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trump declares North Korea state sponsor of terror
## Section: International
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:03 am
Trump declares North Korea state sponsor of terror
	
?
WASHINGTON AFP Nov21, 2017- President Donald Trump on Monday declared North Korea a state sponsor of terrorism even as his top diplomat said Washington has not given up hope of?
a negotiated end to the?nuclear standoff with Kim?Jong-Un?s regime.? ?
Trump promised a rapid escalation of US Treasury sanctions against the North after adding its name to a terror blacklist previously led by Iran and Syria.? ?
??Should have happened a long time ago. Should have happened years ago,? Trump said.? ?
He cited the death of a US student who had been held in a North Korean jail and the assassination by nerve agent of Kim?s elder half-brother?
on foreign soil as reasons for the move.? ?
However, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said sanctions and diplomacy could still pressure Kim into talks on nuclear disarmament.? ?
??We still hope for diplomacy,? he said, adding that punitive measures were already having a significant impact on Pyongyang?s economy.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: When you need help for a troubled mind
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:47 am
When you need help for a troubled mind
	
?
People at present are running in a never-ending rat race, further tensed by persistent competition between each other. All this leads to a tragic struggle between body and mind. During a time like that, experiencing bad phases with mood swings isn?t hard to overcome, especially when you have identified where the issue lies.? ?
Counselling and Psychotherapy are two modalities introduced in Psychology to help individuals.? ?
These terms are often confused by many individuals, especially due to its interchangeable usage in psychiatry and overlapping nature of several features. However, the duo have significant aspects. These will help? distinguish one from?
the other.? ?
?
Counselling
Counselling, which is also known as talk therapy, consists of a single conversation or a series of conversations between a psychologist and his client. It is a broadly used term in psychiatry, which goes hand-in-hand with treatment, used for the enhancement of mental health. Counselling is also considered to be a specific kind of therapeutic approach, which will help an individual to overcome unnecessary emotions and behavioural patterns. The main objective behind counselling is to make the client expose his distressing issues to a professional who is rich in knowledge about the human mind. The professional can then support the patient in adjusting him or herself, in order to perform day to day activities in a normal and efficient manner.? ?
For an example, if a person is suffering from severe depression, as a result of loss of a loved one, proper counselling will assist him to have an easy recovery. Treatment will help the person to be who he or she used to be.? ?
According to some health professionals, counselling should mainly focus on one problem at a time, thereby finding solutions in a logical way. In this case, a counsellor must show empathy towards the client, so that the client will feel comfortable to reveal his true feelings. This information is very important in prescribing the most appropriate mode of therapy.? ?
?
Psychotherapy?
Psychotherapy, in contrast, is an evolutionary procedure which will support the client to develop a rational and clear vision about his long standing attitudes, recurrent emotions, ways of thinking, behavior and personality, which might have resulted in current issues, in the quality of life and relationships?with others.? ?
Psychotherapy, is also known to go deep into a particular matter in order to reveal the root cause, which causes the related, disturbed perspective of life. Ultimately, the client will relieve himself by taking control of his life and developing self-awareness, rather than getting triggered by unconscious impulses and stimulations.? ?
?Psychotherapists, are also aware of the individual?s soul, body and inner child, which might have made a negative impact on troublesome experiences. However, all these methods of revealing a person?s past life and his nature, will eventually result in an effective and healing relationship between the client and psychotherapist which will be beneficial in creating a mentally?
healthy person.? ?
The key difference between these two terms, lies in the time taken to experience effective benefits. In fact, counselling is a short term process, which focuses on one individual issue at a time, thereby finding a process to overcome it. Here psychotherapy involves a long term process, which involves prolong periods of working with clients, in order to uncover the foundation of the problem and address it in the most efficient direct or?
indirect manner.? ?
Furthermore, counselling usually deals with clients who have good coping skills, who are fit enough to think rationally and find solutions to their problems themselves, when a little supporting hand is provided by the counsellor. In contrast, psychotherapy mainly involves individuals, who are dependent on the psychotherapist to gain control over their personality, mind, emotions and behavioral patterns. They might also need therapy from time to time with breakthrough periods, depending on the condition.? ?
Counselling also addresses issues in a less in depth manner whereas psychotherapists have intense and extensive knowledge about psychological theories and modalities of treatments. They will also make clients to dig into their past experiences, in order to understand their human development, cognitive and behavioral patterns, thereby enabling them to explore themselves, identify as strong individuals and get rid of negative senses, self believes and external stimulations.? ?
Having all these factors in mind, it is always effective to choose the best treatment for you or your loved ones, which can be identified more accurately with the help of professional advice.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Zimbabwe?s military launch ?Operation Restore Legacy?  to remove Mugabe
## Section: International
## Date: 22 November 2017 11:07 am
Zimbabwe?s military launch ?Operation Restore Legacy?  to remove Mugabe
	
?
Robert Mugabe?s ousted deputy Emmerson ?Crocodile? Mnangagwa will return to Zimbabwe ?shortly? in order to help negotiate a roadmap for the dictator?s departure, the military has said.? ?
General Constantino Chiwenga, chief of the country?s army, announced Mnangagwa?s return on Monday and said that he had already been in contact with Mugabe, describing the talks as ?encouraging?.? ?
Mr Chiwenga also used a televised statement to reiterate calls for peace and calm while the situation, which he dubbed Operation Restore Legacy, is resolved. It comes as Mugabe continues to cling to power despite being sacked as leader of his Zanu PF party and as impeachment proceedings against him began.One member of the ruling Zanu PF party said the main charge against Mugabe was ?allowing his wife to usurp government powers? and that ?he is too old and cannot even walk without help?. The 93-year-old could be thrown out of parliament within two days and is said to have demanded immunity for him and his wife, Grace, 52. While the impeachment motion against Mugabe has been drafted, parliament does not sit on a Monday, so the action will likely begin at the start of the session on Tuesday.??
Harare, (Daily Mail),?
20 November 2017
 
		
==============================
