## Title: A close look at Iron Deficiency Anaemia
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:13 am
A close look at Iron Deficiency Anaemia
	
?
Anemia is a condition in which the number of red blood cells or the amount of Hemoglobin in red blood cells is less than the normal level. There are several reasons for anaemia to occur and Iron deficiency is the commonest. So today we are going to shed light on this important topic of Iron deficiency Anaemia. It is known to be a common problem with a significant incidence in the Sri Lankan community, but often goes un-diagnosed due to the lack of awareness. We spoke to Dr. Vindya Wellella, Registrar in Medicine,Teaching Hospital Karapitiya, Galle, to enlighten you on the subject.?
Iron deficiency Anaemia is a specific type of anaemia which occurs due to the lack of mineral IRON in the body which is a major constituent of hemoglobin , which ultimately results in less quality Haemoglobin giving rise to a reduced oxygen carrying capacity in blood.?
The incidence of Iron deficiency Anaemia in Sri Lanka
?The Sri Lanka Demographic and Health Survey in 2007 found an estimated overall prevalence of anaemia of 34%, with 20.7% mild anaemia and 13.3% moderate to severe anaemia. The most common causes are iron deficiency according to Sri Lankan statistics.
The estimated prevalence of anaemia during pregnancy is approximately 17%. Risk groups include pregnant women; as there is an increase in body demands and children due to possible erratic dietary habits. Special population with gastrointestinal disorders which makes an impact on the absorption of Iron are among the others who are vulnerable.
?
Causes?
Iron is supplied through our diet and this iron in food comes from two sources; animals and plants. Iron from animal sources is known as heme iron and is found in Red meat and fish like Shell fish and shrimps. Iron from plants is known as non-heme iron and is found in certain vegetables like Spinach and Moringa as well as in iron-fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. However, Heme iron is better absorbed by the body compared to non-heme iron.?
Furthermore, there are certain factors which affect the absorption of Dietary Iron by the body. For an example Vitamin C, meat, fish and poultry increases the absorption of iron whereas Tannin in Tea, coffee and calcium reduce it. Intestinal disorders like celiac disease which affects your intestine?s ability to absorb nutrients from digested food, can lead to iron deficiency anemia. Also if a part of your small intestine has been bypassed or removed surgically, that can affect your ability to absorb iron as well as other nutrients.
Iron Deficiency is also caused by blood loss due to chronic gastro-intestinal bleeding (gastric ulcers, Haemorrhoids) and heavy blood loss during menstural? periods.Pregnancy is a potential time where a woman is likely to develop iron deficiency anaemia because their iron stores are supposed to serve the increased blood volume as well as act as a source of hemoglobin for the growing fetus.
?
How to know that you are anaemic
An anaemic person often appears pale and weak and may feel breathless or faintish. The individual may be aware of a pounding heart. An anaemic person may have insomnia, decreased appetite or a general feeling of malaise. Most individuals with Iron deficiency Anaemia would often ignore symptoms due to vagueness and less interference of them with the quality of life. However, the symptoms tend to worsen as the severity of deficiency increases, so it is important to be aware of the ways you would present and why early identification is important.
?
Diagnosing a patient
People without overt symptoms of Iron Deficiency Anaemia will be diagnosed often as an incidental finding, but individuals presenting with symptoms will be diagnosed with the help of complete? clinical details? in order to find out the cause for anaemia and the duration of presentation.Your physician would carry out a thorough physical examination to find out the cause and complications (to exclude visible Haemorrhiods etc.) followed by investigations including Full blood count (to assess the level of Haemoglobin), and microscopic study of blood constituents which we call a blood picture which would help in confirming the diagnosis.
?To confirm the presence of iron deficiency anemia blood levels of iron should be carried out in the means of? ?Iron, ferritin, iron binding capacity etc.Once iron deficiency anemia is confirmed, we need to identify the cause. Patients suspected to have chronic GI bleeding will be advised to undergo Image studies like Endoscopy, colonoscopy? to exclude colonic cancers and ultrasound , computer tomography and rarely, a sample of bone marrow may be taken to see if red blood cells are forming in the normal way.
?
Treatment?
Finding the cause of iron deficiency is mandatory in order to proceed with the treatment. In fact if the cause is bleeding Hemorrhoids, the patient should be referred to a surgeon and treated accordingly to stop further bleeding which would in turn reverse the body?s iron levels within few months. Women who have heavy blood loss during menstrual periods are advised to seek medical advice and further necessary action plans to reduce bleeding.
The best way of treatment is the modification of dietary habits. Recommended dietary allowances (RDA) for iron are based on requirements for absorbed iron, the proportion of dietary iron that is absorbed, and estimated iron losses (eg, due to menstruation). So increase intake of fish meat products will efficiently replenish your iron stores if deficiency due to dietary problem. You need to avoid taking coffee or tea with meals as it interferes with iron absorption.
The most common treatment for Iron deficiency Anaemia is a course of oral iron tablets. Reversal of the Haemoglobin levels doesn?t happen overnight so its advised to stick to the prescribe dosage until the next blood report comes normal and 3 months more-to replenish the stores.? We strictly advice of compliance as it is cumbersome to adhere to the treatment as iron tablets causes Gi irritation, constipatin. And it will discolour your stools in to black and brown which one should not be afraid of.
?Although iron is best absorbed on an empty stomach, taking it this way commonly causes a feeling of sickness. This can be prevented by taking it with some food and vitamin C (for example in orange juice) which increases the absorption. On the other hand milk, tea, coffee and certain medicines such as calcium tablets together, which interfere with iron absorption, should be avoided.?
If iron deficiency anemia is severe, you may need iron given intravenously or you may need blood transfusions to help replace the levels of iron and hemoglobin quickly. However we try to avoid this as much as possible as it can cause hypersensitivity reactions and also a higher expenditure.
One cannot have excess iron due to over treating as iron absorption is well regulated by the intestine. However individuals with intestinal problems are advised to be concerned about iron overload if advised by a health care professional.There are liquid preparation for children which occasionally cause gray staining of the teeth or gums. These effects are temporary and can be avoided or minimised by brushing the child?s teeth and/or rinsing the mouth with water after administration of the drops. Liquid iron may also stain fingernails if the child places its hand inside the mouth after iron administration.
The response to treatment is assessed by general improvement of the well-being and improvement of blood compositions.
?
Moreover, the treatment of iron deficiency in pregnant women is important for both the mother and the developing fetus, and iron repletion should occur promptly. So there are guidelines to provide iron supplementation during pregnancy from the second trimester onwards and after delivery as well.
 
		
==============================
## Title: A power struggle that does not involve people?s interests
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:49 am
A power struggle that does not involve people?s interests
	
?
"There is a danger of the current Rajapaksa government failing to pass any Bill or motion in the House"
?
It is interesting to note that the conflict between President Maithripala Sirisena and the ousted Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe over the latter?s purported hesitance to take action on allegations of acts of high profile corruption against the leaders of the Rajapaksa regime, had ended up in the President teaming up with the same Rajapaksas.? ?
The recent turn of events and the new political alignments were as if the President telling Wickremesinghe that if you can have secret deals with Rajapaksas, I can do the same better.? ?
As we have explained in our earlier columns, it is the United National Party (UNP) that pushed the President to the wall first by displeasing him with regard to legal action against the leaders of the former regime and then by provoking him, by ignoring him when taking important decisions. President Sirisena, on the wake of his assuming office was very particular about carrying forward the corruption cases against Rajapaksas and their close allies, not because he was a man against corruption, rather he feared about a comeback by the latter.? ?
He who defeated Mahinda Rajapaksa at the last Presidential election very well knew what latter?s wrath against those challenged them was, which had been well attested by the cases involving former Army Commander Sarath Fonseka and former Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake. President Sirisena had once expressed his fear about this wrath through his famous quote about him having gone six feet under the ground had he been defeated at the last Presidential election. Later, last year while accusing the UNP for delaying and even stalling the high profile cases against the leaders of the last regime, he had told during a Cabinet meeting that in case of a comeback by the Rajapksas it would be he and not the UNP who would have to face the music.? ?
However, when the return of Rajapaksas became almost inevitable with the results of the February 10 local government elections, President Sirisena diametrically changed his strategy and looked for ways to team up with the Rajapaksas. The group of 16 who became politically destitute after they quit the government and Namal? Kumara with his stories about a coup to assassinate the President and former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa helped the President in his manoeuvre. However, now, he had pushed the country into utter chaos by putting his strategy into practice.? ?
The country wouldn?t have been driven into the current mess had Mahinda Rajapaksa whom the President appointed Prime Minister on October 26 mustered sufficient members from other parties to prove his majority in the Parliament. His failure to do so led his loyalists to run riot in the Parliament, vandalizing its chamber last week and the same reason threatens today?s proceeding of the House as well.? ?
?
"Rajapaksa and his group do not explain why they who had nearly two thirds of power in the Parliament opposed that appointment then"
Now, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and the Rajapaksa?s adversaries claim that a no-confidence motion against Rajapaksa and his government had been twice passed in the House. On the other hand, Rajapaksa loyalists contend that suspending of Standing Orders of the Parliament to present the motion and taking a voice vote for the approval of? it were against Parliamentary procedure, despite suspending of standing orders and voice vote being accepted procedures in the House. In fact, it is by voice vote that the budget is passed at its third reading almost every year.? ?
Irrespective of the validity of the passage of the two no-confidence motions against Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and his Cabinet, the number of signatures in them proved that Rajapaksa did not command the confidence of the Parliament. Only two signatories of those motions have so far switched sides later. Still Rajapaksa represents the minority in the House. No argument can deny that fact and it is vital for Rajapaksa to muster support to run the government.? ?
The state media?s attempt to justify the vandalizing of the Parliament chamber by the Rajapaksa loyalists on last Friday was frustrating. They telecast the bomb attack by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) in the Parliament on August 18, 1987, the pandemonium created by the UNP by burning the copies of a draft new Constitution within the Parliament chamber when President Chandrika Kumaratunga was presenting that draft in the Parliament on August 3, 2000 and the riots in Parliaments of other countries. However, it did not hold water, since even some other private media supporting Rajapaksa had described Friday?s rioting as shameless.??
It is ludicrous on the part of the Rajapaksa loyalists to berate the presence of the diplomats of the Western countries in the Speaker?s gallery in the Parliament when they were breaking chairs and other items while throwing water mixed with chilli powder on the police officers and the Parliament members. That was another attempt to justify the mayhem by rousing the patriotism or the anti-West mindset in the people.??
They argue that Ranil Wickremesinghe was also appointed Prime Minister on January 9, 2015 without having the majority in the Parliament. It is true that President Sirisena violated the Constitution in 2015 when he appointed Wickremesinghe Prime Minister, as he himself recently said that he made that appointment when Wickremesinghe had the support of only 47 MPs. But Rajapaksa and his group do not explain why they who had nearly two thirds of power in the Parliament opposed that appointment then.? ?
?
"Ranil Wickremesinghe was also appointed Prime Minister on January 9, 2015 without him having the majority in the Parliament"
They were so upset and frightened by the unexpected defeat of Rajapaksa that not only did they not have the fortitude to stand against that appointment, but Rajapaksa even volunteered to offer the Chairmanship of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) to President Sirisena. They could have easily amended the SLFP constitution and denied the President the Chairmanship of the SLFP, as the whole Central Committee of the party was backing Rajapaksa then.? ?
Whatever the arguments and counter-arguments on what had happened so far, there is a danger of the current Rajapaksa government failing to pass any Bill or motion in the House, due to the numbers in the House. If the Supreme Court rules on December 7 against the dissolution of Parliament by the President, the country would have to put up with the current situation till February 2020 when the President would be empowered to dissolve the Parliament. Either Rajapaksa has to buy over or attract MPs from other parties in the Parliament, despite whatever the ethicality of doing so, or the Parliament should find a way to dissolve itself to prevent such a situation.??
Apart from the ego on the part of the main stakeholders of the impasse - the President, Prime Minister, Speaker and the ousted Prime Minister-, Rajapaksa and Wickremesinghe seem to want to cling on to the power until the next Parliament and Presidential election so that they can use state resources for their election campaign. However, it is the country and the people who have to suffer due to this power struggle.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: AIA Insurance tops MDRT in Sri Lanka for 4th consecutive year!
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 05:56 pm
AIA Insurance tops MDRT in Sri Lanka for 4th consecutive year!
	
AIA Insurance is proud to be the first and only insurer in Sri Lanka to have the most number of MDRT (Million Dollar Round Table)qualifiers for four consecutive years. AIA totals an impressive 130 MDRT qualifiers for 2017, comprising of 100 qualifiers from Agency Distribution and 30 from Bancassurance. This achievement is testament to the high calibre of advisors recruited, trained and employed by AIA, to provide the best protection and savings solutions to Sri Lankans.?
MDRT is internationally recognised as the standard of excellence in the life insurance and financial services business. Its members are required to generate a certain high level of premiumand demonstrate exceptional professional knowledge, strict ethical conduct and exceptional client service. This achievement is therefore a fitting acknowledgement of the relentless commitment and the high level of professionalism shown by AIA?s advisors who, for the fourth successive year, helped AIA Insurance become #1 MDRT in Sri Lanka.?
CEO Pankaj Banerjee said, ?We are in the business of helping people protect their families, access the best healthcare and enjoy their retirement to the fullest - this is no easy task and it is truly commendable that our advisors are able to not only positively impact people?s lives but also be recognised as being the best of the best".
Deputy CEO Upul Wijesinghe added, ?Our Wealth Planners are renownedfor providing the highest standards of professional service and we continue to support their development by offering high quality training programmes, hiring and retaining top talent and providing the most advanced tools for enhanced efficiency and productivity.?
Director Partnerships Ashean Karthelis added on ?We work with three of Sri Lanka?s leading banks to help provide greater value to their customers. Therefore, we prioritize specialized training and development for Financial Planning Executives, who are armed with seamless, state-of-the-art, point-of-sale technology to help them carry out their business in an efficient and customer-friendly manner. We are delighted to have30 Financial Planning Executives from our Bancassurance distribution achieve this coveted qualification.?
AIA invests heavily in training and in new technologies that place their advisors above industry standards while taking every effort to enhance the customer experience. With the roll out of next generation sales and policy issuance in the pipelines, AIA?s doors are always open to advisors who have what it takes to join the distinguished list of MDRT members and work together with AIA in making a real difference.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Arab Springs? and Sri Lankan ?winters? - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 01:14 am
?Arab Springs? and Sri Lankan ?winters? - EDITORIAL
	
?
here is much talk about Sri Lanka succumbing to the efforts of the Western powers aimed at creating an ?Arabian Spring? like revolution in Sri Lanka.?
The Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) at a recent press briefing stated that western powers are initiating a covert move to cause unrest in the country and thereby have succeeded in creating the present political impasse.?
This claim must be viewed with an open mind because the majority of Sri Lankans have this ?anything from the westerner is bad for us? attitude governing their thinking. The western countries closely associated with Sri Lanka maintained that the president must reconvene parliament. Let us not be hasty in throwing all what the west has to say into the dustbin and instead take a cue from the opinions they form about us. However we should also keep in mind that Western countries have a bad history of meddling in other countries leading to disastrous situations on most occasions.?
All ?ambitious? western nations could achieve little if the people of the country are united. Let the lawmakers fight each other and pursue their agendas, but not at the expense of the country?s future. More than the Western powers, it?s the selfish agendas of the politicians which leave this country exposed to the risk of interference by the other nations.?
President Maithripala Sirisena hastily sacked the incumbant Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and appointed Mahinda Rajapksa to fill this void. His dissolving of Parliament later led to much confusion, also attracting the attention of some of the world?s most powerful nations.?
The unsettled nature of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and the message they now give by urging that diplomats should intervene and solve the crisis situation in the country make us understand that we Sri Lankans are doing all what ?foreign hands? wish to achieve; unsettle this beautiful island.?
A solution to the crisis does not seem to be in sight with the UNP claiming that they do not recognise this Government. The Cabinet?s decision taken to present a ?Vote on Account? to cover their expenses might hit a snag if the Sirisena-Rajapaksa Government does not have the majority to pass it.?
In this context it is wise for the UNP to support the ?Vote on Account? with the understanding that this caretaker Government goes for early elections next year. If not this tug-of-war between the Government and the opposition will only burden the people more and make their lives miserable; given that its year end and there are expenses to be incurred with regard to children and their education. Afterall it is the children who carry our future and the country?s most precious assets.?
The parties representing the minorities like the Tamil Progressive Alliance, Sri Lanka Muslim Congress and All Ceylon Makkal Congress are closely monitoring the situation and will take decisions with one thing in mind, their communities.?
What makes it hard to fathom how deep the Sri Lankan crisis is when politicians like Bandula Goonawardene, who vociferously warned that Sri Lanka was a disaster economically, while occupying the backbenches in parliament, now say that there?s no debt service crisis in 2019. Goonawardene has cited Central Bank officials in making this statement.?
President Sirisena recently urged all heads of state institutes to cary out Government activities. This call probably came from Sirisena because the JVP was maintaining that there was no constitutionally elected Government, Cabinet nor Prime Minister and that state institutes should be careful when incurring expenses on the instructions of Cabinet ministers.?
We also saw several Sathyagrahas (Silent protests) being organised in Colombo in protest against the political agendas of President Sirisena and Premier Rajapaksa.?
Despite the political confusion and turmoil in Parliament there does not seem to be an ?Arab Spring? here as yet. It is only a Sri Lankan ?winter? here at the moment.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Astrological principles for  judging childlessness
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:34 pm
Astrological principles for  judging childlessness
	
DM Astro 69
?
By A. S. Fernando
Children, even if they are not your own, are a great source of joy. We take immense delight in listening to their prattle or watching them at play. Some people believe there is no happy family life either without children and childlessness is considered a great misfortune for a married couple.
?
Astrology can offer an explanation
?Childlessness can result either from a physical or a biological defect or an aberration which requires medical advice and remedy or several other causes which only an expert astrologer can account for.
Most people get children as a matter of course. Some poor people find children a great burden and get them even when they are not wanted. Some couples resort to various means to prevent unwanted pregnancies. However, childless couples yearn for progeny and consider that life is not worth living without a child. Astrology provides explanations for all these situations.
?
Mental trauma
Childlessness can mean either denial of an offspring in the absence of fertility and biological factors or the death of children soon after birth, in infancy or later in life. Mental trauma caused in all these cases may leave a couple in a state of misery in their entire lifetime. The reasons for childlessness can be found out from one?s horoscope.
?
Factors causing childlessness
Afflictions to the 5th House deny children. The 9th House in a male chart becomes important in assessing the capability for producing progeny. The 7th House holds the clue to the procreative capability of the couple. Jupiter is Putrakaraka and afflicted Jupiter can deny children. Therefore, an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the 5th and 9th Bhavas, their lords and those of Jupiter is an imperative for judging whether a couple would have children.
Following planetary combinations account for childlessness either due to fertility and biological factors or to death of children.
The 5th House and its lord hemmed in between malefics and Jupiter, Karaka for children afflicted by malefics.
	The lords of the 1st, 7th and 5th Bhavas and Jupiter afflicted due to the aspect or occupation by malefics or conjunction with them.?
	The 5th lord is weak and without benefic aspect and a malefic is in the 5th House.
	The 5th lord is conjunct with the lords of the 6th, 8th or the 12th without benefic conjunction or aspect.
	The lords of the 5th from Jamma Lagna and Chandra Lagna, Moon and Jupiter are in evil Houses.?
	Mars and Saturn aspect the 5th House. The weak lord of the 2nd or the 7th house is in the 5th House.??
	The lord of the 5th House is in conjunction with Mars and or Rahu.??
	The lord of the 5th House and Jupiter are in conjunction with Mars.
	Sun and Venus are in conjunction with the 5th lord
	A malefic is in the 1st, 1st lord Is in the 5th. 5th lord is in the 3rd lord and the Moon are in the 4th House.?
	The 5th lord is a malefic and in the 12th from the Ascendant
	Ketu is in the 5th from the Ascendant or with the 5th lord.?
Scorpio, Taurus, Virgo and Leo are considered barren Rashis. Indian astrologers have discovered from research that Saturn in the 12th (8th from the 5th) denies progeny to Sagittarius Ascendants. In the case of Cancer natives too Saturn in the 12th denies them children. Accounting for this phenomenon, astrologers say both Sagittarius and Cancer Ascendants have Mars as the lord of the 5th House.?
There are several other factors too to be examined in judging whether the native will have children. Among them is the Napunsaka Yoga occurring in the horoscope. According to Brihat Parasara Hora,
?nIf the Moon and Venus posited in Lagna conjoin with Saturn or Mars and the 5th House is occupied or aspected by a malefic in a female Birth Chart, the native would be barren.
nIf either the Moon or the Ascendant is in Mercury?s Houses in The Rashi Chart of a female, or in Saturn?s Houses in Thrimsamsa (30th division of a Rashi) it signifies that the woman is barren. According to Brihat Jataka Napunsaka Yoga occurs when Moon is in an even sign and the Sun is in an odd sign and the two are in mutual aspect.?
(To be continued)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Body check for MPs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:02 pm
Body check for MPs
	
All MPs were subjected to heavy body checking before they entered the Parliament today.
Policemen without badges were seen carrying a thorough check on the MPs before entering the Chamber.
The Police and STF personnel were seen checking the Speakers Chair and the chairs of all MPs using sniffer dogs before the sessions started.
More policemen were deployed in and around parliament premises today. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwadana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Checks and balances:  Lanka?s Magna Carta moment
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 01:10 am
Checks and balances:  Lanka?s Magna Carta moment
	
Democracy promotion: A civil activist holds up a placard during a demonstration in Colombo amid an ongoing political crisis. AFP
?
n a positive note, the current political crisis in Sri Lanka can be the country?s Magna Carta moment to chart a course to the pinnacle of democracy.
The developments since President Maithripala Sirisena on October 26 sacked Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe have placed Sri Lanka on a constitutional cliff. But, if the power- greedy politicians do not drag the country into an autocratic abyss, the crisis could be a blessing in disguise to lead the country towards a democratic haven where the doctrine of separation of powers will be held supreme to remind politicians that the people?s mandate has to be exercised with responsibility. The power exercised by elected representatives is not their ancestral property to be abused at will but is a trust subjected to checks and balances and needs to be held sacred.
Those who abuse or betray the people?s mandate are no better than monarchs who, only a few centuries ago, taking cover behind what they called a divine right to rule, oppressed the people and amassed wealth by exploiting them. In this age of post-post enlightenment, politics is not for those who do not care a damn about democracy in their quest to establish autocracy though they make use of democratic instruments such as franchise and elections.?
While most Sri Lankans are shocked by the shenanigans being unravelled in the political front, the happenings in the United States, however horrendous Donald Trump?s hubris-driven governance is, make that country a shining example in constitutional democracy.? The Democratic Party?s victory at this month?s mid-term elections to the House of Representatives has been hailed as a people?s mandate to strengthen the checks and balances to control a maverick president before he could do more harm to the United States and the rest of the world.?
With the Democrats now controlling the House and chairing the Oversight Committee, the Trump administration has now been well and truly checked. The Democratic Party-controlled House can now summon witnesses, especially with regard to the Robert Mueller investigations into allegations that Trump campaign officials had any links to Russia?s interference in the 2016 US election. For the past two years, Trump had survived scrutiny because both the Senate and the House of Representatives were under Republican control. But from January, Trump will not find it easy to beat around the bush.?
To check the unbridled power of the executive president, especially when his party controls both houses of Congress, the mid-term elections, as provided for in the US Constitution, restore the balance of power by empowering the legislature to check the president, in keeping with the doctrine of separation of powers.?
In another recent incident that proved how checks and balances worked in the US through the judiciary, a federal judge ruled that CNN reporter Jim Acosta?s ?First Amendment rights overruled the White House?s right to have orderly news conferences.? The ruling followed CNN journalist?s petition challenging Trump?s executive order to withdraw his media credentials to cover White House events.
?
"With the Democrats now controlling the House and chairing the Oversight Committee, the Trump administration has now been well and truly checked"
This week, there was another blow to Trump from the judiciary. A federal judge on Tuesday temporarily prevented the Trump administration from denying asylum to migrants who crossed the border illegally. The court in its interim order ruled that the president violated a ?clear command? from Congress to allow the migrants to apply for asylum. In another move that underlines the doctrine of separation of powers, this week, Congress members, including Senators from the President?s Republican Party, challenged Trump?s statement defending Saudi Arabia over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. They sent a letter to the White House on Tuesday, urging Trump to officially trigger an investigation into whether Sauid Arabia?s crown prince ordered the assassination.
Sri Lankan politicians and their blind supporters would do well to look at how the US system works and how it upholds the balance vis-?-vis the separation of powers principles as expounded by French political philosopher Montasqueiu.? In his great work, ?Spirit of the Laws,? which inspired the the Rights of Man declaration, the French revolution?s gift to mankind, Montesqueiu said that in any form of democratic governance, the inclusion of the separation of powers is a sine qua non.
The Constitution of the United States was made based on the Montasqueiu?s model. Under this model, the political authority of the state is divided into legislative, executive and judicial powers. Montesqueiu asserted that, to most effectively promote liberty, these three powers must be separate and must act independently so that one arm of government can check the excesses of another.? Separation of powers also refers to the division of government responsibilities into distinct branches to limit any one branch from exercising the core functions of another.? The intent is to prevent the concentration of power? in one arm of government and provide for checks and balances.
It goes without saying that Sri Lanka?s 1978 Republican Constitution does not contain proper checks and balances. The framers of the 1978 Constitution justified the overconcentration of powers in the executive presidency on the grounds that it would ensure poltical stability which in turn would ensure rapid economic growth.? However, without effective checks and balances in the Constitution, we saw how the powers vested in the executive presidency turned even politicians with democratic credentials into unchecked autocrats or even out and out dictators. Some even acted like virtual monarchs.? Sri Lanka became a political lab for students researching on the validity of Lord Acton?s famous statement that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.?
In advanced democracies like the United States, a study of amendments shows they have been made to strengthen democracy and shut loopholes for the abuse of power. But in Sri Lanka, the history of constitutional amendments shows they have been made largely to make the president and the ruling party more powerful.?
Of the 19 amendments made to the 1978 Constitution so far, eight could be identified as being politically motivated ones. They included the Second Amendment also known as the infamous Rajadurai Amendment and the preposterous 18th Amendment which can easily be labelled as the Rajapaksa era democracy killer, for it repealed the democracy-enhancing? 17th Amendement.??
?
"The Constitution of the United States was made based on the Montasqueiu?s model. Under this model, the political authority of the state is divided into legislative, executive and judicial powers"
It was depressing to note the manner in which the so-called Joint Opposition MPs expressed their opposition to many of the 19th Amendment?s pro-democracy clauses when it was being debated in Parliament in 2015. Instead of strengthening it, they extended their support for the amendement on condition that some clauses -- for instance, as this column pointed out recently, the anti-defection provision -- were withdrawn.?
Yet, today at a time when constitutional governance has been undermined by what is being described as unlawful usurpation of state power by a cabal backed by the executive president, democracy activists heave a sigh of relief that at least some checks and balances introduced through the 19th Amendement have survived, especially the provisions to set up the Constitutional Council and the independent commissions on police, public service, the judiciary and elections.? This became evident in the Independent Police Commisison?s decision to cancel the Police Chief?s directive this week to transfer an inspector probing several high profile cases linked to the Rajapaksa regime.?
Yes, checks and balances involving the executive, the legislature and the judiciary -- this country needs more of them to prevent abuse of power and protect democracy. The county is on a cliff. It can fall into a dark abyss or saved by the nobel intentions of those who recognise checks and balances.
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Current crisis  takes its toll on SL economy?
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 23 November 2018 01:03 am
?Current crisis  takes its toll on SL economy?
	
?
German Ambassador J?rn Rohde, who is vocal about the current developments in?Sri Lanka, spoke about the impact of the present constitutional impasse on economic cooperation between his country and Sri Lanka. Earlier, he stressed openly that the problem should be resolved through Parliament. He was among the western envoys who witnessed Parliament taking up the no confidence motion against the new government. In an interview with the Daily Mirror, he chose to answer questions on the economic impact of the political problem, that prevails in the country. Excerpts:? ?
Q? ?How do you view the present situation???
We have clearly seen it negatively since last week. I read newspaper reports. There is a cry for help from the leading business chambers. It is really starting to have real economic impacts. That is why they are advocating a speedy solution. From the embassy?s point of view, I see business activities already being effected. High ranking business visits have been cancelled.? ?
Q? ?Which ones???
I do not want to go into more details. You can call it high ranking business visits that were planned. We expect a parliamentary delegation to arrive early next year. That is now in the balance. Secondly, it is the reputation of Sri Lanka that is suffering. As a trade representative, I myself went to the Asia Pacific Conference of German Business which is held biannually. It was in Jakarta this time. This is an opportunity for us. Then Minister Malik Samarawickrama was to represent Sri Lanka and present it as a place for investment before German CEOs. There were about 1000 German CEOs. That conference was on November 1. Naturally, the then Minister could not come. He was busy here. I was on stage. Instead of being able to sell Sri Lanka, we were posed with questions on what was going on here. Yours is the only country with two Prime Ministers. That is what they said. It was a difficult situation for us. In a nutshell, it was not the opportunity we sought to sell Sri Lanka. It was a wasted opportunity.? ?
Secondly, we opened the German Trade Office last year in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka is the only country in South Asia, besides India, with a professional trade office. It is a German investment. The German Government and the industries pump in a lot of money there. The present situation puts such investment-long?term and middle term-in doubt.? ?
Everybody talks about Sri Lanka being the hub of South Asia. These are all questions endangering important things for investors.? ?
?
"Instead of being able to sell Sri Lanka, we were posed with questions on what was going on here. Yours is the only country with two Prime Ministers. That is what they said. It was a difficult situation for us. In a nutshell, it was not the opportunity we sought to sell Sri Lanka. It was a wasted opportunity"
?
Q? ?President Maithripala Sirisena made certain allegations regarding the lack of transparency in tender deals during the previous Government. Apart from the current climate, how do you see Sri Lanka?s general atmosphere for investment?? ?
It is quite easy to answer that question. German law prescribes very stringent compliance rules to be followed by German investors. These laws are very strict. None of these allegations ever touched German companies.? ?
I had a phone conference with a German bank. They wanted to come here. I asked them to postpone their visit due to current uncertainty. I had talks with German investors. Because of the present political circumstances, there is a complete paralysis of all the Ministries. German Development law was given to the Health Ministry. That is to build a maternity hospital in Galle. Loan disbursement is delayed. We are also financing a vocational training centre in the south. Everything is put on hold.? ?
Q? ?How big is that investment???
In Matara, it is about 11 million Euros. For the development of the hospital, it is 42 million Euros. This is a loan. The delay costs the Sri Lankan tax payers. It is very unfortunate that decisions cannot be taken at this moment. Unfortunately, we have to advise the investors to wait until this situation subsides. Travel advisories by us and other countries have been updated. This also affects tourism.? ?
	I already see effects on business activities? ?
	
	
	High ranking business visit from Germany?on hold? ?
	
	
	In a democracy, elections express will of votes??
	
	
	But, due process has to be followed??
	
?
Q? ?As far as the situation in Sri Lanka is concerned, is the impact on businesses the only concern of Germany?? ?
We are now talking about the economy. We have already expressed our general concerns either through the embassies of the European Union or through our spokesperson at the press conference in Germany.? ?
We are for the speedy conclusion of this problem. We want everyone to respect the rule of law and due process and transparency. Everybody said the same. In 2017, European Union granted the GSP + trade facility.? ?
Sri Lanka has been given GSP + in return for its commitment to sign 27 international conventions in the field of human rights, good governance, labour rights, environmental protection, the reform of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, the Criminal Code of Procedure. This is commitment by the Government of Sri Lanka. We expect any Government to follow up on this commitment. This is a unilateral trade concession. During the first half of the next year, there will be a monitoring mission checking the progress. That is one of the concerns we have.? ?
Q? ?According to your knowledge and experience, is Sri Lanka exposed to the risk of losing this facility???
I will not venture into hypothetical questions. There is a clear chain of events. EU has given GSP + facility. Sri Lanka has committed to certain obligations. There is a common monitoring process. If the EU sees that there are problems, there will be consultations with the Government. In the past, it was withdrawn. The effects were not positive. It is a unilateral trade concession. In the textile field, those involved know how beneficial it was. For the textile industry, GSP + is a boost. There is a clear policy by the EU that Sri Lanka should follow up on its commitment. If they are not fulfilled, there will be problems.? ?
Q? ?Now, President Maithripala Sirisena and the party leaders have discussed the situation here. How hopeful are you that the situation will improve???
I do not have a glass wall to look into. Parliament meets. It is an opportunity to end the crisis. The Supreme Court has spoken. Parliament should give its opinion. They should closely work with the executive to find a speedy solution. The situation is really endangering the economic recovery and development of Sri Lanka.? ?
?
"I do not have a glass wall to look into. Parliament meets. It is an opportunity to end the crisis. The Supreme Court has spoken. Parliament should give its opinion. They should closely work with the executive to find a speedy solution"
?
Q? ?Sri Lanka is already a lower middle income country. Once we reach the next stage of our economy, we would anyway lose the GSP + facility which is granted to low income countries. What is your view???
That is right. Since you are a lower middle income country, you have been given a five-year period. It should be used to adopt diversified exports. That is why it is important to follow up on the commitments. Of course, it will be over. But, these five years should be well utilised to diversify your economy.? ?
Q? ?There is a call for a general election by some parties. Do you see it as a viable option to resolve the current crisis???
It came to the Maldives last month. The elections are the feat of democracy. In a democracy, elections express the will of voters. The whole process should be done with transparency using the due process while respecting the rule of law. That is what we all accept as people from democratic countries. We hope Parliament will express its opinion through arguments and not by throwing wastepaper baskets. In a democracy, you win by arguments, not by throwing objects.? ?
Today, the focus should be on the effects on the economy.? ?
Q? ?Has Germany warned of cutting aid or grants to Sri Lanka due to this crisis???
There are discussions in our Parliament about our development cooperation. The MPs want to know. The situation has effects on our decisions.?
It is not clear in what direction the Government is moving. Of course, aid is also dependent on clarity and predictability. There is no clarity whether the new Government has clarity on this project or that project. That has negative effects on cooperation on the economy.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dave Group announces the introduction of Innovative John Deere farming technology in Sri Lanka
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 03:52 pm
Dave Group announces the introduction of Innovative John Deere farming technology in Sri Lanka
	
The internationally renowned John Deere range of farming equipment that has been one of the leading brands in Sri Lanka is to be further enhanced with the introduction of innovative technology. Dave Group, pioneers in the field of agricultural equipment,and representatives of John Deere in Sri Lanka since 1990, has plans to introduce new technology to farmers in Sri Lanka to increase productivity and enhance profitability.
John Deere which has a history of over 180 years with overthirty factories and offices around the world,? has a wide range of agricultural? products from 20 ? 650 HP Tractors to Harvesting Equipment, Hay and Forage Equipment,Planting Equipment, Precision Ag Technology, Seeding Equipment and Sprayers & Applicators.
Speaking about the partnership, the Executive Director of Dave Group, Ms. Minelle Siriwardena commented, ?Currently, the Dave Group markets agricultural equipment such as 2WD and 4WDtractors, implements, combine harvesters, front end loaders, sprayers and agricultural tools. We also have construction equipment such as excavators andmotor graders as well as forestry equipment such as log loaders and timber jacks. In Sri Lanka our staplefood is rice and since we cannot fulfill the demand, as a country we import rice from many parts of the world. However, if we do the farming in a scientific way we can easily be self-sufficient. Modern agriculture methodologies will help to improve productivity and provide a greater yield.?
Explaining further, Ms.Siriwardena said, ?The traditional farming methods such as ploughing using buffaloes is now on the wane and land isprepared using tractors. We at Dave Group plan to introduce innovations that would help farmers to prepare land faster and mechanize sowing, spraying and harvesting.?
The effects of climate change have a major impact on rice production in Sri Lanka. It is believed that innovative mechanization will help farmers to adapt to these changes and make recovery faster. These innovations could be well within the reach of the farmers.
Ms.Siriwardena also spoke about the shortage of manpower in Sri Lanka. ?This is an issue that needs to be addressed by all stakeholders in the agricultural industry. This is where innovative mechanization can play a vital role in increasing both productivity and profits of farmers.We will be encouraging more farmers to access the newer machinery with innovative technology.?
The product range offered by the Dave Group is not limited to the agricultural industry. There is also golf and turf equipment such as mowers, as well as trailers, fully covered garbage tipping trailers, water bowsers and gully bowsers.
The Dave Group has an extensive range of John Deere equipment for the Sri Lankan market and the brand has won global recognition as the leading brand for agricultural machinery and equipment. This leadership in Sri Lanka has been possible through the partnership between John Deere and Dave Group over the past two decades.?
?We have over 100 dealers Islandwide, and we provide an unbeatableafter-sales service. In the years to come we plan to strengthen our partnerships and help Sri Lankan farmers in their bid to reach self-sufficiency? concluded, Ms. Siriwardena.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Desperation led him to indiscretion
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:11 am
Desperation led him to indiscretion
	
?
A leading Diyawanna politico from the South, once back at home, had sent for a local pal and spilled out to him to all top party secrets.
?
The local politico had been shocked when his Diyawanna stalwart had come out with certain details expected to be privy only to the party?s inner circle.
The Diyawanna stalwart, regardless of the obvious reaction of the local colleague had held forth about how the party was going to handle the current crisis situation. ?We are going to sabotage all sittings? We will prevent the presentation of the no-confidence by hook by crook! We are going to make up the 113 score ? buying some of them even upping the ante sky high!?
?This man has gone nuts!? the wide-eyed local politico who had quietly listened to him, had later soliloquized, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Diamond worth billions stolen
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 08:20 am
Diamond worth billions stolen
	
A gang dressed in police uniform had stolen a 750-carat diamond brought down from South Africa valued at more than 7 billion rupees along with several other gemstones in the possession of a gem merchant in Maharagama.
One of the thieves had been arrested in Watareka, the Mirihana Special Organised Crimes Operations (SOCO) unit.
A police officer attached to the unit said that the robbery had been the work of Makandure Madush who is in hiding in Dubai.
Sources revealed that photos and Videos of the stolen Diamond and the Gemstones were recorded in the Mobile Phone of the suspect who was arrested.
A licensed gem merchant from Araliyapura in Maharagama had been on the lookout for a buyer for this diamond for the past two years, and on the first of this month an Austrian National, after obtaining the services of a tout, visited him and wanted to buy the precious stone he was selling. He had brought with him a small machine to help him verify the authenticity of the stone but had stated that he would call again in four days. The robbery took place on the day the Austrian National visited the house again to purchase the stone.
While the buyer and the others were discussing the price for the stone, a gang dressed in clothes similar to police uniforms had arrived on the scene and accusing the group of peddling drugs in the area got them to kneel on the ground. The gang had then handcuffed the foreigner and taken away the diamond and the other gemstones after locking those present including the owner of the precious stones in a room in the house. They then took away the foreigner who they released once they got to the Maharagama town. (Bimal Shyaman Jayasinghe)
 
		
==============================
## Title: e-Channelling awarded ?Online Brand of the Year - Silver? accolade at SLIM
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:45 am
e-Channelling awarded ?Online Brand of the Year - Silver? accolade at SLIM
	
eChannelling PLC, the largest doctor channeling network in Sri Lanka, stole the limelight at the SLIM Brand Excellence awards held at the Shangri - La Hotel on 15th November 2018, by winning the ?Online Brand of the Year ? Silver? award. As the national body of marketing, the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) encourages strategic and result-oriented thinking in the fields of brand development, sales, advertising and research through events such as the SLIM Brand Excellence Awards, NASCO, the Effies and the People?s Awards.?
Over the years, eChannelling?s operations have demonstrated that a digitally-enabled healthcare sector brings innumerable benefits to the people of the nation. The brand is bridging the gap between healthcare providers and the public by improving effectiveness and efficiency of service consumption in a user-friendly way. eChannelling is now considered a household brand and one on which customers rely on when they have to take care of their or their loved ones? health.
Boasting a network of 200+ recognized hospitals, more than 5500+Doctors, over 2000+ outlets and coverage of any telecommunication network, eChannelling is the easiest way to channel a Doctor dial 225 from anywhere at any time. eChannelling PLC is a subsidiary of Mobitel (Pvt) Ltd and the pioneer software developer and ICT service provider to the healthcare industry in the country. eChannelling is the first company in Sri Lanka to offer a complete e-commerce based service in the health sector and the first public quoted Technology Company in the Colombo Stock Exchange. Mobitel, the national mobile service provider, has taken digital healthcare to the next level by adding eChannelling to its portfolio and strengthening its position in the country's telecommunications industry.?
The SLIM Brand Excellence Awards is a celebration of brand excellence at national level and rewards the outstanding efforts of outstanding marketers. This event translates as industry recognition of the motivation, dedication and hard work that great marketers have demonstrated in making brand champions. SLIM?s efforts to make marketing the driving force in the economy will be measured by several factors; the significance and direct benefits of marketing strategies for an organisation being among the most important. All relevant information and documentation will be available on the SLIM Brand Excellence website www.slimbe.lk
 
		
==============================
## Title: Elections and nothing less for a ?breather?
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:52 am
Elections and nothing less for a ?breather?
	
?
?Politicians will never change the destiny of this country. And as long as you sit there in your chair and you look at politicians and you think, they are going to change it, it will never change?? 
MP Eran Wickramaratne, fortnight ago? ?
Last Monday 19 November, Parliament was adjourned to meet again today ? Friday 23 November. The cost of allowing these utterly destructive, indecent meetings since Wednesday 14 November is a colossal waste of public funds. From what the Asst. Secretary General of parliament has certified, the cost of a day?s sitting of parliament in 2017 had been a massive Rs.25.7 million.For the 04 days it was convened for no worthy purpose totalling over a 100 million rupees plus the damage caused to public property during these days.??
It was evident last Monday, the Speaker could not chair even the historically shortest parliament sitting that lasted a mere 10 minutes. Many wonder whether Karu Jayasuriya as Speaker lost the trust and credibility there was with him, in the post 26/10 arrogance he displayed. The Deputy Speaker Ananda Kumarasiri had to take that responsibility of adjourning parliament on a decision taken at the party leaders meeting?held that morning.? ?
?
"The Speaker could not chair even the? historically shortest parliament sitting that lasted a mere 10 minutes"
Although the convening of parliament on November 14 by the Speaker was not challenged by the JO, constitutionally, only the President could ?reconvene a prorogued parliament?. Yet, if the Speaker was set to defy that Constitutional provision, then it becomes a defiance on a political decision. He carried that decision not knowing how drastic a decision it was. Especially in a fiercely divided parliament. He could have first reached out for a compromise among parties represented in parliament and have a firm consensus to convene parliament on his decision.? ?
A more astute and experienced political personality with good common sense like late Stanley Thilakaratne, would never have taken the path that Jayasuriya took post 26/10, as Speaker. Independence of a Speaker is judged by the distance he or she keeps with his or her political party and how justly the others are treated in parliamentary business. In very chaotic situations, independence that the Speaker displays becomes an invaluable luxury. It therefore required Speaker Jayasuriya to create a more conducive, casual atmosphere to gain trust and confidence among all party leaders. To convince all of them, as Speaker he is indeed independent. It required Speaker Jayasuriya to understand that a politically charged hard line discussion, demands a ?non snapping? patience on high moral ground to reach a final compromise.? ?
As Speaker, Jayasuriya was just the opposite. Some would say in just 03 days he lost credibility. He showed it by entering the House with a posse of policemen. It is common sense, parliamentary business cannot be conducted with a police escort around the Speaker. Such business with police has nothing to do with democracy and sovereignty of the people. Declaring the appointment of Rajapaksa unconstitutional on the basis, that his party the UNP controls the majority, he exposed himself so badly, he had to ask for police escort. His defference to the Western diplomats who were shuttling among their Colombo offices and the Temple Trees, the Speaker?s office and once to the presidential secretariat and not reaching out for a firm consensus among political party leaders, raised questions.? ?
Speaker Jayasuriya opened himself to being accused of engaging in partisan politics by pushing through a ?No Confidence Motion? (NCM) in a parliament convened defying the President?s authority and parliamentary procedure. There were glaring contradictions in how the prorogued parliament was first convened on 14 November. The Supreme Court (SC) issuing a temporary ?stay order? valid only till 07 December to stop accepting nominations for the parliamentary elections decided for 05 January 2019, in no way dismissed or ruled the gazette notification in question as illegal or invalid. That temporary stay order therefore did not and could not validate the previous gazette reconvening parliament. If it?s argued as validating the previous gazette, it amounts to someone demolishing a demarcation wall of a land, on a two week temporary order given to stop completing the wall till the boundaries are verified and a final ruling is delivered. Even if such an interpretation is forced to reconvene parliament, that in no way allows the Speaker to reconvene the prorogued parliament.? ?
It was also egoistical for a much learned lawyer of the calibre of Sumanthiran to move a resolution to suspend all ?Standing Orders? to accept a vote on a NCM against PM Rajapaksa. There are ?learned? legal luminaries providing many interpretations, but a?House? with no ?Standing Orders? is no ?House? in sessions. It is Standing Orders and established traditions that make the difference between a ?House of Representatives? and a ?delegates conference?. Thus, without Standing Orders it could be anything else but a ?House in sessions? within the parliamentary complex.? ?
There was yet another contradiction with the NCM. It was a contradiction because Wickremesinghe, standing ground as the constitutionally and rightfully appointed PM being a lawyer, the Leader of the House Kiriella, the Opposition Leader Sampanthan and ITAK spokesperson Sumanthiran all being lawyers with many more lawyers firmly on one shoe, arguing Rajapaksa?s appointment as illegal and unconstitutional and therefore saying he remains only as Kurunegala district MP, on the other shoe, challenges him with the NCM as a ?PM without a majority?. Reluctance of vested interests of the Western diplomatic corp to accept Rajapaksa as PM should not have been the reason for a wrong footed NCM by the JVP-UNP-ITAK led alliance in parliament with such a contradiction.? ?
Politics of the sectarian and opportunism giving way to such contradictions and violations of procedure led by Jayasuriya as Speaker and the hooliganism and thuggery of the JO led MPs in retaliation, makes the parliament a mockery in representing the people. This anyway is not the parliament the people elected in August 2015. Many had crossed over for portfolios and personal benefits insulting the decisions of the voters. It continued to create majorities on questionable decisions by President Sirisena more than once and political leaders hurried to shift balance of power within parliament for their advantage. All such dirty politics in parliament cannot be washed clean with judicial interpretations and decisions on legality and constitutionality of presidential decisions.? ?
?
"Speaker Jayasuriya opened himself to being accused of engaging in? partisan politics by pushing through a ?No Confidence Motion? (NCM) in a? parliament convened defying the President?s authority and parliamentary? proceedure"
Though the funded ?civil society? with the Colombo middle class would not want to accept, the January 2015 ?revolutionary change? they rhetorically hyped as historical, was destined to be the chaos it is now. With the only obsession of ousting Rajapaksa, the ?yahapalana? rule established proved as corrupt as the Rajapaksa regime or even more in just 02 months. The first Bond Scam was followed by many more deals by many ministers. ?Yahapalanaya? had nothing significantly more democratic and transparent than the post 2010 Rajapaksa rule, though its cheer leaders refuse to accept. Even if their argument there?s better ?democratic space? post 2015 January is accepted, that has only been Colombo centric and more ?Sinhala Buddhist?. Not ?democracy? for Tamil and Muslims in war torn North and East. The ?change? they still want to accept as worth the effort, did not honour any of the promises they made during the two elections in 2015, except in cosmetic form.? ?
Everything this 2015 January ?change? brought, has only paved for a big time Rajapaksa come back, in a very crude form. This ?change? therefore proves it had only satisfied the selfish urban middle class to believe the whole country is as comfortable as they are. It had left the vast majority of the rural society frustrated and forgotten and the urban poor struggling for a living. That in fact was what Murali meant when comparing ?democracy? and ?necessities of daily life? of the ordinary people. Though Colombo social activists were furious, his statement is a social interpretation within a crudely divided society where perceptions and values are defined and decided on a ?class basis?. Colombo middle class ?judgements? hold good for themselves within their culture of comfort, but means nothing in a struggling rural society and with the urban poor. It is all about priorities in life in different social classes. It was reflected quite forcefully when 5.01 million (40.5 per cent) voted with Rajapaksa in February 2018 LG elections. The two partners in government, the UNP reduced to 3.6 million (29.4 per cent) and President Sirisena?s SLFP left on the wayside.? ?
This weird ?yahapalanaya? has thus brought the country to its knees. Now the people need a short ?breather? to begin anew. That cannot be achieved by allowing this parliament to continue. This parliament is full with ?politicians who will not change the destiny of the country? as Eran Wickramaratne said. It?s heavy polarization makes it dysfunctional. Sampanthan?s slavish request for Western diplomats to intervene cannot make it functional and legitimate. Only a quick parliamentary election where the ?People? decide whom they elect to power can provide a breather as JVP leader Anura Kumara now argues. BUT, lets also remember that the next election will not provide any opportunity for ?clean politics?. It would ONLY ALLOW space for a new social dialogue away from searching for ?new leaders?. Space to dialogue on an alternate programme.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Elephant attack kills two girls in Mahiyanganaya
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 07:46 am
Elephant attack kills two girls in Mahiyanganaya
	
Two girls aged 9 and 11-years were killed last night following a wild elephant attack in Mapakada Wewa area, Mahiyanganaya, Police said.
They said the girls were attacked after they came out from their house when the elephant demolished a wall.
The girls?were identified as Mohammad Ismail Rasmi (9) and Anvar Unma Raasiya (10).
 
		
==============================
## Title: Extortionist lying low after regime change
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:10 am
Extortionist lying low after regime change
	
?
A certain politico had made it a practice to extort Rs.50 daily from each bus driver originating daily trips to various destinations from the Pearl city, they say.
?
There is a fleet of about 250 buses attached to the Pearl-city terminal servicing dozens of routes running in various directions from the city. A well-known goon employed by the politico to collect the extortion money had been paid Rs.950 a day.
The extortion racket had ceased with the latest regime change. And the goon too had ceased visiting the bus stand, they say.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gammanpila requests Nine-Judge bench to hear FR petitions
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 03:40 am
Gammanpila requests Nine-Judge bench to hear FR petitions
	
Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) Leader Minister Udaya Gammanpila yesterday requested the Supreme Court to appoint a nine-Judge bench to hear the Fundamental Rights (FR) petitions on dissolution of parliament.
Addressing a news briefing, the minister said a nine-Judge bench was not something strange to us.
?The petitions filed on the 13th Amendment to the Constitution were also heard before a bench comprised of nine Judges. Since there is a void of two Judges at the Supreme Court, we request it to appoint all its remaining nine Judges to the bench to hear this case,? he said.
Meanwhile, he said they expect to file a lawsuit against UNP MP Ranjan Ramanayake for allegedly making a statement defaming the Supreme Court.
The Minister said the MP has made the statement during a TV programme about the composition of the Supreme Court Judge bench which would hear the FR petitions filed against the dissolution of parliament.
?In his words, the MP said a three-Judge bench had already given a stay order and that its rumoured that the proposed bench would comprise of five Judges. He said three Judges are on their side and the other two Judges on the other side. Therefore, he said the decision would not be changed. How did the UNP come to know that the proposed Judge bench would be comprised of five judges? How can they say three Judges are on their side? This is a grave defamation caused to the Supreme Court," he said.
He said the MP's remarks had sparked controversy on social media with people highlighting and analysing Supreme Court Judges' religious beliefs, marital relationships, how their children received employment opportunities and so on.
"The faith the people have placed in the judiciary should be preserved in order to maintain the sovereignty of the judiciary. MP Ramanayake had created a situation that people may not believe any ruling delivered by the Courts now," the minister said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Government MPs walk out of Chamber
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:58 am
Government MPs walk out of Chamber
	
All MPs of the government walked out of Parliament Chamber in protest against the composition of MPs allocated from each party to the Parliament Select Committee (PSC).
?
?
Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. exempts five-year tax on agricultural industry
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 08:21 pm
Govt. exempts five-year tax on agricultural industry
	
The Government has decided to provide five-year tax exemption to the agricultural-based small and medium industry with income tax reduction from 28 % to 14%, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs said in a statement.
It said this has been done to promote agricultural production in the country for exports and consumption purposes.
Accordingly, agricultural income generated especially by the small-scale entrepreneurs in the cultivation of any agricultural products such as tea, spices, coconut, rubber, paddy, fruits, vegetables, etc, to be exempted from income taxation for a period of five years.
As a measure to ease the serious hardships to small holder business operations, it is proposed to raise the threshold for the application of ESC Economic Service Charge from Rs. 12.5 million per quarter to Rs.50 million per quarter.
?These relief measures have been taken on the instruction of the President and the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs with the intention of providing highest priority to the agricultural development," it said.
With the introduction of several changes to the tax system by the previous government, Sri Lanka?s business community particularly the small and medium entrepreneurs those engaged in professional and other services and agricultural activities have been confronted with complex taxation and heavy tax burden.?
In addition to the imposition of high income taxes on wage income and other remuneration, interest and rent incomes, tax burden has also increased through high tax rates and reduction in tax free thresholds for the implementation of Value Added Tax (VAT), Nation Building Tax (NBT) Economic Services Charge (ESC), withholding taxes, etc. People are looking for a simple, broad based, low tax rates, a transparent tax system and a simplified tax administration.?
Such a system of taxation is important to provide an environment conducive for doing domestic business in the SME sector, professional and other services and agricultural activities. While formulating a simple tax system takes some time, the Hon Mahinda Rajapakse, Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs, proposes at this stage to introduce some specific measures towards providing incentives that will enable SMEs and small sector business activities to revive rapidly.?
Furthermore, the climate has become extremely favourable for full scale cultivation of agricultural crops in both the plantation sector as well as non-plantation agricultural activities such as paddy, grain, fruit and vegetables and as such the government has already taken measures to reduce fertilizer prices, write off interest and penalties of agricultural credits and reduce income tax rates on agricultural income by such entrepreneurs.?
His Excellency the President and the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs are in complete agreement that highest priority should be given to agricultural development and accordingly the government is of the view that every effort should be made to make use of the 2018 /19 Maha cultivation season as a new beginning to raise agricultural production in the country for exports such as tea, spices, and other exportable crops as well as for domestic food consumption and for industrial raw materials. In this context, full scale cultivation using all cultivable land and increase in agricultural productivity to get maximum yields will be incentivized.??
Therefore, the following measures are proposed for implementation.?
Agricultural income generated specially by the small scale entrepreneurs in the? cultivation of any agricultural products such as tea, spices, coconut, rubber, paddy, fruits, vegetables, etc, to be exempted from income taxation for a period of 5 years.
	Income tax rate and profit on processing industries using local agricultural commodities to be reduced from 28 percent to 14 percent.
These two proposals will encourage entrepreneurs in agriculture to engage in cultivation activities and increase the supply to local processing industries and improve market supply for both export and domestic consumption. It also noted that several tea factories are operating below capacity as local production is not adequate, and therefore it is important that tea production be increased as a priority.?
Previous government has increased the ESC from 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent and reduced threshold level to Rs. 12.5 million. This has imposed serious hardships to small holder business operations. Therefore, it is proposed to raise the threshold for the application of ESC from Rs. 12.5 million per quarter to Rs.50 million per quarter.
	Recognizing the priorities attached by this government to environmental friendly renewable energy sourced power generation, it is? proposed that expenditure on the transition to renewable energy sources including the installation of solar panels,? tea, rubber, coconut, rice and other agricultural processing factories be recognized as deductible expenses in the computation of taxable profits.
	In view of the setbacks in economic activities during the past 3 years owing to sharp reduction in private sector credit facilities, high interest rate policies, high taxation at all levels, many entrepreneurs particularly those who engaged in household level businesses and small and medium sized businesses have not been able to service their borrowings from banking and financial institutions on a regular basis. As a result, not only the borrower but also their guarantors have been listed as defaulters in the Credit Information Bureau (CRIB) which has led banks to curtail or suspend credit facilities to such borrowers and guarantors. It is in this background that the Economic Revival Package announced on 1 November 2018 included extending support to the farmers and small paddy millers by way of writing off the interest and penal interest on loans taken in the last 3 years, up to a maximum of Rs.50 million from commercial banks. While accelerated support was provided to the agriculture sector enabling them to seize the good weather conditions, it is acknowledged that other sectors including Tea small holders, SME?s in? Construction, apparel, manufacturing etc are also faced with a situation in which their growth has been stymied with lack of access to markets, credit etc. In this context, the Treasury has already been directed to design a package that will support SME entrepreneurs in the short run to be able to access finance and revive their businesses.
	As a relief to the consumers, taxes on Watana will be waived/removed by Rs. 10 per Kg. In addition, the government has already reduced fuel prices and taxes and prices of several other commodities to reduce cost of living particularly for low income families.
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hospitality Industry must be conscious of water safety
## Section: News Features
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:31 am
Hospitality Industry must be conscious of water safety
	
Streams and waterways may appear calm and safe, but tragedy can strike at any time.
?
Promoting unsafe water is a danger to guests and a threat to the industry
Swift measures vital to prevent recurrence of what happened at Huluganga?
?
The hospitality industry in Sri Lanka must take serious note of water safety in the pools they promote to safeguard their guests from hazardous situations. But today?s competitive tourist industry prompts certain hotels and guest-houses to, knowingly or unknowingly, promote unsafe activities, disregarding the safety of their guests. If this issue is ignored, Sri Lanka may gain a reputation for being an unsafe tourist destination, causing irreparable damage to our status as the world?s number-one tourist destination in 2019.? ?
?
Water-related deaths account for the second highest number of accidental deaths in the country annually, after road traffic incidents. According to police data, 412 people drowned from January to June this year. Nearly 760 people drowned in 2016 and 678 in 2017. But when tragedy strikes, the victims are often blamed, and no protective measures are taken or anyone held accountable. What is overlooked is that people are often guided or enticed to unsafe spots, or are unaware of potentially dangerous situations, due to the unavailability of proper safety measures and awareness mechanisms.? ?
When a young German tourist fell to her death off the unprotected precipice at World?s End recently she was blamed for being negligent in taking a ?selfie?. But the fact that a 4,000 ft (1,200 m) cliff remains unprotected with no fence around, allowing for such fatalities to occur, remains overlooked and unaddressed.? ?
Another case in point is the tragic deaths of five young executives from a leading apparel company in April this year. The victims were swept away in a flash flood in Huluganga in the Knuckles range while on a pre-Avurudu outing with their colleagues. The incident left five families devastated and searching for answers. Daily Mirror re-visited this incident to highlight the inconsistencies in laws, guidelines and practices of hotels regarding water-safety, and the negligence and lack of accountability associated with it.? ?
On 7 April 2018, a group of 19 colleagues booked into a private two-star guest-house in the Mulberry estate in Huluganga. One of the attractions of the guest-house was a natural pool and mini-waterfall, promoted by the hotel as being in their backyard, and for the private use of their guests. It was at this natural pool that the tragedy took place. The guest-house had advertised, through on-line media, pictures of happy guests bathing and relaxing in the same location. They invite people to use the natural pool, promoting it as ?our natural pond?. Promotional drone video footage shows this pool as well, panning over the area where the victims were swept away. The location is promoted as a place of ?tranquility?.? ?
And the environment was quiet enough when the group reached the guest-house around 1.30 pm. Tired from their journey, they sought a refreshing swim. But there was no water in the hotel?s man-made pool. So they ordered lunch and stacked their bags and belonging in their rooms. They then made their way to the guest-house?s heavily-advertised natural pool, guided by a hotel worker.? ?
The climate was not ominous, with just a drizzle in the air. There was no cause for alarm, or so they thought. But the drizzle marked the beginning of the rainy season. The group did not know that when the Knuckles range received rainfall, water gushed downstream suddenly, creating flash floods. In fact on? November 4 2017, eight people drowned in Thelgamuwa Oya in the Laggala Police Division following flash floods. This waterway, known as Daluk Oya, also flows from the Knuckles range. But the group was unaware of the danger of flash floods. Moreover, there were no warning signs, red flags or protective structure at the pool that should have warned them. The water was just knee-deep, and the natural pool was clear and calm.? ?
?
But sources pointed out that the change in the sky above the Knuckles range was visible to the guest-house, and the hotel should not, under any circumstances, have allowed their guests to use the natural pool under such weather conditions. In fact in one social media post the guest-house says the ?rain is over and this is the perfect time to jump into the stream?, indicating they knew of the dangers of rain.? ?
Witnesses to the tragedy said a large volume of muddy water had suddenly crashed downstream and swept the five victims away. The high gradient and rocky terrain blocked any chance of escape. The others had briefly got out of the water just before the wave descended, if not the death toll would have been higher. The survivors ran up to the guest-house crying for help, and then ran down towards the town to seek help from the villagers, some of whom risked their lives to recover the bodies from the raging waters.? ?
Pradeshiya Sabha Member Sudantha Liyanage who helped in the rescue operation said villagers knew of the danger of flash floods downstream when there was rain in the Knuckles range above. He said the drowning of the group was preventable, and blamed the guest-house for negligence. ?The hotel has built a pathway to the natural pool. This shows that they knew their guests would definitely go down there. The hotel should have employed a trained guide or at least someone experienced from the village to direct guests to this place. Any villager would have told you it was dangerous to go down to the pool at that time,? he said. ?There are ten to fifteen hotels built along the Knuckles range. They don?t provide any guides. That day there were 19 guests who visited the hotel, but there was only an old couple in the hotel to prepare meals. Lives would not be lost in this manner if hotels simply employed experienced guides,??
he added.? ?
?
Lawyer and academic Kelum Samarasena, who runs a social-media platform called ?Safe Waters? which alerts people on water safety and possible flash floods, said flash floods were common from mid-March to early-April, which was when the Huluganga tragedy took place. Samarasena who visited the site of the tragedy noted that only visitors to the guest-house had access to the natural pool, and no one could reach it unless guided, as it was secluded. ?The hotel had taken no reasonable care to prevent the drownings. Evidence shows that the hotel had directed, guided, not supervised, not discouraged or warned to a reasonable degree, the group of 19 guests, about a danger that could be termed as reasonably foreseeable,? he said. ?Culpability and liability should therefore lie with the hotel under tort of negligence of Civil Law,? he added.? ?
Mr. Samarasena noted that in cases of negligence parents could take legal action, but they often blamed such incidents on fate and beliefs. ?Legal action for negligence is shamefully low because Sri Lankans are culturally conditioned,? he said. He cited the case where a prominent beach hotel in Kalutara was held liable for the acts of a driver. In that case the car had collided with a train and the tourists in the car were injured. ?Drowning is a silent killer. Nothing appears to have been done to address drowning,? he stressed.?
?
President of Sri Lanka Life Saving (SLLS), Asanka Nanayakkara, said the guidelines to prevent drownings in hotel pools were insufficient. ?The Tourism Act states the minimum requirements that should be followed, but the guidelines are insufficient to prevent drowning incidents,? he said. ?As a national association we follow the Australian guidelines. But there is no regulation to enforce these on hotels,? he added. ?Hotels usually display a red flag or warning sign, irrespective of whether the water is calm or not. Certain five-star hotels in Sri Lanka have boards saying there are no lifeguards on duty and that people should swim at their own risk,? he said. Nanayakkara recommended the deployment of life guards as the ?best solution?.
?
Commenting on safety measures to prevent drowning in pools, President of The Hotels? Association of Sri Lanka (THASL), Sanath Ukwatte, said hotels must follow the internationally accepted practice of placing red flags. ?If there?s a red flag on a beach and a person takes a bath it?s at their own risk. Most hotels have lifeguards in pools and on the beach,? he said. But he added that most guest-houses are not registered, which highlights a serious gap to effectively monitoring the safety of guests at hotels.
?
Meanwhile media spokesperson of the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) Rasika Jayakody pointed out that a pool belonging to a licensed guest-house, be it a swimming pool or a natural pool, falls within the quality control measures of the SLTDA. He added that all guest-houses must be Tourist Board registered, and places not registered were illegal. ?Operating without a license is illegal for a restaurant, guest-house or tourist hotel. A license is not optional, it is mandatory under the Tourism Act of 2005. The Enforcement Unit of SLTDA is pursuing legal action against service providers who repeatedly ignore our warnings to obtain a valid license,? he warned. He added that nearly 50 percent of hotels and similar service providers operating in Sri Lanka were not registered.? ?
Regulations made under Section 49(1) of the Tourism Act No. 38 of 2005 states that precautions should be taken in sea-side hotels and hotels with swimming pools for the safety of the users. Further, cautionary and warning signs conforming to international standards must be displayed prominently. Depth markings and internationally accepted safety signs should be permanently displayed, and suitably qualified lifeguards should be available at pools. Further, the hotel should be covered by Comprehensive Hoteliers? Insurance Policy including public liability and workmen?s compensation. But whether all hotels adhere to such laws and standards is doubtful, especially in the context of many remaining unregistered.? ?
?The public should check if their hotel is licensed before checking-in. The SLTDA urges the public to use licensed tourism service providers as they have to adhere to strict quality controls,? Mr. Jayakody said. He said that under the Tourism Act it was mandatory to inspect such establishments annually. ?Pre-requisition of the fire safety certificate and insurance policy covering public liability is mandatory in order to register or renew the license,?? he stressed.? ?
Recently, a National Plan to reduce drowning-related deaths was introduced. The plan aims at creating public awareness and formulating a risk profile for beaches and waterways in Sri Lanka. It advocates training and forming lifesaving teams, conducting investigations and assessments on drowning and water safety, contributing to tourism development through safe water related activities, formulating water safety rules and regulations, collecting, compiling and preserving data for analysis and evaluation, and establishing a media unit on water safety.? ?
?
"Recently, a National Plan to reduce drowning-related deaths was introduced. The plan aims at creating public awareness and formulating a risk profile for beaches and waterways in Sri Lanka"
The full implementation of this National Plan is urgently needed, especially as incidents of drowning in pools promoted by hotels and guest-houses are preventable. It is imperative that hoteliers take cognizance of required safety measures to prevent drownings and other similar deaths. Where the law is unclear and inadequate,it must be revamped, and authorities must strictly monitor whether adequate safety measures are in place. Violators should be penalized. Mushrooming unregistered illegal guest-houses and hotels further complicate the problem by jeopardizing the lives of guests. Tourists are enticed by promotional material urging them to enjoy the pleasures of nature, and blissfully indulge in water-related activities. In a bid to multiply profits, hoteliers often neglect their guests? safety. If there is no calculated attempt to create awareness of such dangers, authorities will be unable to avert more preventable deaths, and innocent lives will continue to be lost in vain.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: 18-hour water cut in Colombo and suburbs on Saturday, Sunday
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:34 am
18-hour water cut in Colombo and suburbs on Saturday, Sunday
	
An 18-hour water cut will be in effect in Colombo and its suburbs from 8.00 a.m tomorrow (24) till 2.00 a.m on Sunday (25) the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NSWDB ) said.
In a statement the NSWDB said that Colombo, Dehiwela- Mount Lavinia, Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte and Kaduwela Municipality areas will be affected in addition to the Maharagama, Boralesgamuwa and Kolonnawa Urban Councils, Kotikawatta and Mulleriyawa Pradeshiya Sabha areas as well as the Ratmalana and Soysapura housing schemes.
The water cut will be in effect to carry out maintenance work at the Ambatale Water Purification Station, the NSWBD said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Human Hand ? trailblazer of Human Civilization What the signs and lines on Mounts say
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:53 am
Human Hand ? trailblazer of Human Civilization What the signs and lines on Mounts say
	
Astropalm 76
?
Signs and lines on the Mount of Saturn ? Part 3
By A. S. FernandoFigure 1Description:? A star almost in the middle of a double or a triple Girdle of Venus on the Mount of Saturn.Result:? A terrible venereal disease followed by death.?
Figure 2Description:??A star on the line of Fate proceeding deeply into the second finger.?Result:? The subject faces the danger of being assassinated or he is having a murderous tendency.?
Figure: 3Description:? A circle on the Mount of Saturn.Result:?? A favourable sign to be read with other indications on the palm.?
Figure: 4Description:?? A square on the Mount of SaturnResult:? An indication that the subject would escape death from a fire indicated elsewhere on the palm.?
Figure: 5Description:?? A star within a square on the Mount of Saturn.Result:? The subject would escape from being assassinated.?
Figure 6:? ?Description:? A square with red dots at its corners.?Result:? The subject would escape imminent death due to a fire.?
Figure 7:?Description:?A triangle on the Mount of SaturnResult:?A special aptitude for occult sciences
If there is a star on the third phalanx of the second finger in addition to the triangle on the Mount: This aptitude will be used for evil purposes.?
Figure 8:Description:?? A grille on the Mount of SaturnResult:?? Lack of luck in old age and possible imprisonment? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: India gov?t dissolves Kashmir state assembly
## Section: International
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:45 am
India gov?t dissolves Kashmir state assembly
	
?
SRINAGAR AFP Nov22, 2018? -India?s government has dissolved the Kashmir state assembly in a sudden move that could lead to fresh elections and further turmoil in the disputed region also claimed by Pakistan.? ?
The move, which came after two rival local alliances both staked claims to form a government in the heavily-militarised region, was seen to strengthen the hand of the New Delhi government, which has ruled Kashmir directly since June and is gearing up for next year?s general election.? ?
Prime Minister Narendra Modi?s hand-picked governor said he dissolved the legislature late Wednesday in the absence of stable government in Jammu and Kashmir, in India?s far north.? ?
Satya Pal Malik said late Wednesday that elections would be held ?at an appropriate time so that a government with a clear mandate is duly formed?.? ?
Malik is the first politician to be appointed governor of Jammu and Kashmir in decades, with the role traditionally reserved for non-political figures.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Indian Hindu group expects 300,000 at temple rallies
## Section: International
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:46 am
Indian Hindu group expects 300,000 at temple rallies
	
?
NEW DELHI AFP Nov22, 2018-Some 300,000 Indians are expected to rally this weekend to press for a Hindu temple to be built at a disputed site where a mosque was destroyed in 1992, organisers said Thursday.? ?
The demolition by mobs of the mosque at Ayodhya in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh sparked nationwide riots in which thousands were killed, most of them Muslims.? ?
Many Hindus believe the Babri Mosque was only built after the destruction of a temple on the same spot that marks the birthplace of their god Ram, and the issue remains hugely divisive.? ?
With legal wranglings dragging on for years, the right-wing nationalist group Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) wants parliament to pass a law for the construction of the temple.? ?
On Sunday it expects 300,000 people to attend three rallies -- in Ayodhya, in Nagpur in central India and in Bangalore in the south, a spokesman said.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Inking FTAs only after adopting trade policy: Bandula
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 06:22 am
Inking FTAs only after adopting trade policy: Bandula
	
The new government will sign Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with other countries only after the adoption of a national trade policy, International Trade Minister Bandula Gunawardane said yesterday.
He told Daily Mirror that he submitted a Cabinet memorandum seeking approval to appoint a committee to study this matter and make recommendations to formulate a national trade policy.
?FTAs will be signed only after the national trade policy frame is approved. It is a requirement stipulated by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to be considered by any country in striking a bilateral trade agreement. The policy will apply to the Economic and Technology Cooperation (ETCA) agreement to be signed with India. When signing a bilateral trade agreement, it has to be a win-win situation. The previous government had adopted a trade policy detrimental to the interests of local industries. It appeases foreigners only,? he said.
When asked about the FTA with Singapore, he said the commission, appointed by President Maithripala Sirisena to evaluate it, would submit its full report later. ?Once that is done, we will move forward,? he said. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Joy...
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 23 November 2018 09:12 am
Joy...
	
Lahiru Madhushanka, who languished in prison in the Maldives for three years, arrived, last night and was reunited with his family and loved ones. Pictures courtesy - Amnesty International South Asia
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lahiru reunites with his loved ones
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 08:30 am
Lahiru reunites with his loved ones
	
Lahiru Madhushanka, who languished in prison in the Maldives for three years accused of involvement in a plot to assassinate a Maldivian President and had been acquitted and released by a court, arrived at the Bandaranaike International Airport last night and was reunited with his family and loved ones.
The driver, Madhushanka arrived in the Maldives to seek a business opportunity in 2015 and suddenly found himself accused of being a highly trained sniper trying to kill President Abdulla Yameen.
On 23 October 2015, while waiting for a flight back to Sri Lanka, he was arrested at the airport by plainclothes police who accused him of being involved in a plot to assassinate President Abdulla Yameen.
His family and lawyer said he had since been repeatedly denied access to legal representation, and while in custody had been subject to ill-treatment including prolonged solitary confinement and beatings with cables that caused him to temporarily lose hearing in one ear.
Earlier, the Amnesty International condemned the ?Cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment? of a Sri Lankan detained in the Maldives, saying he had been beaten and tortured.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Listening to all sides is part of our job: Envoys
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 03:32 pm
Listening to all sides is part of our job: Envoys
	
Responding to criticism directed at foreign envoys for meeting with local party representatives, German Ambassador Joern Rohde said that listening to all sides was a part of their job.
Speaking for his foreign counterparts, the German Ambassador stated that the criticism directed at the Canadian High Commissioner and members of the diplomatic community over whom they meet with was unfair.
?Last Tuesday around a dozen envoys including the Canadian High Commissioner and myself met with four leading UFPA MPs and Ministers on their request. We respected their request for confidentiality. Afterwards we were invited to meet the TNA leadership. Diplomatic Community also had meetings with President, Speaker and other stakeholders. To listen to all sides is part of our job!? he tweeted.
Retweeting Ambassador Rohde, Canadian High Commissioner David McKinnon also said, ?As my diplomatic colleague says, "To listen to all sides is part of our job.?
Earlier this week, UPFA MP Namal Rajapaksa said UNP, JVP and TNA politicians should meet the people of Sri Lanka rather than the representatives of the international community.
?Interesting to see UNP, JVP and TNA politicians meeting with the members of the international community. Perhaps if more effort was given towards meeting with the people of Sri Lanka and paying heed to their hope for elections, Sri Lanka can finally achieve its fullest potential,? the parliamentarian tweeted.
Canadian High Commissioner David McKinnon replying to Rajapaksa said, ?You might ask some of your Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna colleagues who they?re meeting with,?
Rajapaksa then thanked the High Commissioner for his engagement. ?Recalling that Sri Lanka remains a sovereign nation and home to a brilliant people, the leaders of Sri Lanka, whoever they may be, should focus on engaging with Sri Lankan people and solving their concerns, including their call for elections,? he replied. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lunugamwehera Spills
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 23 November 2018 05:50 am
Lunugamwehera Spills
	
Spill gates of the Lunugamwehera Reservoir were opened yesterday owing to the heavy showers experienced in catchment areas. The DMC requested people living in the downstream to be vigilant of rising water levels. Pic by Rukman Rathnayaka - Kataragama
 
		
==============================
## Title: May seals Brexit  pact on future  EU relations
## Section: International
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:52 am
May seals Brexit  pact on future  EU relations
	
Theresa May secured a breakthrough in the negotiations over a political declaration (Daily Mail)??
?
Theresa May said she had ?honoured the referendum? today after dramatically sealing her Brexit deal with Brussels.? ?
The Prime Minister hailed the outcome after negotiators reached agreement on the final element of the package - covering future trade.? ?
In a statement outside Downing Street, Mrs May said: ?This is the right deal for the UK. It delivers on the result of the referendum.?? ?
In a stark message to MPs as an historic Commons showdown looms, Mrs May added: ?The British people want this to be settled. They want to get a deal that sets us on a course for a brighter future.? ?
?That deal is within our grasp and I am determined to deliver it.?? ?
The rallying call came after EU Council President Donald Tusk said the ?future framework? outlining terms of a trade deal had been agreed by negotiators.? ?
It has now been sent to EU capitals ahead of a summit in Brussels on Sunday - which could yet be derailed by last-minute wrangling from Spain over Gibraltar.? ?
In possible concessions to help Mrs May get the deal through the Commons, the 26-page document makes clear that Britain will have an ?independent trade policy?.? ?
And it stresses both sides? ?determination to replace the backstop? for the Irish border with alternative plans in future -potentially reviving the ?Max Fac? solution favoured by Brexiteers.? ?
The pact confirms that free movement will end, which could be seen as a win for the PM - but also states that the UK will not discriminate between nationals from different EU countries.? ?
UK, (Daily Mail), 22 November 2018? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel emerges ?Service Brand of the Year ? Gold? winner for second consecutive year at SLIM
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:24 am
Mobitel emerges ?Service Brand of the Year ? Gold? winner for second consecutive year at SLIM
	
Led by its promise of ?We Care. Always.? - Mobitel is committed to driving its customer service to unprecedented levels, resulting in being crowned with the highly-coveted ?Service Brand of the Year ? Gold? at the 2018 SLIM Brand Excellence awards, held at Shangri-La Hotel on 15th November 2018. The SLIM Brand Excellence Awards is a celebration of brand excellence at the national level and rewards outstanding efforts of outstanding marketers. Winning the coveted accolade for the second straight year in a row is no mean feat and requires a sustained level of excellence and resilience despite various external challenges and a rapidly evolving industry. Rightly so, the SLIM Brand Excellence Awards translates as industry recognition of the motivation, dedication and hard work that great marketers such as Team Mobitel have demonstrated in building brand champions. SLIM?s efforts to render marketing the driving force in the economy ensures that it evaluates factors such as the significance and direct benefits of marketing strategies to an organisation.
Care is embedded in Mobitel?s DNA and its customer-centric approach has ensured that all its products empower the consumer by infusing convenience and speed. Taking to heart its role as national mobile service provider, Mobitel has introduced ground-breaking innovations such as IoT and expanded its offerings beyond the realm of telecommunications by foraying into transportation, education, health, security, leisure and mobile money sectors, thereby offering greater value to customers.?
As the national body of marketing, the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) encourages strategic and result-oriented thinking in the fields of brand development, sales, advertising and research through events such as the SLIM Brand Excellence Awards, NASCO, the Effies and the People?s Awards.? All relevant information and documentation will be available on the SLIM Brand Excellence website www.slimbe.lk
 
		
==============================
## Title: 121 MPs approve composition of PSC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:14 am
121 MPs approve composition of PSC
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya announced that 121 MPs have voted in favour of the composition of the Parliament Select Committee (PSC) during the vote which was held a short while ago.
?
?
Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Napping politico was sent hopping mad
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:09 am
Napping politico was sent hopping mad
	
?
A prominent politico had fallen asleep while participating in a very important conference at national level.?
?
Meanwhile, a picture of this politico in deep slumber at the very conference had appeared on the Facebook and his son had rung him up immediately to convey the disturbing news.
On hearing that somebody had posted his picture on the Facebook the politico had gone into a rage and interrupting the proceedings he had started blackguarding everyone in general for trying to bring him into disrepute.
The bigwig who was presiding over the conference had immediately ordered an inquiry into the incident.
However, it was rumored later that a sidekick of the bigwig who presided over the conference had posted the picture.
 
		
==============================
## Title: On the dimensions of Colombo-phobia
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:43 am
On the dimensions of Colombo-phobia
	
?
A friend of mine, who suggested on Facebook that democracy touting Colombo 7 liberals have been calling Maithripala Sirisena a gamarala and a gramasevaka, got the following reply from an irate Colombo citizen: ?Those insults came from the SLFP when he contested.? This same friend, when he suggested that ?Colombo 7 wants democracy but not elections?, got an even pithier response: ?Aren?t they Sri Lankan citizens too?? To which the friend retorted: ?Supposedly.?? ?
?Both sides have a point. Colombo, specifically Colombo 7, hasn?t exactly been quiet about its preferred political outcomes when it comes to its rhetoric about democracy and good governance. On the other hand, Pamankada is as much a part of this country as Alimankada and for this reason, dishing the blame for the country?s problems to a specific suburb is as self-defeating as claiming that what this country needs is a leader from Cinnamon Gardens and Colpetty.? ?
When Malinda Seneviratne once suggested that residents of these places would be perfectly happy to secede from the rest of the country and install the Queen as their head of state, he was indulging in caricature. Many of those who bash Colombo today, however, are not indulging in that sort of caricature. They are indulging in invective. The anger of these bashers, in that sense, is more complicated.? ?
At one level it?s a reaction against the simplifications many of those from Colombo tout. It is true that Sirisena was branded as a gamarala and godaya and gramasevaka negatively by the SLFP (before he won the 2015 election), but as commentators like Seneviratne have observed, long before Sirisena thought of defecting, those same Colombo democracy-loving good governance-fetishising citizens minced no words in their insults against Mahinda Rajapaksa over the latter?s rural roots.? ?
Sure, it?s hard to say whether those insults were motivated by a sustained antipathy from their end towards the non English speaking majority, but it?s not hard to say that they were provoked in part at least by anger at seeing an ?outsider? calling the shots in their part of the world. That the UNP, the preferred party, scrounged up the highest number of votes (101,920) and seats (24) FROM THE WHOLE COUNTRY at the 2011 Local Government election in Colombo, DESPITE the Urban Development Authority?s unparalleled beautification drive (spearheaded by Gotabaya Rajapaksa), confirmed just where this milieu?s loyalties were. They also confirmed what Rosy Senanayake once remarked during her campaign as the UNP?s candidate for Mayor of the City: that Colombo was the heart of the Party. ?Is Buttala its buttocks then?? Malinda asked. Tongue-in-cheek, of course.? ?
Given these facts, equating Colombo with everything anti-Rajapaksa and anti-Sirisena and equating everything anti-Rajapaksa and anti-Sirisena with everything anti-rural and anti-outstation is not the sign of political reductionism some cut it out to be. On the other hand, that this means a vast majority of Colombo residents are opposed to those outstation areas is a hasty conclusion to jump to. If at all, it betrays the critics? inability to see beyond simplistic binaries, since in their discourse, Colombo is ?bad? and outside-Colombo is ?good.? (If there?s a single statistic proving this dichotomy beyond a shadow of a doubt, I am yet to come across it.)? ?
Let?s get some perspective here. What is Colombo? It is a city spanning an area of 37 square kilometres extending from the four storey households of Cinnamon Gardens to the two roomed apartments of Pamankada. It begins just after Kohuwela, Nugegoda, and Dehiwela in the south and ends in Mattakkuliya up north. It houses those who attend Colombo International and reside in Ward Place as well as those who attend Royal College and reside in the shanties of Thimbirigasyaya.? ?
The national majority (Sinhalese and Buddhist) make up less than 50 percent of the population, while the figures for Tamils, Muslims, and other minorities exceed their corresponding national percentages. Like most capital cities, it drains people from the rest of the country, provoking a massive rural-urban exodus. The population density, the highest in Sri Lanka (more than 50,000 per square mile), which this exodus serves to compound, makes strange bedfellows out of racial diversity and social disparity: an engineer can expect an opening monthly salary of Rs. 45,000 living in an annexe with a monthly rent of Rs. 15,000, while the driver of the Uber you just hailed sleeps in his cab parked next to a kiosk every night. It is home to both opulence and poverty, both amity and bigotry. In short, it is a world inhabited, and shared, by two cultures.? ?
?
"Colombo, specifically Colombo 7, hasn?t exactly been quiet about its preferred political outcomes when it comes to its rhetoric about democracy and good governance"
Colombo is the biggest city in the country. Can we jump to conclusions about its inhabitants the way we can (and do) regarding the inhabitants of other cities, villages, districts, and provinces? Can we say, for instance, that the people of Colombo lack patriotism and that this shows in their voting preferences? I hardly think so. Yes, it is home to Colombo-is-our-heart-wielding rhetoric politicos like Senanayake, but it also was home to S. L. Gunasekara and Lakshman Kadirgamar. Did they lack nationalist credentials? No. Did their actions validate those credentials? Yes. How can we say, then, that patriotism is the preserve of the outstations?? ?
The brutal truth is that it is easy to spit invective at privilege. Easy to confuse privilege for contempt. Easy to howl against it while writing about it within the confines of a leisured existence. That is not, however, how radicalism is bred. That is how armchair radicalism is bred: you rant against institutions of privilege while being perched atop those very same institutions. I should know the hypocrisy behind this. I dabbled in it once myself.? ?
When Gustavo Arellano argued, in an article written to the L. A. Times days after the Woolsey fire began devouring parts of Los Angeles this month, that it was ?futile to spend millions saving homes? in Malibu (one of the richest suburbs in the area) since it was created ?not for love of the great outdoors or frontier rusticity, but rather as thickets of privacy against L.A.?s working classes?, he enraged a great many readers, one of whom, in a reply, indicted the article as ?horribly insensitive.?? ?
Driven by anger, this reader added, ?When a tragedy strikes, can?t he just see the grief and the humanity?? For him, what made matters worse was Arellano referring to a seminal critique of suburban privilege by Mike Davis (City of Quartz) titled ?The Case for Letting Malibu Burn?, in which he describes Malibu and other wealthy cities as ?white flight havens? that have barricaded the bourgeoisie against social minorities. Davis?s argument, deeply compelling to me, incorporates Marxist analysis and social theory. It is a sound thesis, in other words, not a series of hysterical outbursts against the ?elitism? of the city dweller.? ?
?
"Colombo bashers are fond of claiming that Western models do not work out in non settler colonial countries like Sri Lanka. They are fond of criticising the IMF and the World Bank for bullying us into accepting Western metrics"
?What makes it reductionist to apply such an argument to Colombo is that in Sri Lanka, for the most, the urban-rural ?white flight? exodus was never as rampant as it was and is in other parts of the world, the DEVELOPING world included. Colombo, then, is not the barricade against social minorities these armchair bashers paint it out to be, nor is it the exclusive or near-exclusive preserve of those who wish to create, and sustain, a rift between themselves and the outstations.? ?
Yes, there are those who look down on the social other. Yes, there are those who have profited from the ?kolambata kiri gamata kekiri? dichotomy that years of privatisation, deregulation, and mass public sector pilferage have facilitated. But then there must be a sense of proportion. Colombo is not Malibu. Nor is it Los Angeles. Nor will it ever be a Malibu or a Los Angeles, even with a dictatorial rule under the UNP. And why? Because for every insular ?Kolombian?, there will be a great many active citizens who care for, and love, this country, regardless of petty political preferences.? ?
Colombo bashers are fond of claiming that Western models do not work out in non settler colonial countries like Sri Lanka. They are fond of criticising the IMF and the World Bank for bullying us into accepting Western metrics. At the same time, they don?t see any problem in resorting to Western scholars, Marxist or otherwise, in their critiques of urbanisation and urban privilege. They are anti-Western when it comes to capitalism and pro-Western when it comes to diatribes against capitalism. Depending on how you see it, this is a sign of intellectual bankruptcy or hypocrisy. The end result is the same: we have not produced an original thinker, an original radical, who is on par with, but is also not an imitation of, a Mike Davis.? ?
That friend I mentioned at the beginning, by the way, posted a comment on Arellano?s article: ?... if Colombo had been wiped out by the tsunami, the entire country would have developed overnight.? Mike Davis wanted a fire. Our radicals want a tsunami. Between the one and the other, I can?t spot out much of a difference. Can you?? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament adjourned till Tuesday
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:29 am
Parliament adjourned till Tuesday
	
The parliament session was adjourned till November 27, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said. Accordingly, the session would be convened at 1.00 pm on Tuesday 27th.
On Thursday 29th, the session would be convened at 10.00 am.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders? meeting commenced
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 09:33 am
Party leaders? meeting commenced
	
A Party Leaders Meeting, chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya commenced at the Parliamentary complex a short while ago to discuss the today?s agenda in Parliament as well as the appointing of members to the Parliament Select Committee.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders meeting ends, no agreement on PSC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:14 am
Party leaders meeting ends, no agreement on PSC
	
The party leaders meeting which was convened this morning had been concluded a short while ago without reaching any agreement on the Parliament Select Committee?s (PSC) composition.
?
Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: PLASTIC SURGERY The ultimate cure for birth injuries
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:03 am
PLASTIC SURGERY The ultimate cure for birth injuries
	
?
Health Capsule did an interview with Dr. Shashanka Rathnayake, Consultant Plastic and Reconstruction Surgeon, Teaching Hospital, Kandy on the subject of plastic surgery. This method is used to provide ultimate cure for babies who present with birth injuries.?
Excerpts:
QHow could child birth trauma (injury) lead to paralysis of the upper limb?
?There is a network of nerves supplying the upper limb and it is called brachial plexus. This can be stretched because of a difficult labour as it is happening in a classical motor bike accident featuring a young adult.?
The incidence is about 1.5 per 1000 live births in United States and we do not know the exact incidence in Sri Lanka. The main cause is overweight newborns trying to come through the birth passage. The vulnerability is high when the shoulder tries to come before the head leading to the stretching of the nerves going to the upper limb. Often the infant may have undergone forceps or vacuum delivery. Although it appears to be the fault of the team looking after childbirth, the incidence has not reduced even in countries like the United States which has all the modern facilities for a safe delivery. There is some evidence to say that the injury occurs before the newborn comes out of the birth passage and also cases have been reported even after caesarian section. Therefore, it is important to find a solution for this unfortunate injury rather than try to find fault and accuse somebody.
?
Q What is the role of the plastic surgeon in the management of this unfortunate injury?
?During the last decade the management of this injury has undergone much advancements although it is little bit late to reach Sri Lanka. So far most of these cases are being looked after by the physiotherapists and no active management is happening. When the newborn child has paralyzed upper limb due to birth injury to the brachial plexus, the parents are usually reassured saying that it is going to recover without issues. The percentage of recovery of most of the obstetrician would tell is about 80% of full recovery. In fact, this is good consolation for the parents to hear that it is going to recover without any intervention. However, in reality, the possibility of complete recovery of the injury is about 30% without any residual deformity. Although the rest is going to have recovery, there will invariably be some deformity. Unfortunately, many clinicians as well as physiotherapists looking after these patients do not have updated knowledge regarding the proper management of this unfortunate injury.
?The plastic surgeons involved in the reconstruction of the damaged plexus do the repairing of the damaged nerves by nerve grafting and nerve transfers and correction of the secondary deformities by tendon transfers and muscle transfers.
?
Q What are the types of neonatal brachial plexus palsy and how do you manage them?
There are three main types of brachial plexus injuries. The classification is based on the extent of the damage. There are five spinal nerves supplying the upper limb. They are 5th, 6th,7th Cervical nerves and 1st Thoracic nerve. The 5th Cervical nerve involve shoulder movements, 6th Cervical nerve involve elbow flexion, 7th cervical nerve involve Elbow extension, 8th cervical nerve involve wrist and finger flexion and 1st thoracic Nerve involve finger fine movements.
?When 5th and 6th cervical nerves are gone it is called and upper plexus injury and this is called the Erb?s palsy. When the 5th, 6th and 7th nerves are gone it is called extended upper plexus injury and when all five nerves are involved it is a pan plexus injury.It is possible to completely recover from upper plexus injuries without any residual deformity. These subcategories would recover fast from the paralysis following the birth injury during the initial 2 months. However, most of the upper plexus patients take 3-6 months to recover. These patients do not need a surgical intervention for nerve reconstruction urgently. However, there is a very high probability of having some residual deformity in most of these patients although they recover some movements of the shoulder and elbow.
?The infants with an Upper plexus injury who are not recovering well after 6 months would need surgical exploration and reconstruction with nerve grafting (bridging the gap with the use of a dispensable nerve taken from same infant). The extended upper plexus and pan plexus injuries are usually due to severe force on the neck to stretch the nerves and usually recover very poorly. Therefore, usually they have to be explored and reconstructed after 3 months.The brachial plexus injury exploration and reconstruction in infancy is a major operation. It usually takes 6-8 hours. This is mainly due to the very slow dissection and meticulous repair of the damaged nerves. Post operatively the infant recover from the surgical trauma fast. However, the nerves have to grow from the repaired place to the target muscle. The rate of the growth is 1mm per day and it would take at least 3-4 months for the shoulder to function and 6-7 months for the elbow to function. It would take about a year for the hand to function after a nerve reconstruction at the neck.Therefore, it is important to understand appropriate referral to a plastic surgeon who does these kind of surgery early in order to plan the management. I would like to suggest that getting an opinion from a plastic surgeon when the baby is around two months of age would be important. The mere continuing of physiotherapy may end up in a deformity of the limb which otherwise would have?
been reconstructed.
?The muscles of our body have got receptors or sensors to detect electrical signal sent to them through the nerves. There is a progressive loss of these receptors after the nerve injury. After about 18 months there won?t be an adequate number of receptors to produce useful? limb movement.Pan plexus injuries should be corrected as early as 3 months since the time taken for the nerve to regrow after the repair is slow as 1 mm per day. It is important to realise that each day matters for the ultimate recovery. Unfortunately, some parents seek alternative treatments and present late losing the best chances of solid recovery. It is very important to realise that modern imaging with MRI scanning cannot clearly comment the degree of injury and predict the extent of recovery. Unfortunately, some of our parents are having faith in alternative medicine in contrast to the evidenced based medicine.
?
Q What is going to happen to the infants with upper plexus injuries (kids with only shoulder and elbow affected) who recover slowly between 3-6 months?
?This subgroup of patients is mismanaged mostly. These kids are going to develop a few deformities during recovery.It is very important to understand that the re-innervation or regrowth of the nerves to the muscles does not happen in an expected way. Often there is cross innervation of the muscles (one nerve supplying more than one muscle) leading to co contracture of the muscles (contraction of two muscles when one is expected to contract). For instance, there can be co-contracture of elbow flexors and extensor when elbow flexion is attempted by the kids. This could result in lack of elbow flexion. In some cases, the shoulder abduction is combined with elbow flexion due to cross innervation.The other reason for deformities in recovering upper plexus injury is mainly due to muscle imbalance of the shoulder?s internal rotators and external rotators. The reason for this is we have four muscles for internal rotation of the shoulder and two muscles for internal rotation. This power imbalance leads to internal rotation contracture of the shoulder (increasing inability to do external rotation of the shoulder) and secondary bony deformities of the shoulder joint. When there is increasing resistance to external rotation there can be therapy happening forcefully which could cause more and more problems. The end result is posterior subluxation (Partial dislocation) of the shoulder joint. These patients are going to have severe deformity of the shoulder for the rest of their life and also the limb growth of affected side would be impaired and result in a short limb.
?
Q What can be done for these patients from a surgical perspective?
The kids having internal rotation contracture of the shoulder due to muscle imbalance can be treated with shoulder muscle transfers successfully. In simple words the operation changes the muscle direction of pull by changing the muscle attachment to the bone. When one or two internal rotators are transferred for external rotation the power balance disappears.When it is performed at the correct time the development of deformity would be minimised and result in an equal size limbs functioning almost normally. In some cases, these patients could be helped with Botox injections. The elbow joint deformities are also common. There could be pronation deformity and supination deformity. It is possible to correct these also by tendon transfer or tendon rerouting techniques.The pan plexus injury patients develop wrist and hand deformities when allowed to recover spontaneously. Most of these deformities could be helped by surgical procedures to restore some function of the hand useful for the patient. Although the patient has missed the best chance of recovery during infancy with nerve reconstruction.
?
Q Are there any other modalities of treatment other than surgery for this kind of problems?
?For a long time, the faith was on physiotherapy and it has been clearly proven that vigorous physiotherapy alone cannot prevent the deformities although it is important to follow physiotherapist advise to keep the joints from getting stiff. Early cases of shoulder and elbow deformities may be helped with Botox injections without surgical intervention. As far as I know there is no other alternative or complimentary medicine with proven effect for this problem. One should not waste time trying out alternative medicines when there is proven treatment.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez has no moral right to speak of decency
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 09:40 pm
Prez has no moral right to speak of decency
	
JVP leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake said today President Maithripala Sirisena, who so blatantly violated the Constitution by setting up an illegal government had no moral right to speak of decency and correctness in the fight against his unconstitutional acts.
He told parliament that the President's political coup violated his mandate, the Constitution and decency and that they were fighting against this coup.
The no-confidence motion presented by the JVP against the illegal government was passed under Standing Orders and Parliamentary tradition and the President should now take action based on it without looking for loopholes.
"Head of the Parliament is the Speaker not the President. President has no right to question the decisions taken by Parliament. The President also has to abide by the Constitution. He should now appoint a new government and a Prime Minister without plunging the country into further chaos, crisis and instability," he said.
Mr. Dissanayake said with enactment of the 19th Amendment, the executive could not overpower the legislature.
"The core of the 19th Amendment was to strengthen Parliament. The provision of the Constitution for the President to dissolve parliament was removed by the 19th Amendment," he said and added that if the President continued to violate the Constitution, they would consider taking action against him.
Mr. Dissanayake said the shortcomings of the UNP government had led to the conspiracy. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PSC: Speaker allocates five members each from UPFA, UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:38 am
PSC: Speaker allocates five members each from UPFA, UNP
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya today decided to allocate five members each from the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) and the United National Party (UNP) to the Parliament Select Committee (PSC).
He also allocated one member each from the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) and the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) to the PSC.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Recognising top sales achievers - Sri Lanka Insurance holds Life Congress 2018
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 04:48 pm
Recognising top sales achievers - Sri Lanka Insurance holds Life Congress 2018
	
The SLIC Life Congress 2018 was held at the Shangri-La's Hambantota Golf Resort & Spa from 08th to 09th November 2018 amidst of much splendor to honour ?the top performers in the Life Insurance category.
Sri Lanka Insurance Life Congress is organized annually by SLIC to award and recognise the outstanding performances of SLIC Sales Force. In 2018 over 275 achievers were awarded with certificates and foreign tours for European and Asian countries for their achievements under the respective business categories
The sales achievers who achieved the highest levels at a competition held from January to June were qualified to attend this prestigious two-day residential congress. The event comprised of sessions carried out by Bhathiya Arthanayake, a well known motivator and personal skill developer and Kelum Weligama, a popular life coach and a lecturer of personal development. Members from Top management of SLIC were presented at the Life Congress 2018.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Singer Lifestyle Exhibition and Fun Fair
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 23 November 2018 05:29 pm
Singer Lifestyle Exhibition and Fun Fair
	
Singer Lifestyle Exhibition and Fun Fair was launched at the BMICH yesterday. The exhibition which includes clothing and accessories, home appliances and furniture would be held today and tomorrow as well from 10 am to 9 pm. Daily musical shows and entertainment events would also be held at the exhibition. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel? ? ?
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker asks CID to probe fake letter
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 07:47 pm
Speaker asks CID to probe fake letter
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya?said today he had asked the CID to carry out an investigation on the fake letters that have been put out with his signature.
He said this in response to a question raised by UNP MP S.M. Marikar.
?We have asked the CID to carry out an investigation on fake letters in order to determine as to who was behind them,? the Speaker said.
UNP MP Ravi Karunanayake then asked Speaker as whom he suspects might be behind the move.
Speaker said he cannot arrive at any conclusions till the investigations were completed However he said it has been confirmed that no one in Parliament was behind it. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka has successfully turned to biological control
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:37 am
Sri Lanka has successfully turned to biological control
	
To win the battle against pests and weeds
?
	Members of native flora can also become weedy due to the activities of man
	
	
	Initial attempts made to control weeds and pests were based on mechanical approach supplemented by chemical control
	
	
	Though biological control sound novel, Sri Lanka has been using this control from the past
	
?
Sri Lanka is a country with a population of over 21 million. Being an agricultural country, crop yields have a huge impact on the economy, social well-being and the livelihoods of people. Spread of pests and weeds has become a major threat to the native fauna and flora in Sri Lanka. Several sectors, such as agriculture, irrigation and the native bio-diversity have been affected by them.??
Aquatic weed menace
Majority of the farming community relies on irrigation water for agricultural activities. Most of the cultivation is carried out in the dry zone experiencing periodic droughts during the cropping season. Reservoirs and integrated irrigation networks have been developed over the centuries to serve the need. Excessive growth of aquatic weeds is one of the reasons that restrict the potential benefits of these inland water bodies.??
Invasive Alien Species
Typically, a species becomes a pest/weed due to an imbalance in the ecosystem whereby they develop an increased fitness, which makes them more competitive in exploiting an ecosystem. Most pests and weeds are alien species, which become invasive to a natural environment. Alien pests can accompany any live material that the public usually bring in their luggage from different regions or countries. Water hyacinth (?Japan Jabara?) has been brought intentionally for ornamental purposes, while Salvinia for experimental purposes, which have now turned into Invasive Alien Species (AIS).??
Members of native flora can also become weedy due to the activities of man. Land disturbances favour plant species with rapid growth rates and high seed production. Thus, although natural enemies (organisms that naturally control other organisms) are present, they survive poorly and operate slowly and inefficiently within the ecosystem, favouring the rapid population increase of the host plant. Some local examples are ?Lotus? and ?Pan? species. Plant species, such as ?Gandapana? and? ?Yodha Nidikumba? have also become invasive in Sri Lanka, posing a threat to both agricultural and natural ecosystems (e.g. national parks).??
Switching from mechanical control to biological control?
Initial attempts made to control weeds and pests were based on mechanical approach supplemented by chemical control. It resulted in a high yield with better quality. However, the use of chemicals has many deleterious effects, such as resistance to pesticides/weedicides, high cost, safety issues, short-term control requiring repeated applications and the threat to favourable organisms and aquatic systems. Due to rapid multiplication of the weeds and pests and the relatively low efficacy of control methods, subsequently, control attempts were diverted towards biological control.??
?
Advantages of biological control?
Biological control is a human activity of manipulating natural enemies to reduce or suppress the pest/weed population below the economic threshold level. The agents involved in biological control are termed as Biological Control Agents (BCA). Bacteria, viruses, fungi, nematodes and insects are utilized as agents in biological control. They infect the pest or weed through direct penetration or by spores. Their mode of action has a vast variation; some act as organisms themselves through competition, predation, parasitism, and induction of plant resistance, while others produce chemical substances (antibiotics, toxins) harmful for the host organism. Though they have some drawbacks like slow action, low persistence when exposed to solar UV, high cost of production and lack of awareness among growers, they are still eco friendly. Moreover, biological control has many advantages over mechanical or chemical control; safety, limited host range (very low risk to non-target organisms), low cost, less frequent applications, sustainability and the ability to control viral diseases for which no chemical control is available.??
Though biological control sound novel, Sri Lanka has been using this control from the past. The coconut leaf miner which devastated coconut cultivation, the beet leaf minor which was a threat to the vegetable cultivation in the hill country and the Guava white fly which killed many guava trees even in-home gardens were completely eradicated or kept under control by imported parasitoids.? ?
The Salvinia weevil has helped successful control of Salvinia in most of the aquatic habitats at low elevations. The mottled water hyacinth weevil and the chevroned water hyacinth weevil brought from Thailand have been introduced to control water hyacinth.? ?
Damping off disease caused by fungal pathogens at the nursery stage of big onion is a major constraint on its production. Scientific studies have been carried out to assess the ability of selected Trichoderma sp. isolated from local onion fields in suppressing the damping off pathogen Fusarium sp., which is known to be an effective method worldwide.??
The Papaya Mealybug (?Piti Makuna?) is an alien invasive insect species feeding on many plant species. Due to the nature of the pest and the variety of host plants it attacks, insecticidal control is not practicable. Therefore, a parasitic insect named Acrorhaguspapaya,already proved to be successful elsewhere, is to be introduced to our country.??
Minimizing negative impacts of biological control
The main mission in developing a BCA is to have a minimal disruptive influence upon the environment and its inhabitants for sustainable and environmentally compatible management. However, there is always a doubt when introducing another species to control a pest/ weed, since it can also impact native flora and fauna, alternative vegetation and compete to establish itself in that environment. Some BCAs have failed in the controlling process due to the use of general predators (e.g. Lady bird beetles). Therefore, during the introduction of a BCA it is very important to carry out host specific studies. Today, under the International Plant Protection Convention there are international guidelines for safe importation and release of biological control agents. Those with strict and properly functioning quarantine regulations will minimize the negative impacts of biological control.??
Importance of discovering new Biological Control Agents
Since Sri Lanka consists of a great diversity and endemism in flora and fauna, our ecosystems might be potential sources of BCAs. Indigenous knowledge is a valuable source in finding out new BCA. Financial and technological support from the governmental departments, universities and private organizations is very important in the process of invention and commercialization of new BCAs.??
Making headway the biological control way!
Strengthening the commercial natural enemy industry, promoting research and educating the usage of BCAs, developing quality certification programmes for BCAs, implementing necessary legal procedures (Water Hyacinth Act, Plant Protection Act) and awareness programmes on environmental concern in our society augur well for the way foreward in controlling pests and weeds.??
(The writer is an undergraduate of the Faculty of Science, University of Colombo)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan rupee hits record low of 180
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:42 am
Sri Lankan rupee hits record low of 180
	
The Sri Lankan rupee hit a record low of 180.6606 against the US Dollar today. According to the exchange rates of the Central Bank, the selling price of the rupee was recorded as 180.6606 against the US Dollar.
The indicative price was 178.3986 while the buying price was 176.7204.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tax dodger carries on regardless
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:12 am
Tax dodger carries on regardless
	
?
A company running a factory has defaulted on tax payments amounting to some Rs.190 million, but the authorities concerned had failed to act either to recover the tax monies or to take punitive action against the company.
?
The company owner is said to be closely connected to a prominent politico.?
By the way, the authorities concerned when questioned, had cited the current unstable political situation as the excuse for not taking necessary steps to suspend the production operations of the factory, they say.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Teenager and parents killed in head-on collision
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 06:09 pm
Teenager and parents killed in head-on collision
	
A teenager and his father and mother were killed in a head-on collision between the three-wheeler they were travelling in and a jeep at Walmilla in Bandaragama this afternoon.
They died on admission to the Bandaragama Hospital.
The police identified the man as 47-year-old Susantha Jayalath, his wife as 40-year-old Shirani Uyangoda and their son as 15-year-old Nadeera Shehan, who were residents of Karandeniya.
The jeep driver was arrested and the Police are carrying out further investigations. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The global launch of Sri Lanka?s most exclusive residential development celebrated at the Dorchester
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:07 pm
The global launch of Sri Lanka?s most exclusive residential development celebrated at the Dorchester
	
Sri Lanka?s most exclusive residential development, Sapphire Residences, celebrated its global launch on Wednesday 14th November in the prestigious surroundings of The Dorchester in London, in the presence of Her Excellency Manisha Gunasekera, Sri Lankan High Commissioner to the United Kingdom.?
?
Over 150 guests attended the reception, which was hosted in the magnificent Holford and Orchid Suites. The itinerary included speeches by Her Excellency Manisha Gunasekera, Arun Pathak (MD, WelcomHotels Lanka), Patrick Cooke (Editor, Oxford Business Group) and John Hitchcox (Chairman, YOO) and a short film "The Making of an Icon".? Guests were treated to a menu with a Sri Lankan twist especially created for the occasion by The Dorchester?s Executive Sous Chef Mario Perera, who graduated from St. Joseph?s College in Colombo.
?
Welcoming the assembled guests, Arun Pathak commented; ?We are delighted to be able to come together to celebrate the launch of this new icon here in London, which is is still seen as the home of luxury real estate. As such, it was the obvious choice for our global launch, and The Dorchester is without doubt the most appropriate location in London for an event of this quality.?
?
?
Sri Lanka's High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Manisha Gunasekera, comments; ?It is a pleasure to be present at the launch of Sapphire Residences to a global audience. Colombo is strategically located, very cosmopolitan, yet very peaceful, surrounded by the beauty of the ocean and the lush landscape. It is also a very green city. So we welcome the presence of ITC Hotels, one of the greenest hoteliers in the world, to the heart of Colombo. The launch is also the ideal vehicle for potential investors to explore the booming real estate market in Sri Lanka and opportunities for investment.?
?
Sapphire Residences will house 130 uber-luxury apartments and two remarkable 19,000 sq. ft. penthouses, all with interiors designed by YOO Inspired by Starck. Set to redefine vertical residential living in the Indian Ocean region, Sapphire Residences will provide some of the largest apartments available in South Asia, averaging 5,000 sq. ft. of living space.? Two distinctive illuminated towers, rising 224 metres and 140 metres respectively, connect at the 19th and 21st floors by a spectacular sky bridge, complete with infinity pools on top and a jazz lounge within. US architectural firm Gensler designed each tower using an innovative triangular plan to maximise the panoramic views from each apartment across the Indian Ocean, Beira Lake and the city.?
?
The building includes a private Residents? Club offering over 40,000 sq. ft. of leisure amenities, including several swimming pools, cinema, spa, fitness centre, squash and multi-purpose sports courts. The project is the first overseas development by luxury Indian hotelier ITC Hotels, through its wholly-owned subsidiary WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited.
?
?
John Hitchcox, Founder of YOO, commented; ?Sapphire Residences encompasses the ?village green? atmosphere ? somewhere where likeminded people can come together with their families and form a community. It was incredibly important that we integrated our designs with the local materials and traditional concepts and customs, enabling us to create four distinct interior packages.? Hitchcox also outlined how these interior design styles provide residents with the opportunity to create homes to suit their individual tastes and lifestyles:
? Nature ? Harmonious and free airy rooms with white oak floors and light fabrics;?
? Culture ? An artistic revolution. Richer and darker materials set in spaces designed to socialise and engage;?
? Minimal ? Smooth, white and tranquil. Pure and simple layouts designed to enhance space and light;?
? Classic ? Timeless appeal, Interiors that are refined, sleek, with strong colour ways and dark wood finishes.?
Residents also benefit from access to a wide range of 5-star services from the adjacent ITC One Hotel, the leading luxury hotelier in the region.?
?
?
Currently under construction with completion expected in 2021, Sapphire Residences apartments and penthouses are available from US$1.4 million. Worldwide sales are being managed by Sri Lanka Sotheby?s International Realty.?
?
For further information visit www.sapphireresidences.lk
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNF sends five names for committee of selection
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 01:03 am
UNF sends five names for committee of selection
	
The United National Front (UNF) has sent five names as their nominees for the committee of selection, party sources said yesterday.
According to sources the five names included Lakshman Kiriella, Rauff Hakeem, Patali Champika Ranawaka, Rishad Bathiudeen and Mano Ganesan.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya will decide on the final composition of the committee as per the procedure. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Unhappy over Speaker's actions: Govt. to boycott Parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 06:29 pm
Unhappy over Speaker's actions: Govt. to boycott Parliament
	
House Leader and Minister Dinesh Gunawardane said today they had decided to boycott parliamentary sessions until Speaker Karu Jayasuriya acted according to the Constitution, Standing Orders and parliamentary tradition.
He told a news conference held at the parliament complex that they would take a decision on attending parliament sessions after considering the order paper for the next day.
"We walked out of Chambers in protest of the Speaker's actions," Mr. Gunawardena said.
He said even minority governments had been given a majority in the Committee of Selections in the past and neither had a vote been taken on such a committee in parliamentary tradition.
"The vote was taken on a request made by Anura Kumara Dissanayake and Lakshman Kiriella," Mr. Gunawardena said.
He said the Speaker would be able to act illegally only till the Supreme Court gave its verdict on December 7.
He said the Speaker was convening parliament disregarding the Parliament calendar and without printing the order paper given by the government. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP has promising ?young? members
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:59 am
UNP has promising ?young? members
	
The millions who support the UNP do so in recognition of the values the party stands for and its proud historical achievements? ?
?
In the wake of the constitutional crisis following the sudden, wrongful and unceremonious sacking of the Prime Minister and what flowed thereafter, the question posed by many is; has the UNP lost the plot again? Regardless of the answer to that question, the one question that is repeatedly asked by UNP voters is: Need the UNP be in this sorry position???
After all, going by the party members with talent among the UNP it is easily the best equipped local political grouping to lead Sri Lanka. When the major opposition to the UNP is embroiled in discussions and arguments looking for a leader from and within one family, the UNP is oozing with untapped young talent in the form of Sajith Premadasa, Harsha De Silva, Harin Fernando,Navin Dissanyake, Eran Wickramaratne, Ruwan Wijewardene,Buddhika Pathirana, Ajith Perera, Marikkar from Kolonnawa, Mujibur Rahaman, Kavinda jayawardene, Harshana Rajakaruna and Ananda Kumarasiri among many others. None can disagree that no other political party in Sri Lanka ( Not the greatest comparison one may say) has such an array of talent. Regrettably, the ?truth? in the perception of the average citizen is that this talent, notwithstanding high sounding designations given to a few persons within the party, is suppressed when it comes to strategic planning of the Party at the highest levels. Instead, a coterie of people, some with little or no common touch, rule the roost and attunes the party out of step with the national mood. Bill Clinton says in his memoirs; one cannot restrain the ?source of your power?. How can any politician worth his salt, forget that the source of power in a democracy is the average Voter and it is they who set the mood of a Nation???
?
"The younger leaders of the Party owe this to the millions who YET place faith in the party. It is not for the writer or political commentators to suggest as to who should now lead the party"
Can?t be blind to reality? ?
As stated by the writer in a ?wake up call? article in the aftermath of the February 2018 Local Polls: ?The UNP and its allies cannot be blind to the fact that its? share of the national vote declined to 32%. It was just 2 ? years earlier that the UNP with its allies polled 45.6% of the vote at the General Election?. Eight months on, it appears however that the party hierarchy continues to remain blind to stark naked reality.??
The UNP having earned for itself the sobriquet of ?The Grand Old Party? has under charismatic leaders built for itself the reputation of being a political force that can be relied on for consolidating Democracy, Liberal Values, Social and Economic Freedom and moreover, National Unity???
The millions who support the UNP do so in recognition of the values the party stands for and its proud historical achievements.A force of this nature is an imperative for the functioning of a healthy democracy. If not, millions of Sri Lankans may well be deprived of a voice that has hitherto fought and warded off despotic regimes, stood for liberal thinking, Social and Economic freedom, at the worst of times??
These millions comprise, but 0.5% or even less of the so called ?social elite?. The large numbers are among the middle classes, ordinary rural and urban folk; Farmers, Factory Workers and the self- employed. The entire latter group now feels let down by the party. It is however still not too late to salvage the UNP for the sake of the millions that continue to look towards it for leadership. Perhaps, there can be no better time than this unfortunate constitutional crisis for the UNP to regain its rightful place as the ?GOP?; in keeping with the vision of its founders.?
This necessarily calls for radical change in the strategic thinking of the party. The young talent in the party must rise to this challenge. Say Thank You to the Old Brigade and take charge of the battles ahead. You cannot wait to be served as that may never happen.??
The younger leaders of the Party owe this to the millions who YET place faith in the party.?
It is not for the writer or political commentators to suggest as to who should now lead the party. Ask the ordinary men and women of Sri Lanka as to who it should be and the clear answer would lie there. In the name of Sri Lanka and her people, the average men and women desperately appeal to all who matter in the UNP; Get your act together NOW and move on, or be doomed. If doomed, the current leadership of the party will be cursed by generations to come.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: UPFA MPs walk out of Chamber
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:07 am
UPFA MPs walk out of Chamber
	
All United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) MPs of the government walked out of Parliament Chamber in protest against the composition of MPs allocated from each party to the Parliament Select Committee.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US Chief Justice Roberts defends judiciary as ?independent?
## Section: International
## Date: 23 November 2018 10:44 am
US Chief Justice Roberts defends judiciary as ?independent?
	
By Robert Barnes (c) 2018, The Washington Post, Nov 22, 2018 -??
WASHINGTON - The chief justice of the United States and the president of the United States engaged in an extraordinary war of words Wednesday over the independence of the federal judiciary, with Chief Justice John Roberts issuing a rare rebuke of President Donald Trump?s criticism of an ?Obama judge? who ruled against the administration.??
?We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges,? Roberts said in a statement released by the court?s public information office. ?What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.???
Roberts? Thanksgiving eve statement ended: ?That independent judiciary is something we should all be thankful for.?The chief justice is an aggressive defender of the judiciary and has frequently expressed concern about attacks on its impartiality, whether they come from the left or the right. In 2010, he called the timing of President Barack Obama?s criticism of the court?s decision in Citizens United v. FEC during the president?s State of the Union speech ?very troubling.???
 
		
==============================
## Title: Using Contraceptives after pregnancy
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 23 November 2018 11:23 am
Using Contraceptives after pregnancy
	
?
Contraceptives have become a vital topic when it comes to areas like women?s health and sexual health. They also play a crucial role in planning a family according to a couple?s needs. Contraceptives play an important role immediately following the delivery of a baby. Many misconceptions regarding contraception following pregnancy prevail in society, preventing clients from making the right choice when it comes to choosing a method of contraceptive that suits them. In some cases, this misinformation can cause them to forego contraceptives altogether.?
Frequently asked questions are why a couple must follow a birth control method following the wife?s pregnancy, whether contraceptives are safe while breastfeeding and whether there is a risk of contraceptives making you permanently sterile? We consulted Dr. U.D.P Ratnasiri, Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, at the Castle Street Hospital for omen, to seek answers for the above questions.
?
Contraception use following pregnancy
A mother has the potential to become pregnant usually after 6 weeks of delivering of a baby. But getting pregnant soon after the delivery of one baby is inadvisable for several reasons. This is because the mother?s body needs time to recover from one pregnancy. After a pregnancy a female body undergoes massive changes to accommodate another human being within. Also, the care of the first born baby would be neglected with the mother going through another pregnancy and another birth when it is still very young and needs care.?
Talking about the second pregnancy, research reveals that a pregnancy without adequate spacing poses a risk of miscarriage and growth retardation of the fetus in the uterus. When the baby is delivered, both the mother and the baby suffer psychological distress, especially the mother because of the increased workload and latter due to reduced attention and care.
Therefore it is advisable to have a gap of at least two years, unless the mother is elderly or needs to complete her family soon for another reason, according to Dr. Ratnasiri.?
?
Breastfeeding doesn?t eliminate risk of pregnancy
Since most mothers stop having their periods when they are breastfeeding, there is a belief among them that there is no risk of getting pregnant within the duration of breastfeeding. But this is a myth because even though they have a reduced risk of getting pregnant during breastfeeding due to a condition called ?lactational amenorrhoea?, this doesn?t make them immune to pregnancy during that time. Therefore breastfeeding is in no way an excuse to forego the use of a suitable contraceptive method, stressed the doctor.?
?
Ideal time to plan contraception
Planning of contraceptives should not be delayed until after delivery and is ideally started at the beginning of the pregnancy. This is done when the mother is attending antenatal clinic. This should be further discussed when she is admitted for her confinement and also after the delivery of the baby, before being discharged from the hospital. The partner of the pregnant woman should also participate in the decision making process. Together they should discuss the need for other babies in the future and about when they should get pregnant again. They would be offered the methods of contraceptives that are most suitable for their needs by the counselor, and they can choose a method that best suits their needs after further discussion.
?
Contraception for breastfeeding women
Currently there are several popular methods available that are suitable for long-term contraception in a mother after having a baby. Intra uterine contraceptive device (IUCD), more commonly known as loop, is one such method. It can be inserted in the hospital itself either within 48 hours after delivery or 6 weeks or after following delivery. Its effect usually lasts for 5 years. But if the couple needs to get pregnant before that, they can remove the IUCD which removes its effect. In addition, intra-dermal implants, which are thin stick like devices planted in the arm after making a small cut in the skin is also a popular option of women after delivery.?
Considering facts like the advanced age of the mother, the completion of family with older children, certain medical conditions and the wishes of the mother, permanent sterilization can be offered to the mother. This process, which is commonly known as LRT involves ligation of the uterine tubes, thus blocking the pathway of travel of the oocyte (egg) from the ovary to the womb permanently. This process, which is a minor surgical procedure can either be done immediately after delivery before being discharged from the hospital or can be done after 6 weeks following delivery of the baby.
In addition, a male condom can be used, but is not considered as a long term?contraceptive method.
?
What not to use during breastfeeding?
Hormonal pills and hormonal injection (Depot provera) are not suitable during breastfeeding, advised Dr. Ratnasiri. Since these are hormonal methods they can alter the body hormone composition and cause changes in content and volumes of breast milk production in a mother who is using them.
?
Possible complications
Even though these contraceptive methods are safe and effective for the majority, a small percentage may experience complications. These complications are specific for the method of contraception used.?
Irregular menstrual periods and not having periods during the time that it is inserted can be side effects of intra-dermal implants. Even though IUCD?s are not commonly expulsed spontaneously from the uterus, it can occur in a small number of women. There is a slight chance of damaging the wall of the womb while inserting the IUCD and causing infections.
?
Advise to women close to the age of menopause
Since the periods tend to be irregular and far apart in most women when they are near the age of menopause, many tend to neglect the use of contraceptive. Dr. Ratnasiri advised strongly against this practice, explaining that until a woman completely stops having menstruation, there is a risk of her getting pregnant. Getting pregnant at an older age can expose a mother?s health to risk as well as increasing the risk of anomalies like Down?s syndrome and other disease conditions in the fetus.?
Contraceptives don?t make you sterile, unless you want them to.? Unlike the society?s belief, using contraceptive methods for long periods of time does not make you sterile, explained Dr. Ratnasiri. You can get pregnant immediately or a few months after stopping the use of contraceptives, depending on the method of usage. If you want permanent contraceptive methods, you can opt for LRT in females and Vasectomy in males, he clarified.
So, in summary, spacing of children up to at least two years is recommended, since it?s beneficial for both the mothers and the babies. Therefore, deciding on a suitable method of contraception during the pregnancy itself and carrying through is advised. Hormonal pills and injections are not recommended while breastfeeding because they can affect the production of breast milk. There are many myths prevailing in the society regarding contraceptives which prevent the clients from taking maximum use of them. This will in turn lead to adverse consequences like illegal abortions and risks to the health of mother and baby. You can discuss with a healthcare worker about the best method of contraception for you and take the matter of planning your family into your own hands, without leaving it to fates.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ven. Makehelwala Vimaladhamma Thera: Semi-centennial  of the Ordained Life
## Section: News Features
## Date: 23 November 2018 12:47 am
Ven. Makehelwala Vimaladhamma Thera: Semi-centennial  of the Ordained Life
	
?
Ven. Makehelwala Vimaladhamma Thera, the Chief Incumbent of the historic Bambaragala Raja Maha Vihara at Waduwawa, Polgahawela and the Ihala Walakumbura Temple in Alawwa, completed the fiftieth year of his ordained life on October 11. A grand meritorious celebration was held in this regard at the Ihala Walakumbura Temple with the participation of Maha Sangha, government officials and many others.? ?
The Ven. Vimaladhamma Thera was born at Makehelwala, a beautiful locality in the outskirts of Mawanella, as the sixth of ten siblings. His parents were Dasanayake Mudiyanselage Wijeratne and Munasinghe Mudiyanselage Bandaramenike. His lay name was Kulasena Wijeratne and entered the order of Buddhistmonks on October 11, 1968 at the Ihala Walakumbura Temple in Alawwa under the tutelage of Ven. Mandawela Dhammarama Thera. He received his monastic education at Sri Shasthralankara Pirivena at Heramitigala and Sunethradevi Maha Pirivena at Pepiliyana. On June 22, 1980 he received his higher ordination or Upasampada at the historic Mangala Uposathagara of the Malwattha Maha Vihara in Kandy. Following the demise of Ven. Mandawela Dhammarama Thera in 1988, he became the Chief Incumbent of the temple.? ?
As a young monk adored by his associates, Ven. Vimaladhamma Thero was keen to render his services to both religious and social welfare. He established the Sri Dhammarama Dhamma School and Siri Perakum Funeral Aid and Welfare Society which are exceedingly beneficial to his lay adherents. He made the temple an all-complete one by adding various new structures such as the two-storey audience hall, refectory, belfry, cloud-walled access way and Wahalkada entrance to the temple. He fetched in procession a sapling of the sacred Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi and planted and built a fortification wall around it.? ?
Ven. Vimaladhamma Thera is well-known for his eloquent discourse of the Buddha Dhamma. His sermons have been broadcast over radio and TV and even on foreign tours he had the opportunity to preach to audiences there. For almost thirty years he has been offering the ?Budusarana? paper to the devotees who observe sil on Vesak Poya Day and has provided shelter to several destitute families, too.? ?
Ven. Vimaladhamma Thero has been the registrar of Sasanarakshaka Bala Mandalaya, Alawwa South and the patron of Ranaviru Sansadaya, Alawwa for more than a decade. The most Ven. Maha Nayake Thera of Malwatte Chapter of the Siamese Sect offered him the incumbency of the historic Bambaragala Raja Maha Vihara at Waduwawa, Polgahawela on June 27, 2012. The sexagenarian monk has been the headmaster of Sri Dhammarama Dhamma School for twenty nine years. We wish him every success in his endeavour to the cause of a religious and disciplined society for yet another half century. May the Ven. Makehelwala Vimaladhamma Thera be free from suffering, illness and be happy.? ?
H.M. Upali Karunathilake? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will not be party to any government: TNA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 02:14 am
Will not be party to any government: TNA
	
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA), which commands the support of 15 MPs in Parliament, said it would not be party to any government though it voted to unseat the current administration.
Jaffna District TNA MP and leader of the People?s Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE), Dharmalingam Sithathdan told Daily Mirror that it only voted to oust the current government as it was unlawful.
When asked whether the TNA would join hands with the UNP-led political front that was being formed, he said they would not join any alliance and that they had their own alliance of Tamil parties.(Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Won?t accept Speaker: Government
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 23 November 2018 04:40 pm
Won?t accept Speaker: Government
	
The Government today said it will not accept Karu Jayasuriya as the Speaker of Parliament.?
Minister Wimal Weerawansa told in parliament that they will not accept the parliament or Mr.Jayasuriya as the Speaker.?
Afterwards, Minister Udaya Gammanpila also said they would not accept Karu Jayasuriya as the Speaker.?
 
		
==============================
