## Title: ?A classic example for cussedness!?
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 December 2018 10:27 am
?A classic example for cussedness!?
	
The authorities of a major council distributed school bags among the school-going children of the employees at a ceremony held recently.
Employees of all departments of this institution had been invited to attend this ceremony along with their children. However, one divisional head of the institution had prevented the employees of his section to attend the ceremony saying that their children could get their bags from the left-overs after the ceremony.
This divisional head too had once when he was in a lower rank attended this annual ceremony to receive the school bags for his own children and he is no longer interested in this ceremony as his children are now grown up and are employed, they say.??
Referring to the uncharitable conduct of this divisional head, a colleague of his had quipped: ?This is a classic example of cussedness!??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Advent
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:02 am
Advent
	
?
Advent the precursor of Christmas as John the Baptist was the precursor of Christ.? ?
?Advent! preparing the way for the celebration of the birth of Christ;?
Just as John the? Baptist prepared the way for the coming of the Messiah exhorting people to turn away from sin as the kingdom of heaven was nigh.? ?
Manifesting himself as an ascetic; clothes of camel skin and food of locusts and honey he was the voice crying out in the wilderness for repentance and turning to the? Lord.?
He cleared the way for the coming of the Messiah declaring??
He is one the latchet? ?
?of whose shoe I am not worthy to unloosen?.?
When he was asked if he was the Messiah.? ?
?So vociferously and eloquently did he proclaim the coming of the promised one.? ?
So too for us Advent is a preparation for the great coming for the great celebration of the birth of the Messiah.? ?
Waits Oh come divine Messiah...? ?
The world in silence the day.? ?
Advent is ushered with the Advent wreath of four candles on the flower-? ?entwined candle holder symbolic of the season.?
During the four Sundays prior to Christmas one candle is lit each Sunday at the beginning of the Sunday service.? ?
The first candle stands for John the Baptist; the second symbolizes Bethlehem the city where Christ was born-the hub of the event.?
The third for the shepherds to whom legend states the birth was first announced.?
The fourth for the star which shone over Bethlehem proclaiming the birth of the Christ Child...? ?
Advent is a profound reflection of what the coming of Christ implies.?
The Christ? Child should be welcomed spiritually through penance, - purification, in the river of? ?confession, repentance and prayer.?
It is a prayerful awaiting; a spiritual awakening.?
Then only will we be ready to welcome the Messiah truly.? ?
Today more than in any period in history we need a Second Coming. The world is rife with evil;?
Strife among nations; strife within nations; bitter combat, thieving, blasting? Massacring; life so cheap, violence abounding.?
Man?s inhumanity to man screams out in deafening tones with hardly a hearing.? ?
Today we need the peace of that holy night.?
The peace that pervaded that humble stable where the Prince of Peace was born.?
We need not only peace at large but peace within our own hearts because it is from that focal point that we can radiate peace.? ?
Peace is not in the glamorous advertisements of sundry goods screeching for attention, nor in the gorgeously dressed shop windows.?
Certainly not in the insistent tramp of hurrying feet thronging the city.?
Nor in the gourmet and exotic food and drink at plush hotels with their ambience and music.?
The world has commercialized this great yet? ?simple birth;?
It has taken commercial mileage of a profound and sacred event.? ?
Peace is where the crib is; the lowly manger, the lowing cattle.?
The thought provoking stable is a reminder of the miserable conditions in which a great spectrum of the world?s population wallow in.? ?
Today we need to bring back the sanctity into Christmas.?
Not so much the? merry, jolly Christmas but a peaceful meaningful Christmas; sharing the largesse God? ?as given us with the less privileged, not indulging in satiation of our own selves.
?It is good for us to understand how the other half of the world lives - in our own particular? world, in our own country, those who are unaware its Christmas time at all.?
Why wait till Christmas??
We can start from Advent Reach out to others in bounty and generosity.? ?
?Reach out to others in reconciliation and goodwill.?
Along the path of Advent may we? ?
?journey on to a meaningful Christmas.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Aloysius, Palisena further remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 11:05 am
Aloysius, Palisena further remanded
	
Perpetual Treasuries Limited (PTL) Owner Arjun Aloysius and its CEO Kasun Palisena, who were arrested by the CID over the Central Bank bond scam, were further remanded till January 1 by the Fort Magistrate?s Court today.
?
?
Video by Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: Berendina bags Silver and Merit at the CA 54th Annual Report Awards
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:21 pm
Berendina bags Silver and Merit at the CA 54th Annual Report Awards
	
Berendina Chairman Anura H. Athapaththuge (third from left) receiving the award. Also seen here are Jagath C. Godakanda- Director, Priyankara C. Nirmal- Head of Finance, and NimayaPeiris- Manager Fundraising and Communications
Berendina Development Services Gte (BDS) and its micro-financing arm Berendina Micro Investments Co (BMIC) was awarded a Silver and Merit award respectively at the recent 54th Annual Report Awards organized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA).
Held on 04th December at Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo with around 130 companies in the country competing across 22 categories, BDS for its first time clinched a Silver award under the ?Not-for-profit Organizations? including ?Non-Governmental Organizations? category.?
BMIC, re-launched as a public limited company to obtain CBSL?s micro-financing license, is no stranger to the competition having won a prestigious Gold award last year for the same category. And this year it was recognized with a Merit Award for Compliance in the ?Finance Companies, Leasing Companies & Other Financial Institutions? (total assets up to LKR 20bn) category for the first time.
With a vision of creating an empowered equitable society where poverty does not exist, Berendina focuses on addressing challenges faced by poverty-stricken communities in both rural and plantation areas.?
Its diverse array of projects provides economic empowerment to marginalized men and women including elders, widows and persons with disabilities. With a presence across 11 districts with 32 branch offices, Berendina supports over 150,000 poor families to uplift their social and economic condition.
BDS provides access to clean water, health services, and undertakes housing and social infrastructure development projects, strengthening civil society organizations at grass roots level to carry out lobbying and advocacy initiatives for rural and plantation communities.?
BMIC is a poverty-focused Microfinance Institute (MFI) with micro-credit and enterprise development services that ensure long term sustainability and growth of business ventures of clients, providing loans at lowest interest rate within the NGO and private sector MFIs in Sri Lanka.?
Berendina has a third organization Berendina Employment Centre (BEC) which targets youth wherebright yet underprivileged students sitting for A/L examinations are provided educational support. These youth, including those who are O/L qualified are also provided employment opportunities through career guidance, vocational and professional training, and are then linked to private sector companies for prospective employment.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bringing Best of Design & Technology OPPO R17 launched in Sri Lanka
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 December 2018 11:49 am
Bringing Best of Design & Technology OPPO R17 launched in Sri Lanka
	
OPPO, the leading global smartphone brand, dedicated to providing products infused with art and innovative technologies, announced the launch of OPPO R17 Pro in Sri Lanka. The R17 Pro combines a revolutionary new gradient design with innovative technologies to bring users a smartphone series that fully demonstrates OPPO?s innovation and leadership in the mobile phone industry.
??At OPPO, we aim to create products that represent the perfect combination of design and technology whilst incorporating the ?beauty? element in all our products. Demonstrating this concept, R17 Pro that integrate new and powerful technological innovations to bring to users competitive, cutting edge smartphones. With the introduction of the new Ultra Night Mode which allows to take great photos regardless of the lighting conditionmake consumers to ?seize the night?? said Bob Li, CEO OPPO Sri Lanka.?
Perfect camera for low-light photography
When it comes to product technology, night shooting is one of the most common challenges in the smartphone industry. The R17 Pro upgrades both hardware and software, making it a smartphone specially designed for night shooting. The R17 Pro features a software-level AI Ultra-clear Engine that allows users to take high-quality night photos. The AI Ultra-clear Engine is OPPO's unique image-enhancing technology that is able to break all hardware limitations to maximise the image quality to produce amazing night shots.?
The R17 Pro is also equipped with a variable smart aperture of f1.5/f2.4 which can automatically adjust to the lighting conditions making images sharper and clearer in both bright and low light situations. The R17 Pro has OIS (Optical Image Stabilisation), which can stabilise images and guarantee a longer exposure time to brighten night-time photography, especially with a 7P lens module. The combination of these two features further heightens precision in night-time photography.?
Furthermore, with regards to sensors, the R17 Pro uses a Sony IMX362 as its main camera, which has 12 MP with dual-pixel for quick and accurate focusing, and 1.4-micron pixels size and 1/2.55 sensor size, for brighter night shots and lower noise level. Overall, the whole hardware system of the OPPO R17 Pro is designed for night photography.?
The R17 Pro also features TOF 3D camera, upgrading the camera from 2D to 3D and featuring users? functions like 3D photos, somatosensory games, AR ruler and more.
SuperVOOC Flash Charging Technology
The R17 Pro carriesthe revolutionized SuperVOOC flash charging technology, allowing users to enjoy the safest and most efficient charging technology in the industry.It comes packed with a 2*1850mAh bi-cell design for up to 50-watt charging power that radicallyboosts battery performance. Capable of reaching40% charge in just 10 minutes, and with five - coresmart protection providing all-round monitoring, it?s built to run safely at top-speed.
Revolutionary Gradient Design
Adhering to OPPO?s design philosophy of creating artistic smartphone designs, OPPO continuously strives to create new designs using OPPO's fashionable aesthetics and advanced craftsmanship. OPPO has been leading the trend of the industry, making gradient designs a trend for smartphone design. The R17 Pro introduces a brand-new "three-color and bi/quad-direction" gradient design using a light-condensing layer that enables light to flow on the surface of the device.
Powered by innovative technologies for a seamless experience
The R17 Pro adopts Corning? Gorilla? Glass 6 for the first time, with a 91.5% screen-to-body ratio and Hidden Fingerprint Unlock for the R17 Pro. The Corning? Gorilla? Glass 6 is able to withstand a drop from a one-meter height to a rough surface for an average 15 times, doubled that of the Gorilla Glass 5 performance.?
The R17 Pro is equipped with a 8GB RAM and 128GB ROM, with octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 670 mobile platform. It can perform multiple tasks seamlessly such as HD video playing or online mobile games. With 128GB storage space, users have ample space to store all their files.
The OPPO R17 8GB+128GB in Gradient Mist color will be available in Sri Lankafrom 14th December at Rs. 129,990.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: C?wealth, Canada welcome political crisis resolution in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 04:39 pm
C?wealth, Canada welcome political crisis resolution in SL
	
The Commonwealth Organisation and the Government of Canada have welcomed the resolution of the political crisis in Sri Lanka.
In a tweet, Commonwealth Secretary-General Patricia Scotland said the resolution of the political crisis in Sri Lanka highlights the resilience of Sri Lanka?s institutions, the country?s adherence to the rule of law and the people?s strong commitment to democratic processes.
Meanwhile, Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland has said, ?Sri Lanka?s judiciary has upheld the rule of law, bringing an end to the unconstitutional actions which undermined Sri Lanka?s democracy.?
?The government must seize this moment and deliver on accountability, constitutional reform and reconciliation for the people of Sri Lanka,? she said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet of ministers to be restricted to 30
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 07:45 pm
Cabinet of ministers to be restricted to 30
	
 Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has informed the UNF parliamentary group that the Cabinet will have to be limited to 30 ministers and that some will have to voluntarily give up aspirations of holding posts.
This was mentioned by MP Mano Ganesan on his twitter message. "Myself and Rishard Bathiudeen will stay out of the cabinet if Mr. Wickremesinghe so wished," he said.?(Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriiwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Challenges to South Asian security
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:04 am
Challenges to South Asian security
	
Colombo, December 17: Historically, South Asia had been an integrated region with cultures, languages, religions and values crossing natural geographical barriers and creating seamless symbiotic relations between diverse peoples.?
But today, thanks to the birth of nationalisms and the emergence of nation states, South Asia is one of the least integrated and one of the most conflict-ridden areas in Asia.?
Terrorism, religious fanaticism and class wars are endemic in South Asian states. There is continuous cross-border terrorism which is but a proxy war between States. There are external economic and military threats from new and old hegemonic forces.? There are threats from non-State actors like terrorists, pirates , human smugglers and illegal fishers. Add to this, money laundering , cyber crime? and misuse of an uncontrolled social media to spread religious hate and ethnic and civil strife, the situation is as grim as it is mind boggling.
?
These issues were looked at by scholars from across South Asia at the Colombo Shangri-La Colloquium 2018 held here on Sunday under the aegis of the Institute of National Security Studies Sri Lanka (INSSSL).?
Inaugurating the colloquium, Sri Lanka?s Defense Secretary Hemasiri Fernando said that Sri Lanka and South Asia face an ?uncertain future? with cyber warfare becoming as much of a threat as nuclear warfare.? ??
?We need to be prepared for any eventuality,?? he warned as he called for a knowledge-based approach fostered and sustained by ?independent?? think tanks working on material from independent sources.?
Fernando? called for greater interaction and cooperation among scholars of the region and beyond to get the right, broad-based and realistic perspective on issues.
The fact that countries in the region are yet to evolve as ?nations? has given rise to internal strife, he said.? ? ?
?
Prof. Asanga Abeyagoonasekera, Director General of the INSSSL described Asia as a ?geo-political hotspot? with increasing militarization following the rise of China as an economic and naval power. He pointed out that China?s naval growth has outstripped that of all major powers. The arms build-up in the region has been unprecedented in history, he said.
Sirimavo Bandaranaike, Sri Lanka?s Prime Minister in the 1960s and 1970s had foreseen the present scenario and had proposed that the Indian Ocean be declared a Zone of Peace, he said.??
The region is currently divided into the Chinese and the US camps. Globalization is taking place at a time when there are ?transformational changes? taking place in the region, Goonasekera noted, and wondered if in the midst of all these transformational changes, a new security architecture can be created.?
He quoted India?s former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon to say that it would be illogical to impose stability in a changing environment.??
Japanese scholar, Dr.Satoru Nagao, a Visiting Fellow at the Hudson Institute (US) maintained that China is aggressively expansionist and has occupied islands vacated by Western powers. He warned nations which are joining China?s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) that China is a ?sinking ship? which other nations had better abandon. He predicted that the US, the world? only super power, will win the competition against China.
Supporting the view that China is a threat to the region, the Maldivian speaker Dr.Rasheed Mohamed Didi said that when President Abdulla Yameen declared a State of Emergency in February 2018, and there was a talk of an Indian invasion to restore democracy, China? had sent a Destroyer and at least two frigates along with 30,000 ton amphibian transport vessel with three tankers to support it.
??
China is also building an observation post in an atoll in the West which is close to India, she said. According to Didi, it will be India and not China which will come to Maldives? rescue in times of distress.?
?
Sirimavo Bandaranaike, Sri Lanka?s Prime Minister in the 1960s and 1970s had foreseen the present scenario and had proposed that the Indian Ocean be declared a Zone of Peace
In China?s Defense?
??
But Prof.Huang? Yunsong, Associate Dean at the China Center for South Asian Studies in Sichuan University, defended China in the face of allegations that China is driving South Asian nations into a debt trap.
He said that the interest on 61.5% of China?s loans to Sri Lanka is far below the international market rate.?
?As of December 2017, Sri Lanka owed China US$ 5.5 billion which was about 10.6% of the island nation?s total foreign debt of US$ 51.8 billion. Of the US$ 5.5 billion, US$ 3.8 billion (61.5 % of the total loan) was provided at a rate fare below the international market rate. Thus, the major part of China?s loan was taken at a concessionary rate,? Huang emphasized.
?More importantly, US$ 1 billion had been taken at a concessionary rate of 2% which means that the interest on the major part of the loan was not excessive at all,? he added.
On the issues of Sri Lanka?s taking US$ 307 million at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 0.75% pushing up the interest rate to 6.3%, Huang said that the commercial loan interest rate was based on a mutual agreement between Sri Lanka and China ?as per established principles of the international market.?
Referring to the description of China?s taking over the Sri Lankan port at Hambantota as ?neo-colonialism?, Huang said that if one were to Google ?port 99 year lease?, the first result one would get is a 99-year lease on the Port of Darwin in Australia?s Northern Territory, a deal worth Australian Dollar 506 million with a Chinese company. Besides, port terminals in New York and Long Beach are managed by Chinese companies. But people do not term Darwin and Long Beach as China?s colonies!? Huang remarked.
Reacting to a remark made by a former Indian National Security Advisor Shivshankar Menon that ports might begin as commercial ventures but ultimately end up as military bases also, Huang said that he is certain that at least in the short and medium terms, China has no plan to put the ports it is building overseas to military use.
Need cooperation, not conflict
Former Sri Lankan diplomat HMGS Palihakkara said governments and researchers should eschew the ?zero sum? approach and stress on the positives and the benefits of mutual cooperation rather than conflicts and differences.
Picking up the theme of cooperation rather than conflict, Indian scholar Dr. Swaran Singh, a Senior Fellow at the INSSSL said that despite antagonism at the political level, Indian and Chinese navies have been cooperating in stamping out piracy in the Western Indian Ocean. He recalled an incident on Aprl 9, 2017 in the Gulf of Aden when Chinese and Indian navies jointly rescued a 21,000 ton? cargo ship? MV 0S? 35 that had been hijacked in the Gulf of Aden.?
Dr.Singh said that there are three networks to contain piracy, run by NATO, EU and US. India and China are coordinating and assisting in the operation of these networks. India has repeatedly emphasized? how it seeks to ensure that the Indo-Pacific arrangement or ?Quad? does not become an exclusive Western allies? club. It is trying to get China on board in its Indo-Pacific deliberations.?
India and China are engaged in maritime dialogue but this is not highlighted in the media because of the inherently competitive nature of China-India equations, Dr.Singh said.?
Phenomenon of terrorism?
Opening on the seminar on terrorism, Maj.Gen. Udaya Perera said that though terrorism took only a minuscule number of lives in the world, it has been a powerful propaganda tool for terrorism. Each time one talks of a terrorist deed, it is propaganda for the terrorists, he said. Terrorism cannot be fought by military means alone; it has to be fought at the political and social level too ,Gen.Perera said.?
Dr.Ranga Jayasuriya, Senior Fellow at INSSSL, said that ?non-violent extremism? has to be studied as much as ?violent extremism? as the former creates a suitable climate for the latter.?
He also pointed out that non-violent extremism is part of the armory of politicians to grab power and stay in power. It is as much part of majoritarian politics as it is of minority politics. Weak political institutions make countries a happy hunting ground for non-violent and violent extremism, Jayasuriya said.
Maj.Gen.Muniruzzaman President of the Bangladesh Institute of Peace and Security Studies said that youth radicalization is a major problem in Bangladesh. Jobless economic growth, a poor educational system, which does not encourage or stimulate thought, and peer influence make the youth, who are 40% of the population, go for radical ideologies and modes of action which they find stimulating. There is no class distinctions here, he added.
There is no system for rehabilitation. Prisons are places where terrorists or radicals are ?re-cycled? because those who are jailed turn fellow inmates into radicals, Gen.Muniruzzaman? said.
?
Kosala Warnakulasooriya? speaking on Sri Lankan Navy?s contribution to maritime security at the Colombo Colloquium 2018. Photo credit, Tang Lu
 
		
==============================
## Title: China welcomes resolution of political situation
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 06:26 pm
China welcomes resolution of political situation
	
The Chinese Government has advised today that China, as a traditional close neighbour and a most important development partner, welcomed the peaceful and proper resolution of recent?political situation in Sri Lanka by all related parties.
In a statement, the Chinese Embassy said China believes the Sri Lankan government, political parties and the people have the ability and wisdom to manage well its domestic affairs, and maintain the country?s stability and development.
?China remains committed to enhancing its friendly exchanges with the Sri Lankan Government and all political parties, promoting the pragmatic cooperation between the two countries, and bringing benefits to the two peoples,? it said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dfcc Bank Infuses Joy & Optimism To The Festive Season
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 December 2018 11:41 am
Dfcc Bank Infuses Joy & Optimism To The Festive Season
	
DFCC Bank has become synonymous with bringing light and cheer into people?s lives. Every year, the Bank generously decorates the Galle Face roundabout and the road leading to its head office on Galle Road, while simultaneously decorating its branches in a captivating manner. This year too, inspired by the happiness its decorations have spread in the community, DFCC Bank has put up a giant Santa Claus looking out from the Galle Face roundabout to inject the spirit of Christmas. The Galle Face roundabout, with the Santa Claus and the beautiful lighting, has become a must-visit for people from all walks of life. The roundabout is regularly maintained by DFCC Bank as part of its environmental stewardship.
Unleashing even more joy amongst customers this holiday season, DFCC Bank is pulling out all stops to offer a wide array of attractive benefits for customers with attractive fixed deposits rates and amazing credit card offers. DFCC Bank is offering interest rates as high as 12.5% for fixed deposits for a period of one year, coupled with many other benefits targeting salaried individuals. In a unique offer, customers can claim a cash back loan up to 90% of the total deposit value within an hour. They can also avail of a free Debit and Credit Card, along with a Virtual Wallet to make shopping a whole lot easier this season. This Fixed Deposit offer is on for a limited time only and is attracting an overwhelming response.
Determined to deliver greater value, DFCC Bank credit card holders are also being treated to a delightful ?31 Days CashBack for 31 Days of Joy? promotion this season. DFCC credit cardholders can enjoy up to 31% CashBack on their total spend during the month of December. All they need to do is spend a minimum of Rs. 2000 daily and based on the number of days they spend this value, the cardholder will get up to a maximum of 31% at the end of the month. The more number of days they swipe, the more Cashback they will receive. i.e. 31% for 31 days of usage, 20% for 20 days of usage etc. The maximum CashBack amount for a DFCC Gold Card is Rs.10,000; for a Platinum Card ? Rs.15,000; for a Signature Card - Rs. 20,000 and for an Infinite Card - Rs. 30,000.?
Commenting further, the CEO of DFCC Bank, Lakshman Silva said, ?Our efforts to decorate the Galle Face roundabout and its environs have been much appreciated by one and all and this has inspired us to decorate the area with greater vigour this year. We are humbled to see the happiness people derive from seeing our decorations. Our contribution to spreading seasonal cheer does not stop there, DFCC Bank is offering an exciting credit card offer and fixed deposit scheme to light up the festive season. While encouraging people to shop and save at the same time, DFCC Bank is focused on delivering great value to its customers.?
DFCC credit cardholders can also enjoy up to 50% discounts at a wide range of merchant outlets this season in categories such as household items, electronics, clothing, supermarkets and dining, hotels and travel. For more details on the DFCC credit card offers or to apply for a new DFCC Credit Card, customers can visit www.dfcc.lk or drop into their nearest branch.
DFCC Bank PLC is a fully-fledged commercial bank offering the full gamut of commercial and development banking services. The Sri Lanka Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the International Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka (ICCSL) has announced DFCC Bank as one of the ten ?most admired companies? in Sri Lanka for 2018. The Bank was also ranked No 14, in Business Today?s list of Top 30 businesses in Sri Lanka. Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited has rated DFCC AA- (lka).?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Face book;  The Matrimonial Killer/wrecker
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:10 am
Face book;  The Matrimonial Killer/wrecker
	
?
Among many common social media platforms Facebook and Facebook Messenger have been able to create havoc in matrimonial relations
	Facebook which is considered as the God given messenger in the? contemporary world has become the Achilles?s heel in matrimonial? relations paving the path to its ultimate destroyer; the divorce
	It must be noticed and appreciated that the courts in this country have? been making efforts to recognize electronic communications as admissible? evidence in courts
?
With the rapid development of science and technology, humans are granted with opportunity to connect from one end of the world to the other. Humans are granted with the privilege to engage and maintain relations with each other irrespective of the time or place they live across. Among these amazing technological miracles is Facebook which has been able to connect people more closely creating a revolutionary platform to strengthen ties with their loved ones and also to establish new ties irrespective of boundaries created by land or sea. But it is justifiable to state that Facebook which is considered as the God given messenger in the contemporary world has become the Achilles?s heel in matrimonial relations paving the path to its ultimate destroyer; the divorce.?
?
As per Sri Lankan law under Section 19 of the Marriage Registration Ordinance 1907, it has recognized three main grounds for divorce; namely, adultery, malicious desertion and sexual impotency. In simple terms, adultery is considered as engaging in extramarital intimate relations subsequent to marriage by one spouse with another who is not his/her spouse and it is important to be borne in mind that the exact time, date and place must be provided to the court when relying on this ground for divorce which projects that adultery as a ground for divorce has to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Malicious desertion is exercised under the limelight of two counts; either malicious desertion which is simply leaving matrimonial house or constructive malicious desertion which is leaving the house by one spouse upon the acts of the other spouse with the intention to never return to the matrimonial house. Whereas when relying on the ground of sexual impotency, it is important that it is subsequent to the marriage and that it is medically incurable.? ?
Among many common social media platforms like Facebook, lnstagram and Tinder, Facebook and Facebook Messenger which is the messaging platform of Facebook have been able to create havoc in matrimonial relations in the contemporary society. For instance, one spouse approaching or attempting to approach another person he/she is attracted to by way of messages and pictures through Facebook Messenger in secret to his/her spouse is a common occurrence in the modern world. Whilst citing the writer John G. Browning on ?Guide to Social Networking?, he states that ?Social networking sites do not make people have affairs. Relationship experts have observed that relationships tend to develop quickly online because of lower inhibitions and the fact that technology helps them to find ex loves from the past. The most common reason to be having sexual chats with people they were not supposed to.? Moreover, the notion of exchanging passwords of each other?s Facebook account is considered as a sign of trust and loyalty nowadays and couples who do not do so are constantly drowned in the oceans of great and malicious suspicion ultimately, leaving to occurrences such as desertion.? ?
But how do we bring an encoding in a digital platform as evidence to the court and how to make such evidence admissible in courts? In the case of Abubakharv Queen54 NLR566, it was observed that mechanical records such as tape recordings were admissible as evidence in courts. Lately with the advancement of science and technology, Evidence (Special Provision) Act No. 14 of 1995 provided several provisions that electronic communications such as videos, computer printouts and photographs are admissible in courts as evidence (By virtue of Section 4) provided under the condition that notice must be given to the opposing party 45 days before the date fixed for trial (Section 7 (a)). It must be noticed and appreciated that the courts in this country have been making efforts to recognize electronic communications as admissible evidence in courts as per Section 3 of the Evidence Ordinance and this was clearly established in the case of re S.A Wickramasinghe55NLR511.?
In the recent judgment in the Commercial High Court case H.C.(Civil) 181-2007(MR) MR, the Honourable Judge Mr. Chitrasiri has observed that in his opinion, an SMS which is received on the screen of a mobile phone that has been typed by another person from a different point and sent with the assistance of technology could be admitted in evidence. In the circumstances, he has decided that the original message received by a mobile phone should be considered as admissible in evidence in terms of the provisions in the Evidence Ordinance 1985 which helps us to draw an inference that the same grounds are applicable on terms of Facebook messages.? ?
Can explicit pictures shared upon consent and explicit conversations by way of messages on Facebook be used at admissible evidence in proving adultery in courts? Adultery, which is considered to be the most serious ground among the other two grounds to dissolve marriage, has received such onus of burden of proof due to its necessity of strictly being proved beyond reasonable doubt as established in the case of Jayasinghe v Jayasinghe. Thus it can be seen that the degree of proving adultery is equal to that of a crime i.e. 100% accuracy giving the date and the place of the adultery committed. Hence it is important to bear in mind that such evidence can only be used to corroborate the act of adultery as these evidences do not establish the act of adultery beyond reasonable grounds. Therefore, having uploaded a picture on Face Book with a loved one will only amount to more pictures and the contents of the photographs will only establish certain facts of events and whether they are admissible or not as evidence is yet to be decided in court within the framework of the Evidence Ordinance (Special Provisions) Act No.14 and concurrently with the Electronic Transactions Act of 2006.? ?
Even though evidence retrieved through Facebook has not yet been submitted as admissible evidence in the Sri Lankan courts, we can infer that there is a great likelihood that Sri Lankan courts will allow such evidence under the notion that it conforms with the provisions of the Evidence Ordinance (Special Provisions) Act No.14 of 1995 and if it is also in conformity with the Electronic Transactions Act 2006 by being based on the basic principle of law of evidence. Hence, it would be justifiable to conclude that the possibility of the above mentioned information received through Facebook and other social media being admissible in courts would be a fair choice.? ?
Ian. J.F. Fernando is an attorney-at-law at Derek Fernando Associates while Bhagya Silva and Chathura Nuwan Herath are Legal Researchers at?
Derek Fernando Associates.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: From the Dutch to the British:  A Legacy in Education
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:04 am
From the Dutch to the British:  A Legacy in Education
	
?
The British viewed Ceylon less as a Crown Colony than as a buffer colony
	They took a decidedly ambivalent attitude towards educational activities
?
In 1766, the Dutch Governor of Ceylon Wilhelm Falk signed an agreement with King Kirthi Sri Rajasinghe. According to the terms of the agreement, known today as the Treaty of Batticaloa or the Hanguranketha Treaty, the Kandyan Kingdom had to pay five million florins to the Dutch as reparations and the King had to acknowledge the imperial authority of the Dutch ?four miles from the coast to the countryside.? The Kandyans considered the terms onerous, and they began to search for a foreign power that could help them expel the imperialists. 30 years later, British emissaries ousted the Dutch. In hindsight, though, resorting to the British was a mistake, since Dutch power was waning and Britain was becoming the most powerful industrial nation in the world, a position later confirmed by its victory in the Napoleonic Wars.?
The British administration of Ceylon had to begin from the Maritime Provinces because these were under Dutch rule. What spurred the British more than anything else was the prospect of controlling the Trincomalee Harbour. They viewed Sri Lanka less as a Crown Colony than as a buffer colony with which they could control the sea route in the Indian Ocean. Their main concern was to bring the country under the East India Company. Two years after claiming it from the Dutch, they instituted a system of dual control where the Governor of the country would be responsible for law and order and the Director of the Company took control of all commercial matters. Dual control ended formally in 1802, with the signing of the Amiens Treaty.?
From the beginning, the British took a decidedly ambivalent attitude towards educational activities. The Dutch had, for all their faults, established a network of schools far superior to anything that their predecessors the Portuguese had. The shift to the East India Company ensured the destruction if not deterioration of the schools, most of which were Parish schools run by schoolmasters who also had taken on the role of village registrars. Frederick North, the first British Governor, was impressed by the Dutch system; for him, it represented the ideal way through which ?the whole Cinghalese (Sinhalese)nation might in time be converted.?? ?
But North was in the minority, and for much of the period from 1798 to the 1830s, education policy in Ceylon was the subject of a debate between those who did not take much interest in instituting an education system and those who believed that it was the best way through which the natives could be converted. To appreciate the magnitude of this debate, it is pertinent to understand how the Dutch system operated.? ?
To begin with the Dutch were more tolerant than the Portuguese and the British when it came to the indigenous religions. They were less tolerant of Hindus and Muslims than they were of Buddhists, but this was only to be expected since they were not in a mood to offend the King of Kandy, the trustee of Buddhist rights in the country. On the other hand, they did not official expiate Buddhism, and temple lands confiscated by the Portuguese were not returned to Buddhist monks. When it came to the task of converting the natives, they exhibited a similar level of ambiguity: the Oostindische Compagnie encouraged people to convert to Calvinism, yet it did not go about this with the evangelical zeal that had marked out the Portuguese.? ?
In one area there was continuity from the Portuguese period: the link between conversion and education. The Dutch took over schools established by the Portuguese and added schools to churches. As stated before, schoolmasters were handed the role of registrars (?tombos?); Haris de Silva called the Dutch system an improvement over the Portuguese system, since it was more vigorously and efficiently enforced. The school tombo holders were part of a wider network of such registrars, on whom harsh methods would be used to ensure that registration was done to the satisfaction of the Company. By this method, the Dutch schoolmasters ensured compulsory attendance, remarkable and farsighted for its time given that ?compulsory attendance? would not figure in the British scheme of things for more than a century.? ?
The Dutch school curriculum was simple, and it emphasised on the vernacular. (By contrast, the vernacular would be discarded by the British.) It was a simple system, with reading and writing and arithmetic as the other subjects. The undercurrents of proselytisation were evident throughout the schools as well, and in 1737, during the administration of Van Imhoff, a printing press was established in Colombo to make available copies of prayer books, the Gospels, and the Catechism in Sinhala. Under the governorship of Van Gollenesse the New Testament was translated to Tamil, an undertaking completed during the governorship of Jan Schreuder.?
But the effort taken by the Dutch to convert the population, especially the youth, to Calvinism was not totally successful. As with all such efforts, naturally, there was an unintended outcome: the spread of literacy in the littoral regions. (One problem which the British had to face was the literacy gap between the lowland areas, from the north to the south-west, and the highland provinces).? ?
Unlike the Portuguese and the British, furthermore, the Dutch became more tolerant towards the end of their reign; they campaigned against Roman Catholicism (which, in one sense, was more of a threat than Buddhism) and the indigenous religions, but the spread of literacy they facilitated merely served to raise the consciousness of the indigenous population. Such a liberal attitude had a say in the resurgence of Buddhism and the rebel sects that emerged at the end of Dutch rule: the Amarapura Nikaya, for instance, was founded in 1799, two years after the Oostindische Compagnie fell to the East India Company. The Dutch were less interested in conversion than in commerce. Under them cinnamon became the cash crop of the island; the Salagama caste, which Colvin R. de Silva referred to as the first proletariat class of Sri Lanka, was elevated to a preeminent position owing to their ability to peel cinnamon.? ?
Education for the Dutch consequently was, while being an instrument through which religion could be propagated, a means of elevating literacy. It?s inaccurate to suggest that they were moved by humanitarianism; they were simply more practical and less zealous than their predecessors. Because of this, even in the realm of language they could not equal the success of the Portuguese, the de facto lingua franca of the elite; so pervasive was Portuguese, in fact, that in 1835, one year before it was converted to a public school, the Hill Street Academy was established for the purpose of teaching English to children of prominent families, who spoke Portuguese Creole.? ?
The British reception of Dutch educational policies, as has been pointed out before, was mixed and ambivalent. Frederick North professed an interest in resuscitating the schools that had, after the Company took over, fallen into disarray. But he was in the minority, as subsequent events would show: ?Nothing better could be expected from a commercial company? (Ruberu: 1969). Not until the Charter Act of 1813, which bore the definite stamp of the Evangelicals and Utilitarians, did the British in India consider it a responsibility on their part to look into the education of natives. Even that was a half-hearted attempt, which reflected calls for a coherent education policy.?
?
In Sri Lanka, such a call was not made. One reason was that the country did not contain the sort of exotic culture which could interest the Orientalists. But then, at a time when the Orientalists were dominating the education discourse in India, in Sri Lanka the Evangelical movement had fully taken over that discourse; Evangelism in Ceylon in one sense predates Evangelism in India. Moreover, no less a person than North considered Education and Conversion as interrelated priorities; his interest in maintaining the Dutch system was less motivated by humanitarian sympathies than by a need to promote a Western education in a Christian environment. Commerce having taken over the needs of proselytisation, this was not a popular view to hold, and with the dual control regime, the powers of the Governor were not on par with those of his Dutch predecessor for him to enforce his vision.? ?
Nevertheless, North tried to revive the Dutch system. The biggest problem he faced there was a lack of English clergymen, who alone had the will to re-establish Parish schools. North found a friend and formidable figure in Rev. James Cordiner, who was invited in 1799 to be the Chaplain-in-Charge of the Colombo Garrison. What Cordiner did, I will expound in a later essay. All that needs to be said of him at this point is that his arrival can be considered the starting point of attempts to resuscitate education in the country. These were not moved by sympathy for the natives, yet in this, they were far ahead, and more enlightened, than the vast majority of those in the Company who were not in favour of educating the people.? ?
The author can be reached on udakdev1@gmail.com?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fully-Fledged budget in February
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 05:20 am
Fully-Fledged budget in February
	
The new government will present a fully-fledged budget for 2019 in February after the Cabinet was sworn in, it is learnt.
Besides, it will present a Vote on Account (VoA) to allocate money from the Consolidated Fund to carry out the government?s functions.
A UNP MP who is slated to take oath as a Minister said a fully-fledged budget could not be debated and passed in Parliament during the remaining weeks of this month.
?We will bring a Vote on Account first to find money for a couple of months. Afterwards, we will bring the budget for 2019,? he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: How lawmakers prosper with taxpayers?  money
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:10 am
How lawmakers prosper with taxpayers?  money
	
With the events that?followed?since October 26,?Parliament was convened on eight days and on some days it was only for a few minutes. Therefore,?Rs. 64 million??have been spent as a result of the political crisis
?
One of the easiest ways to earn thumping amounts of money is to become a politician in Sri Lanka. That too with no prior qualification or meeting an eligibility criteria. With all due respect to educated politicians such as Lalith Athulathmudali, Lakshman Kadirgamar among others, today?s political culture doesn?t honour educational qualifications. Hence you would find that those who haven?t even passed their O/L examination calling the shots in Parliament. But on the contrary they earn more than any public official in the country who needs to meet the criteria before being recruited to office. Legally, politicians are given vehicle permits, an official residence, a personal staff and various other perks and benefits. But what?s questionable is how they have more houses, more vehicles, more staffs and other sources of income? Recently, all Sri Lankan citizens and even the international community saw how Members of Parliament (MPs) ? those officials elected by people to the highest institution in the country -abused public property and ?efficiently? wasted taxpayers? money.
In such a backdrop, the Daily Mirror sheds light on how the taxpayers? money is wasted in front of their own eyes and why they should critically voice out for injustice at this hour.?
Vehicle imports?
In March alone, Rs. 361 million ? Rs. 494 million was allocated to bring down vehicles for ministers.?
A supplementary estimate of Rs. 24, 165,500 was allocated for three ministers and the Finance Ministry to import more vehicles.
Rs. 10,000/= is paid per month to meet the traveling expenses of four personal staff to office. (Rs. 2,500/= each)
Records as at October 2018 show that at least 7,000 vehicles had been imported so far this year by public servants paying an average Rs. 3.6 million less than the actual duty payable on those vehicles.
Several other categories such as members of Parliament, returning Sri Lankan diplomats, retiring ministry secretaries and military top brass this year have also imported fully duty-free vehicles.
Most of these fully duty-free permits are sold for amounts reaching a staggering Rs. 23 million each and underscores the huge loss of revenue to the state.
Repairing official residences
The Daily Mirror also learned that staggering amounts of money have also been allocated to repair official residences. As such a sum of Rs. 171, 002,000 was allocated for three ministers and a Governor earlier this year.?
Postage allowance
Stamps amounting to Rs. 175,000/= are issued to each MP annually. (Rs. 43,750/= quarterly) In addition to that a Provincial Councillor was given Rs. 24,000 as postage allowance. But this wasn?t enough for the ministers and in January this year, this sum was doubled. Hence, it is now raised to Rs. 350,000 while a Provincial Councillor would receive Rs. 48,000.?
Fuel allowance?
Fuel allowances are paid based on the distance from Parliament to the electoral district which each MP was elected and the approved market price of one litre of diesel on the first day of every month. (e.g.: Colombo 283.94 litres while Gampaha and Kalutara is estimated to be 355.58 litres.) A minister from Western Province is given Rs. 50,000 as fuel allowance for petrol vehicles. For diesel vehicles, the allowance is Rs. 20,000. The fuel allowance for a deputy minister is Rs. 40,000 (petrol) and Rs. 20,000 (diesel). Ministers in other provinces are given Rs. 75,000 and Rs. 30,000 as fuel allowance for petrol and diesel vehicles respectively.?
Daily expenditure in?the House?
The Daily Mirror also learned that the cost of one Parliament sitting day is Rs. 8 million. With the events that followed since October 26, Parliament was convened on eight days and on some days it was only for a few minutes. Therefore, Rs. 64 million have been spent as a result of the political crisis.?
Pension scheme for ministers?
Any person who has served as a member of the legislature of Sri Lanka after July, 1931 and who is a citizen of Sri Lanka at the time of coming into operation of this Law and the widow and children of such persons are entitled to the Parliamentary Pensions Law. With the dissolution of Parliament 58 ministers were exempt from their pensions. These include 36 UNP MPs and 16 MPs in the SLFP. The following pensions are given to MPs and ministers and they vary depending on their post.?
The PPL introduced in 1977 was amended in 1982 so that the widows of MPs could be entitled to these pension schemes following the demise of an MP. They are entitled to it for their lifetime unless they remarry. If married, they are exempted from the pension scheme. The Law was once again amended in 1990 so that pension could be shared among children in the family.?
Criteria for other public officials?
But it is also important to note that any other public official has to complete 20 years in office to be entitled to a pension. If a public official has an on-going disciplinary inquiry his pension will be temporarily halted. In addition to that any other public official has to meet the specified criteria to be eligible to serve office. There are instances when they get job placements as a result of high end contacts. But none of this is required to become a politician and a member of Parliament is paid more than any other public official.?
RTI Commission orders release of RW?s Asset Declaration
In a landmark decision delivered on December 4, the Right to Information Commission (RTIC) directed the Presidential Secretariat to disclose the declaration of assets and liabilities of ousted Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe for the year 2015 ? 2016. The order was made pursuant to the initial request filed by Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) on February 3, 2017.?
However, on TISL?s request for the access to the asset declaration of President Maithripala Sirisena for 2015/ 2016, the RTIC held that the Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Law does include the position of the President. ?Whilst as the Secretary or Head of a party, he may have an obligation to do so, but not as the President of the country,? said TISL Executive Director Asoka Obeysekere at a recent press conference. ?Therefore they highlighted the fact that there was a gap in the law there and suggested that the necessary legal reforms should take place to fill that gap. However they felt that the PM?s asset declaration must be released.?
Journalists also raised questions as to why only the President is exempt from declaring his assets while all other members of Parliament including the Prime Minister is entitled to it. In response, the TISL said that the RTIC has considered the legal provisions coming under the Law. ?Hence a declaration of assets takes place according to this Law. The request to declare assets were turned down on two occasions and therefore the TISL appealed to the RTIC.?
?
Citizens can now use Facebook as a tool to voice out against corruption. They can use the Right to Information Act rather effectively and find information about ministers? incomes
Countries that demand for asset declarations of public officials
An ever-growing number of countries have adopted ethics and anti-corruption laws that require public officials to declare their assets and income and, increasingly, the assets and income of their spouses and dependent children. The officials who are required to declare, and the amount of detail required, vary significantly from country to country. Several countries with detailed disclosure requirements, such as Latvia have experienced a decline in corruption. Among other benefits, asset disclosure programmes enhance the legitimacy of government in the eyes of the public and stimulate foreign direct investment.?
In neighbouring Indian politicians who contest elections to Parliament or a state legislature are subject to a more rigorous regime. A 2002 Supreme Court judgment requires all electoral candidates to submit on oath, details of movable and immovable assets owned by them, their spouses and their dependents, including liabilities like loans from public sector banks and unpaid bills for public utilities such as electricity, water and telephone connections.?
Upon winning an election, every Member of Parliament is required to submit an annual statement of assets owned by him/her and his/her dependents to the presiding officer of the house (The Members of the Lok Sabha Declaration of Assets Rules 2004, Rule 3). The same applies to the newly elected Members of the State Legislator (The Members of the Rajya Sabha Declaration of Assets Rules 2004, Rule 3).?
?
?
Drafting a new constitution?with no perks and benefits for politicians : Kodituwakku
?People who are occupying office in the legislature and executive are required to hold public office for public good,? said Nagananda Kodituwakku, Attorney-at-Law and public litigation activist.?
?Therefore nobody is expected to rob. Sri Lanka is a representative democracy. After October 26 it is very clear that all 225 representatives have robbed the nation with absolute impunity. When the Rs. 100,000 additional allowance was given, nobody refused it except for Ranjan Ramanayake. Even the members of the People?s Liberation Front (JVP) accepted it.??
Speaking further about the abuse of public funds Kodituwakku pointed out that when a minister takes office, his staff comprise entirely of family members.?
?Then they get the car permit and allowances for petrol, diesel etc. Car permits come under Excise Duty (Special Provisions) Act Section 3 (c ).?
These are tax-free car permits and such tax exemptions are given for economic development. Therefore it cannot be abused for the import of vehicles. This has become a lawless land.? They obtain permits to sell and abuse public funds. There are ministers who sell permits for millions of rupees simply because there?s no rule of law. Some of them don?t even know that selling a vehicle permit is unlawful.?
?
This has become a lawless land.?They obtain permits to sell and abuse public funds. There are ministers who sell permits for millions of rupees simply because there?s no rule of law. Some of them don?t even know that selling a vehicle permit is unlawful.?
In his run-up to be the Presidential Candidate in 2020, Kodituwakku said he is in the process of drafting a new Constitution where there are no pensions, perks or benefits for politicians.?
?We want people to attend Parliament to save the nation and not to rob public money. In fact all these unlawful events take place because the citizens are not concerned about their own rights.??
?
SL has a Rs. 10.5 trillion debt?thanks to corrupt politicians : Ramanayake?
?
Known to be the only Member of Parliament to have rejected an allowance, an official residence or vehicles, UNP Parliamentarian Ranjan Ramanayake has certainly set an example. ?The salary is a very small aspect of their income,? he said airing his views about the exorbitant salaries of ministers and abuse of public funds. ?They have ways and means of getting more income. Many of them have liquor and licences for sand mining and other businesses. Some have choppers, ships and houses overseas. Most of them are those who entered politics on a very low profile. As per the asset declaration rules, public servants in other countries such as USA are required to show their assets to the public. We had two cases against Duminda Silva and Sarana Gunawardana because both of them hid their assets. But in the end they paid a fine of Rs. 2000 and Rs. 3000 respectively and got away. This shows that nobody cares about what they do.?
?
?
Many of them have liquor and soil licences and other businesses. Some have choppers, ships and houses overseas. Most of them are those who entered politics on a very low profile.?
?People who advice corrupt politicians to escape from such frauds are those who have been employed in private tax companies,? he continued. ?So they know how to find loopholes in the process and eventually escape. In order to change these trends, the public need to be more conscious. Sri Lanka was not indebted to any country when we gained independence, but right now we have a Rs. 10.5 trillion debt to cover. All this is because of corrupt politicians. During 2004-2006 Sri Lanka received a lot of funds in aid of the tsunami. Those funds were enough to repay our loans, but what happened in the end? Nobody even knows where half of that money went to. I believe that those keep silent are the people who destroy the country. Therefore the citizens need to be more active.? he said.
Ramanayake further said that citizens can now use Facebook as a tool to voice out against corruption. ?They can use the Right to Information Act rather effectively and find information about ministers? incomes. In the end they are the tax payers and they need to know where their money is going. In countries like China the people are very active and they don?t allow politicians to rob the country. So we need to get the citizens involved as much as possible,? he said.?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: It?s time for UNF to ensure country on right footing
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:20 am
It?s time for UNF to ensure country on right footing
	
?
Of the two crises that had engulfed the country for 50 days since October 26, the Constitutional deadlock is over, but not the political crisis. We cannot give credit to the politicians for ending the Constitutional gridlock since they had been intransigent on their stances until the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that the dissolution of Parliament by President Maithripala Sirisena was unconstitutional.? ?
The political crisis that had been intertwined with the Constitutional imbroglio has also somewhat eased with the resignation of Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister on Saturday and the reappointment of Ranil Wickremesinghe in place of him on Sunday.?
Yet, Wickremesinghe?s strength in Parliament, the humiliation suffered by Sirisena and Rajapaksa due to the way the Constitutional crisis was ended, were harbingers of what is in store for Wickremesinghe and his weak minority government.? ?
Especially, the speech made by President Sirisena with a least diplomacy in it after swearing in of Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister for the third time within four years during his Presidency was a clear indication of the events and situations to come.
?It was a clear message that life would not going to be easy for Wickremesinghe and his government which might be limping on the TNA crutches. And the challenge thrown by Rajapaksa on his part before his supporters at his Tangalla residence, ?Carlton? on Saturday, after resigning as Prime Minister that he would topple the Wickremesinghe government cannot be treated as mere rhetoric, given the fragility of the administration Wickremesinghe is going to install.? ?
Despite the TNA having written to President Sirisena that it would support a government formed by the UNP, it has announced that it would not be a part of the government. This is dangerous for the government as the Tamil coalition reserves the right to pull the carpet under Wickremesinghe?s feet any time it wishes.?
Also TNA?s conditions for the support it is going to lend might be portrayed by the Opposition as secessionist demands, embarrassing the leaders of the government.
?On the other hand, the UPFA as a party is not going to join the government as it did last time. Hence, even passage of the Budget for the year 2019 or a vote on account for a certain period in the New Year would be a difficult task for the Wickremesinghe government.? ?
There cannot be a National Government, given the composition of the government and the support it receives from other parties to run the affairs of the country despite the UNP being the party that had won the most number of seats in the House and this would limit the size of the Cabinet.?
In turn, this would lead to frustration among some sections of the UNF itself, as it didwithin the so-called probationary government (Parivasa Aanduwa) under President Chandrika Kumaratunga in 2001.? ?
The country has already suffered a lot due to the political and Constitutional impasse that was created by the unseating of Ranil Wickremesinghe and appointing a Premier without a majority power in Parliament in October.?
The struggle by the Wickremesinghe government to survive has to be carried out at the expense of the masses. The moral high ground that was gained by the UNF and thereby the Wickremesinghe administration is highly volatile given the possible predicament the masses have to undergo with the intensification of the government?s fight for survival.? ?
Now that the rule of law has been established by the Supreme Court and thereby the dignity of those who fought for the rule of law has been restored, it is high time for the UNF leaders to ponder upon seeking a fresh composition of Parliament and a fresh mandate for them as well, through a general election, without leading to further uncertainty.? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: JVP moves motion to abolish executive presidency
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 09:01 pm
JVP moves motion to abolish executive presidency
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) today moved an adjournment motion to abolish the executive presidency claiming that a majority of the people of the country were in favour of doing so.
JVP MP Nalinda Jayatissa moved the adjournment motion, while JVP MP Vijitha Herath seconded it.
MP Herath said it was the executive presidency which led the country into instability during the last 50 days and added that it provided ample opportunity for the people to realize the danger of the executive presidency.
He said all the presidents in the past had promised to abolish the executive presidency since it was introduced and urged everyone to get together and pass 20A disregarding whoever brought it.
?Don?t defeat it just because it was brought by the JVP. This is for the benefit of all of us. Let us pass this two-thirds majority and go for a referendum for peoples? approval,? he said.
He said President Maithripala Sirisena, who promised to abolish executive presidency was now talking about scrapping provisions of the 19th Amendment which removed extreme powers of the presidency.
MP Vijitha Herath, who seconded it, said even former president Mahinda Rajapaksa would be able to become the Prime Minister if he supported the 20A as the present Constitution has no provisions for him to become the President.
Speaking during the debate, UNP MP Malik Samarawickrema said the UNP would support the motion and urged other parliamentarians to join them to do so. |Mr. Samarawickrama said the happenings of last 51 days have made it clear that the concentrating of power in one office is a recipe for disaster.? \abolishing Executive Presidency is a cornerstone of the policy of UNF manifesto of 2015. Late Venerable Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera was also of the opinion that the? Executive Presidency would be abolished. It is time we kept this promise,? he said.
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) both expressed their support for the motion. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lahiru Kumara fined over audible obscenity
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 03:49 pm
Lahiru Kumara fined over audible obscenity
	
Sri Lankan cricketer Lahiru Kumara has been fined 15% of his match fee and has also received one demerit point after being found guilty of using an audible obscenity during the third day?s play in the first Test against New Zealand in Wellington on Monday, the ICC said.
In a statement, the ICC said the bowler was found to have violated Article 2.3 of the code, which relates to ?use of an audible obscenity during an international match?.
?Kumara used an audible obscenity after an outside edge off Tom Latham?s bat in the 96th over went for a boundary. These comments were heard by the on-field umpires and also picked up by the stump mic. After the day?s play, Kumara admitted the offence and accepted the sanction proposed by Richie Richardson of the Emirates ICC Elite Panel of Match Referees and, as such, there was no need for a formal hearing,? it said.
The charge had been levelled by on-field umpires Rod Tucker and Michael Gough, third umpire Richard Illingworth, all from the Emirates ICC Elite Panel of Umpires, as well as fourth umpire Tim Brown.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan given PR after saving woman from fire in Korea
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 08:17 am
Lankan given PR after saving woman from fire in Korea
	
After saving a woman, 90, from a burning house in North Gyeongsang Province last year, a Sri Lankan migrant worker in South Korea has been awarded Permanent Residency (PR) status.
The Daegu Immigration Office will officially grant the status to Katabilla Ketiye Ge-Dara Nimal Siri at the office on Dec. 18, according to the Ministry of Justice on Sunday.
The decision was made on Dec. 13 when the ministry held a meeting for protection and improvement of human rights of foreigners. The committee decided unanimously to grant the status to the Sri Lankan, 38.
Nimal arrived in Korea on a work visa in 2013. The document expired after three years in September 2016, but he decided to stay. He did not want to go back to Sri Lanka where he could earn the equivalent of about 500,000 won ($440) a month, compared to 1.8 million won in Korea.
In February 2017, Nimal, working at an orchard in Goro-myeon district in Gunwi-gun County in the province, saved the woman from a nearby burning house.?
He suffered second degree burns to his neck, wrists and head and a lung injury from inhaling toxic gas while saving the woman. He has been receiving medical treatment for the lung injury.?
Nimal received attention not only from people in the neighborhood but also from business industry and the Korean central government.?
In March that year, Uiseong Fire Station in the province awarded Nimal the ?LG Honor,? an acknowledgement by major Korean major conglomerate LG Group of his courage and sacrifice, plus a 30 million won reward. He became the first foreigner to receive the award since it was introduced in 2015.
The following June, he was selected by a 15-member committee comprised of officials from the health and welfare, veterans' affairs and justice ministries, as well as lawyers and doctors, to be honored for reflecting the Protection of Persons Killed or Wounded for a Righteous Cause Act.
The committee picked him even though his legal stay status had expired.?
In June 2018, the Daegu Immigration Office issued him a G-1 visa, allowing a temporary stay, so he could continue receiving medical treatment for injuries he had suffered during the rescue. The authority also canceled a 10 million won fine imposed for overstaying. (Korea Times)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Leader of the House and Chief Government Whip appointed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 01:10 pm
Leader of the House and Chief Government Whip appointed
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said MP Lakshman Kiriella was appointed as the Leader of the House while MP Gayantha Karunathilaka was appointed the Chief Government Whip.
?
?
Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Malinga auctioned for INR 20 mn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 05:34 pm
Malinga auctioned for INR 20 mn
	
Sri Lankan star cricketer Lasith Malinga was sold to Mumbai Indians for 20 million Indian Rupees (INR) during the Indian Premier League (IPL) auction a short while ago.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mannar Unbound:  A Journey through history and nature
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:04 am
Mannar Unbound:  A Journey through history and nature
	
?
Mannar Unbound: A Journey through History and Nature Jayaratne Thilak, Gallangoda Janaka, Hapuarachchi Nadika, Fernando Tamara.?(Chaya Publishers, 2018.)? ?
?
The setting sun sets fire to the dunes, bathing them in flames of gold and saffron. Silhouetted in the flaming light, a female donkey reaches out towards its foal. The foal, in turn, nuzzles its mother. A rare moment, full of love and magic; poetic, sensitive and deeply perceptive, it is our first impression of Mannar Unbound.
This a study of the history of the Mannar Peninsula and its surrounding environment. With intelligence, feeling and art, this work captures, explains and brings to life the living beauty of Mannar, its birds, its animals, its reptiles and its marine life. The last decade has seen two seminal works published on Sri Lanka?s environment -Rohan Pethiyagoda?s Horton Plains: Sri Lanka?s Cloud-Forest National Park (2012) and Asoka Yapa and Gamini Ratnavira?s mammoth study, The Mammals of Sri Lanka (2013). This could well be the third.? ?
The preface hints at the touch of poetry which pervades this book.? ?
?In the far left field.. are smatterings of islets arching gracefully out north-west, towards the Indian mainland. Resembling a sine curve, or tentacle, they follow from one large island, Mannar, in a trail of minor atolls, reaching out like a lover?s hand towards India.?
The writer clearly has a feel for words and an ability to use them. To this he adds a grasp of history, tracing the story of Mannar from ancient to colonial times. This history is fascinating and revealing. The strength of this work lies in the depth of its scholarship, in its substantial and original research. Intelligent, analytical and circumspect, it draws on a wide range of original sources, complemented by rare prints and drawings, some of them little known even to specialist scholars. Unearthing new truths, the narrative sets Mannar in its local and global context, explaining how it evolved, why it became important and why it began to decay.? ?
As we begin to understand the real importance of Mannar as a trading hub, we also begin to realize why Sri Lanka looms so large in the maps of Greek and Roman cartographers. Frequently mentioned in the accounts of traders throughout the ancient world, its reputation was so great that the island appeared much larger than it really was.? ?
Sifting through the history of Mannar two essential facts become every clear. In the Middle Ages, the tide of invasions from the north saw the removal of the royal capital from Anuradhapura to Polonnaruwa. This spelt the beginning of the end for Mannar, which was gradually superseded by ports on the eastern seaboard such as Trincomalee. The other factor behind its decline was the heavy silting of the deep channel which separated Mannar Island from the mainland. As the ease of navigation decreased over time, Mannar?s importance gradually declined.?
In Dr. Tilak Jayaratne, Sri Lanka has a real historian in the making. This work makes a serious and substantial contribution to the history of Sri Lanka. It is so authoritative and so learned that the absence of citations is palpable. So is the absence of an index. Both of these are serious omissions in any work of scholarly importance.? ?
The rest of the book is devoted to the environment. In words and images, it describes the dancing islands of Adams Bridge, the reefs of Arippu, Silawatura and Vidataltivu, the wetlands and salt marshes of Vankalai and the jungles of Madhu. Although this section is almost entirely visual, the cycle of the seasons is beautifully described and the various features of the environment clearly and simply explained.? ?
The second part of this work concentrates on the migrating and seagoing birds which flock to the island between November and April every year. This has never been covered before in such depth. An important work of visual documentation and reference, it brings these rare birds to life, etching them firmly in our minds.? ?
There is a great deal of original research here. Many of the species are little known and hardly seen. Both the Black Noddy and the Heuglins Gull are very rare and are only seen out at sea. We also see the extraordinary Knob-Billed Duck, which has started coming back to Sri Lanka after many decades.?
Flying, feeding and landing, flamingoes, gulls, waders, terns and ducks come alive before our eyes. Some of the images are of rare quality. One of them depicts a Grey Plover on the mud flats. The tide has just come in, covering the mud. The Plover stands against an expanse of glinting blue, its brown markings picked out with the precision of brush strokes. As its beak glistens with mud, the lens is drawn towards its eye, a luminous glowing dot.? ?
In many of the photographs, water, sky and sand are employed as visual tools. Clarity, contrast and detail are used with deliberate effect. So are the reflections, the ripples and the shadows. Through the eyes of Dr Janaka Gallangoda, the natural world becomes a form of art.? ?
?
In many of the photographs, water, sky and sand are employed as visual tools. Clarity, contrast and detail are used with deliberate effect. So are the reflections, the ripples and the shadows. Through the eyes of Dr Janaka Gallangoda, the natural world becomes a form of art.
The highlight of this section is the ?dancing islands? of Adam?s Bridge. For years they have been the least known and most inaccessible part of the island. Mannar Unbound reveals it to us for the first time. An expanse of open, empty spaces, swept by the wind and the tides, Adam?s Bridge changes shape from one day to another. It is the only place in Sri Lanka where there are sandstorms. With its gale force winds and sweeping sands at times, it is almost impossible to see. One of our most vivid glimpses is a blurred image almost buried in the sand. We can almost feel the sand on the camera lens, whipping in our faces.? ?
For a few months every year these scorched and barren islands, come alive with thousands of birds, winter migrants. They congregate in their thousands because the shallow waters are teeming with fish, so much so that they seem to blanket the surface. Almost every bird depicted in this section has a fish in its beak.? ?
We are told that in 2017 the birds abandoned the third island completely. This was ?due to unrestrained human activities in the vicinity.? Visitors these days are more likely to see kite surfers, wheeling in the sky. Kite surfing it seems is the new cash cow for businesses of all shapes and sizes. As in Kalpitiya, tents and shacks have begun to litter the shores. Instead of the raucous sound of nesting, feeding birds, in the future visitors are more likely to hear thumping music and screams of glee.? ?
The next segment of this work unveils the marine life of the area and is devoted to the reefs of Arippu, Silawatura and Vidataltivu. One of the most beautiful parts of the book, it reveals a world of breathtaking colour, so intense that it holds you and draws you in. Moray Eels lurk in crevices, massive turtles lumber towards the reader while Reef Sharks glide across his path. This is a different art form. Over the years, a great deal of underwater photography has been done in Sri Lanka; very little of it has been published. This is perhaps the first time that Sri Lanka?s underwater wonderland has been depicted in this way.? ?
?
Nadika Hapuarachchi and Tilak Jayaratne was also to photograph the elusive and legendary Dugong. This is perhaps the single most important moment in the whole book. Large herds of dugongs once existed off Sri Lanka?s northwestern coasts. Over the last few decades, numbers have dwindled rapidly. In spite of numerous projects and years of fieldwork, there have hardly been any live sightings. This sighting represents a massive contribution to our knowledge of Sri Lanka?s marine environment. Hapuarachchi and Jayaratne have proved that the world?s rarest and most vulnerable mammal is still alive and well. It is a discovery of immense significance.
The design of Mannar Unbound is spectacular and original. Breaking with the usual format, Tharanga Aluthwala creates a complex and multi-layered work of art. He is able to play with colour and background and his sense of the visual is assured.? ?
As an art of observation, photography requires an ability to see and a capacity to feel. Sometimes, it is transformed by the capacity to wait and the power to think. Concentrating his passion and his sensitivity on the natural world, Dr Janaka Gallangoda has evolved into an artist and photographer of calibre. To his eye for colour and detail, Gallangoda brings an intensity which only deepens his powers of sight. His intelligence takes his work to another level, enabling him at times to see beyond the visual.? ?
Mannar Unbound is much much more than a book on the environment. It is also a potent advertisement for Sri Lanka As much as any other form of art, books are also tools; they can inform, engage and attract and inspire. In supporting this lavish production, Soft Logic have helped create a potent marketing tool associated with the beauty, history and diversity of Sri Lanka. In doing so, they acquired themselves a unique and beautiful brand label. This particular brand is not only of interest and importance, but it is also of enduring appeal.? ?
A journey through the human and natural drama of the Mannar peninsula, Mannar Unbound makes us think and feel, it ?colours and animates? our understanding and it makes us want to ?explore and to protect.?? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR appointed as Opposition Leader
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 01:12 pm
MR appointed as Opposition Leader
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has informed the Parliament that UPFA MP Mahinda Rajapaksa had been appointed as the Opposition Leader replacing Tamil National Alliance (TNA) Leader R Sampanthan a while ago.
UPFA General Secretary MP Mahinda Amaraweera was appointed as the Chief Opposition Whip replacing JVP Leader Anura Dissanayake.
Parliament sessions commenced at 1 p.m. as scheduled.
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR not stripped of SLFP membership: PHU
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 07:09 am
MR not stripped of SLFP membership: PHU
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa has not been stripped of his membership of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) though he obtained Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) membership recently, the Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) said yesterday.
Addressing a press briefing, PHU leader Udaya Gammanpila said there was speculation that Mr. Rajapaksa could not be given leadership in the opposition as he held SLPP membership.
?According to sources, we got to know that Mr. Rajapaksa has received SLPP membership. However, it is MP Basil Rajapaksa who knows whether or not Mahinda Rajapaksa was given SLPP membership. MR has neither been expelled from the SLFP nor from the SLFP advisory post. Hence, he is eligible to hold the opposition leader?s post,? Gammanpila said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: No impediment to MR being opposition leader: UPFA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 11:38 pm
No impediment to MR being opposition leader: UPFA
	
The United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) today countered the argument raised by the government and TNA that newly-appointed Opposition Leader Mahinda Rajapaksa and the others who had obtained SLPP membership could hold the post because the group he belongs to is the second largest in the House.
UPFA MP Susil Premajayantha said the UPFA, which is the largest group in the opposition, is eligible to hold the opposition leader?s post.
?There are six parties in the House and the UPFA holds the most number of seats in the opposition. Therefore the Speaker is right to have named Mr. Rajapaksa as the Leader of the Opposition,? he said.
UPFA MP Dinesh Gunawardene said the Speaker cannot change the decision he had made as he had conveyed his decision to the international community including the International Parliamentary Union (IPU).
He asked the Speaker whether General Secretaries of the UPFA and the SLFP had informed him about any decision to take action against these who had obtained SLPP membership. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament to debate abolition of Executive Presidency today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 02:58 am
Parliament to debate abolition of Executive Presidency today
	
Parliament would debate a motion calling for the abolition of Executive Presidency today when it meets on the first occasion after the reappointment of UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister, sources said.
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), which played a pivotal role in ousting the Mahinda Rajapaksa Government, would move an adjournment motion calling for this, according to sources.
It is a step towards the enactment of the 20th Amendment to the Constitution to prune further the powers of the Executive Presidency. The draft legislation has already been presented in Parliament as a private member?s bill by JVP MP Vijitha Herath.
Mr Herath told the Daily Mirror yesterday that his party would move an adjournment motion calling for the abolition of Executive Presidency.
?We have already handed over the motion to be debated,? he said. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Poetry from South Asia
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:02 am
Poetry from South Asia
	
I notice that in North India, many writers, particularly women, are writing excellent poetry. In fact, the English language is not the privileged vehicle of communication only confined to Britain and other Commonwealth countries. It is now a powerful weapon in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and ASEAN and African Countries as well.??
In New Delhi I recently picked up a book called OUR VOICES edited by Ajeet Cour and Nirupama Dutt. It is an Anthology of SAARC Poetry published by the Foundation of SAARC Writers and Literature 14 years ago. As we know SAARC has as its member countries the following: India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Maldives Afghanistan, Nepal, and Bhutan.??
In this collection, there are 93 poems by poets of the region. None of the major Sri Lankan English poets is included in this collection except a translation of a Lankan Tamil poet (M. A. Nuhman?s poem] and an original poem by a poet of Lankan origin - Now, a foreign resident- (Indran Amirthanayagam) and again a translation from Sinhala (W. A. Abeysinghe?s poem) are the only Sri Lankan representation. Most of the poems are translations from the indigenous languages of each of these countries. My purpose here is to show how some of the poets look at the world from their individual perspectives.??
Let?s take the two Lankan poets and later the US Foreign Service poet who was originally from Lanka.??
W. A. Abesinghe has translated his own poem written in Sinhala into English:
? A Daughter Without A Name
You who is without a father
Need not a name
Little girl, I must leave you
A dustbin for your cradle
In the deserted streets
And I must go
For they wait for me
In the corner of the street
I must go
Before my youthful flesh
Withers away in relentless sage
The day will come
The whole world will be your mother
To suckle your breast bursting with milk
The day will come,
The whole world will be your father
With Armstrong to protect you
A giant for a father
When that day does come
My unarmed little daughter,
?I will come to you.
Eyes dimmed by relentless age
And body bent
I will come to you
But till that day dawns
I must go to teem
Who wait for me
In the dark corners of the street
I must go to quench their lustful thirst.
This is a simple poem of a single mother in the twilight streets talking to her fatherless daughter whom she had abandoned and yet having concern for the baby?s plight and her own as she has to earn her living by ?quenching the lustful thirst? of those who are waiting for in the dark alleys. The poet spotlights a social problem.The other poem is also translation. This time, it is from Tamil.??
The poet is M. A. Nuhman who had helped Sumathy Sivamohan to translate into English.??
It is called Waiting for The White Dove
I was waiting in my courtyard
For the arrival of the white dove
The Hawk came first
And took away my chicks
Then
Came a vulture
Landed on the coconut tree
In courtyard
It purges a volley of shells
Tearing apart my house and living
My soul withers
And I am a refugee once again
This poem clearly depicts a subtle political, military and social problem.
During the protracted war how, ordinary people had to succumb due to the air raids.
Finally, a poem in English by Indran Amirthanayagam
The title of the poem is Star over Jaffna
The Star will live again
The painter will paint the Night
Out again to the films
And dip blue. Dip white.
The fishermen will fix
The holes left by bombs
And rid their boats out
In the bay, and catch
For prawn under the starry night
Farmers have begun to plant
Tobacco and onions
Chillies and brinjals
Weeding out the mines
The rope burns, the stretched bones
The soldiers have flown
Away in aero planes
Sweet star, light
Pipes and chariots
Garland hundreds-armed gods
Put the poet Tiruvallur?s
Head back on the square
Go on, get thee behind
For one guy and girl
To make a handsome chore.
Trumpets and song
Frankly, I don?t understand what the poet is trying to say, but I guess he is positive that after the 30-year war in Yaarlpaanam, the peninsula will be back to normal and will return to the 1970 economic growth.??
So, this a romantic expectation poem and it is positive, but we find the reality is far from the vision of the poet.? The book is worth reading to read other poems by the SAARC poets.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Special home loan offering from DFCC for TRI-ZEN buyers
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:30 pm
Special home loan offering from DFCC for TRI-ZEN buyers
	
A recent partnership between DFCC Bank and JohnKeells will facilitate flexible and affordable payment terms exclusively for John Keells Properties? customers.
The exciting new loan package from DFCC, available exclusively for John Keells Properties developments, will offer up to 20-year home loans with a grace period of five years, together with concessions for early settlements. Additionally, the DFCC/John Keells partnership enables homebuyers to lock in their apartment purchases with just a 10% downpayment, and spread their remaining equity contributions over the construction period.
The new DFCC home loan package can be obtained through the Bank?s branch network of138branches operating across the island, and sector specialists will be made available to guide and assist in processing and releasing home loans.
?Lack of access to affordable mortgages is a key stumbling block for urban professionals who want to buy quality housing in convenient locations in the city. As a result so many people resign to spending 2-3 hours or more a day commuting,? said Nayana Mawilmada, Sector Head of the Property Group at John Keells Holdings.? ??We want to change that. DFCC has worked closely with us to go the extra mile in developing an industry-leading mortgage product specifically for our customers. The partnership between John Keells Properties and DFCC is a reflection of our shared vision to enable aspiring home owners to purchase their dream home.??
TRI-ZEN, the latest development by John Keells Properties is aimed at meeting the demand for high quality urban housing in the very heart of the city, eliminating the need for painful commutes and introducing residents to a whole new level of convenience and lifestyle. The 53-storey landmark project is a joint venture between John Keells Holdings and Indra Traders (Pvt) Ltd.?
The highly anticipated ?smart living spaces? apartment complex -with units currently up for sale starting from Rs. 23 million- is scheduled for completion in 2023. Located at the heart of Union Place -the city?s most vibrant urban neighbourhood, residents of TRI-ZEN will have easy access to Colombo?s best schools, hospitals, restaurants, and retailers. Boasting high-tech, fully device-controlled apartments, John Keells? current venture is tipped to be the most sought-after property in town. Contact +94 702 294294? orwww.trizen.lk for more information.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Status of MPs joining SLPP - Speaker to rule on Select Committee
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 10:17 pm
Status of MPs joining SLPP - Speaker to rule on Select Committee
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya is expected to give a ruling on Friday on the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire whether the MPs including Opposition Leader Mahinda Rajapaksa, who obtained Sri Lanka Podu Jana Peramuna (SLPP) membership, can remain in Parliament.
Speaker told the House that he would give a ruling on this matter when Government MP Rauff Hakeem and TNA MP M.A. Sumanthiran requested that this matter be clarified.
This matter came up when House Leader Lakshman Kiriella asked whether those MPs who obtained the membership of the SLPP were entitled to remain as MPs in the House under Article 99(13) of the Constitution. ?Under Article 99(13) of the Constitution, a member ceases to be an MP when he leaves the party from which he contested and joins another political party. A member is able to seek redress from court only if is expelled from the party he belongs to,? he said. ?There is no party called the UPFA as it is an alliance. The SLFP is a party which belongs to that alliance. Therefore when a member leaves the SLFP and joins another party which does not belong to the UPFA he will lose his seat."
Mr. Hakeem said the validity of the appointment of Mr. Rajapaksa as the Leader of Opposition and the MP posts of those who joined the SLPP must be clarified. ?We request the Speaker to suspend the appointment of the Opposition Leader and appoint a Select Committee to look into the validity of the parliamentary membership of those who have defected to the SLPP.
Tamil National Alliance (TNA) member M.A. Sumanthiran also expressed similar views.??(Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sterilized cool box donated
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 18 December 2018 03:00 pm
Sterilized cool box donated
	
Senior secretary of Political Affairs of the Chinese embassy in Colombo, Mr. Liang Zhijaun received a sterilized cool box containing corneas to be sent to China to transplant to a few visually impaired Chinese nationals.
This was done this morning with Speaker Karu Jayasuriya as the Chief Guestby by the Sri Lanka Eye Donation Society (SLEDS) to mark the 80th birthday of its founder D. Hudson Silva .?Pics by Damith Wickramasinghe.
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: They didn?t consider him patriotic or honest!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 December 2018 10:17 am
They didn?t consider him patriotic or honest!
	
A prominent political figure who attended as the chief guest at the ceremonial opening of the party office of a fair and lovely Diyawanna member in her new electorate, had to suffer much discomfiture when a section of the gathering openly demonstrated their displeasure at his presence at the event.?
?
There is widespread public opinion that this prominent politico is involved in a big way in a big fraud that created a major sensation in the country.
The politico?s arrival had at the very outset sent a ripple of general displeasure through the crowd which had grown restive, when the fair member later in her welcome speech had begun praising the politico describing him as a patriot and an honest servant of the people.
Some unhappy party activists had started leaving the venue, while the meeting was in progress as a show of their protest, they say.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three ways the  post-coup political capital could be squandered
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 December 2018 12:18 am
Three ways the  post-coup political capital could be squandered
	
?
After an uphill battle by the people,who are not necessarily the fans of the United National Party, a good deal of activism by the civil society, lawyers and online chatter; and finally an unanimous Supreme Court verdict that ruled the dissolution of Parliament as illegal and ultra-vires, Ranil Wickremesinghe was sworn in as the prime- minister on Sunday.?
?
Now the state media believes that the people of this country owe him for being the prime minister. ?The people who cherish democracy owe an eternal debt to PM Ranil Wickremesinghe, who was sworn in last morning as the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, for walking the gauntlet all the way in achieving for them this victory,? a front line newspaper clamoured in a front page editorial. That is the sycophancy of the highest order. And cutouts of Mr. Wickremesinghe have been put up outside many state institutions.??
There is a good deal of probability that the UNP and Ranil would squander the political capital that it accumulated over the past 50 days, say probably, within the next 50 days. The sudden change of fortune of the UNP had nothing to do with its acumen and hard work. Leading up to President Sirisena?s sacking of the government on October 26, the UNP was so unpopular- and it knew that- that it had been shying away from provincial council elections- which have been postponed, under the pretext of delay in delimitating electoral wards.?
?
However, the President, coherence of whose policies in political judgments are receding the day by the day, decided to hit his own goal. An impatient Mahinda Rajapaksa, who is reportedly worried about the upcoming court cases against his family- many of his cases would go to trial in the first Q of 2019 - momentarily lost his political machiavellism.? ?Premier Wickremesinghe won without doing anything. Now, the UNPers and many others would expect him not to blow away that political capital. Here are a few ways how he would probably do exactly that.? ?
A farcical ?national govt.
The UNP is now considering to form a ?national? government. President Sirisena has ruled against a formal agreement with the UNP. Hence, the new ?national? government would likely to be between the UNP and SLMC, which has only one MP, Ali Zahir Mowlana, who contested separately on the SLMC ticket in the East. Other SLMC MPs are elected on the UNP ticket. The objective of the national government is to exploit a constitutional provision (enabled by the 19A) which provides an exception to the limit on Cabinet of Ministers to 30. It allows the Parliament to decide the number of Cabinet ministers, when there is a national government in power.??
Article 46. (1)? of the constitution states that the total number of ? (a) Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers shall not exceed thirty; and (b) Ministers who are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers shall not, in the aggregate, exceed forty.?
?The exception is laid out in Article 46 ( 4) which states Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph (1) of this Article, where the recognized political party or the independent group which obtains highest number of seats in Parliament forms a National Government, the number of Ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers, the number of Ministers who are not Cabinet of Ministers and the number of Deputy Ministers shall be determined by Parliament.
?
The UNP is now considering to form a ?national? government. President Sirisena has ruled against a formal agreement with the UNP
Thus a national government with the one SLMC MP would allow the UNP to disregard the constitutional limit on the number of Cabinet portfolios, and rewards, 20 plus SLFP MPs and six UNP pole vaulters, who now want to support the UNP. Since such support is not extended on the basis of principles, they need to be rewarded with plum cabinet portfolios. This is the cynical logic of the UNP?s proposed national government.??
That is JR Jayawardene style of cruel exploitation of constitution to advance petty personal and political aims. Such strategies have backfired, and the UNP which is functioning on a borrowed political capital does not have the luxury that JR had.??
Return of Ranil?s coterie of stooges?
Mr. Wickremesinghe?s habit of running the party and the country with a small group of his coterie is despised within the party itself. More alarmingly, serious allegations of corruption were made regarding the exclusive handling of economic policy and Foreign Direct Investment projects. These allegations need to be investigated under any future government or by a presidential commission for they are grotesque and high profile.??
Then there is PM Wickrmesinghe?s favourites who are generally assigned to key responsibilities that they are shown to be incompetent of handling. That comes at the expense of the country, the party, and the competent MPs of the UNP, most of whom are disgruntled. Their disgruntlement, temporarily overshadowed by the momentary party unity against the constitutional coup would soon resurface. Premier Wickremesinghe would be doing a favour to the UNP and the country, if he limits his favoritism to where it ought to be.??
Appoint Ravi K. as a Cabinet Minister?
Ravi Karunanayake is a competent political manager. But he is tainted with jaw dropping allegations in the bond scam. He is also a key member of Premier Wickremesinghe?s inner circle just like Arjuna Mahendran had been until he took the flight.??
Mr. Karunanayake is strongly considered for the minister of finance. (The president could very well appoint him and have the last laugh). However, that would be the beginning of the UNP?s undoing . It can happen very soon and very rapidly.??
Ravi Karunanayake could well win the next Parliamentary election with 200,000 votes from Colombo, primarily from its electoral heartland of Ghettoed Central Colombo and Kolonnawa etc. However, two million undecided voters, or probably more, would be less inclined to support a government or vote for a party that has Mr. Karunanayake as a minister.? ?
The UNP should also take note of the unfolding changes of demography of its electorate. It was the party that introduced and heavily relied on ?rent a crowd? protesters of ?bath packet? and the bottle of attack. It was also the party that in the most cynical manner mobilized the economic disadvantaged of the Colombo slums for its election campaign.??
However, much of that has changed. Some of that electorate are now better economically positioned and less dependent, others have switched side to the SLPP, on the back of Duminda Silva, Mervin Silva at al. The UNP is not winning back that group. Instead, it can lose a good deal of undecided voters of progressive middle class,youth and millenials.? ?
Premier Wickremesinghe should manage to build on the current political capital. But if he squander this opportunity, that should not also be a surprise.??
?
follow @RangaJayasuriya?on twitter??
 
		
==============================
## Title: TID summons ex-LTTE cadre Thulasi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 02:46 pm
TID summons ex-LTTE cadre Thulasi
	
Former LTTE cadre and the leader of a political party of militants, Ganeshalingam Chandralingam alias Thulasi had been summoned to the Terrorist Investigation Division (TID) tomorrow to record a statement.
Vavuniya Division Terrorist Investigation unit had noticed Thulasi to report to the TID office in Colombo on Wednesday.
Thulasi had been in the LTTE?s administrative secretariat and had formed a political party called Liberation Campaigners of the North after being rehabilitated.(Romesh Madhushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UPFA decides to nominate MR as Oppn. Leader
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 11:46 am
UPFA decides to nominate MR as Oppn. Leader
	
The United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) parliamentary members today unanimously decided to nominate former President Mahinda Rajapaksa as the Opposition Leader, MP Chandima Weerakkody said.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror he said the decision was taken by all 101 UPFA MPs following a meeting with the President this morning.
?
Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: UPFA MPs Wijayamuni, Lakshman and Indika join govt.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 01:32 pm
UPFA MPs Wijayamuni, Lakshman and Indika join govt.
	
UPFA MPs Vijith Wijayamuni Zoysa, Lakshman Seneviratne and Indika Bandaranayake crossed over to the UNF government in Parliament.
?
?
?
Video by Susantha
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Visit of a scion shrouded in secrecy!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 December 2018 10:26 am
Visit of a scion shrouded in secrecy!
	
The young son of a prominent woman politico in the country has come back here on a brief visit and she has taken all precautions to keep his sojourn in this country a top secret.
This young man now domiciled in a land in the West has been getting earnest requests from various prominent people to enter the national politics here.
A well- known animal lover, the young man is back home these days to attend the wedding of the granddaughter of a leading physician, with a reputation as a rationalist, they say.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: We joined govt. to stabilise it: Vijith Wijayamuni
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 06:15 pm
We joined govt. to stabilise it: Vijith Wijayamuni
	
Former minister and SLFP MP Vijith Wijayamuni Soysa said today that he and two other SLFPers had not joined the United National Party (UNP) but joined the government to stabilise it.
In a special statement, he told parliament that people had been inconvenienced and had to face immense hardships due to the recent crisis situation and it was the responsibility of the SLFP to restore normalcy for the benefit of the people.
"We have no issue in working with SLFP Chairman and President Maithripala Sirisena and SLFP consultant Mahinda Rajapaksa," he said.
He also said SLFPers were in a desperate situation now and they should be protected.
"Those who joined SLFP halfway through had no concern for the party. We as born SLFPers are concerned about the party. My father and I strived for the party from 1971 under difficult circumstances," he said.
The MP said they were not allowed to work under their government and added that however, under the Yahapalanaya government, they were given powerful portfolios to serve the people.
"We were not given any worthwhile ministries to serve the people under the UPFA government, but under the Yahapalanaya government, I was able to construct 200 tanks. I was not obstructed by UNPers Ranjith Madduma Bandara or Ananda Kumarasiri in the Moneragala District," he said.
He said he wanted to serve his people in the Moneragala District and that the three of them had joined a victorious alliance today.?(Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Woman defrauding money promising Canadian jobs, arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 December 2018 10:31 am
Woman defrauding money promising Canadian jobs, arrested
	
A 46-year-old woman was arrested by the CID in connection with defrauding money by promising employment in Canada, Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said.
He said the woman was arrested on Monday night from a house at Nawagamuwa.
The CID recovered 350 grams of gold worth Rs. 2.6 million and Rs. 50,000 in cash from the suspect?s possession.
The Spokesman said the CID officials also recovered 72 passports, 50 bank passbooks and 50 ATM cards from the woman?s possession.
? About 52 complaints had been received by the Police alleging the woman had been defrauding money by promising Canadian jobs,? SP Gunasekera said.
She had asked job seekers to open a saving account at a bank under their name and deposit money in it. Thereafter she would take the ATM card from them and withdraw the money, he said.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
