## Title: Australia unveils starfish-killing robot to protect Barrier Reef
## Section: International
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:01 am
Australia unveils starfish-killing robot to protect Barrier Reef
	
?
SYDNEY AFP Aug31, 2018- A robot submarine able to hunt and kill the predatory crown-of-thorns starfish devastating the Great Barrier Reef was unveiled by Australian researchers on Friday.?
?
Scientists at Queensland University of Technology (QUT) said the robot, named the RangerBot and developed with a grant from Google, would serve as a reef protector?for the vast World Heritage site off Australia?s northeastern coast.??
The RangerBot has an eight-hour battery life and computer vision capabilities allowing it to monitor and map reef areas at scales not previously possible.??
It is the world?s first underwater robotic system designed specifically for coral reef environments, using only robot-vision for real-time navigation, obstacle avoidance and complex science missions,?said Matthew Dunbabin, the QUT professor who unveiled the submarine.??
Multi-function ocean drone can monitor a wide range of issues facing coral reefs including coral bleaching, water quality, pest species, pollution and siltation.?Software will also enable the bot to detect crown-of-thorns starfish, which eat coral, and an injection which is fatal?to the predators, he said, adding that the injection is harmless for other reef creatures.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: BIMSTEC Chairmanship handed over to President
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 September 2018 05:01 am
BIMSTEC Chairmanship handed over to President
	
The Chairmanship of the 5th Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) was yesterday handed over to President Maithripala Sirisena. Pix by President's Media
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Charity?s value lasts forever
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
Charity?s value lasts forever
	
Widely accepted spiritual and ethical values tell us that our care for others is the measure of our greatness. That means we need to be other-centred. If we are selfish or self-centred with its related vices such as greed, envy and cut-throat competitiveness, we are like suicide bombers. We will spiritually and morally destroy ourselves and others.??
We need to reflect deeply on this as we mark the United Nations International Day of Charity next Wednesday, September 5. In a statement, the UN says charity, like the virtues of volunteerism and philanthropy, provides real social bonding and contributes to the creation of inclusive and more resilient societies. Charity can alleviate the worst effects of humanitarian crises, supplement public services in healthcare, education, housing and child protection. It assists the advancement of culture, science, sports, and the protection of cultural and natural heritage.? ?
According to the UN, charity also promotes the rights of the marginalized and underprivileged and spreads the message of humanity in conflict situations. The International Day of Charity was established with the objective of sensitizing and mobilizing people, NGOs, and stakeholders around the world to help others through volunteer and philanthropic activities.??
The UN says the date September 5 was selected to commemorate the anniversary of the passing away of Kolkata?s Mother Teresa who received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for work undertaken in the struggle to overcome poverty and distress -- a crisis which could constitute a threat to peace.??
Mother Teresa, the renowned nun and missionary, was born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu in 1910. In 1928 she went to India, where she devoted herself to helping the destitute. In 1948, she became an Indian citizen and in 1950 founded the order of Missionaries of Charity, which became widely respected for its work among the poor and the dying in that city.??
For more than 45 years, Mother Teresa who has now been canonized ministered to the poor, sick, orphaned and dying, while guiding the Missionaries of Charity?s expansion, first in India and then in other countries, including hospices and homes for the poorest and homeless. Mother Teresa?s work has been recognized and acclaimed throughout the world and she has received a number of awards and distinctions. Mother Teresa died on September 5, 1997 at the age of 87. One of her most inspiring proclamations regarding charity or love was that we need to love till it hurts. Eventually, the hurt will go away and the love will go on forever. We will realize the truth of this to the extent we practise it.? ?
The UN says in recognition of the role of charity in alleviating humanitarian crises and human suffering within and among nations, as well as of the efforts of charitable organizations and individuals, including the work of Mother Teresa, the UN General Assembly in a resolution designated September 5, as the International Day of Charity.??
In the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development adopted in September 2015, the UN recognizes that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. The agenda also calls for a spirit of strengthened global solidarity, focused in particular on the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable. It also acknowledges the role of the diverse private sector, ranging from micro-enterprises to cooperatives to multinationals, and that of civil and philanthropic organizations in the implementation of the new agenda.??
According to the UN, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set forth in the agenda can be grouped into six critical areas: people, planet, prosperity, peace, and partnership. They have the potential to transform our lives and our planet by providing the framework needed for philanthropic institutions to enable all people to contribute to the betterment of our world.? ?
In Sri Lanka, the coalition government has given top priority to poverty alleviation mainly through its three new projects -- Gamperaliya, Enterprise Sri Lanka and Gramashakthi. For these projects to be effective, they need to be implemented beyond party politics and without bribery or corruption. If this is done, we could see a more equitable distribution of Sri Lanka?s wealth and resources to achieve the vision of a just, peaceful and all-inclusive society.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: CMC 'gimmicks': Children's fun for sale at Colombo parks
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 02:06 pm
CMC 'gimmicks': Children's fun for sale at Colombo parks
	
The Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) has passed a proposal to fix playground equipment at the Viharamahadevi Park and Mutwal Crow Island Park and charge Rs. 400 per hour from children who play at these grounds.
The proposal has been submitted by the United National Party (UNP) to the Financial Committee, to be initiated as a Private Public Partnership (PPP) and it was passed in the council session with majority votes on August 24.
UNP and SLFP councillors had voted in favour of the proposal while the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) councillors strongly rejected it.
The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) was absent when the vote was called.
According to the proposal, construction of the two play areas will be done by the private firm who will make a payment of Rs. 10,000 monthly as rent to the Colombo Municipality.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, JVP Councillor Hemantha Weerakoon said it was unfortunate that a government body such as the CMC that is earning a net income of Rs. 16,000 million per annum, was attempting to find money from children?s leisure activities.
He questioned as to what was provided by the Colombo Municipality to the public for free.
?We objected the proposal as it was a violation of the CMC ordinance to implement such a proposal. It is also not ethical to charge from children?s leisure activities. According to the proposal, a child between 5 to 10 years has to pay Rs. 100/- for 15 minutes. Can a child stop playing within 15 minutes. Then how much would it cost the parents, if this proposal was implemented,? he said.
When contacted, CMC Commissioner V. K. Anura said he was not aware of the proposal.
JVP Councillor Weerakoon confirmed that the Commissioner did not attend the evening council session when the proposal was passed.
?However, the Commissioner cannot say that he doesn?t know about this. He is informed of all the proposals made at the meeting,? he said.
Meanwhile, sources at the CMC said that though the proposal was passed with majority votes, it was not in accordance to the CMC ordinance, and therefore cannot be implemented. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: CPSTL probe to locate stock of missing furnace oil
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 11:38 am
CPSTL probe to locate stock of missing furnace oil
	
Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Limited (CPSTL) had commenced a probe into an incident where a bowser containing 13,200 litres of Furnace Oil worth Rs.1.05 million had gone missing two months ago, a CPSTL official said.
This stock of oil, which was claimed to be contaminated and lacking the required standard, had been taken for laboratory tests.
According to the laboratory tests conducted by CPSTL it came to light that the stock of oil was not up to the required standard. However, it was reported that there was no information as to what happened to this stock of furnace oil.
The CPSTL confirmed that an investigation is underway to locate the missing stock of furnace oil. (Shiran Ranasinghe)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dr. Hilarian .M.Codippily Goodbye dear friend
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
Dr. Hilarian .M.Codippily Goodbye dear friend
	
My dear friend Hilarian is no more,??
As his immortal soul has gone through Heaven?s door,??
While his mortal remains lie under ground,??
To mother-earth-till thy kingdom come-bound.??
His sojourn on planet earth,??
Lasted around 80 years from the time of birth,??
During this lifespan ? as a Mathematician, Physicist & Economists-he reached great heights??
To bag a world Bank top slot to set the Developing World?s- Financial, Economic and Development- strategies right.??
As an eminent ballroom dancer,??
He danced his way into the arms of charming Sheila-his lifelong marriage partner,??
And lived happily for 54 years thereafter,??
In accordance with the matrimonial vows they took before the church altar.??
On the 18th of August 2018,the Earth received an honoured guest,??
As Hilarian was laid in peace to rest,??
Where in that state he will stay,??
And rise on the final judgement day.??
Goodbye dear friend,??
Though your life on earth has come to an end,??
Memories of you will linger,??
In the minds of those near & dear to you, for ever.??
?A.Pulle
Dehiwela.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. acting arbitrarily: Mahanayake Thera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 07:16 am
Govt. acting arbitrarily: Mahanayake Thera
	
While claiming that the government was acting arbitrarily, Asgiri Chapter Mahanayake Warakagoda Sri Gnanarathana Thera said yesterday the government must take steps to curtail the increasing crime in the country.
?Crime is on the increase. No one is paying attention to it. Shooting incidents are reported everywhere,? he said when a group of joint opposition MPs including Namal Rajapaksa, Kanchana Wijesekara and Mahindananda Aluthgamage called on the Mahanayake Thera to brief on the janabalaya protest campaign.
They also met Ramanna Nikaya Mahanayake Ven. Napana Premasiri Thera, who said the programme of the JO was praiseworthy and wished them success. (J.A.L. Jayasinghe)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ignatius Canagaretnam A role model and pillar of strength to all
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
Ignatius Canagaretnam A role model and pillar of strength to all
	
Ignatius Canagaretnam (Retd DIG) was called to rest with the Creator on January10 this year. Many friends have written of his love for Batticaloa and for his College St. Michael?s. Others have mentioned his rise in the Police force due to his hard work and efficiency. A granddaughter of his has said, ?Appachchi ? you are my idol, my role model, my strength, my inspiration, my teacher, my guardian angel, and my everything???
I shall restrict my comments to my association with a Police officer namely Canags (who was then an ASP), when I assumed duties as Additional GA Hambantota in 1976. On my way there, I casually met Ernest Perera, who told me to meet the ASP there, one Mr. Canagaretnam, who would assist me to settle down in my new job without difficulty. I met Canags that evening, and from then onwards we developed a great friendship that lasted until January 2018 when Canags had to answer the final call from his Creator.??
My first assignment in Hambantota was to assist in conducting the elections in 1977. We met regularly and saw to it that everything was in order. Canags had already rounded up the mischief makers and warned them severely they should behave or face the consequences. The election went off smoothly without any serious incidents. One candidate who had lost was finding it difficult to get out from the Kachcheri; he was a very unpopular politician. Canags ensured he was safely escorted to our district boundary taking a different route.? ?
The cyclone that followed later that year caused a lot of damage to our Kachcheri buildings. The most affected district was Amparai. Canags took the initiative and with the assistance of his staff organised a lorry load of bread and dry rations to Amparai.??
My wife was the MOH of the district. Very often, she had to seek the assistance of Canags as her official vehicle was either in the garage for repairs or not in working condition. Canags always obliged. Later on, both of us were transferred out of H?tota. I assumed duties as DG, SLBC and Canags as DIG. Ernest was the IGP at the time. Rebels from the South were very active during this period and I had the difficult task of looking after our transmitting stations located all over the country ? Weeraketiya, Puttalam, Maho etc. Canags and Ernest gave very valuable advice and assistance in securing these places: the rebels only succeeded in setting fire to our Matara station.??
So that was Canags. I am writing this from my sick bed (I am 85 now). He was a rare human being, generous with a heart full of love for all humanity. He was a great friend to all of us. His greatest strength was his wife ? Rita. He served his country with utmost dedication, integrity and honesty ? a very rare phenomenon these days.??
Canags, my wife joins me in wishing you once again, peace and happiness where ever you are.??
Karu Weeraman??
SLAS (Retd)? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: JVP claims moves to buy 18 TV sets for Rs. 1.4 mn for WPC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 06:02 pm
JVP claims moves to buy 18 TV sets for Rs. 1.4 mn for WPC
	
High on the heels of a controversy over the order placed by the Western Provincial Council authorities for the purchase of 125 chairs costing some Rs. 650,000 each from Spain, it has been revealed that the authorities had allocated Rs 1.4 million to purchase 18 television sets for the newly built building of the Council.
The source said the television sets are to be placed at several rooms in the building.
But Western Province Chief Minster Isura Devapriya said these were baseless allegations.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror JVP Councillor Lakshman Nipunaaarachchi said that the JVP was informed of the Television sets to be purchased spending Rs 1.4 million and he was going to raise a question during the next meeting of the council on September 4 requesting to disclose the actual cost of the television sets.
He further said that all six JVP members in the council were to oppose the move at the council meeting.
However, when contacted Western Province Chief Minister Isura Devapriya denied the allegation.
"These allegations are levelled by the media. The same thing happened regarding the luxury seats incident. There is no need for us to have 98 inch televisions in our offices. I can assure that these are baseless charges," he added.
Earlier, Governor of the province Hemakumara Nanayakkara had suspended the purchase of chairs at a cost of Rs. 650,000 each following a request by councilor Nipunaarachchi. However, during the last meeting of the council majority of members of the council who spoke about these chairs justified the purchase.
The construction work on the new building complex for the council which would house all five ministries of the council has been almost completed and several ministry offices have already been moved to it. However, the council ministries are yet to move to the new building. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kalalya School of Dance and Music celebrates '70'
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:03 am
Kalalya School of Dance and Music celebrates '70'
	
?
SLWTU will stage the dance drama Sivakamiyin Sabatham on September 30th
This effort will also serve as fundraising to improve facilities at the premises
The dancers will be selected from talented students across the country
?
Kalalya School of Dance and Music was established on September 1 in 1948 to support and encourage Tamil culture, art and education by the Sri Lanka Tamil Women?s Union. Starting from meagre beginnings it has gone from strength to strength. The first classes were conducted at the Friends in Need Society Building located on Sir James Peiris Mawatha. Later we were fortunate to acquire land on Bauddhaloka Mawatha (then Bullers Road) for this purpose and able to build our own premises in 1954. This building has been the mainstay of all our activities until now.? ?
The 70-year saga of Kalalaya has been the saga of the eminent women who espoused the idea of the role of the feminine in the nurturing and growth of the Tamil identity in terms of culture, tradition and language. We have had teachers like Vijayalakshmi Shanmugam Pillai, Kamala Johnpulle, Neela Sathyalingam and Thilakavathy Kanagasabai in the past. Many of their students, through this school, have become accomplished dancers and musicians.??
?
Kalalaya functions under the aegis of Sri Lanka Tamil Women?s Union (SLTWU) which was founded in 1909 by Dr Mary Helen Rutnam
?
The building has withstood many onslaughts of weather including high winds, frequent inundation of water due to flooding from monsoon rains and storms. Apart from minor refurbishments and small additions to accommodate additional activities the main building stands proud proclaiming its sustainable presence over the last 70 years.? ?
Seventy years also mark the end of the ethnic strife that had scarred the lives of Sri Lankan people over the past years. In 1983, in the aftermath of the July riots, saw the exodus of students and Kalalaya closed down for a brief period and leased out the premises to the school of Architects. Thank fully phoenix like we have risen from the ashes, soaring high, seeking new horizons. The students who graduated with Arangetram performances from the school have spread far and wide in the world taking along with them Tamil culture and the art of Bharathanatyam. Neela Sathyalingam?s school in Singapore is a case in point.? ?
?
Several events have been lined up to mark the occasion and raise funds to improve this institute which has nourished Tamil art and culture
?
New beginnings?
The end of the war in 2009 brought about new beginnings in various facets of life in our country and Kalalaya is also gently waking up to facing this challenge. Kalalaya School?s activities have reached a stage where the existing hall and supporting spaces are inadequate to cater to the growing needs of the school. Classes have begun in Carnatic music, Veena , Violin and Hindustani vocal music. More classes are planned in Keyboard, Kathak Dancing and guitar playing. Additional needs have arisen with regard to our outreach activities incorporating the provinces. The school is actively seeking to raise funds and improve facilities for its students.? ?
In the year of the 70th anniversary of Kalalya School many prestigious events will commemorate the event. Apart from the usual annual events like celebration of the International Women?s Day, Navarathri celebrations and Christmas festivities that mark our calendar, the 70th year will see a mega dance drama as the high light of the anniversary celebrations featuring the story of Sivakamiyin Sabatham written by Kalki Krishnamurthy.
?This effort will also serve as fundraising for improving facilities in the premises. Sivakamiyin Sabatham is widely regarded as one of the greatest novels ever written in Tamil, set in 8th century south India against the backdrop of various historical events and figures. The dancers will be selected from talented students across the country, especially from Jaffna.? ?
Kalalaya functions under the aegis of Sri Lanka Tamil Women?s Union (SLTWU) which was founded in 1909 by Dr Mary Helen Rutnam. The present executive led by the President Nirmala Ragunathan is poised to bring in the winds of change through a membership drive which has brought in new blood and a varied talent that will provide greater scope for expansion and growth.? ?
SLWTU will stage the dance drama Sivakamiyin Sabatham on the 30th September 2018 at Bishop?s College Auditorium at 6.30pm. More details about the activities and sale of tickets can be obtained by calling
Selvi Sachithanandam (0773 679656) Vijitha Thambinayagam (0777 686822) Shanthi Balasubramaniam (0777 329881) or Neela Thayaparan (0777445515).? ? ?
?
The dance drama Sivakamiyin Sabatham will be on 30th September 2018 at Bishop?s College Auditorium at 6.30pm.?More details:? Selvi Sachithanandam (0773 679656) Vijitha Thambinayagam (0777 686822) Shanthi Balasubramaniam (0777 329881) or Neela Thayaparan (0777445515)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Malinga, Dilruwan recall for Asia Cup
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 06:33 pm
Malinga, Dilruwan recall for Asia Cup
	
Fast bowler Lasith Malinga and off-spinner Dilruwan Perera have been included in the 16-man squad for the Asia Cup in Dubai this month.
The 35-year-old Malinga, who retired from Test cricket in 2010, has not played international cricket since last September 2017 when Sri Lanka suffered a 5-0 drubbing at the hands of India at home.
FULL STORY
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mass grave in Mannar: Skeletal remains of 12 children excavated
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 09:29 am
Mass grave in Mannar: Skeletal remains of 12 children excavated
	
Judicial Medical Officer S. Rajapakse said the skeletal remains excavated from a mass grave in Mannar where likely to be those of 12 children.
He said 114 skeletons had also been excavated from the mass grave in the vicinity of the old CWE building in Mannar on Thursday.
The JMO said a detailed analysis would be done later after samples of the skeletal remains were sent for a carbon test to California.
A team of archaeological and judicial officers are carrying out investigations on a directive of Mannar Magistrate T.G.Prabhakaran. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Michael Perera Jayasuriya Remembering my dad
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
Michael Perera Jayasuriya Remembering my dad
	
You were born on 16th August 1895,? ?
In the staunchly Catholic Village of Kalamulla,? ?
The little Vatican of Kalutara,? ?
Dotted with five Churches built on the Coast Line,? ?
You were educated at Holy Cross College, Kalutara,? ?
The only Catholic Boys? School situated between Moratuwa & Galle,? ?
Keeping its flag flying high to-date,? ?
With its Sister School Holy Family Convent situated close-by,? ?
Today, Sixteenth August on Your birthday,? ?
It would have been a truly Momentous Day,? ?
If you had lived to date,? ?
But, God thought otherwise,? ?
On this day,? ?
You would surely be looking down at me from Heaven,? ?
As I recollect the way we were brought up in life step by step,? ?
And the deeds of a beloved Father,? ?
Life was always a hard struggle for you,? ?
I can still remember those difficult times,? ?
Sorrows and Worries, Obstacles and Setbacks,? ?
You had them all in plenty,? ?
In your young days being duty conscious,? ?
You had waited and waited,? ?
Till your elder sister walked down the aisle,? ?
Before taking the all important step in your own life,? ?
Your never had a chance,? ?
To own a house of your own,? ?
Living in rented houses was the norm of the day,? ?
But you never tried to own them through legal or illegal means,? ?
As a devoted Father,? ?
And as the head of a loving Family,? ?
You braved them all,? ?
With clean principles and faith in God,? ?
You fed, clothed and educated us,? ?
You looked after us in sicknesses and injuries,? ?
You did all that, with what you got as monthly pay from Civil Medical Stores,? ?
How you managed to do so much with so little is still a mystery to me!.? ?
You never had any Bank Account in your name,? ?
You never tried to earn a single Rupee in an unjust way,? ?
You never owed anyone a single Rupee either,? ?
And you taught me by practice how to live within one?s means and that- money is not everything in life,? ?
You were firm in your decisions,? ?
You were not a silent spectator in the face of untruth and injustice,? ?
You feared no one in this World,? ?
You feared only God,? ?
And, a moment before you clutched God?s hand on 24th January 1993, at the age of 98,? ?
You would have felt contended to think,? ?
That you had brought up three daughters and a son, to what they were on that date,? ?
With your sweat, toil and sacrifice,? ?
Now it?s my turn to do better,? ?
And to pave a path for my Son and two Daughters,? ?
To reach greater heights in society,? ?
A wish so dear to your Heart - A struggle I just have to win,? ?
To instill in you again and again,? ?
That you certainly had a Son,? ?
Worthy to carry your SURNAME,? ?
Whom you named SRILAL? ?
Dad, I am your only son - Srilal Jayasuriya? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: MJF Training Centre declared open
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 September 2018 07:00 pm
MJF Training Centre declared open
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe declared opened the MJF Training centre, which is a vocational training centre built especially for the differently-abled children in Kalkudah on Saturday. Dilmah Chairman Merrill J Fernando was also present. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana?? ?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pragmatic Politics of  Plantation Tamil Leader Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:01 am
Pragmatic Politics of  Plantation Tamil Leader Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman
	
By
D.B.S.Jeyaraj
When Sri Lanka known then as Ceylon obtained full freedom from British rule on February 4th 1948, the second largest ethnic community in the island were the Tamils of recent Indian origin and not the Sri Lankan Tamil community. The 1ast official census before Ceylon got Dominion Status and then Independence from the United Kingdom was taken in 1946.According to the 1946 census, the island nation had a total population of 6 , 637, 300 people. Of this the breakdown for the Sinhala, Sri Lankan Tamil, Sri Lankan Moor, Indian? Tamil, Malay, Burgher and Indian Moor ethnicities was as follows: Sinhalese - 4,620,500(69.41%); Sri Lankan Tamils - 733,700(11.02%); Sri Lankan Muslims - 373,600 (5.61%); Indian Tamils -780,600 (11.73%); Malays - 22,500(0.34%); Burghers - 41,900 (0.63%) and Indian Muslims - 35,600(0.53%).?
According to the latest 2011 census, the Indian Tamils numbering 839,504 (4.12%) are the fourth-largest ethnicity in Sri? Lanka. However the figures from the 1946 census reveal that the Indian Tamil community then living mainly in the Uva, Sabaragamuwa, Central and Western Provinces was the second-largest ethnicity when the country was free of colonial bondage. The community consisting of people who had lived in the island for a few generations as well as recent arrivals were an integral component of the newly-independent nation then. The three main sources of income and foreign exchange for the country 70 years ago were tea, rubber and coconut. The bulk of workers on tea plantations and rubber estates were Indian Tamils. They were also engaged as labourers in the sanitary, construction, trade and transport sectors.?
The community was also involved with manufacturing and commerce at multiple levels. They owned and ran mills, factories, shops, hotels, restaurants, jewellery establishments, textile stores and theatres. Many owned small boutiques, eating houses and market stalls. Some were pavement hawkers and street peddlers. Others were exporters and importers. Some were professionals. Some were artisans and craftsmen. There were teachers, accountants and clerks. Politically, the Indian Tamils were able to elect eight Tamils to Parliament in the general election of 1947. The Indian Tamil vote also helped sway elections in another 12-15 electorates.?
In short, the Indian Tamils were a vibrant community contributing extensively to the welfare of the nation at the time of independence. Alas! The prevalent post-independence mood amidst dominant political circle differed from that perspective. They perceived the community as aliens who had no place in the country. It was argued that the newly-independent nation had to define and determine who was entitled to citizenship or not. And so, the hapless community which toiled from dawn to dusk under extremely-poor working conditions in the estates and plantations became political targets.?
?
DE-CITIZENISED AND DISENFRANCHISED?
They were first de-citizenized and then disenfranchised. After their citizenship and franchise were taken away, they became an extremely-powerless, vulnerable community. In the 1952 elections, they could not directly elect a single MP. India, under Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, would not accept them. Hence, they were neither here nor there and were rendered ?Stateless.? They were continually discriminated against. Any Indian Tamil could be picked up and detained as a ?Kallathoni? or illegal immigrant. As time progressed, they along with their Sri Lankan Tamil counterparts were victims of communal violence. The community truly fitted Frantz Fanon?s description ?Wretched of the Earth.???
Finally, their collective destinies were arbitrated by the heads of two States without any consultation with their leaders or representatives. The Sirimavo-Shastri Pact signed by Indian Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri and Sri Lankan Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike in 1964 stipulated that 525,000 of the estimated 975,000 Stateless people should be relocated to India while 300,000 would be absorbed by Sri Lanka. The remaining 150,000 were divided up by India on a 50:50 basis -- 75,000 each to both countries -- in 1974 through another agreement inked by Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Sri Lankan Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike.?
When the deadline for Indian citizenship application expired in 1981, only 507,000 out of the envisaged 600,000 had applied for Indian citizenship. This left a shortfall of 93,000. They with their natural increase amounted to another Stateless category. Finally, in the 1986-88 period, the J.R. Jayewardene led government granted full citizenship to the remainder. It was the United National Party (UNP) led government that created the problem of Statelessness by depriving the Indian Tamils of citizenship rights. Now the wheel had turned full-cycle and another UNP Government led by a President who had been a minister in the first UNP Government ended Statelessness once and for all.?
The greater part of credit for this achievement must go to the man known widely as ?Thonda.? Saumiamoorthy (spelled sometimes as Saumyamoorthy or Saumiyamoorthy) Thondaman was the undisputed ?Thalaiver? (leader) of Sri Lanka?s predominantly Indian Tamil plantation proletariat for several decades. The co-founder and long-standing leader of Ceylon Workers Congress (CWC), Sri Lanka?s largest trade union in the estate sector was a latter day Moses who led his people from oblivion and irrelevance to equality and self-respect.?
Saumiamoorthy Thondaman was born in Munapudoor in what was then the Madras Presidency of India during British rule on August? 30, 1913. He died of a myocardial infarction at the Sri Jayewardenepura Hospital in Colombo on October 30, 1999. This article is to commemorate his 105th birth centenary that was observed last Thursday, August 30.?
?
TRADE UNIONIST AND POLITICAL LEADER?
More than six decades of his eventful life of 86 years was devoted to serving his people as a trade unionist and political leader. As President of Sri? Lanka?s largest and one of the oldest trade unions, the CWC, Thondaman played a prominent role in the country?s post-independence politics. His political life was intertwined with the vicissitudes of the Indian Tamil people of Sri? Lanka, who still form the most deprived section of Sri Lankan society. His goal was to emancipate these people from the wretched plight they were in owing to historical injustice. Although he could not fully realise these aspirations, it cannot be denied that the pragmatic leadership of Thondaman helped the people he represented to better their circumstances from the dire position they were in at the dawn of Sri? Lanka?s independence.?
I had heard of Thondaman as a schoolboy in the early sixties of the 20th century. It was however in the late seventies that I began interacting with him as a staff reporter in the Tamil daily ?Virakesari? covering the Plantations Industries Ministry and related trade union activities. I continued to be in contact with him and other leaders of the up-country Tamils during my Virakesari days and subsequent years as a journalist in ?The Island? and as ColomboCorrespondent of the Indian daily ?The Hindu? and news magazine ?Frontline.? We were in touch infrequently after I relocated to Canada.?
I was however able to associate with him quite closely in my years as a working journalist in Sri Lanka. He looked upon me with some kind of paternal benevolence. After a while he discarded the ?Vaanga, Ponga? (Come, Go) form of respectfully addressing in Tamil and became more familiar with me saying ?Vaappaa, Poppaa? to me in private. In public, he would talk to me in English.?
Thonda was quite fond of my work as a journalist. I used to write articles on the politics of Indiain general and Tamil Nadu in particular while in Virakesari which he used to often read and talk of later. Politics in India during the Morarji Desai period was rather exciting and Thondaman relished discussing developments in Delhi and also about the Tamil Nadu ?civil war? between M.G.
Ramachandran and ?Kalainger? Karunanidhi. Later, when I moved to English journalism, he used to follow my progress and was happy that I did well. Thonda was rather excited when I became the ColomboCorrespondent of The Hindu offering words of encouragement. He helped me in my journalistic career by providing quite a few scoops or by passing on a few tips to follow up and get a good story.?
Despite the tough exterior, he could be quite affectionate and concerned at times. I recall an incident where I was suffering from a terrible cold with my nose running. In a rare glimpse of ?softness in a stone? Thondaman got down some Vicks ointment and made me apply it and also inhale. He also advised me in Tamil ?Konjam Brandy Saappiduppaa? (take a little brandy). Later, I was totally surprised when Thonda?s affable Coordinating Secretary Thirunavukkarasu presented me a bottle of Cognac with the compliments of his boss saying ?some medicine for you.???
While recalling these inter-personal aspects regarding Thondaman, I also wish to focus on him as a trade unionist cum political leader of a community long-discriminated against. It has been my good fortune to observe and admire the man and his mission from a vantage position as a journalist.?
?
POLITICS IS THE ART OF THE POSSIBLE?
In my opinion, Saumiamoorthy Thondaman was the shrewdest tactician among Tamil political leaders in recent times. He was a pragmatic realist who grasped in essence that politics is the art of the possible. Applying Chanakyan methods in a practical sense, this mercurial leader of Sri? Lanka?s Tamils of recent Indian origin -- known as ?Indian Tamils? -- helped usher in a period of political empowerment and renaissance. As President of Sri? Lanka?s largest and one of the oldest trade unions, the CWC, the political veteran played a prominent role in the country?s post-independence politics. His political life was intertwined with the vicissitudes of the Indian Tamil people of Sri? Lanka, who formed the most deprived section of Sri Lankan society. I have often wistfully compared and contrasted Thondaman? with the leaders thrown up by the Sri Lankan Tamils and bemoaned the fact that there were and are no leaders of Thonda?s acumen, sagacity and experience amongst them.?
Thondaman himself was critical of the confrontational tactics of Sri Lankan Tamils, both violent and non-violent. He has told me several times that the trouble with the Sri Lankan Tamil leaders was that they did not know how to negotiate. ?The art in negotiations is to put up five demands and win one of them completely. We must gain partial compromises on two with one in our favour and one in their favour. Of the remaining two one must be put on hold for another day and the other abandoned entirely as a sop to the other party. Since we are trade unionists, we know that art. But TULF (precursor to the TNA) leaders are all lawyers who only know how to argue their brief eloquently but do not know how to extract meaningful concessions,? Thonda used to say. Incidentally the Tamil United Liberation Front acronym TULF was dubbed as Tamil United Lawyers Front then because half the number of TULF parliamentarians in 1977-83 were lawyers.?
He was sympathetic to the problems of the Sri Lankan Tamil community but knew clearly that there was no uniform identity of interests. In 1961, he launched a plantation workers? strike as a demonstration of sympathy for the Satyagraha campaign undertaken by Sri Lankan Tamils in the North and the East. However, against the Sri Lankan Tamil community?s expectations that he would prolong the strike, he called it off early after making his point.?
The CWC leader cooperated with Sri Lankan Tamil political parties in forming the Tamil United Front in 1971. But when it metamorphosed into the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) and opted for a separate state in 1976, Thondaman opted out despite being elected as one of the triumvirate of its leadership. Tamil Eelam will not help resolve the problems of plantation Tamils was his practical credo. He campaigned for the TULF in 1977 and enlisted TULF support for the CWC in elections, but contested separately under the cockerel symbol instead of the rising sun of the TULF. The slogan on TULF/CWC platforms then was that the sun would rise in the East and North contested by the TULF while the Cockerel would crow in Nuwara Eliya-Maskeliya and Colombo Central contested by CWC.?
Thonda was not overtly critical of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) or the armed struggle by Sri Lankan Tamils. His pragmatic proposal that power be handed over to LTTE leader V.
Prabhakaran for a stipulated period of time without being obligated to face elections was thoroughly misunderstood in the South. He was accused unfairly of collaborating with the LTTE to create a ?Malaya Naadu? upcountry. But actually Thondaman strove hard to prevent violence entering the plantations. He knew that if the upcountry youth started emulating their northeastern counterparts, it would lead to tragedy. He also admonished the LTTE saying they should have less ?Veham? (speed) and more ?Viveham? (wisdom).?
?
CONDONED VIOLENCE FOR SELF-DEFENCE ONLY?
Despite his abhorrence of violence, Thonda condoned violence as necessary for self-defence only. In 1986, Indian Tamils were attacked in Talawakele.?
The Tamils retaliated with counter-violence. Communal clashes began spreading throughout the region. The panic-stricken government of J.R.Jayewardene brought in the army. Fearing brutal repression by the army, the estate workers blocked roads by rolling down boulders and felling trees. They also placed obstacles on rail tracks. In a tense climate JR had to fly Thonda by helicopter to Lindula where the veteran leader appealed to his people to end the violence. They complied. It was truly a Gandhian moment! An emotional Thondaman broke down in tears. A few days later, interviewed him for the Indian news magazine ?Frontline.? I still recall a memorable quote stated in his pithy English, ?All this time, other people hitting, plantation worker running. Now, plantation worker hitting back, other people running.? Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman was instrumental in preventing violence from overwhelming the plantations during that troubled period.?
An illuminating illustration of his political acumen and tactical shrewdness was revealed to me on the day before his appointment in 1978 as Minister of Rural Industrial Development in the J.R.Jayewardene Government. He showed me the list of departments, boards and corporations under the newly-created ministry. I found that the Milk Board, Livestock Development Board, Industrial Development Board and so forth had been allocated to him. I was aghast and pointed out that these were running at a loss. I told him that he was being tricked into accepting a white elephant ministry.?
Thonda smiled and with a smirk replied: ?That is where you are making a mistake. This is the first time after Independence that an up-country Tamil is becoming a Cabinet minister. There is lots of opposition in the Cabinet too. This ministry I am getting is a new one specially created for me. The President (JR) is taking from E.L. Senanayake?s Agriculture Ministry and Cyril Mathew?s Industries Ministry to give me powers. If these were money-making departments, they wouldn?t let go of them and would object strongly. But because they were deadweight they wouldn?t protest. If I can make these run at a profit through my administration, I will get praised and get credit. But if I fail, no one can blame me because everyone knows these are running at a loss now.???
?
Saumiamoorthy Thondaman was born in Munapudoor in what was then the Madras Presidency of India during British rule on August? 30, 1913. He died of a myocardial infarction at the Sri Jayewardenepura Hospital in Colombo on October 30, 1999. This article is to commemorate his 105th birth centenary that was observed last Thursday, August 30?
Thonda also enlightened me about his calculated vision in taking up this portfolio. He said that the Milk Board and Livestock Development Board, if handled correctly, could bring about a positive change in the lives of the plantation workers. He pointed out that the plantation worker in line-rooms had little living space but existed in an environment where there was ample ?Pullu? (grass).?
The veteran trade unionist said that if he could give each plantation worker family a cow they could tie it up outside during night and let it graze during day. He said that if he could set up more milk collection centres in estate areas, then each family would sell the milk and increase their income. This will boost their family economy and bring about a refreshing change in their lives, Thonda predicted then.?
?
MINISTER OF RURAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT?
How prophetic his words were! Within a few years, the plantation workers were becoming the proud owners of cattle. Thonda?s opponents in the up-country trade union sector described him derisively as ?Maattu Manthiri? (Bullock Minister), but the estate economy received a tremendous boost. The lives of enterprising plantation worker families were uplifted. As Minister of Rural Industrial Development, Thondaman was able to foster dairy projects and small industries among the Indian Tamil people.?
I also received fresh insight into his pragmatic approach on another instance. He started a scheme of setting up small industrial centres where employment was to be on a fifty-fifty basis for Villages and Estates. Villages and estates were euphemisms or codes for Sinhala and Tamil. 50% of jobs were for Sinhalese from villages and 50% for Tamils from estates. I then asked him the rationale for this 50/50 scheme.?
The minister explained to me the existential reality of the central highlands where the villages were mostly populated by Sinhalese and estates by Tamils. He said that by the new scheme Tamils will get 50% of jobs in areas where they did not have any employment at present. Likewise, Sinhalese will get 50% jobs in estates where they have a negligible presence. So both sides have something to gain said Thonda pointing out further that if he stated Sinhala/Tamil 50% each, it would have raised communal resentment but by saying village/estate 50/50 he was eliminating unnecessary racist overtones for the project?
His politics was that of brinkmanship at times. There was however deep subtlety to it. Thondaman? was perhaps the only minister who launched a successful strike in his capacity as trade union leader while being a Cabinet ministers. Many of the leftist trade unionists turned against the working class when they became government ministers. But not Thonda. A major example is the plantation strike he launched while being a minister in the Jayewardene Government. ?It was not a strike,? Thondaman said, ?but a prayer campaign where every worker would attend a place of worship and be there praying the whole day for a wage increase instead of working.? To prevent personal pressure being exerted by Jayewardene, the wily Thondaman got himself admitted to Nawaloka Hospital and got a no-visitors rule implemented. Unable to contact him, the government caved in to Thondaman?s demand. Yet there was no triumphant boast by Thondaman. ?Prayers can move mountains.? he told the media modestly. ?Our prayers have been answered,? he said in a?deadpan tone.?
?
1987 ?OPERATION POOMAALAI? - INDIAN AIR-DROP?
A little-known tale is about the role of Thonda during ?Operation Poomaalai? the air-drop of food supplies over Jaffna by India on June 4, 1987. It was a risky move violating Sri Lankan airspace and sovereignty intended to convey a powerful signal to the J.R.Jayewardene regime. Feelings were running high then in Sri Lanka vis a vis India and it was anticipated that there would be a tremendous backlash.?
So the Indian envoy of that time Jyotindra Nath Dixit later to be dubbed as ?Indian viceroy of Sri Lanka? called on Thondaman in private. It was a secret meeting. Dixit had told Thonda of the intended air-drop and was concerned about possible repercussions. New? Delhi was worried about Indians and those of Indian descent being targeted in revenge after the air-drop. Contingency plans had been drawn up.?
?
As a precaution important Indian nationals and their families in and around Colombo had been moved to two luxury hotels in Galle Face and Kollupitiya. The idea was to airlift them by helicopter at Galle Face Green if necessary. Indian warships were to sail in proximity to Colombo. Important documents at the IndianHigh Commission were destroyed and burnt in a pit dug up hastily at ?IndiaHouse? premises. Dixit told Thonda then that there was a plan to land Indian paratroopers in the up-country areas if Tamils of Indian? origin were attacked en masse in the plantation highlands. He was told that it may not be possible to protect those living dispersed as small communities but assured that those concentrated in particular places could be ensured safety.?
Thondaman had replied that he believed there would not be a terrible backlash and that even if such a thing occurred steps could be taken to protect the estate workers. Thonda also informed JR in confidence about these matters and the government of the day prevented such a violent backlash being engineered by vested interests.?
The delicate manner in which Thondaman handled the Indian air-drop issue demonstrates his ability to navigate between two contending interests or perspectives. He was fiercely loyal to Sri? Lanka while being mindful of Indian interests. In the aftermath of the July 1983 anti-Tamil violence Thondaman went on TV and stated publicly that elements within the government or very close to the government were responsible. This was while being a minister of the same government. He also told the media ?Sunday Sil, Monday Kill? referring to the Poya holiday on Sunday, July 24, that preceded the outbreak of violence on Monday, July 25. But when Thonda went to India he always flew the Sri Lankan national flag in his vehicle despite the hostility towards the lion flag in Tamil Nadu.?
?
SEEMINGLY IRRECONCILABLE CONTRADICTIONS??
Thondaman? was a man who could reconcile seemingly-irreconcilable contradictions. An estate owner leading plantation workers, a minister leading a strike against his own government, an MP elected on the UNP ticket sitting with the P.A. as a minister - were some of these. When asked about these different aspects of his personality, Thondaman would say with a twinkle: ?I am like the ideal woman. She can be a daughter to her parents, sister to her siblings, wife to her husband, and mother to her children, and remain the same woman.??
The story of his life is both interesting and inspirational. Saumiyamoorthy ?s father Karuppiah Thondaman was connected by way of an extended family to the royal family of Pudukkottai. This branch of the family, however, underwent a decline in fortunes, and it was on the verge of impoverishment when Karuppiah migrated to Ceylon, as Sri Lanka was called by the British, to become a ?Kankani?, or supervisor, of tea estate workers. Through hard work and shrewd business acumen he became the owner of a prosperous tea plantation, Wavendon estate, at Ramboda in the Nuwara Eliya District. Young Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman, born in Munappudoor, came over at the age of 11. He went to secondary school at St.? Andrews, Gampola. He then took to planting as estate management was then known. In his late teens and early twenties Thondaman led the life of a brown sahib, as the son and heir of a prosperous plantation owner.?
There was, however, an idealist streak in the son, who was not content to lead a luxurious life. Instead, he chose to espouse the cause of plantation workers, who were exploited ruthlessly. The bulk of these workers were Tamil people who were brought as indentured labourers from the then Madras Presidency. Thondaman and other like-minded idealists started organising plantation workers on the lines of trade union movements. The Indian freedom struggle led by Mahatma Gandhi had a demonstration effect. The Indian community, guided by Jawaharlal Nehru, declared itself formally, in his presence and according to his advice, as the CeylonIndian Congress (CIC) on July 25, 1939. The war years saw trade unionism taking firm roots in the estates. Thondaman at times spent his own money to finance strikes. The CIC developed into a formidable organisation by the time of independence, with Thondaman as a leader.?
?
WON NUWARA-ELIYA WITH 6,135 MAJORITY?
In the elections to the first Parliament in 1947, eight persons representing plantation Tamil interests were returned. Of these, six were from the CIC. Thondaman himself won from Nuwara-Eliya with a majority of 6,135 votes. In addition to this, Tamil workers helped influence results in a further 12 constituencies. Parliament at that time had 95 elected and six appointed members.?
The United National Party (UNP) Government under D.S. Senanayake felt threatened on class and ethnic lines by this ?alien presence.? It introduced legislation in 1948 and 1949 to deprive the Indian Tamil community of citizenship and franchise. Thondaman and other Indian Tamil leaders, inspired by the Gandhian ethos, chose to combat these blatantly discriminatory measures by resorting to mass Satyagraha. After 18 months the struggle was called off.?
Accepting the inevitable, the plantation workers began applying, under the new regulations, for citizenship afresh. The stringent requirements imposed and the strict application of those requirements during processing saw most workers being denied citizenship and, by extension, voting rights. Only 132,000 became eligible for citizenship by 1962.?
In the meantime, lakhs of Indian returned to Indiavoluntarily. The 1958 communal riots accelerated this process. The CIC transformed itself into the CWC in 1950. With the deprival of voting rights it became more of a trade union with a political wing than a political party with a trade union. No member of the CWC was elected to Parliament in the 1950s.?
In July 1960, Thondaman? became an appointed Member of Parliament under Sirimavo Bandaranaike?s Government. He represented the hill country Tamil category known as ?Stateless? people, that is, Tamils who were citizens of neither Ceylon nor India. The worst, however, was yet to come.?
In October 1964, Prime Ministers Lal Bahadur Shastri and Bandaranaike signed an accord which arbitrarily determined the future of these so-called stateless persons. The Sirimavo-Shastri Pact, as it was popularly known, divided the Stateless people on a ratio of seven to four between India and Sri Lanka respectively. Out of the 975,000 Stateless persons, 525,000 were to be repatriated to India while 300,000 were to be granted Sri Lankan citizenship. The fate of another 150,000 people was kept in abeyance. In 1974, Prime Ministers Bandaranaike and Indira Gandhi signed another accord, which divided these people equally - 75,000 each between the two countries.?
The tragic dimension to this exercise was that the CWC, which represented the stateless persons, was not consulted. Angered over these developments, Thondaman joined with dissident Sinhala MPs and brought about the downfall of the Bandaranaike Government in December 1964; Thondaman abstained during a crucial vote, and the government fell by a one-vote margin. The incident also brought under the spotlight the political animal that was Thondaman. Instead of striking out against the government in opposition to the Sirimavo-Shastri Pact and inviting political isolation, Thondaman? chose to bide his time and team up with other Sinhala MPs on the question of press freedom at the opportune moment and help deliver the coup de grace.?
?
APPOINTED MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT?
In 1965, Thondaman? became an appointed Member of Parliament at the time of the UNP Government of Dudley Senanayake. He used the opportunity to delay the repatriation while encouraging the process of re-enfranchisement. Thondaman reportedly told political scientist Prof. A.J. Wilson that he had single-handedly nullified an agreement entered into by two sovereign governments.?
The return of Bandaranaike to power in 1970 saw a reversal of this state of affairs. The nationalisation of plantations saw Indian Tamil people being evicted from the estates and landless Sinhala people being settled in their place. A large number of Tamil people were relocated in the Sri Lankan Tamil districts of North and East. In spite of the dire economic circumstances, a silent revolution was on within the Indian Tamil community. Aided by CWC leaders, more and more Indian Tamils were regaining citizenship and consequently voting rights. As more and more children grew up and reached the voting age of 18, the community?s voting strength increased.?
This empowerment became evident for the first time in the 1977 elections when, after 30 years, Thondaman was re-elected to the multi-member constituency of Nuwara Eliya-Maskeliya. He joined the UNP Government of J.R. Jayewardene in 1978. The new Constitution of 1978 removed the distinctions between citizens of descent and citizens by registration. This put an end to many problems faced by Indian Tamils. As minister for Rural Industrial Development, Thondaman was able to foster dairy projects and small industries among the Indian Tamil people.?
When it was found that there was a shortfall of 93,000 in the number of applicants for Indian? citizenship and a corresponding excess for Sri Lankan citizenship. Thondaman? persuaded the Jayewardene Government in 1987 to grant citizenship unilaterally to this category and end for all time the ?Thrishanku State? of the Stateless people. Concessions were also gained in the case of Tamil people who had obtained Indian citizenship but were staying on.?
Thondaman was successful in these attempts because of five factors.?
Firstly, the increase in votes within the community and the CWC?s ability to deliver them en bloc provided Thondaman considerable bargaining power.?
Secondly, the rise of political violence in the northeastern region of the country saw Colombo awarding priority to the needs of the Indian Tamils.?
Thirdly, India had begun to take greater interest in the affairs of Sri? Lanka, thereby impelling governments in Colombo to remove possible irritants pertaining to the plantation Tamil community, which claimed an umbilical relationship with ?mother India?.?
Fourthly, the CWC illustrated through well-executed strikes its capability to paralyse tea and rubber production. This provided economic clout, which enhanced the CWC?s bargaining power.?
Fifthly, Thondaman enjoyed close personal relations with the then UNP leaders such as J.R.Jayewardene, Ranasinghe Premadasa, Gamini Dissanayake, Lalith Athulathmudali and Anandatissa de Alwis, and used them to the advantage of his people.?
?
?KAWDA MAN? THONDAMAN??
As the undisputed leader of the Indian? Tamil community, Thondaman enjoyed the reputation of being a king-maker in Sri Lankan politics. The power behind the throne role he played and the pragmatic approach he adopted to the dynamics of politics fuelled resentment against Thondaman in certain chauvinist quarters. The fact that an ?Indian Tamil? was helping make and unmake Presidents and administrations strengthened these feelings. The opposition used to refer to the then UNP Government as the JR-Thonda regime. A popular slogan then was ?Kawda Man? Thondaman? (Who is the man/Thondaman).?
On the other hand, his role in resolving the problems of the Indian? Tamil community was not fully appreciated by some sections of the community. Whatever the misgivings and misunderstandings, there is no doubt that Thondaman was a leader who helped his people with single-minded devotion for more than 60 years to realise their aspirations against overwhelming odds. The passing of the Plantation Tamil patriarch was an irreparable loss to his trade union, party, community and country.
?
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at?dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com?
 
		
==============================
## Title: President worships Lumbini
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 September 2018 11:52 pm
President worships Lumbini
	
President Maithripala Sirisena who attended the 4th Summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation? (BIMSTEC) held in Kathmandu, Nepal, commenced his two-day state visit to Nepal with the conclusion of the Summit, today(01). President Sirisena marking his first programme worshipped several religious places including the magnificent Lumbini, the birthplace of Siddhartha Gautama. Pix courtesy President's Media
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prices of 23 more drugs reduced
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 03:53 pm
Prices of 23 more drugs reduced
	
The prices of 10 high-cost cancer drugs, 13 other varieties of essential pharmaceutical drugs as well as two medical equipment have been reduced with effect from midnight today (01), Minister of Health Dr Rajitha Senaratne said today.
The Gazette notification to reduce the prices of these drugs was signed by Dr. Seneratne on Thursday.
In October, 2016 also, the government reduced the prices of some 48 pharmaceutical drugs including the drugs used for diabetes, heart disease, and other related diseases.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prima wheat flour price increased
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 September 2018 08:24 am
Prima wheat flour price increased
	
The price of one kilogram of Prima wheat flour has been increased by Rs 5 with effect from Friday midnight (31), the Prima Company announced today.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sulaiman Jiffrey Mohideen Reminiscences of a great lawyer
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
Sulaiman Jiffrey Mohideen Reminiscences of a great lawyer
	
It is almost two months since my dearest friend and guide Sulaiman Jiffrey Mohideen (better known as Moiya) passed away after the Ramazan festival and I still cannot believe that he has left us and gone to his almighty. His passing away has left me and his closest friends specially Maxi, Rohan and Nimal not forgetting Daya Pelpola presently Ambassador, Rome, in tears. I cannot forget the Annual Voetlight Dinner organized by the Voetlight Society exclusively for Lawyers where I always organized the table for the ten of us headed by none other than Daya Pelpola including Nuala, Nalini my wife, Mano and Sudath Jayasundara. Every year I pick up Moiya for the event and safely dropped him back at his residence. I cannot forget the days when he called me to pick him up to go to Hulftsdorp when his driver was on leave. On the way he would request me to switch on the radio of my car to listen to the golden oldies.?
Moiya was one year senior to me, but we both associated like friends till his demise. I retained him as counsel in cases in the District Court, Civil Appellate Court and Supreme Court not forgetting the famous case against the Finance and Guarantee Limited and Golden Key Limited. He commanded a good rapport with the Judges who also respected his honesty, legal prowess and his seniority at the bar. He functioned as the Treasurer of the BASL for the three consecutive years and was elected uncontested. He never failed to attend the Bar Council Meetings held on Saturdays of the end of each and every month.
?I accompanied him for the meetings as well as all functions organised by Colombo Law Society of which I was an Executive Committee Member and BASL. It is with a heavy heart I say that I am missing his companionship at this moment when I go for the Bar Council Meeting all by myself.?
Even after his appointment as the High Commissioner to UAE, he was in constant touch with me regularly at least once a week and when I did not hear from him I called him to inquire about him and his work. Just one week before his departure from Dubai when I called him he just casually told me that he knocked his toe against the stair case railing and he was going to the doctor but I did not know that it was for his terminal illness till I visited him at his home. After hearing that he had come back to Sri Lanka for treatment I heard the shocking news about his illness from none other than his dearest wife Neloufer. When I heard the news I prayed to God to save him from his deadly illness but it was a matter of time. After the Ramazan festival I got a frantic call from his daughter late in the evening that her dad has passed away. All in my family convey our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Neloufer and his children at this hour of grief.??Ganesh? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: US and Britain involved in killing Yemen?s schoolchildren
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 September 2018 12:00 am
US and Britain involved in killing Yemen?s schoolchildren
	
?
The evidence that has come out from the UN and NGOs makes clear, without any reservation or ambiguity, that on August 9, dozens of schoolchildren on a bus in Yemen were killed by a Saudi Arabian air-strike, and that American-supplied weapons had been used, and probably British too. Criticism of Saudi Arabia and its partner in crime, the United Arab Republic, has been increasing over the last year.??
The US is not a partner in the actual fighting but, started by President Barack Obama and continued on a larger scale by President Donald Trump, the US doesn?t only provide weapons it has provided intelligence, warplane refueling and guidance technology for missiles and bombs.??
?
?The US is not a partner in the actual fighting but, started by President? Barack Obama and continued on a larger scale by President Donald Trump,? the US doesn?t only provide weapons it has provided intelligence,? warplane refueling and guidance technology for missiles and bombs
This is reminiscent of when the US supported Saddam Hussein?s war against Iran, some years before Saddam himself became the West?s opponent. Although Saddam used a weapon of mass destruction -- chemicals -- the US, then led by Ronald Reagan, such was its obsession with the sometimes militant Islamism of Iran, stooped low and turned a blind eye. It also provided intelligence to Iraq.??
Today the justification for the arms sails to Saudi Arabia is that Iran is meddling in the civil war aiding the dissident Houthis. The Houthis are no paragon of virtue but neither are they able to engage in bombing from the air.??
There are calls that Saudi Arabia, the US and Britain be referred to the International Criminal Court, and its leaders prosecuted for war crimes. Charges against the US are already being considered by the Court for actions committed in Afghanistan.??
Apart from the criminality of these child-killings these countries are in breach of the UN Arms Treaty. Governments that sign up pledge to halt the export of weapons they think will be used in defiance of international humanitarian law.??
Every country in the European Union has ratified the Treaty. Britain, ironically, when the Treaty was being drafted, was a strong supporter. Barack Obama signed the Treaty but Congress has refused to ratify it. Russia and China have stayed away from it, as has Canada until now.??
Supporters of British arms? policy towards Saudi Arabia say that Britain?s edge in military aviation depends on sales to Saudi Arabia. However, in 2008, the British High Court ruled that Prime Minister Tony Blair broke the law when he halted an inquiry into corruption in a massive arms deal with Saudi Arabia. It was Britain?s greatest ever export contract.??
On March 26th 2015 the Obama Administration announced that it would start providing to Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies logistical and intelligence support. A day later at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing the US Central Command commander, General Lloyd Austin, the general in charge, was asked what the ultimate goal of the air campaign was and to estimate its likelihood of success.??
Austin replied, ?I don?t currently know the specific goals and objectives of the Saudi campaign against Yemen, and I would have to know that to be able to assess the likelihood of success.? Shortly after an anonymous Pentagon official said, ?If you ask why we are backing this war is that we weren?t going to be able to stop it?.??
Off-the-record comments by Obama officials said that the military aid was a way to win the Gulf countries? support for the Iran nuclear deal (now abandoned by Trump) which limits how far Iran can precede with its nuclear activities.??
Today the US military claims that it doesn?t even track the results of the Yemini missions that its forces are involved in.??
Trump and his Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, have said not a word about the school children atrocity. They have delegated the problem to the UN which over recent years has sent its peace envoys to try to arbitrate the conflict and provided humanitarian aid.??
The US and Britain have not learned from the mistake they made in toppling the regime of Saddam Hussein which unleashed anarchy inside Iraq. Whenever the US intervenes in the Middle East or supports others? interventions it creates more problems than it solves.? ?
Fighting Iran?s proxies with the US?s own proxies is the latest bad idea. Obama should never have tried to make the nuclear treaty with Iran more palatable to its Middle East allies and the Senate by militarily, if indirectly, confronting Iran. Making use of that benign time it should have engaged in negotiating the issues that Iran felt strongly enough about to use military force- supporting Assad in Syria, Hezbollah in the Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen are the three (although the support for the Houthis is much less than is often made out).
Given the goodwill generated by the nuclear accord Iran could have continued to be a friendly negotiating partner. Such negotiations would probably only bring slow results but it would be more productive than confrontation.??
The US seems never to miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity.??
(See website: jonathapowerjournalist)?
 
		
==============================
