## Title: Aimless search  for puppet Presidents
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:37 am
Aimless search  for puppet Presidents
	
Heavy campaigning for self-nominated candidates is an indication of a huge crisis
In these messy situations, the Hitler type candidate can gain better validity
We need candidates who would back reforms the society endorses through serious dialogue
?
Media is agog with conspiracy theories over alleged assassination attempts on President Sirisena and Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
Importance of Gotabaya in such a plot cannot be thought of. But the President on any scale is extremely high profile and in a two-party Government that is into heavy conflicts, the alleged ?plot? sounds eerie.
With an unstable coalition Government, it turns more serious with concerns raised about how investigations are conducted and in lack of trust declared on incumbent IGP.
Doubts, uncertainties, suspicions, all adding to the instability the alleged assassination plot creates in social mindset adds on to the search for presidential candidates for 2020 that?s already on a high pitch.
The UNP said it. Candidate Sirisena promised it. The JVP vowed they would see it happened and the TNA believed it
Social media has taken the lead in the search for presidential candidates. Heavy campaigning on social media for self-nominated Presidential candidates is also an indication we are in a huge crisis, with no answers.
That would remain so, even if another president is elected in 2020 into this ever-growing crisis.
This uncertainty that seeps into the urban social psyche would help cement the search for a ?strong and clean? presidential candidate.
In these messy situations, the ?Hitler type? candidate can gain better validity. An exclusively Colombo middle class ?search?, it is for one who could be a firm fit on the Sinhala Buddhist electoral corpus.
Criteria being what most Ven. Maduluwave Sobitha Thera drew up:
?Democracy, good governance, transparency and accountability? with the ?all-powerful executive presidency abolished?.
Most glaringly, nothing was then said about a country that bled for 30 years fighting to consolidate a Sinhala Unitary State and was left divided as Sinhala and Tamil societies with the Muslim community vigilant over their fate.
The mediocrity of the urban middle class, professionals and academics included, was paraded publicly in their selection of presidential candidates within a completely failed economic model that over decades turned the State, political parties and professionals into schemers, liars and robbers.
Ridiculously ignorant about open market dynamics that lead to these growing uncertainties and crises all around, they reduced everything to ?An almighty Executive Presidency? for the 2015 January Presidential Elections.
Ousting Rajapaksa, the 19 Amendment was the mantra for a clean and transparent Government.
Investigating into the alleged mega corruption of the Rajapaksa regime and booking any and all with substantial evidence was to be the crowning glory.
The UNP said it. Candidate Sirisena promised it.
These urban middle-class groupings looking for candidates have vested interests in who is elected, as the Colombo civil society leaders proved in 2015 with an awfully engineered, aimless Rainbow Revolution
The JVP vowed they would see it happened and the TNA believed such a Government would be decent enough to provide a durable and? workable political solution to the North and East.
Present search for another suitable Sinhala Buddhist male candidate is an extension of that failed urban middle-class experiment.
Failed; though Colombo NGOs, Good Governance activists, Public Interest campaigners, Citizen activists, and very many others with even unknown labels vowed it would be Maithri Palanaya (Compassionate rule).
In the present rush, there was a Sri Lankan and an expatriate who think it is time to have a woman candidate with good credentials.
A proven, principled personality, who does not give in to political pressure.
This, on its own logic, is far timider than even the promise for a Yahapalana rule. This for me is an insult to the respected academic named in the proposal. The proposal is for a president-elect who could stand guard over an inevitable Rajapaksa Government, as the learned proposer argues.
That for sure is a stillbirth, far cruder than the miserably failed urban-based project which ousted Rajapaksa to leave a political vacuum in a Government that survives solely on the 19 Amendment.
A fractured Government that?s slipping from one crisis to another, while 19th Amendment impinges on the sovereign right of the people to vote, in changing Governments.
Though theoretically and socially valid, the Good Governance always remains as an abstract demand of the urban middle class.
It is the urban middle class that is hastily searching for a Sinhala Buddhist presidential candidate with a promise to establish a Good Governance regime on nothing but personal credentials.
Learning no lessons, they believe a strong and clean President could this time avert uncertainties, instability and establish good governance.
The unconcerned ordinary villager, struggling against a crumbling economy to save their lives have meanwhile pinned his/her hopes on Mahinda Rajapaksa.
The LG elections proved it, The Galle Face May Day rally said it, and even the most disorganised, undisciplined of all protests I have ever witnessed, the Sept 5 Janabalaya Kolambata said it too, with massive numbers.
What makes a Rajapaksa come back and this time cannot be blown up big as the demon at the gate?
In the shortest time in post-independent history, this Yahapalanaya Government was proved the most tragic failure in governance.
It is seen as equally or more corrupt than the Rajapaksa regime. The first CBSL Bond Scam, a massive scam that even overshadows the Rajapaksas, was in just two months after forming the promised Yahapalanaya Government.
On public outcry, Law and Order Minister Marapana was forced out for his legal counselling in the Avant-Garde scandal.
The LG elections proved it, The Galle Face May Day rally said it, and even the most disorganised, undisciplined of all protests I have ever witnessed, the Sept 5 Janabalaya Kolambata said it too, with massive numbers
The same happened to Finance Minister Karunanayake who is now indicted for providing false evidence to the PCoI. Two weeks after Karunanayake was forced to resign, public outcry again had Justice Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe resign, accused of interfering with the AG?s Department to favour some members of the former Rajapaksa regime accused of mega corruption.
In this same Government, there are Rajapaksa allies accused of mega corruption holding Ministerial portfolios, while UNP Ministers themselves are accused of mega corruption.
Corruption remains the norm in society and in politics despite the change of Government.
The whole system remains corrupt, inefficient, parasitic and in total chaos.
It cannot be otherwise in this free market economy.
It is all about and only about living with FDIs. Massive concessions given during the past four decades for FDI would add up to trillions of rupees, denied to the people as revenue for social use.
This incalculable sum cannot in anyway be justified in terms of what the people have gained in return.
Education, health and public transport, three fundamental necessities for a society to live for the future, have all been left in a mess.
The rural economy is gasping for life with a hundred thousand young women migrating to the Middle East every year in search of a living income and a future life.
The monthly average wage of workers in the private sector with FDIs remains around Rs. 20,000 to 25,000 while the Census Department in its Household Income and Expenditure Survey says a family of four in urban society needs Rs. 54,000 to meet the basics.
FDIs don?t mean anything to this growing national tragedy. Investors don?t come here to invest for Sri Lanka?s prosperity. They are here only to export products that can fetch big profits in the global market.
Proving that investors come for big profits, employer associations and their own economic experts argue that labour laws should be relaxed and more concessions are given to investors with a veiled threat, they would otherwise leave for Vietnam, Bangladesh or elsewhere.
?
What have we gained with more and more concessions provided directly and indirectly?
The Labour Department, established 95 years ago to secure better employment in the private sector, is now changing into a department that gives priority to employers as investors.
Constitution of the country is openly violated with Fundamental Rights of all employees in export manufacture denied of their right to form trade unions and with that their right to collective bargaining.
In these messy situations, the Hitler type candidate can gain better validity. An exclusively Colombo middle-class search, it is for one who could be a firm fit on the Sinhala Buddhist electoral corpus.
That is, in a country, which is a signatory to ILO Conventions 87 and 98.
The sovereignty of the people has no functional validity. All opportunities to elect a genuine people?s representative have been usurped through law by the filthy rich the only profiteering lot in this open economy.
All mainstream political parties have become wholly dependent on funds organised by the filthy rich.
They basically run political parties now that know no democracy and want no democracy.
People merely vote for candidates decided by the filthy rich no matter what political shade.
Conspiracies and allegations about assassination plots are all part of the chaos this open market leaves with filthy richinterests.
The open market economy, in a nutshell, is one that created the filthy rich who virtually run the Government for investor profits, violating democratic and Fundamental Rights of workers and the people.
The Governments in open economies, though elected by the people, are for the benefit of the filthy rich.
?Development? for these Governments means creating megacities to suit the highflying lifestyle of the affluent and the filthy rich.
They leave space for urban middle-class professionals to earn an extra buck to be proud consumers in a market, the vast majority has no choice.
This certainly is no development in any sense. Development cannot deny democratic and Fundamental Rights and rob people for the benefit of a few filthy rich.
This crazy and aimless search for honourable Sinhala Buddhist candidates would have no answers to an incredibly corrupt, undemocratic elite system.
We need answers to the most pressing issues, far-reaching reforms to education, health, public transport and also the media, to be openly discoursed in society, before candidates are decided.
We need candidates who would back reforms the society endorses through serious dialogue.
These urban middle-class groupings looking for candidates have vested interests in who is elected, as the Colombo civil society leaders proved in 2015 with an awfully engineered, aimless Rainbow Revolution.
 
		
==============================
## Title: All you need to know about Appendicitis
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:40 am
All you need to know about Appendicitis
	
?
It?s not unusual for many of us to get stomach aches from time to time; often due to the ingestion of contaminated food, usually prepared outside one?s own dwelling. Commonly associated with fever, loose stools and episodes of vomiting, gastroenteritis is not too difficult to recognise.
However, do you remember a time where you got a tummy pain on the right side or a pain around the belly button and this happening despite not eating from take-way food outlets?? ?
If you sought medical advice on such occasions, your doctor must have attempted to exclude the condition known as Appendicitis; which usually has a rather similar presentation, but is ?mandatory? to be excluded before thinking of a simple infection.? ?
This week?s Health Capsule dedicates the page to discuss this rather important surgical condition and our source person for the article is Professor Lionel Wijesuriya, Consultant Surgeon at Neville Fernando Teaching Hospital, Malabe. He counts many years of experience in diagnosing and managing patients with ?appendicitis?; which usually presents as an emergency situation, and warrants speedy recognition and treatment.? ?
?Appendicitis is a painful medical condition in which an organ lying within our belly-known as the appendix- becomes inflamed and filled with pus-a fluid comprising dead cells and inflammatory tissue that results from an infection of that little organ. Being a disease that develops rather rapidly, it carries the adjective acute? says Professor Wijesuriya.? ?
It is not always clear as to what causes this condition. There is also no way of knowing if or when one might develop appendicitis, although the condition is often found to follow one of two underlying issues:? ?
?An infection (viral or bacterial) in another organ within the belly that has spread to the appendix or? ?
	?An obstruction that blocks the opening of the narrow cavity within the appendix. Such a ?blockage? might result from several different sources. These include:? ?
	?Lymph tissue in the wall of the appendix that has swollen as a result of the infection it is associated with.? ?
	When a person?s appendix becomes infected or obstructed, bacteria within the organ multiply rapidly. This bacterial ?take-over? causes the appendix to swell with the pus within? ?
	?A pellet of hardened stool (technically known as ?a faecolith), usually associated with constipation; rarely, a parasite (eg. a worm)? ?
	?Foreign objects such as pins, stones, the husk of the paddy grain (fore-runner of rice) or egg shell all swallowed with the food.? ?
?
A blunt injury to the belly? ?
According to the Professor, Appendicitis is undoubtedly more common in western countries where 5-7% of the population is likely to develop it; sometime during life, mostly during their childhood or teens.The incidence in Sri Lanka, as indeed it is in other countries in this region and the entire ?third world?, is a little less. It is unusual to see Appendicitis in older adults, beyond the age of 35 to 40. The two sexes are affected equally although the diagnosis in young females of child-bearing age may pose a challenge, in that most of the other lower abdominal painful disorders in them may mimic Appendicitis.? ?
?
Presentation
?Most patients arrive at a medical facility with pain in the belly, more often than not associated with feeling generally unwell and usually with some fever. The initial ?ache? associated with Appendicitis begins around the belly button, but within a matter of hours, shifts to the right lower part of the belly. Usually constant in nature, the pain sharpens with the passing of several hours and can worsen during any movement, including walking, deep breathing, coughing and sneezing. Other common features associated include the lack of desire for food, nausea, vomiting, constipation and a low-grade fever.? ?
?Many a patient gets the feeling that a bowel movement would bring them relief, but find that they are unable to achieve that? he further mentioned.? ?
In addition to this common presentation, there can be atypical presentations as well where the diagnosis is not necessarily ?cut and dry?.? ?
The location of the pain may vary depending upon the actual position of the appendix, which itself is not all that constant; e.g. the patient might feel pain in the back, the flank, just above the pubic region or even the left side of the belly. In a male patient, the pain may be interpreted as arising in the right testis when the inflamed appendix is placed astride the ureter, the tube carrying urine to the bladder from the patient?s right kidney.? ?
If the patient happens to be pregnant when she develops appendicitis, the location of the pain may lie higher than usual and in fact be rather misleading. In patients with chronic underlying disease (eg. Diabetes) the intensity of the belly ache may be reduced so much that the diagnosis might be totally missed.? ?
Belly aches are very common. In schoolchildren and young adults any belly ache that persists in spite of home-remedies should be treated with respect and medical advice must be sought without undue delay, particularly if the patient is found to have fever and ?refuses food?.? ?
?
Diagnosis
As far as the diagnosis of appendicitis is concerned, the sequence of presentation in almost 3/4 of patients is with loss of appetite, followed by abdominal pain and then vomiting.? ?
According to the professor, Acute Appendicitis is essentially a ?clinical diagnosis?: ie. the doctor who sees the patient makes the diagnosis based mostly on the story gathered from the patient (or parent/guardian in the case of a child) and the bed-side clinical examination that follows. An experienced surgeon usually gets the diagnosis ?right? almost 75% of the time. A simple blood-test (full blood count) could improve the diagnostic accuracy.? ?
Where there is any further doubt, the clinician might order imaging tests (ultrasound or CT scan) for further confirmation.? ?
?
Treatment
?Once you are diagnosed with Appendicitis - you will almost always have the operation known as appendicectomy, under anaesthesia (where the entire organ will be removed ? with no risk of residual disability as the human appendix does not have any definitely recognized function)? he highlighted.? ?
Although there are reports appearing on the virtues of treating selected patients with antibiotics alone, it is not a generally accepted practice world-wide as yet.? ?
?A commonly asked question is whether all these patients diagnosed with appendicitis require surgery. The answer is yes, even though there might be the occasional exception. The surgeon dealing with the patient might occasionally delay surgery if it is felt that the patient has already developed an ?appendicular mass?, where such delayed action proves safer?.? ?
The other important fact-although rare- that merits mention is appendicitis-related deaths!? ?
According to the professor, a ruptured appendix may result if the surgery for its removal is delayed unduly resulting in the condition of general peritonitis from seepage of pus from inside the organ into the cavity of the belly-at-large. In most cases of suspected peritonitis, the surgeon will remove the organ soon after suspecting the event and clean the inside of the belly. If the patient is left untreated, peritonitis can quickly spread, resulting in septicemia (the presence of bacteria in the blood) which might make the patient ?dangerously ill? and he or she may even succumb to the disease.? ?
An overall mortality rate of less than 1% is attributable to complications of the disease rather than to surgical intervention. This figure, in fact, tends to be higher in patients above the age of 70.? ?
?
Care after surgery
The after-care following removal of the appendix usually tends to be straight-forward. While in hospital, the medical and nursing staff will ensure the comfort of the patient by ensuring adequate intake of fluids, as instructed by the medical personnel, into a vein followed shortly after by fluids by mouth and later solid food, pain-killing medication as prescribed as well as basic wound care. The discomfort related to the wound lasts no more than 2-3 days. Most patients can expect to leave hospital by the 2nd or 3rd day, to recuperate thereafter at home.? ?
Return to normal physical activity should happen in less than a fortnight since most patients are relatively young!? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: An Existence from moment to moment
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:58 am
An Existence from moment to moment
	
Today is World Alzheimer?s Day Sept 21
?
?
Preliminary studies show an Alzheimer?s disease prevalence of around 3-4 % in Sri Lanka?
Some drugs used in the treatment of Alzheimer?s disease are not available in government hospitals; we are keen that the government should supply these drugs
At some point a patient may lose the capacity to make decisions such as the writing of their last will or being able to conduct their financial and legal matters
?
?
Once in a while, you tend to misplace your keys, forget about a cup of tea until it?s gone cold or even completely forget about what day of the week it is. But what if one day you?re unable to recall your last meal, or simply fail to recognise a family member? For a person suffering from Alzheimer?s disease, this would be the harsh reality he or she is forced to live with.?
As many as 200, 000 people in Sri Lanka are likely to be suffering from Alzheimer?s disease, the most common cause of dementia, according to Professor Shehan Williams, Department of Psychiatry, University of Kelaniya. ?There is no formal study which has been conducted island-wide, but preliminary studies show a prevalence of around 3-4 % which would mean around at least 200,000 people would be affected by Alzheimer?s disease in Sri Lanka at the moment,? Prof. Williams said.?
Dementia is a general term for memory loss and other cognitive abilities serious enough to interfere with daily life. ?In dementia a person has progressive impairment of memory, intellect and cognition. There are many causes of dementia but the most common cause is Alzheimer?s disease, which is a degenerative disorder. It is something that people acquire late in life, usually when sixty or seventy years, but fairly also in their late forties and fifties,? Prof. Williams clarifies.?
?What really brings it on? Nobody knows. It is certainly not the normal consequence of ageing. Not everybody develops this disease. Just because a person is old, it doesn?t mean that they will have significant memory problems. There are people who live well up to 100 years and beyond and don?t have any issues with their memory or intellectual capacity.???
However with the onset of this disease, a person?s memory and capacity starts declining. Medically it has been explained as a result of certain changes that take place in the brain. ?There is excessive amyloid deposition and what we call tau proteins which are deposited within the cells of the brain. The accumulation of these substances results in death of brain cells. Therefore over time the brain starts to shrink and the brain matter or cells decline. Particularly the areas related to memory and cognition are affected, so much so that most people -- although physically fit -- are initially unable to remember things. They?re also unable to carry out their day to day activities and therefore may develop so many behavioural abnormalities,? Prof. Williams explained.?
Unfortunately even modern science has failed to discover a cure for this frightening disease. Prof. Williams tells us that there are some treatments which may delay the progress of the disease, but nothing can be done to stop it. That is exactly why we need to understand the nature of the disease, he adds. ?If possible we need to identify the disease early so that we can help people during the early stages and support them through the progression and possibly delay it. It also involves planning ahead because a patient may eventually come to a state where they even forget their family members, those near and dear to them. They tend to lead an existence from moment to moment, where they are unable to remember what is happening around them and interact meaningfully with others or their environment,? underscores Prof. Williams.?
?
Is memory loss always a problem?
The topic of a degenerative disease with symptoms of memory loss may be a concern for some of us.? In Alzheimer?s however this tendency of forgetfulness can be identified specifically. ?Initially people start forgetting things that happen in the recent past. At first they won?t even realise that they have memory issues. For instance a person would know where they went to school, details about the family or friends and so on. Those are however information they have from the past. That is perhaps stored in their mind. What becomes a problem is remembering day to day things. For instance they may not remember their meals or what they had before their evening tea. A family member would sometimes react to this thinking that this person is trying to be difficult. But the problem is that they have really forgotten that they?ve had the tea,? he said.?
A person would start forgetting little things. They may not be able to find their belongings and would sometimes even accuse someone of stealing them. They may sometimes keep repeating the same thing on and on again because they forget that they have mentioned it before. ?We all tend to forget, so it?s a bit of a difficult call initially. Even though people do forget little things, which we call senile moments, those necessarily don?t indicate dementia or Alzheimer?s disease. In Alzheimer?s symptoms are persistent, if it continues the family should perhaps visit a doctor and do a memory assessment. Any doctor in Sri Lanka would be able to help. They could go to the nearest hospital or clinic to discuss the issue where they will be referred or helped appropriately,? opines Prof. Williams.?
Diagnosing Alzheimer?s Disease
A doctor would do a series of assessments where they initially take a history of the patient, conduct a physical examination and look for certain signs of dementia. Prof. Williams says that Alzheimer?s may not be the sole cause of symptoms. There are several other diseases which may be affecting the memory, such as hormonal issues in hypo-thyroidism, or blood supply related issues known as vascular related issues.?
A doctor would evaluate such a person comprehensively. Based on tests and investigations medical experts arrive at a conclusion about a person who has Alzheimer?s disease. Doctors would also ideally do a memory test, to screen for their scope, which would be derived by asking a few questions and asking the patient to do a few tasks. Based on all these findings the doctor would make the diagnosis of dementia and then try to look for causes of dementia.?
However the issue is when people don?t present themselves to screening services, according to Prof. Williams. ?Either the family members don?t realise that there is a problem or they would assume that it is a part of the normal ageing process. Some of them are of the view that these conditions are treatable, they hope to get a better outcome or a better quality of life for the person with few medical interventions,? he said.?
What would happen if a person with memory issues? is in denial of the condition, we ask. ?That?s a common situation. There are lots of people quite worried about their memory issues. There are others who really don?t realise that they forget and that their functions are declining. It comes down to helping them and encouraging them while not being judgemental. They need help in understanding that they have an issue and also help in seekinng treatment. It is a gradual process,? Prof. Willaims said. ?Former US president Ronald Reagan was diagnosed with dementia. Once he understood his condition he wrote a very endearing letter to his family and the people of America detailing his condition and helping them to come to terms with the condition, which is the key role the family and professionals have to take,? he stresses.??
?
Treatment
One of the most important aspects in the treatment of an Alzheimer?s patient is to evaluate and determine that all other parameters are normal. These would include any vitamin deficiencies and medical conditions which cause memory impairment which would have to be treated adequately.
Secondly improving the memory is considered. ?We would prescribe memory enhancers which are recommended globally to help the person function better.? There are three types of drugs used in treatment but unfortunately they are not available in the government hospital. It?s rather unfortunate but patients have to purchase these drugs on their own. For some people it can be rather expensive as the cost for a single tablet would be around Rs. 30 - 50. We are keen that the government also should supply these drugs,? Prof. Willaims points out.??
Patients are also encouraged to remain stimulated and use their brain more, during the initial stages of treatment. They have to keep themselves active both mentally and physically so that brain function is maintained. According to the expert, there would also have to be care planning. ?At some point a patient may lose the capacity to make decisions such as the writing of their last will or being able to conduct their financial and legal matters. They would also have to think of someone supporting them later on in life.?
Prof. Williams emphasises that the support received from the family or caregivers plays a crucial role. ?They must understand that it is a medical condition. The family may have to adapt and cope with the situation. In the Sri Lankan context, initially people would opt for various solutions and treatments. Sometimes they even spend a lot of money on various unnecessary things because they don?t understand the nature of the condition. This is because of some supernatural beliefs and may start doing various rituals. At other times some may scold or abuse elderly persons demanding that they take responsibility for themselves. They won?t recognise that it is a condition and blame the patient for the way they are behaving. This could be very distressing for the patient,? he said.?
Prof. Willaims believes that most hospitals would be able to give families some direction and advice along with the treatment. ?Not just family, caregivers also would need help and support and this is where we don?t have adequate support in the community. Improper care could result in worsening of the condition,? he warns.?
?Patients can be managed in a usual situation where older people can be encouraged to do as much as they can which would be more beneficial overall. We need to have community based services, where elders can support each other or younger people can be involved. Training community nurses to help families with useful advice and tips would also be instrumental,? Prof. Williams suggests.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Asian netball champions felicitated in Kandy
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:52 am
Asian netball champions felicitated in Kandy
	
The Asain winning team, four netballers from Kandy were given a warm welcome, the day they visited the Sri Dalada Maligawa.?
The netballers from Kandy schools who brought honour to the country in the Asian netball tournament are Gayani Dissanayake, Gayangali Amarawansa, Thilini Wathegedera and Suraraka Gamage, then the other Kandy product; she too is a national player Ruwani Yatigammana too joined.??
?Kandy?s sports lovers joined and gave their home town girls a ceremony to remember, this was organized due to the efforts of the president of the Kandy Netball Association Shanthini Kongage, a Provincial Council member.?
The players visited Sri Dalada Maligawa and from there they were greeted by the Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies Union at the? annual sale where they were met by the members of the Union, from there they were taken to the Municipal Council Town Hall where they were received by the Mayor Kesara Senanayake and were felicitated.?
?
Here the Netballers were with the Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies Union president Zuliah Nazeer, Zaneena Rasheed, Sherine Marikar, and the president and the secretary of the Kandy Netball Association Shantini Kongage and Kumudani Karunarthne.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bending the rule to suit the need!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:55 am
Bending the rule to suit the need!
	
?
A young doctor couple has reportedly complained to the authorities concerned that a leading city school has admitted to its feeder-primary a child of a powerful politico?s driver after rejecting the admission of their child despite it being better qualified for filling the available class vacancy.
?
The doctor couple had learnt that the driver in question is a resident of a place located some 70 kilometres away from the city.
They say it is obvious that the Education Ministry circular instructions and other relevant rules and regulations regarding school admissions are conveniently overlooked when it comes to accommodating a request from a powerful politico.
The disappointed couple is set to seek legal redress regarding this matter, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Coca-Cola partners with MEPA to ?Give Back Life? to the marine environment
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 September 2018 03:16 pm
Coca-Cola partners with MEPA to ?Give Back Life? to the marine environment
	
Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd. (CCBSL) partnered with the Marine Environment Protection Authority (MEPA) to collect PET bottles for recycling, at the National Program of the International Coastal Clean-up Day at Daddala Beach in Galle. The event also included recycler Eco-Spindles Pvt Ltd. (BPPL Group) and volunteers from AIESEC partnering to demonstrate the positive impact of ?Harnessing the power of people towards an Ocean without Waste? under the patronage and active involvement of H.E President Maithripala Sirisena.?
The initiative is part for The Coca-Cola Company?s commitment towards help creating a ?World Without Waste?. World Without Waste is the Coca-Cola Company?s global goal to help collect and recycle the equivalent of 100% of its packaging by 2030. This goal is the centrepiece of the company?s new packaging vision in Sri Lanka as well. Through this, the Coca-Cola system in Sri Lanka intends not only to make packaging 100% recyclable but also collect and recycle the equivalent of 100% of its packaging in the country and work towards a cleaner and better environment.?
Rear Admiral (Retd) Rohana Perera, Chairman of Marine Environment Protection Authority said, ?The risk of pollution of the ocean around Sri Lanka is increasing daily due to the influence of increased use of contaminants connected with development activities and increasing population. Large quantities of non-degradable waste get absorbed into coast and marine environments directly or through the waterways. The National Coastal and Marine Resources Conservation Week is proving to be highly effective in improving coastal and marine environments, while increasing public participation in marine conservation initiatives.??
Commenting on the successful initiative, Lakshan Madurasinghe ? Country Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability Manager, Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd. said, ?The Give Back Life program?s long-term vision is to work with host of strategic partners to deliver meaningful action towards a circular economy in which materials are used and reused to provide ongoing value. Following last year?s successful partnership of this same event, Coca-Cola is delighted to cement its association yet again in 2018. Most importantly, this national event is sending a clear ?reuse, reduce and recycle? message to the citizens of the country. Our vision is to ensure that all our PET packaged material is recovered and recycled to minimize its environmental impact through the supporting of recycling programs and inspiring our consumers to recycle more, while creating livelihood opportunities for waste collection workers across Sri Lanka.?
Natasha Perera, National Director ? Partnership Development of AIESEC Sri Lanka commented, ?AIESEC is delighted to take a proactive step in preserving our marine environment by partnering the International Coastal Clean-up Day. This event provided a unique opportunity for AIESEC volunteers to come together and give of their time and effort in cleaning our beaches while taking it upon themselves to spread the message of recycling. Sri Lanka is blessed with a wonderful marine and costal environment and it is in our interests, as youth and future leaders of the country, to ensure we preserve our environment.?
Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd. partners at this event as part of its extended producer responsibility, to ?Give Back Life? to collect marine debris along beaches. Throughout the National Marine Resources Week, all PET bottles collected by the volunteers would be collected and recycled through its partnership with Eco-Spindles (part of BPPL Holdings). The PET will then be upcycled into janitorial products for household and commercial use and yarn, thus utilising the maximum value of PET.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Colombo Int?l book fair launched
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 September 2018 03:05 pm
Colombo Int?l book fair launched
	
The annual Colombo International Book Fair organized by the Sri Lanka Book Publishers' Association was launched by Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam at the BMICH on Friday. The exhibition, which was organised for the 20th consecutive year, will be held till September 30 from 9.00 am to 9.00 pm. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Controversy over a  deprived promotion
## Section: Expose
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:05 am
Controversy over a  deprived promotion
	
Lt. Commander Welagedara with present Navy Commander
Although Welagedara was granted a presidential pardon, he has so far been deprived his promotion to the rank of Commander
For the first time in the history of Sri Lanka Navy, it is alleged, that an officer was sentenced after being court martialled for travelling abroad without obtaining leave
The caller had informed Welagedara that there were shooting sounds from the underground prison
It is a known fact that Fernando whilst serving at the Attorney General?s Department had interfered with the CID investigations on navy abductions
?
The Commander of Sri Lanka Navy, Vice Admiral Sirimewan Ranasinghe is now in the limelight for allegedly depriving Lt. Commander Krishan C. Welagedara his due promotion, because he gave evidence against the navy officers who were behind the spate of abductions that took place between 2008 and 2009. Reportedly the 11 Tamil youth had been abducted for extortion.? ?
The reason given by Vice Admiral Ranasinghe with regard to Lt. Com. Welagedara?s held-back promotion is, that he is serving a court martial sentence. On July 12, 2016, the Navy court martialled Lt. Com. Welagedara for a minor offence, but that was annulled within few days- on July 29, 2016 by Ranasinghe?s superior, the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces President Maithripala Sirisena.? ?
Ranasinghe?s failure to heed the presidential orders, has now been informed to the President by Lt. Com. Welagedara?s father.? ?
The Sri Lanka Navy, is tightlipped when asked to answer queries made by this newspaper regarding the officers? involvement in the abductions and disappearances of Tamil youth. Since all attempts made to obtain comments from the Navy Spokesman Lt. Com. Dinesh Bandara for the stories associated with the abduction, which the?Dailymirror has produced, were futile, a request was made to the Navy Commander seeking an appointment for an interview. Hence, an e-mail was forwarded to the Commander on September 7 through the Navy Spokesman in our attempts to find out the truth behind the allegations levelled against him, his predecessors and the institution. When the Navy Spokesman was contacted on September 10, to find out whether the e-mail was forwarded to the Navy Commander, the spokesman confirmed that it was sent to the Commander. But thereafter, the Spokesman did not answer to any of the calls made by the reporter through both his personal mobile phone and office telephone. Although a text message was sent to him on July 11, to obtain a contact number for the Commander?s office, he did not respond. Until the newspaper went for publication, the Navy Commander too did not respond to the mail that was sent to him.? ?
For the first time in the history of Sri Lanka Navy, it is alleged, that an officer was sentenced after being court martialled for travelling abroad without obtaining leave. This happened despite there being a history of those who had left service without the necessary approvals not being court martialled unless they were involved in crimes during that period. They had only been penalised at a summary trial and the Navy has not denied their due promotions. There is speculation that the reason to court martial Lt. Com. Welagedara is because he gave evidence against those who were involved in abducting 11 Tamil youth including six students from Kotahena.? ?
Welagedara was court martialed on two charges?(1) acting in a manner prejudicial to naval discipline and good order, and (2) being absent without leave. The sentence for the two charges respectively was ?(1) 36 months forfeiture of seniority, and (2) 12 months forfeiture of seniority and 17 days forfeiture of pay and allowances.? ?
Following Welagedara?s appeal to President Maithripala Sirisena about this sentence, former Defence Secretary Karunasena Hettiarachchi by letter (Ref: No: MOD/DET/03/02/DIS/315) dated July 29, 2018 addressed to the Navy Commander had notified of the presidential pardon granted to K.C.Welagedara NRX 1583. The letter further sates, ?His Excellency the President had annulled the first two sentences- the 36 month and 12 month forfeiture of seniority given to the above officer but the punishment given to forfeiture 17 day pay and allowances to be remained?.? ?
Welagedara's appeal to the President
Meanwhile, a high ranking Navy official, speaking on conditions of anonymity, told the?Dailymirror that the only ?crime? Lt. Com. Welagedara had committed, to be punished at a court martial, was because he stood firm against the crimes committed by his fellow officers and gave evidence to the CID with regard to what he saw near the ?Gun Sight? underground prison at the Trincomalee Naval base in 2009.? ?
?For being a law-abiding officer, the Navy should have hailed Welagedara, but not penalize him. Instead of appreciating Welagedara for his bravery, he had to battle alone to overcome all the allegations levelled against him and face the inquiries. Failing to find fault with him, the Navy court martialled Welagedara for a minor offence- for being absent without leave for 17 days,? the sources said.? ?
Welagedara had further complained how Cap. D.K.P. Dassanayake and Lt. Com. Sumith Ranasinghe who are among the accused had threatened him and Upul Bandara, for giving evidence to the CID against them
Although the court martial sentence was annulled through a presidential order, the then Commander Wijegunaratne and the present Navy Chief Ranasinghe claim that Welagedara?s sentence had not been annulled as the 17-day salary forfeiture remained intact.? ?
Admiral Wijegunaratne is now in hot water for allegedly aiding and abetting Lt. Com. Chandana Prasad Hettiarachchi alias Navy Sampath, who is one of the main suspects in the Navy abduction case. He was reportedly kept in hiding at the Navy headquarters. Navy Sampath had reportedly been provided with food and lodging and funds released to him to escape from the country before he could be arrested by the CID.? ?
There had been several unsuccessful attempts to remove Welagedara from service in order to quash the evidence the latter had given to the CID against Navy officers.? ?
Although the Navy looks after the criminals, Navy documents reveal how the service of another officer was suspended on May 1, 2018 over an alleged crime he had committed
The only fault the Navy could find against Welagedara was leaving the country without taking necessary approval from the Navy. This is what Welagedara?s father had to say: ?Under skilled migration, my son and his family were granted resident visa in Australia. They had to report to the authorities concerned there on or before March 28, 2016. Hence my son requested the respective Commanders to grant him approval to travelled to Australia to settle his family and return, but he was not granted leave. He had been requesting for this approval to travel abroad from 2014. On March 24, 2016 Welagedara and his family travelled to Australia and on March 28 he had informed his immediate boss Commodore Y.M. Jayaratne that he would be back on April 12th. Once again on April 17, he informed the Commanding office that he would be back on the 12th and had given the flight details and the time of arrival. No sooner my son returned, he was arrested by fellow Navy officers at the airport, handcuffed and taken to the Navy headquarters. He was kept behind bars for 14 days and thereafter for three months under house arrest. He was convicted after being court martialled on July 12, 2016,? the father said.? ?
The Navy claims that Welagedara is not qualified to be promoted to the next rank as per Sri Lanka Navy Order 0642 (the selection procedure for promoting officers to ranks of Commander and above) dated February 15, 2014, which says, ?10 marks will be deducted for each court martial if occurred after Commissioning.? ?
Although the Navy sentenced Welagedara after the court martial hearing, this newspaper is in possession of a letter sent by the former Navy Commander Wijegunaratne to the Senior DIG, CID well before the court martial started its hearing that he (navy commander) will send the accused (Welagedara) to the CID after the latter is convicted after being court martialled. This letter was written in response to a request the CID made to the Navy to send Welagedara to obtain a statement regarding the abduction of Tamil youth.? ?
There had been several unsuccessful attempts to remove Welagedara from service in order to quash the evidence the latter had given to the CID against Navy officers
Senior DIG, CID by letter, dated May 25, 2016 (Ref:S/DIG/CID/1289/2016), addressed to the then Navy Commander Wijegunaratne had requested to send Lt. Com. Welagedara, who was by which time under house arrest, to obtain a statement in regard to the abduction of the Tamil youth. Navy Commander Wijegunaratne by a letter dated May 26, 2016 to the Senior DIG, CID had stated, ?As K.C. Welagedara had gone to Australia without approved leave and for his failure to report to work, he is now under house-arrest and he is to face a court martial which is to be started on June 3, 2016 and is expected to be convicted. Hence once the court martial proceedings are over, I will produce the said officer before you to obtain the statement you want?.? ?
?It is the Navy Commander that appoints the Judge Advocate for the Navy Court Martial. In his letter to the Senior DIG, CID, the Commander has stated that the court martial would start on June 3 and after he is convicted he will be produced at the CID. How did the Navy Commander know that the accused will be convicted eight days before the Navy court martial commenced?? ?
Admiral Wijegunaratne is now in hot water for allegedly aiding and abetting Lt. Com. Chandana Prasad Hettiarachchi alias Navy Sampath, who is one of the main suspects in the Navy abduction case
The?Dailymirror ?is in possession of documents where the Navy penalised a few of its officers when they were absent without leave during the height of the war, but had never court martialled them. Instead the cases had been taken up at summary trials. The details highlight the punishments given to them. In order to protect the identity of these officers, this newspaper will withhold their names, but give the official numbers allocated to them and their ranks.?
??(1) Commodore ?NRX 0392 absent for 152 days from 29/10/1996 to 31/3/1997, forfeiture of seniority by 14 days and 152 days? pay, he was promoted to the next rank in time and presently in service.? ?
(2) Captain ?NRX 0406 absent for 106 days from 29/4/1995 to 15/8/1995, forfeiture of seniority by 14 days and the withholding of 106 day?s pay, he was promoted in time and is now retired from service.? ?
(3) Commander NRX 1360 absent for seven days from 11/10/2006. The action taken against him is not known, but he had been promoted in time and is presently in service.? ?
(4) Commander NRX 1363, absent for five days from 17/6/2006 to 21/6/2006. The action taken against him too is not known, but he was promoted in time and presently in service.? ?
(5) Lt. Commander NRX 1830, absent for 645 days from 23/10/2006 to 28/7/ 2008, forfeiture of seniority by 645 days and 645 days? salary, but promoted in time and presently in service.? ?
(6) Lt. Commander NRX 1217 absent for 17 days, forfeiture of seniority by 10 days and 17 days? pay, promoted in time and presently retired from service.? ?
(7) Lieutenant NRC 1805 absent for 960 days from 14/6/2006 to 3/9/2009, forfeiture of seniority and 960 day?s pay, he has left the Navy on his own.? ?
(8) Lieutenant NRX 1861, absent for 632 days from 26/3/2007 to 15/12/2008 forfeiture of seniority and 632 days pay, has resigned on his desire.
?All these officers left the service without informing and were absconding without reporting for duty despite several messages being sent. But still they had to appear before a summary trial and not before a court martial,? sources claimed.? ?
Lt. Com. Welagedara in his evidence to the CID in 2012 had revealed how he received a call from Navy sailors at the ?Gun Site? underground prison at the Navy base at Trincomalee,where these 11 Tamil youth had been detained. The statement further states that the caller had informed Welagedara that there were shooting sounds from the underground prison and had requested him to come immediately. According to the statement, upon his arrival to the site, he had seen bodies wrapped with plastic sheets being loaded to a navy truck. He believes that they were the bodies of these Tamil youths with whom he had spoken few days ago. Welagedara had further complained how Cap. D.K.P. Dassanayake and Lt. Com. Sumith Ranasinghe who are among the accused had threatened him and Upul Bandara, for giving evidence to the CID against them.? ?
The reason given by Vice Admiral Ranasinghe with regard to Lt. Com. Welagedara?s held-back promotion is, that he is serving a court martial sentence
Not only Welagedara, but also several other Navy officers too had cooperated with the CID and provided details of how the abducted youth were imprisoned in multiple naval bases. All these witnesses were attached to the Naval Base at Trincomalee between 2008 and 2009.? ?
Although Welagedara was granted a presidential pardon, he has so far been deprived his promotion to the rank of Commander. All these accused are now out on bail. According to the Navy documents, the present and former Commanders have granted promotions to two suspects Lt.Com Sumith Ranasinghe and Captain D.K.P. Dassanayake at a time when they have been accused in the abduction case. Captain Dassanayake had been promoted to the rank of Commodore on October 26, 2016 while Lt. Com. Ranasinghe had been promoted to the rank of Commander on April 8, 2016.? ?
Ravindra Wijegunawardena approved the promotions despite the charges levelled against them. The present Navy Commander meanwhile had recommended D.K.P. Dassanayake a service extension which had been approved by the Defence Minister, President Maithripala Sirisena on July 3, 2018.? ?
However, although the Navy looks after the criminals, Navy documents reveal how the service of another officer was suspended on May 1, 2018 over an alleged crime he had committed. But however when his name was cleared from the charges, he was re-instated on July 31, 2018.? ?If the Navy can suspend the service of this officer based on the allegation levelled against him when the case was before court, on what basis did the navy promote Dassanayake and Ranasinghe and recommend a one year service extension to Dassanayake,? sources queried.? ?
Meanwhile the Interim Report issued by the Office on Missing Persons (OMP) in August 2018 states that there have been instances where members of the armed forces, who were willing to provide information on disappearances, were subject to harassment.? ?
The report further states, ?Some individuals suspected of having committed enforced disappearances and related offences are being permitted to remain in positions of power?especially within the armed forces and the police?where they can influence the progress of an investigation. There have been instances where members of the armed forces, who were willing to provide information on disappearances, were subject to harassment.? ?
?The OMP notes with concern that in at least one case, an officer of the armed forces, who is a suspect in an on-going court case relating to abductions and enforced disappearances, has neither been suspended nor removed from exercising the duties and functions of his office. Of equal concern is that there are reports that in at least one case an officer has been granted a promotion within the armed forces, whilst the case against him is still pending. OMP notes that under relevant regulations as well as the rules and established practices it is reasonably expected for such suspected officers to be suspended from exercising the duties and functions of their office?.? ?
Meanwhile questions have been raised as to why Judge Advocate Navy, Shaveendra Fernando, was allowed to preside on the court martial bench when Welagedara?s matter was taken up, as it is a known fact that Fernando whilst serving at the Attorney General?s Department had interfered with the CID investigations on navy abductions.? ?
Lt. Commander Krishan C. Welagedara
The OMP report further states, ? There are a number of cases before different courts, some of which have continued for ten years or more, where victims have not been provided any answers as to the whereabouts of their loved ones. Amongst these cases are habeas corpus applications and criminal proceedings in respect of abduction and murder.There is an inherent conflict of interest, with the Attorney-General?s Department being required to act as both the prosecutor of alleged enforced disappearances, as well as to defend the respondents in legal proceedings including in relation to habeas corpus writs.? ?
?The OMP is of the view that in habeas corpus applications the Attorney General?s Department should not represent the interests of persons who are alleged to be perpetrators, but rather should represent the interests of the state in a manner that would respect, secure and advance the fundamental rights of the people. The OMP notes with concern that in habeas corpus applications relating to the disappeared that technical objections have been raised standing in the way of obtaining justice. It is also observed that the establishment of the OMP should not be raised as an objection to parties seeking recourse in court for the constitutional remedy of habeas corpus?.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Couple surviving on Murunga leaves: President deploys officer to probe
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 04:23 pm
Couple surviving on Murunga leaves: President deploys officer to probe
	
President Maithripala Sirisena said he immediately deployed an officer to look into the incident where a starving couple from Kahatagasdigiliya had been feeding on Murunga leaves for days due to the lack of water and food.
Addressing an event in Anuradhapura, the President said all state officers and the ministers in the region should be held responsible for the situation.
?It is the responsibility of all ministers and state officials to visit the affected people and provide relief," he said.
Daily Mirror and our sister paper Lankadeepa reported that a couple in Kahatagasdigiliaya area had eaten boiled Murunga leaves for several days.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Court stays CID probe into Ravi K
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 02:21 pm
Court stays CID probe into Ravi K
	
The Colombo Chief Magistrate today issued a stay order on the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) investigation of MP Ravi Karunanayake over allegedly providing false evidence to the Bond Commission.
Counsel appearing for MP Karunanayake said the Bond Commission had no legal authority to direct the CID to launch investigations.
Magistrate Ranga Dissanayake said an order would be given in this regard on September 26. (Farook Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Delimitation review committee report delayed by two weeks
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 06:40 pm
Delimitation review committee report delayed by two weeks
	
The committee headed by the Prime Minister that was set up to review the provincial delimitation commission report had informed Speaker Karu Jayasuriya that it needs two more months to rectify its short comings and present it to Parliament.
The Speaker?s office said this matter was conveyed to the Speaker this afternoon. Speaker had stressed the need to hold the provincial council elections as soon as possible.
The Prime Minister had assured that steps would be taken to avoid loop holes that might delay the polls further.
 
		
==============================
## Title: District Development Committees: W. D. J., Chandima, Anura removed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:01 pm
District Development Committees: W. D. J., Chandima, Anura removed
	
Three Co-Presidents of Ratnapura, Galle and Kurunegala District Development Committees, W. D. J. Senewiratne, Chandima Weerakkody, Anura Priyadarshana Yapa were removed from their posts today.
Athula Kumara Rahubadda, Piyasena Gamage and Dayasiri Jayasekara were appointed by President Maithripala Sirisena for the districts of Ratnapura, Galle and Kurunegala respectively. (Ajantha Kumara Agalakada)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Eight members of 16 group removed from SLFP organiser posts
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:08 am
Eight members of 16 group removed from SLFP organiser posts
	
The Central Committee of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) has decided to remove electoral organiser posts of eight out of the 16 SLFPers who defected to the Joint Opposition.
The decision was taken at the SLFP CC meeting which was held at President Maithripala Sirisena?s?residence last evening.
MPs Susil Premejayantha, W.D.J. Seneviratne, Anura Priyadarshana Yapa, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardane, Chandima Weerakkody are among those who were removed from their organiser?posts. (Ajantha Kumara Agalakada)?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Enjoying at no expense!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:56 am
Enjoying at no expense!
	
?
This star-sporting khakied one ruling the roost in an area known for beautiful damsels has become a big headache to the lesser mortals of his tribe supposed to be serving under his guidance.
?
The poor ones are required to supply fags and bottles on a regular basis to this high-up if they were to continue to serve trouble-free at their respective stations.
An addict to both tobacco and liquor, this khakied one has got his present high post thanks to his connection to a high-flying political family, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: EU leaders warn Brexit is still far away
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:52 am
EU leaders warn Brexit is still far away
	
?
Brussels, (Daily Mail), 20 September 2018 -? EU leaders today warned a Brexit deal is still ?far away? despite Theresa May?s plea for them to end the deadlock in negotiations.??
The Prime Minister is still struggling for a breakthrough after a ten minute pitch of her Chequers blueprint fell on deaf ears at a summit dinner in Salzburg last night.??
Appealing for her counterparts to compromise, Mrs May flatly dismissed the EU?s latest proposals for resolving the Northern Ireland border issue, saying they would break up the UK.??
She also ruled out any delay to Britain?s departure from the EU in March ? insisting there were no circumstances in which she would consider a second referendum.??
But her fellow leaders - who received the speech in stony silence as they have vowed not to discuss Brexit directly with the UK - were unimpressed.??
In a clear swipe at Mrs May?s proposals to align with EU rules on goods but not services, French President Emmanuel Macron today warned he would not accept so-called ?cherry-picking? that undermined the EU single market.??
Other leaders said the talks were at a ?standstill?, and called for the UK to hold another public vote to reverse Brexit altogether.? Meanwhile, Mrs May is facing a growing revolt at home with Tory plotters branding her ?deluded? and calling Chequers ?as dead as a dodo?.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Farmer gives the politico an earful!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:53 am
Farmer gives the politico an earful!
	
?
A provincial politico had to receive an acid tongue-lashing from an irate farmer in public when he faulted the latter for making a complaint to a visiting top team member.
?
When the top team member handling agriculture attended a public function held in a cool clime to mark the distribution of fruit plants, the farmer took advantage of the occasion to complain to him that they were unable to do their cultivation work for want of water as the anicut which was their source of irrigation had breached.
?Please take early steps to restore this anicut,? he appealed.
At this stage, a provincial politico who angrily intervened faulted the farmer for failing to report this matter to him first. This remark had got the farmer?s goat who retorted: ?Don?t make me tell you a thing or two in raw filth. You ought to know how many times we had complained to you about this matter? You just chased us away every time we called on you! Are you denying that? You had better not come again to us begging our vote!?
Later, the provincial politico was heard telling the top team member that they had not received adequate funds to repair the breached anicut,?
they say.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Father, daughter go missing in Giritale Tank
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 12:44 pm
Father, daughter go missing in Giritale Tank
	
A father and his daughter went missing while bathing in the Giritale tank this afternoon while on a picnic with relatives, Police said.
They said 45-year-old Reranjan Wickramaratne and his 14-year-old Kaumini Prihansa Wickramaratne were residents of Dunagaha in Minuwangoda.
Police said they had launched search operations with the assistance of the villagers. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Genie, Sri Lanka?s First PCI-DSS Certified Payment App
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:48 am
Genie, Sri Lanka?s First PCI-DSS Certified Payment App
	
Dialog Axiata PLC, Sri Lanka?s premier Digital Services Innovator, announced the launch of ?Genie?, Sri Lanka?s first ?Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard? (PCI-DSS) certified mobile payment app. ?Genie? transforms a conventional wallet to a truly digital wallet that securely holds credit and debit cards, current and savings accounts (CASA) and eZ Cash account on the mobile phone. Genie enables a seamless payment experience for in-app, Over the Counter (OTC via QR Code), web and remote payments. Fully certified by the globally recognised PCI Data Security Standards body, Genie brings to Sri Lanka?s consumers and merchants a secure, convenient and rapid transaction platform which is set to revolutionise Sri Lanka?s digital payments landscape. The cutting-edge smartphone app and simple to use merchant interface will empower merchants and consumers with the very latest in digital transaction technology and facilitate payment transactions direct from the Mobile Phone.?
The Genie Payment Platform is approved and endorsed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and ensures the security of a cardholder?s data through a two-step verification process for transaction based security. Furthermore, the app itself has the option of using fingerprint authentication, adding an extra layer of protection not available with physical cards or money. Genie ensures identity and access assurance, secure communication and response on all transactions and data.?
Genie enables customers to track and manage spending patterns while merchants can track transaction history using of digital receipts. Merchants can extend Genie as a payment platform and payment gateway to customers, and includes benefits such as a user friendly and reliable merchant portal with the ability to view transaction reports real time. Payments will be channeled through Sampath Bank Internet Payment Gateway (IPG) with the CASA (Current Account & Savings Account) feature supported by Cargills Bank.??
Commenting on the launch of Genie, Supun Weerasinghe, Group Chief Executive, Dialog Axiata PLC said, ?We are seeing a sharp rise in the adoption of smartphones driven by availability of broadband connectivity. Genie aims to leverage this growing eco system to drive adoption of cashless payments and accelerate Sri Lanka?s journey to a Digital Economy. Genie delivers a world digital class payment solution which offers superior user experience, highest standards of security and Privacy.??
Genie will continue to gain widespread acceptance amongst an expansive merchant network for its quick and simple integration model and create a cohesive and convenient brand-wide payment ecosystem to engage customers and merchants more frequently. Genie Merchants network include Ceylon Electricity Board, Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Ltd., National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Dialog, Hutch, AIA Insurance, Doc990, 444, Arabian Nights, Fashion Fabric, Asylum, Botanik Bistro & Bar, Siam House, Care Point, Shanghai Terrace, wow.lk, takas.lk and many more. To subscribe to Genie, customers can download the Genie app from Google Play Store or Apple Store and merchants can register their business by visiting www.genie.lk/register-form/.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Healthcare Simulation Week Moving towards a  better healthcare system September 17 ? 21, 2018
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:32 am
Healthcare Simulation Week Moving towards a  better healthcare system September 17 ? 21, 2018
	
Dr. Ramya De Silva addressing the event
Introducing a new revolution into the medical realm of knowledge, ?Simulation in Healthcare? is the modern trend that promises to deliver an optimum healthcare service to all patients devoid of mistakes, undue delays and medical negligence. Simulation in Healthcare delivers a helping hand to rectify the errors that are made in the process of learning, especially in the context of medical practice and training sessions. While such errors can harm a patient, it is said that the risk of dying from an air crash is 1 in 10 million whereas the risk of dying from a medical error is 1 in 300. Simulation in Healthcare helps in preventing such deaths. The Healthcare Simulation Week is commemorated globally from September 17-21 in a quest to promote simulation,which improves the safety standards, efficacy and efficiency in healthcare delivery. The newly formed Sri Lanka Association of Simulation in Healthcare hosted an event to promote the concept of ?Simulation in Healthcare? at the Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children early this week; in a bid to raise awareness on healthcare simulation in Sri Lanka.? ?
Demonstration of a healthcare simulation
The Founder President of the Sri Lanka Association for Simulation in Healthcare and Consultant Paediatrician Dr. Ramya De Silva has played an instrumental role in introducing the concept of healthcare simulation into the field of Paediatrics during her tenure as the President of the Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians. Addressing the event, Dr. De Silva said that when the trainees are confident and competent in their skills with repeated training on the models/mannequins, they can start their well practised skills on real patients. The term, ?High-Fidelity Simulation? is used when the models used for simulation are very much similar to real patients and the training atmosphere used, mimics an actual hospital scenario. Explaining that High ? Fidelity Simulation is increasingly popular in developed countries, Dr. De Silva said that it is used in various fields of healthcare ranging from medical to nursing and pharmacy fields.? ?
?Simulation is a training and feedback method in which trainees practise tasks and procedures in real life scenarios using models with feedback from observers, other team members and video cameras, to improve skills. It helps the trainees to acquire patient care skills in a safe and risk free environment. Simulation can capture a wide variety of patient problems more readily; otherwise the trainee has to wait for a real encounter which could be a life-threatening patient problem. Patient safety is one of the most compelling reasons to embrace simulation into healthcare training? Dr. De Silva briefed.? ?
Dr. De Silva assisted by fellow medical professionals while enacting a simulation session
Providing an example, Dr. De Silva further explained how simulation works in an actual hospital setup, in the event a critical patient needing urgent medical attention is admitted to the hospital.? ?
?The nurse will understand the critical condition of the patient who is admitted to the hospital and will make arrangements to do the needful for the patient. A concept known as ?De-briefing? will be introduced to the medical staff, where every medical professional from the attendants, to the nurses and the doctors will be made aware of their roles in a crisis situation, especially until a senior doctor arrives at the scenario. In the meantime, it is also important to ensure that the parents of the sick, young patient is calmed down as it would help in carrying out the treatments in a much smooth and organized manner void of their constant intervention. It is crucial that first-aid should be administered to a critical patient who has just been admitted to the hospital prior to going in search of a doctor to attend to the patient first hand- this helps in eliminating the risks of undue delay that may be caused during the lookout for a doctor, which in return might result even in further deterioration of the patient?s health condition otherwise. Hence, during simulation sessions these drawbacks can be identified and minimized early enough in order to avoid repeating such mistakes when attending to an actual patient in a real hospital scenario? the doctor said.? ?
?High-Fidelity Simulation? is used when the models used for simulation are very much similar to real patients?
Elucidating further she said that over the years, medical professionals have practised their skills on the patient. ?When we are practising on the patient most of the time any learner will make a error, which is often the human nature. In order to minimize the errors we make on patients, these training procedures can be practised on a simulation set up. All over the world, the Healthcare Simulation Week is happening commencing from September17 ? 21. By conducting a simulation, we try to ensure the patient safety in addition to providing a better healthcare service.? ?
Dr. De Silva demonstarting a healthcare simulation session to the medical staff
In Sri Lanka we have just started simulation. It was introduced into the paediatric field in 2016 with the help of the Bristol Medical Simulation Council. There were a few training sessions and the last session was held a week back. We got the best training experience and had a group of master trainers (advanced instructors) to help us with simulation in healthcare. They will spread the concept of simulation to the rest of the country.? ?
?All these years we have been providing services to our patients. However, by embracing simulation now we are trying to give the best care to our patients while ensuring their safety to the optimum,? the doctor concluded.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hezbollah defies Israel, says has ?precision missiles?
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:53 am
Hezbollah defies Israel, says has ?precision missiles?
	
?
BEIRUT AFP Sept20, 2018-? ?Lebanon?s Hezbollah said Thursday it had acquired ?precision missiles? despite extensive efforts by neighbour and foe Israel to prevent the Shiite movement developing this capability.? ?
??It has been done. The resistance now owns precision missiles? as part of its weaponry, Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised address during the key Shiite commemoration of Ashura.? Israel has said it is working to stop both Iran and Hezbollah from acquiring sophisticated arms.? ?
??Attempts in Syria to block the way towards this (missile) capability? have failed, Nasrallah said.? ?
??If Israel imposes a war on Lebanon, it will face a fate that it never would have expected.? Israel has fought several conflicts against Hezbollah, the last in 2006.? ?
Nasrallah accused the Israelis of trying to kill him ?day and night?. He has lived in a secret location for decades and rarely appears in public.? ?
The Hezbollah chief also reiterated his support for Iran.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Judging character by the Sun Sign- Aquarius
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:10 am
Judging character by the Sun Sign- Aquarius
	
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?Natal Solar Month and Sun Sign ? Part 11? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ??
?
The Sun in its annual journey round the Zodiac moves in the sign of Aquarius from February 13 to March 14. Those born during this period, no matter what their Lagna is according to the Birth Chart, they are called Aquarius people as they are greatly influenced by the characteristics peculiar to the Aquarius sign.
?
Characteristics are identical
In this series of articles, we have been discussing the subjects born into different Solar months and they should not be confused with persons born into different Lagnas or Ascendants.? However, the characteristics of a person?s Solar month sign are identical with those peculiar to his Lagna or the birth sign.
?
A strong physique, but prone to heart trouble?
Aquarius people are endowed with a strong constitution. But they are prone to sudden illness which could affect their nervous system.? If the native was born about the Sun rise, he could develop heart trouble.?
?
Kind, humane and benevolent ? possess intuitive and psychic powers
Aquarius people by nature are kind, humane and benevolent. Their perception is keen. They have an insatiable thirst for knowledge.? They are vigilant and observant.? They are endowed with strong intuitive and psychic powers.?
Aquarius people are fortified with strong will power.? They are sociable and enjoy the company of friends.? However, at times, they prefer to remain aloof from others.?
?
Eminent physicians, scientists and lawyers? ??
Aquarians make good physicians, scientists and lawyers.? They possess a logical mind.?
Aquarians are not spendthrifts. They are not keen on amassing wealth either.? They are philanthropic and would help others get on well in life.?
Women born during this Solar month would experience difficulty at child delivery.?
Aquarians have a great desire for travel.? But one of their journeys would be the cause of heavy financial loss or a setback to status.?
?
Idealists partial to an intelligent partner with artistic leanings? ?
Aquarians are idealists and would look for a partner with an intelligent prowess and artistic leanings.
They are religious and philosophical. But they are not bigots.? They are broad-minded and liberal in their outlook.
Aquarians would have a successful married life if they marry a person of the same sign or of Gemini or Libra.? ? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Knowing your blood report
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:47 am
Knowing your blood report
	
?
Blood tests have become such an integral part of disease diagnosis and treatment process that when you go to a doctor, more often than not, you are asked to obtain a blood report related to your condition. That?s why we decided to bring you a series of articles to provide information regarding blood tests; ordered commonly. Dr. K.A.C. Wickramaratne, Consultant Haematologist, Senior Lecturer in Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ruhuna, answers our queries in this week?s edition of Health Capsule with regard to blood tests.? ?
??I strongly recommend the interpretation of any laboratory test to be done by the requesting clinician?, stresses Dr. Wickramartne. He explains that this process should be followed because despite the findings can be considered normal it can sometimes be a clue to a disease. Therefore, getting test reports interpreted by any person other than the one who requested it is of serious concern and should be avoided for the safety of the patients. Also, each laboratory test should ideally be requested by a doctor following a thorough history and a physical examination of the patient, so that only the relevant lab tests are requested. A Full Blood Count, the most commonly requested haematology test globally, is the topic discussed in this week?s edition of Health Capsule.? ?
?
What is FBC?
Full Blood Count (FBC) or Complete Blood Count (CBC) is a very useful test for the diagnosis of diverse conditions. Full or complete is a relative term as newer machines come with more and more added parameters with unique advantages in diagnosis. Even though it bears simple three letters FBC, it is a battery of tests with diverse information of blood cells. Nowadays, the test is done using fully automated analyzers.To understand what FBC is, we should know first what is analysed in this test. Blood can be separated into a liquid part plasma and solid ? formed elements cells. FBC analyzes these cells.? ?
Red blood cells (erythrocytes), white blood cells (leucocytes) and platelets (thrombocytes) are analyzed in machines mainly to show how much of these cells are present per unit volume of blood. In addition, it gives some qualitative parametres such as changes in cell size, presence of abnormal cells, and presence of young or immature cells and even predicts the possibility of presence of some unique diseases such as Dengue fever in some cases.? ?
?
How do I prepare for a FBC?
A blood sample for a FBC can be given at any time of the day. It is collected as a random sample. However, early morning is ideal for any test. But changes throughout the day are subtle and are therefore of no concern. However, physical exertion, some drugs (such as prednisolone), smoking etc can affect FBC results, so are worth notifying your doctor when he is interpreting the results. It is better to give the sample after about 20 min rest if you were walking briskly.? ?
Blood collection is best performed without a tourniquet. If a tourniquet is applied it should be applied immediately before venipuncture and removed within a minute. Blood from a vein, rather than from an artery is taken, as is the case with many tests. The sample will be perfect if venipuncture is neat, if the blood is drawn in to a syringe without much effort and without any bubbles, if the correct volume is filled into the tube; where a special agent to keep the blood from clotting, is pre-added, and mixed gently by 5-6 inversions. Samples, when transported and stored at temperatures between 21 ? 27 0 C, can be analysed even after 48 hours to obtain accurate FBC results.? ?
?
What is the information that can be garnered from a FBC??
Results of the lab test and clinical manifestations of the disease should always be analysed together.
?
Red cell parametres?
These include Haemoglobin concentration (Hb - amount of oxygen carrying pigment) and red cell count (RBC or RCC) per unit volume of blood and haematocrit (HCT) or packed red cell volume (PCV) a measure of total red cell volume per unit volume of blood as a percentage].?
Normal values (or more accurately the reference values) of these parametres vary between different age groups, sexes and during certain physiological states such as pregnancy. So it should be interpreted with correct reference range for age, sex and physiological status. Higher values than upper limit is called polycythemia. It is a group of disorders needing further investigations. Values below the lower limit is called anaemia. It is a manifestation of a disease, thus should be investigated.?
?
Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) is a measure of red cell size and it is very important to understand the type of anaemia. When it is high it can be vitamin B12 or folate deficiency. When it is low it can be iron deficiency or thalassaemia. Mean Corpuscular Haemoglobin (MCH) is a measure of Hb content in red cells and lower values can be indicative of iron deficiency or thalassaemia.These are only a few examples of the vast amount of information that can be collected from red cell parameters.?
?
White blood cell parameters
These include total white cell count (WBC) per unit volume of blood and absolute and relative percentages of each white cell subtype [we call it differential count (DC)]. Higher or lower total number of white cells and changes in DC can indicate infections or even serious diseases such as blood cancer. The variations in DC could be indicative of simple viral infection or bacterial infections such as leptospirosis, pneumonia or urine infection. Even allergic conditions, parasitic diseases such as filariasis, can subject DC to unique changes.The WBC count and DC can change with physical exertion, smoking or some drugs such as prednisolone. Therefore, these factors should be taken into account when interpreting WBC parameters as well.? ?
?
Platelets? ?
Platelets are needed for stoppage of bleeding when we have wounds. The number of platelets per unit volume of blood is platelet count. Lower and higher values indicate diseases and can endanger life by spontaneous bleeding within the body or by ?clot? formation in brain etc respectively. Platelet parametres available in automated FBC give clues on progression of platelet disorders.? ?
?
Can we compare FBC results of different laboratories?
The comparison of results between different laboratories cannot be done and should be discouraged unless the laboratories use similar machines and similar procedures. We call it standardisation and is yet to be established in Sri Lanka. When monitoring of FBC is needed with regard to a patient, it has to be done from the same laboratory throughout the monitoring process. Looking for any accreditation status ISO 15189 or CAP would give additional security or trust on quality or the reliability of what you receive as the FBC report. The presence of consultants to supervise and presence of qualified MLTs in a medical clinical laboratory is very important.?
?
?Is it good to get FBC done as a routine on our own?
As we have previously mentioned, any test when requested, should have a purpose and should be interpreted by a qualified doctor.? ?It has to be linked with symptoms, signs, age, sex, physiological status etc.? Just reading counts and comparing it with references given is inadequate and can mislead. This can happen when patients try to get reports interpreted by laboratory personnel or blood collection officials (phlebotomists). In a laboratory haematologists or pathologists, doctors or consultants related to laboratory medicine with relevant training can interpret FBC parameters. Other laboratory personnel are not qualified and competent to interpret these within the clinical context.? Unless clinician recommends and educates you to monitor your counts, obtaining random counts and getting them interpreted by an unqualified person is therefore inadvisable.? ?
?
Can FBC results be erroneous?
Yes. In any part of the world even with strict quality control, random errors are possible, but rare. Accredited laboratories try to control all potential errors. Most of the errors associated with FBC are due to errors in the sample collection and processing before analysis. If we elaborate a little on this, a traumatic venipuncture, froth formation (air bubbling inside syringe), pushing blood into the tube through a needle, vigorous shaking of tube with blood, exposure of blood to very high temperatures and marked delays in analysis all can affect FBC parameters adversely. Frequently falsely low platelets counts are seen due to these errors.? ?
To generate accurate results, all the FBC machines should be properly installed, calibrated and maintained as per the manufacturer?s instructions. Quality control should be available for daily runs as well as external quality assurance at regular intervals. The availability of external and internal quality is not sufficient unless they monitor, review and act on results of quality control. Qualified, trained and competent laboratory personnel are therefore mandatory.??
As for the possibility of a laboratory to perform any other test from the same sample, the answer would be ?yes?. Commonly a sample collected for FBC can be used to perform blood picture, ESR, malaria or any other blood parasites examination, HbA1c (a test useful to monitor diabetes), blood grouping, reticulocyte count and Hb electrophoresis etc.? ?
In a nutshell, FBC is a battery of investigations giving clues on how healthy your blood cells are. When used wisely it gives a large amount of information for the clinician for proper diagnosis and care. Quality of FBC results depend on many factors and collection errors are the most important. Remember not to rely on ?interpreters? of FBC (or any other test report) for your health. It should be done by a qualified doctor. When you select a laboratory for FBC (or any other test) accreditation status, presence of qualified team including presence of Haematologists to supervise are good points to remember.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan arrested in Milan was an SLBFE official: Bureau
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 12:26 am
Lankan arrested in Milan was an SLBFE official: Bureau
	
The Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment (SLBFE) yesterday said the former diplomat who had been recently arrested in Milan was an SLBFE official, and accordingly they had decided to interdict him from the service.
Earlier, the Malpensa Airport Border Police Bureau officials in Milan, Italy had arrested the Sri?Lankan who attempted to bring four youths into Italy by aiding illegal migration.
The SLBFE in a statement said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) had informed them of the arrest and they had identified the apprehended individual was an SLBFE official and was an ex- diplomat.
?He was a diplomat attached to the Jordanian and Lebanese Embassies from August 2012 to February 2015. His diplomatic passport was cancelled after the said period. It was revealed that the officer in question went abroad on September 7, 2018 without obtaining prior approval from the bureau and the relevant ministry. Accordingly, the SLBFE has decided to interdict him from services and take disciplinary actions against him,? it said. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lt. Colonel Peiris remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 03:15 pm
Lt. Colonel Peiris remanded
	
Lieutenant Colonel Erantha Peiris, who was arrested in connection with the disappearance of Journalist Prageeth Ekneligoda, was remanded till September 28 by Homagama Magistrate Udesh Ranatunga today.
The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) yesterday arrested Peiris who is the Commanding Officer of the 7th Battalion, Military Intelligence Corps. (Buddika Kumarasiri) 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mangala warns of further depreciation of rupee
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 05:21 am
Mangala warns of further depreciation of rupee
	
Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera yesterday warned of a tendency of a further rupee depreciation against the US dollar within the next few weeks.
He told parliament that not only the Sri Lankan rupee but also currencies of most Asian countries had depreciated during the recent past.
"Sri Lankan rupee has depreciated by 7.4 per cent while Indian rupee has depreciated by 13.5, Pakistan rupee by 12.1 per cent, Indonesian rupiah by 9.1and Russian ruble by 18.2," he said.
He said the value of the rupee was determined by the foreign exchange market and primary determinants of the demand for currency are import and export of goods and services and added that these basic indicators remained positive in the case of Sri Lanka.
"These indicators are moving in the correct direction," he said.
Mr. Samaraweera said in a move to control the outflow of foreign currency, the Central Bank on Wednesday imposed a 100 per cent cash margin requirement for LCs on non commercial vehicles with immediate effect.
"There was an influx of vehicles below 1000 cc during the recent past. New cash margin requirement for LCs would reduce the import of vehicles at this juncture. India has imposed regulations on non essential luxury items as well," he said.
He said imposition of minimum tax on vehicles less than 1000 cc and market determinant fuel price formula had been successful in curbing excessive import growth thus far.
He said it was wrong to term the depreciation of the rupee as a collapse of the economy.(Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR and India:  A business deal
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:45 am
MR and India:  A business deal
	
India must be looking at Rajapaksas as possible future leaders of?Sri Lanka
Swamy is a strong opinion maker in India despite him being highly controversial?at times
Even recently, there was an occasion where a strong loyalist of Rajapaksa provoked Indian leaders
It is not a love affair, but a business deal? ?
?Rajapaksa?s dealings with Dr Swamy may jeopardize his moves to win Muslim vote
?
?
If there had been issues between the Indian Government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa, and if Modi?s Government was willing to refresh the relationship with Rajapaksa now, the best broker for the purpose would be none other than Controversial Indian politician Dr Subramanian Swamy.
Swamy, who is also a senior leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party led by Modi, visited the former President at the ancestral house of the latter in Medamulana, Hambantota when Rajapaksa?s younger brother Chandra passed away last month.
The first impression given by the visit was that Swamy had arrived at the island to express his condolences to Rajapaksa over his brother?s death.
However, Swamy had extended an invitation to Rajapaksa to visit New Delhi, it was later revealed.
The invitation had been extended on behalf of Virat Hindustan Sangam, a Hindu Renaissance Organization founded by Swamy himself and Rajapaksa was also invited to deliver a public lecture on India-Sri Lanka Relation: the way ahead in the Indian capital during his three-day visit starting from September 10.
He attracted a considerable Indian media attention as well this time and The Hindu newspaper assigned two most senior journalists to interview him.
Incidentally, one of the two journalists happened to be Dr Swamy?s younger daughter Suhasini Haider.
Suhasini got the Haider tag by marrying Nadeem Haider, a Muslim and a son of former Indian Foreign Secretary and External Affairs Minister Salman Haider, despite Swamy being a strong Hindutva leader whose economic courses were terminated by the Harvard University in 2011 after he wrote two articles to two Mumbai based newspapers that were said to have demonized Muslims.
If the Indian Government had some hand in the invitation to Rajapaksa for his latest visit to New Delhi, their choice for the brokerage seems to be ideal, given the relationship between Dr Swamy and Rajapaksa.
Swamy, a strong opinion maker in India, despite him being highly controversial at times and a strong Hindu nationalist has been a close friend of the former President since the latter was in power.
He claims that he admires Rajapaksa as he was able to eliminate the Tamil armed group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).
Expressing his zeal over Rajapaksa?s visit on his invitation Swamy told News18 in India that he had invited ?great friend? Rajapaksa in his individual capacity.
Giving Rajapaksa?s visit a national importance he said ?Ties with Sri Lanka have been weak over the last two years and I think we need to strengthen them,? and added that an association with Rajapaksa would help improve ties between the two countries.??
On September 10, Dr Swamy tweeted saying ?Today Fmr. President of Sri Lanka and probably the next President is arriving in New Delhi at the invitation of Virat Hindustan Sangam?
He also said during his Sri Lanka visit that Mahinda Rajapaksa should be awarded India?s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna for exterminating the LTTE.
He argued that the former Sri Lankan President deserved India?s highest and most prestigious honour since he decimated the outfit which was also anti-Indian.
This was the second time he had made this suggestion, first time he made it in February 2012. However, both times it drew ire from the Tamil Nadu leaders.
Despite the invitation to Rajapaksa having been made in Dr Swamy?s personal capacity, he was awarded the opportunity to meet Prime Minister Modi and Government officials.
The former President also met Indian Congress Party leader Rahul Gandhi and several other Congress leaders like former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on September 13.
Unlike the earlier visits by Rajapaksa to India the visit this time created an impression in both countries that he and the Indian Government had mended fences after a few years? wrangling between them.
Towards the end of Rajapaksa?s regime, the relationship between him and the Indian Government had begun to strain as Indian Central Government was under pressure by the Tamil Nadu leaders to act against Sri Lankan Government over the alleged human rights violations in Sri Lanka during the war.
Besides, President Rajapaksa, after promising Indian leaders that he would go beyond the 13th Amendment to the Constitution went back on his word. He accused the Indian foreign intelligence arm, the RAW for his defeat at the 2015 Presidential Election.
He made this allegation even during an interview with an Indian media, The Hindu in March 2015, apart from another statement he made to South China Morning Post where he said that the Americans, the Norwegians, Europeans and the Indian intelligence agency RAW were openly working to defeat him in the election.
However, in the later years, he was careful not to accuse India.
In an interview with Japan Times during a visit to Tokyo in 2016, the former President said he was defeated by the Muslims, which was more accurate, given the voting pattern at the last Presidential Election.
Even recently, there was an occasion where a strong loyalist of Rajapaksa provoked Indian leaders.
National Freedom Front (NFF) leader Wimal Weerawansa called for a black flag protest during Indian Prime Minister Modi?s visit to Sri Lanka to take part in the celebrations marking the UN Vesak Day.
Speaking at the Joint Opposition?s May Day rally last year Weerawansa alleged that Modi was to discuss a deal on Trincomalee during his visit which must be opposed.
However, Rajapaksa, having apparently realised the seriousness of the call by Weerawansa made a request to the Indian High Commission for an audience with the Indian Premier, when he was in Colombo in the same month for the Vesak Day celebrations, which was granted.
Indian leaders and Rajapaksa seem to have felt the need of each other?s embrace when it was apparent with the results of the Local Government elections in February, this year that the political trend had considerably changed in Sri Lanka.
The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna in which Rajapaksa acts as the de-facto leader had captured more than 230 out of 340 councils for which elections were held, giving fresh hopes of a comeback by Rajapaksas.
These hopes are being vindicated with the bickering in the ruling coalition which seems to be at its peak with President Maithripala Sirisena openly rolling back so many decisions of the Ministers affiliated to the UNP led by the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
Therefore, India must be looking at Rajapaksas as the possible future leaders of Sri Lanka.
On the other hand, Rajapaksas too need the friendship of the Indian leaders given the capacity India has in influencing the Tamil political parties in Sri Lanka, especially those that represent the people of Indian origin, at the future national elections.
Hence, what is blossoming is not a love affair, but a business deal.? ?
Incidentally, Rajapaksa?s dealings with Dr Swamy have a potential to jeopardize his moves to win over the Muslims again, given the latter?s provocative attitude towards Indian Muslims and Islam.
Swamy had suggested to demolish hundreds of mosques in India and to declare ?only those non-Hindus can vote if they proudly acknowledge that their ancestors are Hindus? in his above-mentioned articles published in Mumbai based Daily Newsand Analysis. However, Muslim vote would be essential for the SLPP as it had failed to garner 50 per cent of votes at the LG Elections, despite having captured 68 per cent of councils.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Multiple victims? reported in shooting at Maryland, US
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:53 am
?Multiple victims? reported in shooting at Maryland, US
	
?
US, (Hindustan Times), 20 Sept 2018 -? Several people were shot on Thursday in Perryman, Maryland, and residents were asked to avoid the area, according to authorities.??
?The situation is still fluid,? the Harford County Sheriff?s Office wrote on Twitter, adding that officers responded to the incident shortly after 9 a.m. EDT (1300 GMT). Agents from the Baltimore office of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) were also headed to the scene, the agency said.??
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan says his office is monitoring the situation in Aberdeen and that the state stands ready to offer any support??
Perryman is 34 miles (55 km) northeast of Baltimore. The area of the reported shooting includes a church and a business district, and is near the Aberdeen Proving Ground, an Army facility.??
The shooting occurred a day after a man entered a Pennsylvania court building and shot and wounded four people, including a police officer, before he was killed by police, according to Pennsylvania State Police.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Oslo, 25 years on: Peace in tatters!
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:56 am
Oslo, 25 years on: Peace in tatters!
	
Shalom, Salaam, peace: Twenty-five years ago, these words reverberated in the White House lawn and were flashed across the front pages of newspapers worldwide, as the adversaries became partners of peace to sign what was then hailed as the peace deal of the century.
On September 13, 1993, President Bill Clinton facilitated a handshake between Israel?s then Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and the Palestinian Liberation Organisation chairman Yasser Arafat after they placed their signatures on an agreement which was reached after painstaking secret talks facilitated by Norway.? Peace at last in the Middle East, thought the peace-loving people, heaving a sigh of relief.?
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall enter the Kingdom of God: The land that witnessed Jesus Christ proclaim these words would no longer see bloodshed, peace zealots thought and wondered whether the time had come to beat swords into ploughshares, and spears into pruninghooks and whether the era had dawned when a nation would not lift up sword against another nation.
Alas! A quarter century later, the Oslo deal exists largely on paper.? Even before the white paper on which the agreement was typed turned yellow, the agreement suffered blow after blow. Within years, the much hailed Oslo deal was dumped in the dustbin of history by hardliners opposed to peace; by the arms dealers who profit from wars, by the Zionists who dream of setting up an exclusively Jewish state in the whole of Palestine by expelling all the non-Jews; and by the American neoconservatives who are hand-in-glove with the Zionist lobby.
Jurists may insist that Pacta sunt servanda or agreements must be kept, but who cares when hardline and peace-allergic Israeli regimes are given protection by the world?s mightiest nation, the United States of America.? Encouraged by the continuous US support, the Zionist nation commits war crimes and walks free among the civilised nations.? Washington?s mollycoddling of Israel undermines the US Constitution which is nourished by the founders? ideals of justice, peace and morality. The US action is tantamount to aiding and abetting Goliath to oppress a helpless people crying for freedom and condemned to statelessness.??
If Israel had adhered to the Oslo deal in spirit and letter, a Palestinian state would have been set up in five years.? In 1979, that is 14 years before the Oslo deal was signed, Israel and Egypt signed the Camp David agreement, in terms of which, Israel was expected to take measures to end its occupation of Palestine.? If Israel had not observed the Camp David agreement in the breach, a Palestinian state would have long become a reality, US President Jimmy Carter who facilitated the Camp David talks, later observed in his book, ?Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid?.?
In terms of the Oslo deal, which gave the Nobel Peace Prize to Rabin, Shimon Peres who was the then Israeli foreign Minister, and Arafat, the occupied West Bank was to be divided into Zones A,B and C.? Israel was to pull out completely from the Gaza Strip and the Zone A. The security of the Zone B was to be the joint responsibility of both Israel and the Palestinian Authority to be set up, while Israel would be in charge of the security of the Zone C until a final agreement was reached.? In terms of the Oslo deal, the thorny issues such as the final status of Jerusalem, the Palestinian refugees? right to return, the Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian lands, and the borders of the two states were to be discussed within five years.? The arrangement gave Israel 80 percent of the control in the West Bank, while the Palestinian got a glorified local authority called the Palestinian Authority.??
The Oslo deal was conceived at a time when the Palestinians were at a point of despair. They were battered in whichever country they had found refuge ?in Jordan, they were butchered and in Lebanon, they were massacred.? By 1987 Palestinian youths were sick and tired of being labelled as terrorists for launching a freedom struggle, just as many liberation movements had done during the fight against European colonialism. They began an uprising ? called Intifada in Arabic ? in December 1987. It lasted until the 1991 Madrid Conference, which, for the first time, brought a Palestinian delegation stuffed into a Jordanian delegation face to face with an Israeli delegation.? The Intifada -- during which 1,500 Palestinians, including some 300 children, died -- spurred the Oslo-mediated secret talks between Israeli and Palestinian negotiators, while adding pressure on world powers to intensify diplomatic efforts to find a solution.?
During this crucial period, Arafat and the PLO denounced terrorism and recognised Israel?s right to exist, key conditions Israel and the US had placed for direct talks.? ?
Rabin was a willing partner for peace and wanted to give peace a chance. Arafat appeared pragm
atic and agreed to a Palestinian state within the 1967 borders, as had been recognised by the United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 and 338.?
But the peace haters scuttled the deal.? Four months after the deal, a Zionist extremist massacred worshippers at the Hebron mosque which houses the grave of Abraham, the father of both the Arabs and the Jews.? Despite this blow, the peace process led to the September 28, 1995 Taba agreement, also known as Oslo II Accord.? Months later, the peace process suffered its biggest blow. On November 4, 1995, Rabin was assassinated by a Jewish hardliner.
His death only increased the resolve of the peace lovers to push the peace process forward.? President Clinton made hardline Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to sit with Arafat and sign the Wye River Agreement in 1998. Clinton?s successor, George W. Bush set up the Middle East Peace Quartet comprising the US, Russia, the European Union and the UN to salvage the peace process.? In the meantime, Arafat died in November 2004, allegedly after he was exposed to radioactive polonium poisoning.?
President Barack Obama made valiant efforts to beat the odds and revive the peace process.? But Israel?s intransigence and the shrewdness of placing more conditions and pushing the goal post further each time the Palestinians reach it prevented any resurrection of the peace process.??
In the present US President Donald Trump, Israeli hardliners have found a willing peace killer. Trump has undone decades of hard work that went into the peace process. In May this year, he recognised Jerusalem as the undisputed capital of Israel in violation of international law and last month he stopped US humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian refugees.? Till Trump is ousted, the peace process will remain comatose.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament suspends Wimal, Prasanna
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 12:25 pm
Parliament suspends Wimal, Prasanna
	
Parliament today passed two motions to suspend MP Wimal Weerawansa from Parliament for two weeks and MP Prasanna Ranaweera for four weeks for violating the code of conduct of parliamentarians.
The motion to suspend MP Weerawansa was passed by a majority of 18 votes with 39 members voting for it and 21 against. The motion to suspend MP Ranaweera was passed by a majority of 20 votes with 41 members voting for it and 21 against.
Ranaweera was accused of trying to grab the mace while Weerawansa was alleged to have used abusive language. (YP & AS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Passengers suffer nose bleeds as crew forget to maintain cabin pressure
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:54 am
Passengers suffer nose bleeds as crew forget to maintain cabin pressure
	
?
India, (Daily Mail), 20 September 2018 -??
Dozens of passengers suffered ear pain and nose bleeds after crew on a Boeing 737 flight from Mumbai, India, reportedly forgot to maintain cabin pressure.? ?
The Jet Airways flight with 166 passengers and five crew members was climbing towards at an altitude of 11,000ft when pressure began to drop.??
The flight heading to Jaipur, Rajastan state, was forced to returned to a Mumbai airport, with 30 passengers needing medical assistance.??
Video footage shot by one of the passengers shows the moment when the oxygen masks were deployed to compensate the cabin pressure drop.??
According to witnesses onboard, passengers started complaining of a severe headaches and difficulty in breathing as the airplane climbed, and shortly afterwards, some also started bleeding from their nose and ears. An official from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said, ?During the climb, the crew forgot to select a bleed switch due to which cabin pressurization could not be maintained.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Poised for the jump?
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 September 2018 09:57 am
Poised for the jump?
	
?
A Diyawanna Green from an electorate adjoining a sacred city-based constituency is poised for a political somersault, they say.
?
Hailing from a well- known ?ge? family in the area, the politico is reportedly telling all and sundry that none outside his family has a right to seek political power in their bastion.
The man is visiting the prominent party activists in their homes these days to treat them to a desparaging commentary about his own political party.
Meanwhile, he is said to be going out of the way to cultivate the friendship of the local leaders of an up-and-coming new political entity.
 
		
==============================
## Title: President appoints nine new SLFP electorate organizers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 08:21 pm
President appoints nine new SLFP electorate organizers
	
President Maithripala Sirisena appointed nine new Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) electorate organizers today.
Accordingly, Faiszer Musthapha was appointed as the organizer of Colombo Central while Western Provincial Councillor Hector Bethmage and former Kaduwela Mayor G.H. Buddhadasa were appointed as co-organizers for Kaduwela.
Priyangani Abeyweera and Suranga Prabath were appointed as co-organizers for? Matugama while Amilaka Harshana Kariyawasam was appointed as the organizer for? Bentara.
N.D Susantha Lal Jayaweera was appointed as the organizer for Karandeniya, Thisara Gunasinghe was appointed as the organizer for Habaraduwa and Dr. Keerthi Fonseka was appointed as the organizer for Yapahuwa.
The newly appointed electorate organizers received their appointment letters from President Sirisena at the President Secretariat today. (Ajantha Kumara Agalakada)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:04 am
Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm
	
Human Hand ? Trailblazer of Human Civilization-Part XXV
?
Unfavourable Yogas
Agnikanda Yoga
Description: A mark of a cross on the Mount of Mars and a line originating from the mount proceeding to the Mount of Dragon?s Head indicates the presence of this yoga.Result:? One who has this yoga could die in a fire accident.?
Atmaghataka Yoga:Description: A mark of a star on the third phalange of the finger of Saturn signifies this yoga.Result: The person having this yoga has a strong suicidal tendency and may take his own life.?
Arishta YogaDescription: A mark of a star on mount of Saturn and a white mark on the first phalange of the finger of Saturn point to the presence of this yoga.?Result: The person afflicted by this yoga suffers constantly in his lifetime due to weird happenings often attributed to charms, spells and evil spirits.
Visha YogaDescription: Several black spots on the Mount of Mercury indicate this yoga.Result:? The person having this yoga runs the risk of being deceived into taking some poisonous food or drink leading to fatal results.
Jalabheetika YogaDescription: Appearance of black spots or points on the Mount of Saturn indicates this yoga.Result: The person having this yoga may die from hydrophobia caused by a dog bite.
?Pativiraha YogaDescription: The presence of a mark of a circle on the mount of Jupiter in a woman?s palm.Result: Woman having this yoga may face separation from her husband due to one of them deserting or leaving the other.? ??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sachin De Silva and Olga Ashley Herath head to Shanghai to witness HSBC World Golf Champions Tournam
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:57 am
Sachin De Silva and Olga Ashley Herath head to Shanghai to witness HSBC World Golf Champions Tournam
	
Sachin De Silva became the overall winner of the 6th HSBC Premier Golf Tournament and Olga Ashely Herath was adjudged winner of C, Seniors and Ladies division. They will bothfly to Shanghai to witness the HSBC WGC Champions Golf tournament from 25-28 October 2018.?
?
The popular tournamentheld during the weekend witnessed 94 Premier golfers and their families come together to enjoy a fun-filled day of Golf at thepicturesque Nuwara Eliya Golf Club.
?
Sachin De Silva became the overall winner totake home the HSBC Premier Challenge Trophy 2018 with a score of 38 points and was also winner of the A&B Divisions. Olga Ashley Herath was adjudged overall winner in the C, Seniors and Ladies Division with a score of 36 points on a B/B9. Priyanga Hapugalle won the B Division with 34 points and Ahalya Rajan won the Ladies Division with 36 points, while Prasanna Gunathileke won the Seniors Division with 32 points.?
?
The two overall winnerswere each presented with fully sponsored hospitality packages to watch the HSBC WGC Champions held in China, an opportunity to seemany top golfers in the world at the Sheshan International Golf course in Shanghai in October.?
?
?
Expressinghis thoughts on winning the tournament, Sachin De Silva said, ?As a first timer playing this amazing tournament, the experience was unreal. It felt great to have won.?
?
Olga Ashley Herath stated, "I feel ecstatic about my win. I was determined to play well but winning the big prize came as a total surprise. It?s definitely the icing on the cake. Thank you HSBC for organizing such a comprehensive HSBC Premier Golf event this year and offering a WGC hospitality package which is on every Golfers bucket list."
Ahead of the main tournament, this year too Golfers were invited to play a pre-event ?Swing under the Stars? which brought an element of fun to game and a challenge for players. Rohith Silva, become the ultimate winner of the pre event held on 14 September.
?
?
Nadeesha Senaratne, Country Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management commented, ?We were pleased to have completed a very successful tournament in Nuwaraeliya and enjoy the experience with our customers who are avid golfers and enjoy playing Golf as part of their lifestyle. The tournament was equally competitive and exciting and congratulations to both winners, Sachin De Silva andOlga Ashley Herathwho will now enjoy their experience at the WGC HSBC Champions Tournament in Shanghai alongside world-class golfers.?
?
Coining with this year?s tournament, customers were treated to exclusive benefits on dining, lodging and travel to make their journey more rewarding. For the first time this year,HSBC also offered non-Golfers the opportunity to celebrate with great deals and experience the magnificent Far East throughout September with a 20% saving on Cathay Pacific to fly to Shanghai or anywhere in the world when they book before 30 November 2018 to fly until February 2019. Special hospitality deals have also been extended to customers to experience a touch of far eastern hospitality here in Sri Lanka with 50% discounts at Shangri-La Golf Resort & Spa Hambantota on B/B until 30 September. Customers can also savour ?Cardholder Dines Free? at the Long Feng ? Cinnamon Lake and Toa at the Cinnamon Grand restaurants until 30 September 2018.?
?
The tournament was concluded with an entertainment packed awards ceremony at the Grand Hotel in Nuwara Eliya.?
?
The complete list of winners is as follows:
?
			Overall Winner (A&B)
			
			
			Sachin De Silva
			
			
			38 points
			
		
			Overall Winner (C, Seniors & Ladies)
			
			
			Olga Ashley Herath
			
			
			36 points ( BB9)
			
		
			Winner A division
			
			
			Sachin De Silva
			
			
			38 points
			
		
			Winner B division
			
			
			Priyanga Hapugalle
			
			
			34 Points
			
		
			Winner C division
			
			
			Olga Ashley Herath
			
			
			36 Points
			
		
			Winner Seniors
			
			
			Prasanna Gunathileke
			
			
			32 Points
			
		
			Winner Ladies
			
			
			Ahalya Rajan
			
			
			36 Points
			
		
			Runner up A division
			
			
			Chanaka Perera
			
			
			32 Points
			
		
			Runner up B division
			
			
			Deanath Kulatunge
			
			
			29 Points
			
		
			Runner up C division
			
			
			Radesh Daluwatte
			
			
			34 Points
			
		
			Runner up Seniors
			
			
			Nimal Perera
			
			
			28 Points
			
		
			Runner up Ladies
			
			
			Niloo Jayathileke
			
			
			31 Points
			
		
			Winner ?Swing under the Stars?
			
			
			Rohith Silva
			
			
			?
			
		
			Longest Drive on the 18th
			
			
			Sachin De Silva
			
			
			?
			
		
			Closest to the Pin on the 13th
			
			
			Romesh Abeyratne
			
			
			?
			
		
			Best Score on the 3 Hidden Holes
			
			
			Prasanna Gunathileke
			
			
			?
			
		
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC upholds ruling on registering SAITM medical students
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 11:02 am
SC upholds ruling on registering SAITM medical students
	
The Supreme Court today upheld a Court of Appeal ruling which directed the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) to register MBBS graduates of the SAITM. ?
Earlier, the SLMC filed an application in the Supreme Court against the Court of Appeal?s ruling to provisionally register South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) degree holders.
The Supreme Court today rejected the SLMC application and ordered the SLMC to pay Rs.100,000 as cost to the the MBBS graduate of SAITM, who filed the first petition in the Court of Appeal. (Farook Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL remains vulnerable to money laundering, terrorist financing: US
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 08:31 am
SL remains vulnerable to money laundering, terrorist financing: US
	
Sri Lanka remained vulnerable to money laundering and terrorist financing although it is neither an important regional financial centre nor a preferred centre for money laundering, the annual Country Reports on Terrorism released by the US said.
According to the report which was released by the US State Department on Wednesday, Sri Lanka belongs to the Asia Pacific Group on Money Laundering, a Financial Action Task Force (FATF)-style regional body.
The FATF has added Sri Lanka to its Public Statement entitled ?Improving Global AML/CFT Compliance: On-going process,? also known as the ?grey list.?
?Sri Lanka agreed to an action plan to address several vulnerabilities, including improving mutual legal assistance, issuing customer due diligence rules for designated non-financial businesses and persons, and enhancing risk-based supervision,? the report said.
Referring to action taken by Sri Lanka to countering violent extremism, the report said the country was implementing educational outreach programmes at a provincial level to address issues of religious tolerance and non-violent conflict resolution.
?These programmes focus on post-conflict areas of Jaffna, Mannar, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, and Vavuniya where the local populations are considered vulnerable to re-radicalization,? it said.
The country report commented on the use of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) and the proposed new Counter-terrorism Act as well.
According to international and domestic legal experts, it said significant flaws remained with the proposed draft Act. Meanwhile, it said Counter-terrorism cooperation and training is a growing part of the US-Sri Lanka relationship.
?For example, two Sri Lankan naval officers attended an anti-terrorism training in Florida in November and December. Additionally, the Sri Lankan government regularly sends officers to US-sponsored regional counter-terrorism workshops and courses,? the report said.
There were no terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka in 2017, it said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLFP rebels want President to take over Law and Order Ministry
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 03:04 am
SLFP rebels want President to take over Law and Order Ministry
	
Three SLFP rebel group frontliners, MPs S.B. Dissanayaka, Dilan Perera and Thilanga Sumathipala yesterday urged President Maithripala Sirisena to take over the Law and Order Ministry immediately under his wings and remove IGP Pujith Jayasundara from his post.
They alleged that there was a real threat to the lives of President Sirisena and Gotabaya Rajapaksa as exposed by Police informer Namal Kumara and added they believed that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was behind the conspiracy.
They said that the UNP and the 23 SLFP members in the government have taken the conspiracy lightly and not uttered a word on the seriousness of the attempt on the lives of the two despite the fact that it posed a threat to the national security and democratic rule of the country.
?The UNP says that there was a conspiracy hatched by DIG Nalaka Silva to assassinate President Sirisena and former Defence Secretary Rajapaksa?as exposed by Namal. This is a serious matter but it seems both the UNP and the SLFPers in the government are not concerned at all. Only Deputy Minister Sriyanai Wijewickrama talked about the seriousness of the attempt on the lives of President Sirisena and Rajapaksa and demanded a thorough investigation,? Mr. Perera said. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Soldier found dead in Ambepussa Army Camp
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:32 am
Soldier found dead in Ambepussa Army Camp
	
A 21-year-old soldier was found stabbed to death in one of the guard posts at the Ambepussa Regimental Headquarters of the Sinha Regiment this morning, police said.
The victim was identified as W.M.N.S. Jayasena, a resident of Bulathkohupitiya in Kegalle.
Police said the stabbing had happened when he was on duty at the guard post from 2 am to 4 am. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan Rupee plunges to Rs.170
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:03 pm
Sri Lankan Rupee plunges to Rs.170
	
The value of Sri Lankan rupee dropped to a new record low of 170?against the US Dollar?today.
According to the the foreign exchange rates issued by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the selling price of US dollar is Rs.170.65 while the buying price is shown as Rs. 166.78.
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan Silicon Valley tech firm Auxenta named in ?30 Most Innovative Companies to Watch 2018?
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 September 2018 03:31 pm
Sri Lankan Silicon Valley tech firm Auxenta named in ?30 Most Innovative Companies to Watch 2018?
	
The fast-growing boutique technology solutions firm, Auxenta, is proud to be named as one of ?30 Most Innovative Companies to Watch for 2018?, rubbing shoulders with some of the leading tech firms around the globe. Headquartered in Silicon Valley, USA, Auxenta is an innovative software engineering services and technology product consulting company. It works with enterprises, independent software vendors (ISVs), startups and nonprofit organizations. The ethos of the company is to enable digital transformation by leveraging a focused set of service offerings. Its global clients are distributed into multiple industry verticals including Telco, Financial Services, Logistics, Security, Capital Markets, Apparel and Manufacturing. Auxenta offers high value IT services complemented by innovative software products. Having its roots in Sri Lanka, the firm was founded in 2014 in the global startup capital, Silicon Valley.?
Commenting on the inclusion of Auxenta in the prestigious listing, Prasath Nanayakkara - Chairman and CEO at Auxenta said, ?We are delighted to be named as one of ?30 Most Innovative Companies to Watch 2018? by US-based business magazine Insights Success, which is an honour roll of leading tech firms. Our rapid growth can be attributed to our talented technical staff, commitment to latest technologies, and innovative frameworks and processes which set us up for success as we help our customers succeed.??
The company was recognized through numerous awards which include the Best Startup of the Year in 2016 by the Computer Society of Sri Lanka. Auxenta has also received key client accolades such as the Innovation Award at the Fleet Transport Awards in Dublin, Ireland.?
Auxenta?s plan is to come up with disruptive products and services by incubating them within Auxenta Innovation Labs. Moreover, the company is nurturing and proving internal talent through best-in-class customer solutions and significantly investing into its training and development. It is also generating innovative IP in the areas of Cloud, CRM, machine learning and testing.
Auxenta inaugurated a new office space in Colombo in 2017 to inspire its product innovation teams. Auxenta is active in US, UK, Ireland, Singapore, Australia, UAE and Sri Lanka across the continents of America, Europe, Australia and Asia.
 
		
==============================
## Title: The govt. we formed treated me like a terrorist: Ravi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 07:11 am
The govt. we formed treated me like a terrorist: Ravi
	
Former minister and UNP MP Ravi Karunanayake said yesterday false allegations had been levelled against him by the same government which they formed.
"Is this the Good Governance? The same government, which we formed, treated me like a terrorist," he said.
He told parliament that the same economic stalwarts who steered the country towards a negative economy in 2000 during the Chandrika Kumaratunge?s government are running the country today and added that they have been allowed to easily ruin the economy which the present government developed.
?The officials of the finance ministry did not discuss at least once with me as to how did I managed the economy as the former finance minister,? said. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The problems of photography:  A national dilemma
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:28 am
The problems of photography:  A national dilemma
	
For a long time I?ve been dreaming of a photo exhibition spanning the length and breadth of Sri Lanka. Such an exhibition would necessarily cost a lot, in particular since it would cover a whole range of themes and subject matter including, but not limited to, the art forms in this country, from dance to theatre to music and even to that most Western of all objects d?art, film. Still, it would be a worthwhile enterprise, especially if it?s taken beyond the confines of Lionel Wendt and Barefoot and into areas less covered by photographers and exhibitions, and it would do much to educate the people, most significantly the young, of the shapes, sights, and scenes which have coloured this country. There can even be competitions organised.? ?
Photography is an intricate craft. Some of the most ardent lovers of this country, whom I have had the fortune of meeting, are (or have been) photographers. It cannot be a coincidence. There is Tharindu Amunugama. There is Hiranya Malwatta. There is Lakshman Nadaraja. There is Dominic Sansoni. There is Henry Rajakaruna. There is my good friend, Tharosa Rajaratne, who is yet to emerge and who still uses those old roll film cameras. And towering over all of them, there is the late Nihal Fernando.
Whether through a camera or a phone, they have captured the beauty of this island in ways that no self-labelled patriot or populist has. They have rendered a service. They still are rendering a service. Isn?t it time we thought about their contribution, and the contribution of their craft towards this tiny, battered, and yet resplendent island?? ?
To be sure, photography costs a lot. Given the right circumstances, it pays a lot too. For a long time, however, it was and is considered the preserve of the wealthy. There is some truth to this view. If you don?t have the bucks to spend, if you don?t have the luxury of time, photography automatically becomes a way of earning those bucks and that luxury. That is why we have event photographers mushrooming every month or so on social media. That is why even landscape photographers have to resort once in a while to commercial photography. Especially advertising. This is true of a great many art forms. To give just one example, somewhere in the early nineties Lester James Peries earned from an hour-long shoot for a commercial the entire salary that had been paid to him for directing a whole film: Yuganthaya.? ?
As such, the deterioration of this largely technology-driven art into a plastic enterprise bothers me, though it bothers me less than the indifference of the young towards the aesthetics which govern that art. For a great many people I have met, and talked to, photography involves tapping into a particular feature on their DLSRs, fixing a flash, and going on clicking, clicking, clicking. Despite the profusion of courses dedicated to the field cropping up everywhere, it has become as debased as those other art forms which have suffered the brunt of commercialisation. Like music.? ?
Why does this disturb me? Simply because the generation of Nihal Fernando seems to be going extinct. Hiranya Malwatta takes amazing pictures of our cultural sites, but how many share her enthusiasm for the history of those sites? It cannot be that the art no longer inspires practitioners of the craft. And it cannot be that commercialisation is to blame. Someone told a friend of mine that ?Creativity pierces through plastic.? In that respect, isn?t it futile to denigrate the deterioration of an entire art on the basis of how it has been debased by commerce? What about those ?veterans? I referred to and mentioned before? Didn?t they dabble in commercial photography too?? ?
Around a decade or so ago, there were very few photographers. Fewer professional photographers. Taking pictures was expensive. A person earning 15,000 rupees a month would have to spend a cool third of his salary on developing those pictures. Added to that was the cost of roll films, flashes, and tripods.? ?
Then the great digital revolution transpired. Brands like Sony began marketing compact cameras to the dilettante. Before long, smartphones began tapping into the market. All this fermented a ?renaissance? in the art. In 2004, 18.85 million cameras were sold globally, an increase of 28 percent over the previous year. The biggest sellers were and continued to be digital cameras. It was a trend which would survive the recession, a trend which today has more or less become saturated (in 2010, digital camera sales reached 120 million units, a figure that has dropped drastically because of, among other reasons, a diminishing rate of innovation). Not that it was all beds and roses, of course: Kodak, for instance, had to file for bankruptcy after its belated and failed attempts at adapting to the new world. Still, it was an exciting world.? ?
My point is that before sales picked up, before the market began to saturate, there weren?t a great many professional practitioners in the field. The result was that we looked forward to the occasional exhibition, the infrequent coffee table book, with unflinching, unconditional enthusiasm. Now we have become indifferent to that exhibition and coffee table book. Not because, to paraphrase a Sinhala saying, cameras have become to photographers what knives are to monkeys, but because quantity has outstripped quality to such an extent that there is a rift between the number of photographers and their knowledge of the aesthetics and the etiquette surrounding what they practise.? ?
The field that has suffered the most is landscape photography. Sure, the Tourist Board and other organisations have made it possible for landscape photographers to flourish. There still are books published on the Dalada Perahera and places like Sri Pada. It is a field that requires tremendous reserves of patience, dedication, care, and love. Not everyone harbours that kind of dedication. And not everyone has the time. Especially not the young.? ?It is a paradox at one level, but even with this dilemma, school level photography has never been more popular than it is now. Clubs are springing up, making use of entry level if not intermediate level Nikons and Canons like never before. Events are being covered and photos taken at those events are being turned into veritable works of art. Exhibitions organised by budding practitioners, including, most prominently perhaps, Pilibimbu (by the Photographic Art Society at Ananda College), are seen every other month in and around Colombo. They display a deep perceptiveness, awareness, and appreciation of photography as a felt art, never for once limited to commercial events.? ?Despite that, there is a problem. It is a problem that has escaped the notice of writers and experts (self-appointed or otherwise) on the subject.? ?
Back when the likes of Lal Hegoda practised and/or wrote on their field, photography was never an art limited to ?form?. The aesthetics governing it was always born out of experience. Actual, tangible experience. Sumitra Peries, who dabbled in photography before turning to filmmaking, once remarked to me that inasmuch as apertures, ISO levels, and shutter speeds are important to such aesthetic activities, ?form is nothing without experience, and art is the formalisation of that experience.?? ?
Photography costs a lot. Given the right circumstances, it pays a lot too. For a long time, however, it was and is considered the preserve of the wealthy
Which is true. The rules that have been written for photography were once tricks of expedience resorted to by the amateur. Some of Cartier-Bresson?s photographs, for instance, are blurred and hazily so, which had much to do with the fact that the camera he used, a portable Leica, was built more for the unobtrusive street dilettante than the artist that Bresson was. Moreover, many of his photographs strike a delicate balance between careful composition and carefree randomness: the compositions ?have not been carefully thought out in advance, but are seized immediately as a result of an intuitive awareness.? Experience has consequently given birth to form, and form has grown out of the world surrounding that photographer. How can it be otherwise?? ?
And yet, we tend to obsess over ?art-ifying? photography. Even the Ananda College club has been careful to qualify what it?s dabbling in: it?s not a Photographic Society, it?s a Photographic ART Society. Without digging into the niceties of this issue, here?s my question: how can we hope to develop the field, especially among the young and the enthusiastic, if this is the sort of confusion we?ve conceded ground to?? ?
Premasiri Khemadasa once contended that for a human being to become an artist, he or she must traverse the land of his or her birth. As an example, he pointed out how music could be shaped by the many ways someone asks ?How are you?? in parts of the country: patently different in the South and patently different in Colombo. The visual image is, I believe, as endowed with the ability of tapping into such nuances and subtleties. It is time to start thinking seriously about that exhibition, then. Time to pack our bags, leave our comfortable abodes, and start clicking away to our heart?s content. Without just considering our cameras as instruments of another art, to be turned into a money-making enterprise detached from experience.
 
		
==============================
## Title: We advised Police Chief uphold his image: Nalin Bandara
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2018 10:48 pm
We advised Police Chief uphold his image: Nalin Bandara
	
Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara has advised Police Chief Pujith Jayasundara to act in keeping with his status, Law and Order Deputy Minister Nalin Bandara said today.
He told a news briefing that an inquiry had been launched on this matter.
?The media has exaggerated recent acts carried out by Police Chief. We are not trying to justify what he has done and should admire the good things he has done,? he said and added that the people see only the negatives.
?When considering his past records there have been no allegations levelled against him except the recent accusation of alleged transaction of a cheque,? the deputy minister said.
Meanwhile, Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara said a committee comprising three senior administrative officers had been appointed to carry out an inquiry into several complaints received regarding his conduct. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: We?ll ensure SLFP?s victory at the upcoming polls Duminda Dissanayaka
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 21 September 2018 02:04 am
We?ll ensure SLFP?s victory at the upcoming polls Duminda Dissanayaka
	
The media must be proactive, truthful and professional and be a partner in progress following ethical guidelinesThe DMC under the Ministry of Disaster Management has been leading efforts to enhance disaster risk management
When President Sirisena was invited by former President Rajapaksa to take over the leadership of the SLFP, President Sirisena put certain conditions
We cannot be a party to nepotism
A government cannot be replaced or toppled by shouting anti-government slogans
?
The?Dailymirror recently interviewed Irrigation, Water Resources Development and Disaster Management Minister Duminda Dissanayaka and these were the views he expressed on politics and current affairs.? ?
Q How has the SLFP progressed with its preparations for the forthcoming provincial council, presidential and general elections?
We are keen to ensure a victory for the SLFP at these three elections. The party?s reorganization is running in full gear after the setback at the local government elections and as of now we have completed about 90% of the party?s rebuilding process at grassroots level. We have formed SLFP executive committees at district and constituency level in which we have given prominence to educated young men and women, professionals, social and community leaders like teachers, public servants, lawyers and doctors.? ?
?The SLFP trade unions, women and youth organizations have also been strengthened with new office bearers being appointed. A number of district and constituent organizers who have not participated in party activities and had aligned with rival parties in the past couple of years have been replaced with young and energetic organizers with a good educational background. You may be aware that the SLFP under President Maithripala Sirisena is determined to do clean politics based on policies and principles and not on self-centered politics which has disfigured. Sri Lanka?s current political culture.? ?
Q Undoubtedly the SLFP will have to face a great challenge from the UNP and the SLPP at the three elections scheduled for next year. Are you ready for the challenge?
I admit that victory for the SLFP at the three upcoming elections will not be an easy task while confronting two major political fronts. Although it may be an uphill task, an SLFP victory is not something impossible if we work hard and put in place a pragmatic, up-to-date and an efficient political strategy. Our immediate target is to gather all progressive and patriotic politicians and political parties round the SLFP and build a strong front to face the two rival parties. The progress achieved so far in this endevour has been encouraging. Don?t forget the recent statement made by President Sirisena that neither the UNP nor the SLPP would be able to form a government or win the presidential election without the support of the SLFP.? ?
Even when I was in the UPFA government, I was not in good terms with Rajapaksas. Especially with Mahinda and Basil. I was extremely disappointed, disheartened, dejected and discriminated against
The main vehicle to educate people on the government?s development projects is the media but I must admit that we have failed miserably in this department and having said this I must draw attention to the extremely bias nature of media against the government. President Donald Trump has castigated the so-called independent media in the US which is described as a five-star democracy. I wish to tell our media, whether print or electronic that they are even worse. They give prominence to negative, adverse anti-government, anti-President and anti-Prime Minister in their daily news coverage. I will give you a few examples. The government reduced the prices of 74 essential drugs which are used by heart, diabetic and kidney patients and children regularly, thus reducing the monthly medical bill by some 50% or more. In the past the drugs issued to cancer patients was limited to Rs.1.5 million a year. The government has removed the limit and today there are cancer patients who are given drugs worth more than Rs.5 million a year.? ?
The paddy farmers had to face repeated periods of drought since this government took office. The only alternative for the government was to provide them financial relief to mitigate the suffering they were undergoing. The government has paid out nearly Rs.40,000 million as compensation to farmers up to now. In this case the private media highlighted only the sufferings and ill effects of the drought or the occasional drug shortage which were beyond the government?s control. This is how the media use the freedom and democracy restored by President Sirisena and the government.? ?
When a person reads a newspaper in the morning or watches the TV in the afternoon, he or she is mostly dished out accounts of mudslinging or character assassinations aimed at the President, the Premier and members of the government with distortions, fabrications, exaggerations, half baked news and absolute lies. What I am trying to say is that the private media is extremely discriminatory against the government and the government has miserably failed to give the people a true picture on what?s happening in the country. It seems that the thinking of the media is that only killings, abductions, robberies, thefts, rapes, corruption and frauds are the news people prefer to read or watch. In my opinion, this is very sad and a bad media culture. Media in other countries disseminate better information, news and education on current and global affairs and of human interest to people. Not the kind sensational and low quality information like our media does.?
At ?janabalaya kolombata? protest, the participants were asked to shout only for the Rajapaksas and not for any other senior leader of the JO or SLPP like Kumara Welgama, Dinesh Gunawardana, Vasudeva Nanayakkara or even Wimal Weerawansa?
I do not say that the media must be pro-government or give publicity only to rosy news. The media must be proactive, truthful and professional and be a partner in progress following ethical guidelines. The media must be bold enough to show the good and bad independently and in a balanced manner. Arriving at conclusions is the people?s right and not that of the media.? ?
Quite in contrast to our media policy, what did the Mahinda Rajapaksa government do to media? The media institutions were subjected arson attacks by thugs, while journalists were threatened, beaten and killed. A large number of media personnel and their families fled the country. There were high profile cold blooded assassinations of well-known veteran journalists and there was no inquiry or legal action on the perpetrators. I believe that Sri Lanka?s media need to adopt a self regulatory and self-censorship mechanism to rescue the local media out of this mess. I hope Mass Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera will take the initiative in this regard.? ?
Q Is there any possibility of a rapprochement between the Mahinda Rajapaksa led JO or SLPP and the SLFP?
When President Sirisena was invited by former President Rajapaksa to take over the leadership of the SLFP, President Sirisena put certain conditions. He said the SLFP must distance itself from corruption, frauds, embezzlement and nepotism if the concept of ?Yahapalanaya? is to be successful.?
?
Former President Rajapaksa has ruled the country as the executive president for 10 years after serving the country as an MP, minister, Opposition Leader, Prime Minister and finally as the Head of State. What else has he to achieve? I cannot agree with his decision to re-enter politics after his defeat in 2015. He is now only an MP. President Sirisena also took the same path in politics like Mr. Rajapaksa and held many position in various SLFP governments and elected as the executive president. When he decides to retire from politics someday in the future, I don?t think he will retract his decision and come back.? ?
Why are the Rajapaksas attempting to convince the SLFPers that there will be no future for the party without a Rajapaksa at the top? Why not they give an opportunity to other senior members of the party? We can?t let this happen.? ?
At the ?janabalaya kolombata? protest, the advice to participants was to shout in support of only the Rajapaksas and not for any other senior leader of the JO or the SLPP like Kumara Welgama, Dinesh Gunawardana, Vasudeva Nanayakkara or even Wimal Weerawansa.? ?
Do you know the reason why Mahinda contested from Kurunegala at the General election in 2015? It was because the Rajapaksa family was aware that there was no space in Hambantota for three Rajapaksas to get elected. To ensure Chamal and Namal get elected from the Hambantota District, Mahinda went to Kurunegala. What would have been the situation if the three Rajapaksas contested from Hambantota? We cannot be a party to nepotism.?
?Q Is the SLFP expecting to amend its Constitution at the party?s annual convention to be held next month?
Yes, we are going to introduce a few amendments to the party Constitution that would reflect current political, social, cultural and global requirements. The party has appointed a few temporary office bearers for the purpose. We held religious ceremonies on a low key on August 23 to mark the 67th anniversary of the party. The main event of the anniversary will be held early next month.? ?
Q Do you think there was any impact on the government from the ?janabalaya Kolombata? protest?
It was a total flop. It showed that the euphoria created after the Galle Face protest and the success of the SLPP at the local government polls in February has now evaporated. Secondly, a government cannot be replaced or toppled by shouting anti-government slogans, filth and holding placards, posters and hooting at the party head office. The Constitution clearly says how a government could be changed and a President or the Prime Minister elected. This government will never cow down to thuggery, character assassinations and conspiracies. There will be so many Poya days before President Sirisena decides when to hold the parliamentary and presidential elections.? ?
Q What made you to join common presidential candidate and the then SLFP General Secretary Maithripala Sirisena when he decided to run for the presidency in 2014?
Even when I was in the UPFA government, I was not in good terms with Rajapaksas. Especially with Mahinda and Basil. I was extremely disappointed, disheartened, dejected and discriminated against.? ?
About 50% or more of the budgetary allocations were controlled by Mahinda and Basil and all appointments in the public and semi government sectors were overseen by Mahinda, Basil and Namal. None of the other ministers or deputy ministers had a say in these affairs and we were only onlookers.? ?
Besides, I could not forget how, President Rajapaksa treated my father the late Berty Premalal Dissanayaka, who sacrificed his entire life for the SLFP. My father died of a broken heart when he was refused the chief minister?s post in the North-Central Province after the 2012 PC polls. It was a discrimination against him because such posts were given to others who obtained the second most number of votes in other provinces. The Cabinet also was a total monopoly of the Rajapaksas.?
?QYou said your father the late Berty Premalal Dissanayaka was treated badly by the Rajapaksa regime. Can you elaborate?
Well, you are aware that he was the SLFP powerhouse in Rajarata for a long time and clashed with the UNP at all elections to ensure victory for the SLFP victory. At the 2012 polls in the North-Central Province, he did not get the expected support from the party though he was the group leader of the UPFA. Though the UPFA won in the Province he was second in the preferential vote list and he was denied the CM?s post by the then party hierarchy but in certain other provinces the CM?s post was given to members who got second most number of votes. My father took this ill-treatment very badly and it affected his health. That is why I told you he died with a broken heart.? ?
Q How do you see the split in the JO and the SLPP?
The split has come to the fore and so many seniors express their displeasure and hopelessness on the subservient and sycophantic obedience to a single family. Leaders like Kumara Welgama and Vasudeva Nanayakkara have openly criticized the attempts to promote Rajapaksa family members as the next political power house in the country having the government, Presidency and Premiership under their thumb. You may see in the near future that Kumara and Vasu are not alone in this anti-nepotism stance.? ?
However, I believe that Namal deserves a place in the country and in the SLFP in due course but not over the heads of other seniors. He has enough time to achieve that position and what he needs to meet that goal is patience, maturity and experience.? ?
Q Do you think Sri Lanka is in a better position now than in 2004 to minimize the likely damage of another major disaster like the tsunami?
Yes indeed. In 2004, many people in Sri Lanka hadn?t heard about a tsunami and therefore did not know how to face such a major natural disaster. But with the experience we gained, Sri Lanka has taken a number of measures on how to minimize damage to property and lives, relocation of victims, providing them basic facilities and long term facilities.? ?
The December 26, 2004 tsunami was a wake up call to many countries in the Indian Ocean to be better prepared to face natural disasters. Many development partners are working closely with the Sri Lankan Government and its Disaster Management Centre (DMC) to mitigate the impact of another natural disaster.? ?
The need for an early warning system and to be better prepared to manage disasters to save lives and livelihoods was the biggest lesson learned in the aftermath of the tsunami 10 years ago. According to the DMC the country now has better early warning systems to detect tsunamis and other disasters and is better equipped to respond to future disasters.? ?
With the lessons learned following the 2004 tsunami, the DMC under the Ministry of Disaster Management has been leading efforts to enhance disaster risk management in close collaboration with development partners working in Sri Lanka. Working together, this group has been able to create a culture of safety in Sri Lanka. Establishment of early warning systems including robust communications links with local and international technical agencies, an around the clock emergency operations centre, and engaging people from the grassroots level in both disaster awareness and mitigation activities with the setting up of Early Warning Towers along the sea belt round the country and the Disaster Management Ministry conducts drills to make people aware of how to face another disaster. The last drill of this nature was held on August 5 with the participation of other Indian Ocean rim countries.?
?Q What happened to the Doppler Radar System Sri Lanka purchased some ten years ago?
We have abandoned the project because it is not viable to spend huge amount of money to repair it. I have just returned from Paris after a successful discussion with the French government to obtain a modern Meteorology Lab at a cost of US$30 million or about Rs.4,800 million.? ?
?The new Meteorology Lab will be equipped with the most modern machinery and equipment to forecast the change in weather patterns pinpointing the area affected. The French government will bear 35% of the cost with 65% of the cost on a soft loan to Sri Lanka. France produces the world?s best machinery and equipment related to meteorology.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Why Sri Lanka loves India?s Modi
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 September 2018 02:00 am
Why Sri Lanka loves India?s Modi
	
Sri Lanka has suddenly shown a keen interest to strengthen ties with India with both Government representatives and members of the opposition meeting up with Premier Narendra Modi, in New Delhi recently.? ?
India was lagging behind China, one of Sri Lanka?s main partners helping build the island nation?s infrastructure like ports and highways. But with the topic of elections emerging in Sri Lanka, India knows that it can make some influence in the little island. This is the reason for Sri Lanka?s obvious shift in focus towards India these days.? ?
Right now the Government of India is being pushed by the Tamil Nadu Government to move sanctions against Sri Lanka at the UNHRC. This is regarding unresolved post war issues in the island. If India shows interest in meddling in the affairs of Sri Lanka?s national question, it is because of the disgruntled Tamil community in South India, the place where all Sri Lanka Tamils have their roots.??
From the two entourages that travelled to India, it?s the one led by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa that received much media attention. Many believe that the ex-Sri Lankan president is the person to lead the country once again, even by playing a role from the backstage. And it seems that India has picked up this signal quite early. But Premier Modi also entertained an entourage representing the Government of Sri Lanka which was led by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya.?
The focus of discussion with the representatives of the Government of Sri Lanka revolved around regional matters, bilateral trade agreements, the proposed new Constitution for Sri Lanka and problems arising from the 13th Amendment among others. Modi like Rajapaksa, too knows his onions when it comes to doing a balancing act and handled both entourages from Sri Lanka without a hitch.? ?
The best news coming from India for Rajapaksa fans is that if there was any misunderstanding between Modi and the former Sri Lankan president, relationships between the two have now turned healthy.? ?
There was much talk about India influencing Tamil voters during the last Presidential Elections. But what is clearer from the perspective of the Sri Lankan Tamils is that this community voted against Rajapaksa because the latter had little regard for the minorities.? ?
India was silent during the final stages of the Sri Lanka ethnic conflict and didn?t interfere in the activities of the security forces. It?s a known fact that much that belonged to the Tamils like houses, schools and places of religious worship were destroyed during the fighting between the LTTE and Government troops.?
This could be one reason, perhaps due to guilt, that the Government of India is trying to make amends by spending much money to build houses in the North, East and the Central Provinces on behalf of Sri Lankan Tamils.? ?
The Government of India is planning to build as many as 60,000 houses over here with Sri Lanka?s neighbour dolling out US $ 350 million as pure grant assistance.? ?
The latest about India in terms of involvement in the island is that they are expected to make input in developing the Palaly Airport. The project will be handled by the Airport Authority of India and it is working closely with the External Affairs Ministry of Sri Lanka. Right now both parties are awaiting a project report relating to this venture.? ?
Though Sri Lanka has approached China much in terms of building its ports, the islanders know that India too is important given that the Indian Ocean Region is set to define the destiny of the planet in the 21st Century.? ?
Modi?s housing projects here might not cost as much as the projects which the representatives of the Chinese Government have initiated. But Modi, in terms of an individual, has more value to Sri Lanka than any Chinese diplomat. This is because Modi can defuse tensions in Tamil Nadu, which is a simmering volcano from the perspective of the Tamil community living over there.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: World Peace and Unification of the Korean Peninsula A long awaited reunion
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2018 01:17 am
World Peace and Unification of the Korean Peninsula A long awaited reunion
	
The peace festival with the theme of ?Heavenly Culture on Earth, Onward to a World of Lasting Peace?was held at Incheon Asiad Main Stadium in South Korea, a spot of 2014 Asian Games. On the occasion of the 4th Anniversary of the World Alliance of Religions? Peace (WARP) Summit, this outdoor event invited world political leaders, religious leaders, and social representatives from women and youth groups, educators, and media along with citizens from across?the country.??
Meanwhile, on September 18th, leaders of the two Koreas have met in Pyongyang, North Korea, for the third meeting for inter-Korean reconciliation.
According to the host organization, ?Heavenly Culture, World Peace, Restoration of Light (HWPL)?, the peace parade contained the message about the peaceful world that the global village dreams of achieving through religious harmony, peace education, and international law for peace.??
In particular, a parade featuring the desire for peaceful reunification of the two Koreas with 70 years of division attracted spectators from around the world. Collecting international supports for a unified one Korean state by peaceful means is one of the HWPL?s peace initiatives.??
The attendees including Donald Ramotar, former President of Guyana, Viktor Yushchenko and former President of Ukraine along with 27 former and current presidents took part in the peace festival.
At the end of the festival, the whole stadium was filled with lights and the chants of 100,000 attendees, shouting ?We are one!? wishing for a harmonious world of peace.?
??
Commemorative photo of the event
 
		
==============================
