## Title: Speaker to meet President today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 02:30 pm
Speaker to meet President today
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya will meet President Maithripala Sirisena this evening at the presidential secretariat, the Speaker?s office said.
?
?
Video by Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sports star puts money where his mouth is
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Sports star puts money where his mouth is
	
Gautam with Lakshmi, an acid attack survivor who he calls a hero
?
In this day and age, we are all aware that international sports stars are paid exorbitant amounts of money compared to that of the real-life heroes among us such as nurses, teachers and doctors.? But one athlete is changing the perception that sportspeople spend all their cash on new cars and luxury holidays.? Gautam Gambhir, the famous Indian cricketer, has been quietly helping people all around the country with his various initiatives.? ?Earlier this year, he created a free community kitchen in Delhi under a campaign he called ?Ek Asha?- with the aim that ?nobody should sleep hungry?.? Growing up in Delhi, Gambhir was well aware that people were dying due to starvation and it was from here the idea for the community kitchen was born.? Open between 1pm and 3pm daily, the kitchen will run 365 days a year to make sure people will always have access to at least one hot meal a day.
Gambhir also came to the aid of the families of the twenty-five Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel who were killed in an ambush by Maoists in the 2017 Sukma Naxal attacks in Chhattisgarh. Gambhir donated his IPL earnings to the families affected through his Gautam Gambhir Foundation (GGF), as well as paying for the entire education of the children who were affected by the tragedy.? The children have been given access to post trauma-counselling and have also met personally with the cricketer and his family earlier this year for dinner and to watch the IPL T20 match together.? Despite the tragic circumstances of the youngsters, they were overjoyed at meeting him. Ajay, son of late Head Constable Banna Ram, said, ?I cannot describe this in words. He has done so much for us and to meet him in person is great.??
?
Ajay, son of late Head Constable Banna Ram, said, ?I cannot describe this in words. He has done so much for us and to meet him in person is great?
His charitable reach also extends to those in his beloved sporting industry that need a little help.? Gambhir gave financial assistance to former 1998 Asian Games boxing gold medal winner Dingko Singh who was diagnosed with bile duct cancer and needed to have most of his liver removed. ?It is really tragic the way we treat our sportspersons and it is disturbing to note that Dingko has been left alone to fight for his life,? he told the Indian Express.??
Gambhir has also come to the rescue in the past to help fund the struggling Indian ice-hockey team to allow them to take part in an international competition in Kuwait, in which they eventually came 2nd.?
?
Gambhir?s community kitchen
Gambhir is also an organ donor through the charity Gift a Life and upon the unfortunate event of his death - ?I hereby pledge to donate my kidney, heart, liver, pancreas, small bowel, eyes, lungs and tissues after my death.? Thousands die every year for want of organs and I feel through initiatives like ?Gift a Life? we can do society good by bridging the gap?I appeal to everyone to make this decision to donate their organs,? added Gambhir.??
His most recent contributions include an adolescent health, nutrition, hygiene and livelihood programme for girls in socially underprivileged areas with the importance of getting an education. According to the GGF ?In 2013, 53% of adolescent girls (15 ? 18 years) are under weight. This affects their cognitive development and progress into healthy individuals. It is also a matter of concern that less than 50% girls complete schooling. While 3.88% girls drop out at primary school, figures increase to 16.88% at secondary level, distressing their opportunity for independence and empowerment.?? ?Include tree planting projects and involvement in the World Day against Child Labour, Gambhir certainly gives us hope that our sporting idols can put their earnings to a cause that benefits the whole community.
Without hardly any publicity surrounding these good deeds there?s no doubt that Gambhir needs to be recognized as a local hero for the people of India, not only as a cricket legend but for his selflessness and caring attitude - especially towards the most vulnerable of society.
Source: Gautam Gambhir Foundation
Pic Source: Gautam Gambhir Instagram
 
		
==============================
## Title: Statement on the  current political situation  in Sri Lanka
## Section: News Features
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Statement on the  current political situation  in Sri Lanka
	
The Commonwealth Lawyers? Association, Commonwealth Legal Education Association and Commonwealth Parliamentary Association recalling the statement issued by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association on November 08 expressing its concern on the recent political developments in Sri Lanka, express their deep concern at the implications of the continuing political crisis for the rule of law in Sri Lanka.??
They call upon all parties to the present conflict, to observe scrupulously and in good faith the provisions of the Constitution relating to the respective roles of the Executive, the Parliament and the Judiciary, together with:??
The provisions of the Commonwealth Charter and the Commonwealth (Latimer House) Principles on the three branches of Government to which Sri Lanka, as a member of the Commonwealth and recent holder of the Chair-in-Office, is committed??
	The references in the Charter to the responsibility of governments, political parties and civil society for? ?upholding and promoting democratic culture and practices and to the recognition of the importance of maintaining the integrity of the roles of the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary and??
	The requirement in The Latimer House Principles, in the light of recent disruptions in the conduct of parliamentary business, that Parliamentarians must be able to carry out their legislative and constitutional functions in accordance with the Constitution and free from unlawful interference.??
Commonwealth Lawyers Association (CLA)??
Commonwealth Legal Education Association (CLEA)
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA)??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thajudeen killing: Court directs CID to produce real suspects
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 07:28 pm
Thajudeen killing: Court directs CID to produce real suspects
	
Colombo Additional Magistrate Isuru Neththikumara today directed the CID to take into custody the real suspects behind the killing of rugby player Wasim Thajudeen and produce them in courts.
The Magistrate pointed out that those in remand custody are the ones who concealed evidence in the killing and inquired who the real criminals behind this were.
The Magistrate questioned in this manner when the case relating to the killing of Thajudeen was taken up for hearing where the CID submitted a report on the progress of the investigations carried out so far by them.
The suspects in this case who were present in courts, were former DIG Anura Senanayake, former OIC of the Narahenpita police crime investigation unit Police Inspector Sumith Champika and Prof Ananda Samarasekera who functioned as the chief JMO at that time. These suspects are presently on bail.
The police producing a progress report on the investigations carried out so far stated that on 17th May 2012 the day Thajudeen was killed, in the motor car that chased behind him, a youth was seated inside this car had been wearing a T-shirt with a name and a number which had been recorded by the CCTV cameras.
Police informed further that investigations are continuing in order to identify who this person was.
The CID also informed that they have requested for satellite Photos and Video clips on the incident from the NASA institute but the institute had not responded yet.
The CID also stated that up to now 1,200 persons had been interrogated and their statements recorded.
Police also stated that 2.2 million mobile phone inquiry reports had been subjected to investigations and as this investigations are very complex it would take more time for the completion. (Manopriya Gunasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two main political forces riddled with internal issues
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Two main political forces riddled with internal issues
	
The political equation will be drastically altered depending on the court ruling which is expected to be given on December 7, 2018.
Everyone talks about the political crisis that is engulfing the country.? Little known is the fact there are internal crises brewing even within the two main political forces, probably as an unintended consequence of the decision by President Maithripala Sirisena on October 26 to form a new Government.?
The President sacked the Leader of the United National Party (UNP), Ranil Wickremesinghe, from Premiership. On the surface, the UNP looks united in making a frontal attack on the President?s decision to strip it of Governmental power. However,? ?it is riddled with internal squabbles, and the demand for a leadership change has come to the fore once again.?
The President?s action triggered internal issues not only for the UNP, but also for his own United People?s Freedom Alliance (UPFA)
	If the court rules out? ?dissolution, it would be a different scenario
	Vulnerable MPs have already been induced by either side
This internal feud burst out into the open somewhat when Badulla District MP Harin Fernando lashed out publicly that he was not ready to do politics with the UNP unless it dispensed with its old guard of leaders at the helm of affairs. His criticism drew angry reaction from some members within the party. His sarcastic reference to elderly politicians? ?does not gel with Sri Lanka culture which values respect for age.
Alongside, Kurunegala District MP Asok Abeysinghe has taken up a similar position.? He, in fact, had talks, with the leaders of the political parties aligned with the UNP to seek the possibility of getting someone other than Wickremesinghe appointed as the Prime Minister.? Still, their struggle is only in isolation. That is because the party, along with its allies, has a bigger battle to fight for- to depose the Government using their numerical strength in Parliament.??
Be that as it may, the present gridlock in governance does not show signs of ending because President Sirisena is adamant that he will not reappoint Wickremesinghe. He pronounced it in clear-cut terms at his meeting with the foreign correspondents last Sunday (November 25).? ?May be, the UNP rebels are trying to exploit this situation to? ?pursue? ?their target for a change in leadership.? Anyway, this tussle is a secondary affair for the UNP at present. First, it has to topple the Government which was installed after sacking their leader from the post of Prime Minister.?
According to sources, the SLPP is insistent that everyone should contest under the Pohottuwa symbol at future elections. Yet, there are those UPFP MPs who do not feel comfortable with it
The President?s action triggered internal issues not only for the UNP, but also for his own United People?s Freedom Alliance (UPFA).? ?In the immediate aftermath of dissolution of Parliament, over 50 of its MPs obtained the membership of newly formed Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) operating under Pohottuwa or the lotus bud symbol.? Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa is among the recipients of SLPP membership making it a blow to the UPFA led by? ?President Sirisena.? ? Electorally, it is no doubt that the SLPP holds better sway than the UPFA, as obvious from the outcome of the Local Government Elections which were conducted on February 10, 2018.? Now, the two parties are united to form the Government. Also, discussions are in progress to form a common alliance between these two parties.?
According to inside political sources, the SLPP is insistent that everyone should contest under the Pohottuwa symbol at the upcoming elections. Yet, there are those UPFP MPs who do not feel comfortable with such an electoral alliance. These members such as Gamini Wijith Wijyamuni Zoysa, Duminda Dissanayake, Mahinda Amaraweera and Lasantha Alagiyawanna were identified more with the UPFA. In the event of a SLPP-dominated political alliance, they fear being pushed to the margin electorally.? Their fear is also reasonable.? ? Wijeyamuni Zoysa was defeated in fact at the last parliamentary polls in 2015 over his sarcastic criticism of Rajapaksa.?
Later, President Sirisena nominated him on the National List to Parliament.? ?Dissanayake just scraped through at the election.? Under a SLPP-led alliance, they are likely to be in a disadvantageous position, particularly in obtaining preferential votes.?
Some of these MPs may try to carve a niche working with the SLPP while forging ahead.? Likewise, there may be some others who will even switch allegiance even to the UNP to contest elections since they are unable to make their mark in the SLPP. In this manner, the change of Government has affected both the parties in a major way.??
Parties await SC ruling?
Both the UNP and the UPFA now await the ruling by the Supreme Court to evolve future political strategies.? ? If the court rules the dissolution of Parliament by the President, all of us will have to go before the people at a General Election casting aside our internal issues at least for the time being.??
If the court rules out? ?dissolution, it would be a different scenario.? The UPFA, in such an eventuality, would renew its efforts to win over crossovers from the other side to ensure the parliamentary majority required to run the Government.? But, it is now a difficult task as things have solidified with either side in the political sense.?
Vulnerable MPs have already been induced by either side.? In such a scenario, some UNPers would try to make overtures to the President requesting him to appoint someone as the Prime Minister unless he is willing to give it to Wickremesinghe.??
The political equation will be drastically altered in this manner depending on the court ruling which is expected to be given on?December 7, 2018.
Some of these MPs may try to carve a niche working with the SLPP while forging ahead.? Likewise, there may be some others who will even switch allegiance even to the UNP to?contest elections
President?s sarcastic comments?
President Sirisena was sarcastic at Tuesday?s cabinet meeting when he took up a paper related to the?Tourism Ministry.
Tourism Minister Vasantha Senanayake was absent as he? ?had returned? to the UNP once again. So, a smiling President said sarcastically, ?The Tourism Minister is missing. He is moving here and there. Nobody knows where he is today,???
Everybody had a laugh over this comment. The Ministers hurried through the Cabinet meeting and rushed to Parliament on Tuesday (November 27). The Government?s parliamentary group also met there.
Chief Government Whip Dinesh Gunawardane, at this meeting proposed to be present inside the Chamber at the commencement of the session, to register their protest over the conduct of? ?Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. He said all should leave the Chamber after that.? But, most MPs suggested that Parliament should be boycotted totally.?
The MPs made comments back and forth, and the meeting became a bit noisy.?
Having listened to all the comments, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa remarked that the majority, by voice, seemed to be in favour of boycotting Parliament. It was a sarcastic reference to the Speaker who declared that the no confidence motion was passed by voice vote.? As such, the group roared into laughter over Rajapaksa?s comments.? ?
MP Dalles Alhapperuma suggested that the MPs should not have their meals from the parliamentary canteen for the day as otherwise the UNP would accuse them of having luxurious foods even without attending sessions. Accordingly, they decided to avoid meals from the canteen for the day.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: United Backlash Halts Transfer of Key CID Officer
## Section: Expose
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
United Backlash Halts Transfer of Key CID Officer
	
Behind the conflicting statements from various limbs of the State, a clearer picture is emerging of the circumstances surrounding the abortive attempt to remove Police Inspector Adrian Nishantha Silva from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), and to transfer the officer to the Negombo Police Division. The order from the Inspector General of Police (IGP) for Silva?s transfer came on the night of November 18, 2018 citing ?essential service requirements?.
In the days and even hours prior to the issuance of this order, which was made without consulting the National Police Commission (NPC), the IGP had come under severe pressure from the President and military brass to remove Silva from the CID. There was equal pressure from the CID leadership not to interfere with the officer?s career, according to documents the Daily Mirror is in possession.
President, IGP trade charges on who ordered transfer
	Lasantha?s daughter rises to defend IP Nishantha
	CDS implicated in framing IP Nishantha as ?LTTE mole?
In a letter addressed to the Senior Deputy IG of the CID, Ravi Seneviratne, the IGP states that at a national security conference held on November 13, 2018, Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne had accused Nishantha Silva of being an agent of the LTTE terrorist outfit. The meeting had been chaired by President Maithripala Sirisena at the Presidential Secretariat. Thereafter, the letter says Admiral Wijegunaratne has once again contacted the police chief on his mobile phone and had inquired as to why IP Silva is still allowed to work for the CID after this ?security threat? had been revealed by him.
By Monday morning, the flurry of statements had been followed by several inquiries made by ambassadors of prominent countries calling for an explanation for Inspector Silva?s transfer. The response they received, according to several diplomatic sources, is that the transfer of Silva was a decision taken solely by IGP based on service requirements
It was following the telephone call he received from CDS on November 16, 2018, that the IGP wrote to CID head Ravi Seneviratne setting out the facts above and requesting a report on IP Silva containing any evidence of his having connection with terrorist groups or involvement in criminal or illegal activities.? ??
The IGP?s confidential letter (Ref: SD/ IG/ OUT/ S-04/ 5745/ 2018) to Senior DIG CID, Ravi Seneviratne states further, ?It was revealed at the Security Council meeting held on November 13, 2018 that IP Nishantha Silva is involved with the LTTE. Later CDS Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne spoke to me on my mobile phone asking why IP Silva, who is involved with LTTE activities, is being allowed to work for the CID?.
?Hence I request you to send me a report today- November 16 before 3pm about this officer on following-
Whether there is any information that this officer is involved with LTTE activities.
	Whether this officer is involved with any crime or illegal activities?
	What type of official duties have been entrusted to this officer??
In response, DIG CID Ravi Seneviratne by letter (Ref: S/DIG/CID/IGP/3303/18) dated November 18, to the IGP, had said that neither he nor CID Director Shani Abeysekera were aware or any evidence that IP Nishantha Silva was involved in any terrorist activity or in any criminal or illegal activity. He said Silva conducted investigations that had been entrusted on him to the best of his abilities and that he had arrested and charged many LTTE cadres who were prepared to create mayhem in the country during the war. The Senior DIG elaborated on how IP Nishantha Silva has conducted many highly sensitive investigations which are now before courts.?
He has further stated in his letter to the IGP, a copy of which is in this newspaper?s possession of, that there is no evidence what so ever against IP Silva to substantiate the allegations made by CDS Wijegunaratne. The Senior DIG points out that it is this same officer, Nishantha Silva, who is leading investigations into the abduction of 11 youths, in which CDS Wijegunaratne has himself been named a suspect. The CDS is not implicated in the abduction and murder of the victims, but the CID has presented evidence of him deliberately harbouring one of the key suspects Lt. Com. Chandana Hettiarachchi alias ?Navy Sampath?, and preventing the CID from questioning or arresting him, despite repeated requests to produce Navy Sampath to the CID. Wijegunaratne was Navy Commander at the time. The CID has told the Colombo Fort Magistrate that although Wijegunaratne had claimed that ?Navy Sampath? could not be located, he was being hidden in the Navy Officer?s Mess by Wijegunaratne. The CID produced eye-witness statements and documents to this effect.
National Police Commission (NPC) took the step of holding a special emergency meeting at their offices in order to consider the complaints
	Nevertheless, the IGP concluded, he had no choice, but to give effect to a transfer of Nishantha Silva
	Through this letter, the IGP was ?planting a flag in the ground
	Ahimsa, daughter of slain Lasantha Wickrematunge, had been following events in Colombo closely
	Amnesty International also chimed in and issued a statement on Silva?s transfer
Senior DIG Seneviratne in his letter explained that although Wijegunaratne is attempting to frame IP Silva being involved in terrorist activities, none of the intelligence services nor any other law enforcement authorities have formally received any such information. He charged that the allegation is levelled against IP Nishantha Silva because he is the officer investigating the abduction case, in which the Colombo Magistrate on three occasions has instructed the CID to arrest CDS Wijegunaratne and to produce him before court.
The letter further states, ?As I have notified you on an earlier occasion that there is a court order to arrest and produce Wijegunaratne on serious criminal charges, he is not fit to hold the post of Chief of Defence Staff. I understand that you have informed this to Secretary Defence. As a suspect who is now attempting to interfere with an investigation and jeopardise the investigating officer, action could be taken against him under the Witness Protection Act?.
Nishantha Silva is well-known among journalists and civil society groups as the lead investigator in a number of ?white van? abduction cases and murders of journalists when Mahinda Rajapaksa headed the regime. These include the Lasantha Wickrematunge murder, disappearance of Prageeth Eknaligoda, abduction and torture of Keith Noyahr
Shortly after receiving Senior DIG Seneviratne?s letter defending Nishantha Silva and accusing Admiral Wijegunaratna of criminal obstruction of an investigation, the IGP was summoned to meet President Maithripala Sirisena at 1:30 PM on November 18, 2018, according to a letter written by the IGP to Defence Secretary Hemasiri Fernando the following day.?
Universal condemnation?
The order, which came on a Sunday night, received immediate and blistering condemnation from around the world. Nishantha Silva is well-known among journalists and civil society groups as the lead investigator in a number of ?white van? abduction cases and murders of journalists when Mahinda Rajapaksa headed the regime. These include the Lasantha Wickrematunge murder, disappearance of Prageeth Eknaligoda, abduction and torture of Keith Noyahr, assault on Upali Tennakoon and the attempted abduction of Namal Perera.
Barely an hour after the transfer was made public, JVP MP Vijitha Herath discussed it on live television on the TNL channel?s Special ?Janahanda? program. ?Mahinda Rajapaksa and his people want to cover up their crimes and robberies,? Herath said. ?Just now, suddenly, the main officer handling all of these investigations, was suddenly transferred to Negombo. Why are they doing this?? he asked.
?This is what Mahinda Rajapaksa wants,? he charged. ?IP Nishantha is being removed from the CID to shut down his investigations. Mahinda Rajapaksa realised that if Nishantha Silva remained at the CID, half or more of his MPs who tried to assault the Speaker in Parliament on Friday would be in the Welikada jail by the middle of next year. This is all because of this Welikada terrorist group,? MP Herath further said.
This condemnation was soon followed by live televised statements from several other MPs including UNP MPs Harin Fernando and Hirunika Premachandra, who also accused the state of trying to stifle the CID by removing Nishantha Silva.
The Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association, in a statement by its President, Dhuminda Sampath, said ?We believe that this sudden transfer was made to hold up the above-mentioned court cases, and under these circumstances, we are shocked as media freedom and journalists are in danger?.
The International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) expressed ?serious concerns? over Nishantha Silva, who they said, ?Was investigating several major attacks on journalists during the tenure of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa?.
Amnesty International also chimed in and issued a statement on Silva?s transfer: ?We are concerned about the seeming interference by the authorities with investigations into key allegations of human rights violations including those on attacks against journalists and disappearances. The authorities must ensure that ongoing criminal investigations into these cases are not impeded on any grounds whatsoever. Justice in these cases is long overdue.?
By Monday morning, the flurry of statements had been followed by several inquiries made by ambassadors of prominent countries calling for an explanation for Inspector Silva?s transfer. The response they received, according to several diplomatic sources, is that the transfer of Silva was a decision taken solely by IGP based on service requirements.
It quickly became clear to IGP Pujith Jayasundera that he was to be ?thrown under the bus?.??
Meanwhile, on Monday November 19 itself, Senior DIG CID swiftly submitted an appeal against Silva?s transfer to the National Police Commission. In this appeal, Senior DIG Seneviratne warned that if the transfer of IP Nishantha Silva was carried out, several sensitive and important investigations which are now nearing completion would be seriously hampered. He requested from the Commission to consider the importance of this officer to these CID investigations, and to immediately reverse the transfer order.
It was following the telephone call he received from CDS on November 16, 2018, that the IGP wrote to CID head Ravi Seneviratne setting out the facts above and requesting a report on IP Silva containing any evidence of his having connection with terrorist groups or involvement in criminal or illegal activities
The letter says, ?OIC Gang Robbery Unit of the CID, IP Nishantha Silva had been transferred to the Negombo Police Division with immediate effect by the IGP.
?Out of his 25 year service in the Police Department, this officer had been attached to the CID for 20 years and had conducted many sensitive investigations and fearlessly acted against all suspects. He has become a prime target for those who are accused in these cases and their families. Considering his safety, Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka has ordered the CID to provide him with the necessary security. On the instruction of the IGP, CID has taken necessary steps to protect him. Considering these facts, I request you to cancel the transfer order and enable him to carry out his investigations without any hindrance?.
IP Nishantha Silva himself also made an appeal to the National Police Commission on Monday November 19, refuting the allegation the CDS has made against him, and seeking to reverse the transfer order so that he can carry out the investigations and to bring the perpetrators to book.
Upon receiving notice of the appeals on Monday, the National Police Commission (NPC) took the unprecedented step of holding special emergency meeting at their offices at the BMICH, in order to consider the complaints. At this meeting, the two appeals and their supporting documents were reviewed, and the Commission decided to call for an explanation from the IGP explaining his decision to transfer such a critical CID investigator to the Negombo Division.?
Also on the afternoon of November 19, Lawyers for Democracy convened a snap press conference on the Nishantha Silva issue. ?We believe politics is behind this sudden transfer,? Lawyers for Democracy Convener Presidents Counsel J.C. Weliamuna said bluntly, to the assembled reporters.?
?This transfer was against the law and will be challenged. We strongly believe he was transferred to block his investigations. This appears closely linked to the political changes the country has undergone since October 26, 2018,? Weliamuna charged.?
?As lawyers, we have recognised IP Nishantha Silva as one of the most respectable and talented police officers and highly committed to his duties. A three-judge panel has commended him by name for his commitment in investigating the rape and murder of Vidya Loganathan in Jaffna,? the senior lawyer said.
Faced with the prospect of a Police Commission inquiry in which he would have to reveal the extraordinary ?service requirement? that justified removing such a critical officer from the CID in the backdrop of the paper trail of trumped up charges of Nishantha Silva having LTTE connections, the IGP moved swiftly to write to his Ministry Secretary and set out the limitations of his role in the Nishantha Silva saga.
In his letter dated? November 19, 2018 to Defence Secretary Hemasiri Fernando, reproduced here in full, the IGP recaps his interactions with the President, Chief of Defence Staff and CID leadership on the Nishantha Silva issue. He says that at the National Security Council meeting on? November 13, 2018, Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Wijegunaratna had raised an allegation that Inspector Nishantha Silva had strong LTTE links that made him dangerous to keep at the CID.
The IGP?s letter then said Admiral Wijegunaratne called him on Friday November 16, and reprimanded him for allowing Silva to continue functioning at the CID despite the allegation of LTTE links. It was after this phone call that the IGP had told the Defence Secretary that he was prompted to call for a report on Silva from Senior DIG Ravi Seneviratne of the CID.?
The IGP then describes the report he received from CID head Seneviratne regarding Nishantha Silva. According to the report, the IGP said that there was no evidence or intelligence available to corroborate the accusation that Nishantha Silva had any link with the LTTE or with other criminal activity. ?These allegations are not supported by any intelligence service or investigative branch,? the IGP said, concluding that the allegations against Silva were baseless and unsubstantiated.
Lasantha?s? daughter
Nevertheless, the IGP concluded, he had no choice, but to give effect to a transfer of Nishantha Silva. ?As per the instructions and advice of the President, who is the subject [Law and Order] Minister, I gave the order on 2018.11.18 through Telephone Message Number 128 to transfer IP Nishantha Silva of the CID immediately to the Negombo Police Division citing a service requirement? the IGP states.?
Through this letter, the IGP was ?planting a flag in the ground?. Shortly after this letter had been delivered to Defence Secretary Hemasiri Fernando and copied to President?s Secretary Udaya Seneviratne, a bombshell dropped from down-under. Ahimsa Wickrematunge, daughter of slain Editor-in-Chief of The Sunday Leader LasanthaWickrematunge, had been following events in Colombo closely and was finalising a letter to President Maithripala Sirisena praising Nishantha Silva and condemning his transfer. Ahimsa Wickrematunge?s letter was dated Tuesday 20th November 2018. She sent the letter early that morning, shortly after midnight in Colombo, which is five-and-a-half hours behind the east coast of Australia where she resides. The text of her letter is reproduced here in full.?
Speaking exclusively to the Daily Mirror, Ahimsa Wickrematunge explained why she took the extraordinary step to write to the President. ?I never had any faith in the investigation into my father until I met Nishantha? and another CID officer, she said. ?He was so patient, thorough and determined when taking my statement. He had every fact of the investigation at his fingertips, and he produced results,? she continued.
?My letter was first going to be an appeal. I was going to beg from the President to reverse his decision. But the more I learned about what was behind the decision, and about the resolve of the independent institutions who would stand up for Nishantha, I realised that no one needs to beg to do what is right,? she said.
My letter was first going to be an appeal. I was going to beg from the President to reverse his decision. But the more I learned about what was behind the decision, and about the resolve of the independent institutions who would stand up for Nishantha, I realised that no one needs to beg to do what is right
Wickrematunge?s letter laid out Nishantha Silva?s involvement in her father?s murder investigation with painstaking detail. She also openly charged that while? the transfer order was supposedly from the IGP, ?he has made no secret of the fact that he issued this order hesitantly at the President?s insistence.?
?I know IP Silva as the lead investigator into the murder of my late father Lasantha Wickrematunge, who was bludgeoned to death on January 8, 2009 exactly six years before you were historically elected President on a platform pledging to solve heinous murders like my father?s,? she continued.
Then, mid-morning on Tuesday 20th November 2018, with the National Police Commission having called for an explanation from the IGP, Wickrematunge?s letter took the media by storm and several political and civil society groups united in their condemnation of the transfer and an envelope arrived at the CID containing a one-page letter from the IGP?s office.
While the envelope physically arrived on the morning of November 20, the contents in the document indicated that it was prepared the previous day,? November 19, 2018. This date was handwritten in multiple places.??
The document was an order from the Inspector General of Police, withdrawing his previous order to transfer Nishantha Silva from the Criminal Investigation Department to the Negombo Division. The reason cited in this letter was innocuous. It was ?due to service requirements?, said the IGP.?
Letter to President from?Ahimsa Wickrematunge
Dear President Sirisena,
Your Decision to Remove Inspector Adrian Nishantha Silva from the Criminal Investigation Department
Sunday 18th November 2018 was the 73rd birthday of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. To mark this occasion, President Rajapaksa participated in a ?Pinkama? at a temple near his official residence, attended by your Inspector General of Police, Mr. Pujith Jayasundara. After celebrating the former President?s birthday in the company of former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Mr. Jayasundera proceeded to police headquarters, where he signed transfer order D/HRM/ADM/1869/2018 dated 18th November 2018.?
As you are fully aware, this was an order to remove Police Inspector Adrian Nishantha Silva, Officer-in-Charge of the Gang Robbery Branch (GRB) of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) due to unspecified ?service requirements?. While the order is ostensibly from the IGP, he has made no secret of the fact that he issued this order hesitantly, at your insistence. This was a thoughtful birthday gift on your part, but it was Mahinda?s birthday, not Gotabaya?s.?
I know Inspector Silva as the lead investigator into the murder of my father, Lasantha Wickrematunge, who was bludgeoned to death on 8th January 2009, exactly six years before you were historically elected President on a platform pledging to solve heinous murders like my father?s.?
In January 2009, two innocent youth were abducted in Vavuniya and executed in cold blood and their corpses burnt to ashes in Anuradhapura, all just so that their motorcycle could be planted as evidence at the crime scene. Senior police officers helped to destroy all traces of the notebook containing my father?s last words, which may have identified his attackers. We know this because of Nishantha Silva. Over the last two years, he travelled tirelessly around Vavuniya and Anuradhapura, interrogated dozens of witnesses, ordered DNA tests on decade-old samples and finally arrested the police officers responsible, including a Senior Deputy Inspector General.?
On 18th January 2010 the CID made a breakthrough into my father?s murder when a mechanic in Nuwara Eliya identified a soldier in the Tripoli Military Intelligence platoon as having used his National ID card to purchase SIM cards used to coordinate the attack on my father. The ink was barely dry on that witness statement before the all-powerful Gotabaya Rajapaksa personally ordered that the commanding officer of the Tripoli platoon be whisked away to a diplomatic posting. The investigation was then yanked away from the CID overnight and given to the Terrorist Investigation Division (TID), who arrested the poor mechanic on trumped up charges and covered up all involvement of the Tripoli platoon. We know all this purely thanks to Nishantha Silva?s investigations. We would know more if the poor mechanic did not mysteriously perish in remand custody in October 2011.?
I came to know Nishantha Silva when he visited Melbourne to record a statement from me regarding my father?s murder. I told him then that my father had said repeatedly that he was likely to be killed by Gotabaya Rajapaksa for having exposed the MiG Deal. Nishantha Silva fearlessly reported this to the Mount Lavinia courts. Only a court of law can decide whether my father was right about who gave the order to kill him, but he was sure right about the MiG Deal. The FCID investigation has shown that half the money paid by the Sri Lanka Air Force was siphoned off to a shell company operated by middle men, and that Gotabaya Rajapaksa?s cousin Udayanga Weeratunga was in the thick of the deal, all exactly as my father had exposed.?
Ever since I got to meet Nishantha Silva, I was struck by his gentleness, humility and dedication to his job. I started following his work and was stunned by the number of high-profile cases that Nishantha Silva is handling. He is also the lead investigator into the brutal May 2008 abduction and torture of journalist Keith Noyahr. Nishantha Silva?s team reconstructed and scoured millions of telephone records, recorded over one hundred witness statements, located the military intelligence safe house in which Keith Noyahr was tortured, recovered documents proving the safe house was leased by military intelligence, and arrested eight military intelligence officers including the former army chief of staff. Seven of these suspects were from the infamous ?Tripoli? white-van platoon implicated in the murder of my father.?
Heck, he even found the infamous ?white van? and brought it before court. This engine of death was a symbol of your election campaign, emblematic of the vicious brutality of your opponents. One would have expected you to promote the man who found it and not try and sabotage his career. In fact, Inspector Silva may have been able to figure out the nexus between the Tripoli platoon and the chain of command if you had not personally ordered the military not to cooperate with the investigation on so-called ?national security? grounds when the CID and the court requested essential documents and records of the army and defence ministry.
It was also Inspector Nishantha Silva?s team who identified and arrested members of yet another military intelligence killer squad for abducting and murdering cartoonist Prageeth Eknaligoda on the eve of the January 2010 presidential election. Again, Nishantha?s team scoured hundreds of thousands of telephone call records, searched several military installations, and recorded tomes worth of witness statements. According to court documents, at least two cooperating suspects-turned-witnesses have told the CID that the abduction and murder of Eknaligoda was carried out on the instructions of then Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa.?
During the investigation into the floating armoury operated by Avant Garde Maritime Services, it was Nishantha Silva?s team who in early 2015 first moved to impose a ban on foreign travel by Gotabaya Rajapaksa. His team did a tremendous amount of work on this investigation, breathing bank statements and inventorying weapons and explosives that had been stashed at sea in Sri Lankan waters on Gotabaya Rajapaksa?s authority. This investigation came to naught when your attorney general ruled in June 2015 that ?no offences under the Firearms Ordinance, Explosives Ordinance or the Prevention of Terrorism Act are disclosed? by the operation of a floating armoury jam-packed with illegally licensed and unlicensed automatic weapons and explosives.
Nishantha Silva has also been the lead investigator into the brutal abduction and murder of eleven young men in 2008 and 2009 after their desperate families had been extorted for ransom, allegedly by several senior naval officers whom Inspector Silva has meticulously identified and arrested. It was Inspector Silva who had the unprecedented courage to share with an open court evidence that your former navy commander, now Chief of Defence Staff, was instrumental in harbouring and smuggling out of the country a fugitive navy officer involved in these grisly murders.?
Ironically, it is this same Chief of Defence Staff, a suspect wanted for arrest by Inspector Silva, who seems to have provided you with unfounded and uncorroborated ?intelligence? that Nishantha Silva was an ?LTTE mole? ? intelligence that you forced down the throat of your IGP to try and tarnish the name of one of the bravest, most dedicated and accomplished detectives in the Sri Lanka Police.?
I sympathise especially with Nishantha Silva on this point. Throughout my childhood, I noticed that whenever my father exposed someone, and that truth was so pungent and irrefutable that it shattered their reputations, these people would react by accusing my father ? with zero evidence ? of being an ?LTTE mole?. My father?s reporting on the MiG Deal, for example, led to a consorted campaign by the Ministry of Defence to brand him and his newspaper as organs of the LTTE. But the truth came out. The truth always comes out.
The truth about Nishantha Silva is that he has been one of the single biggest thorns in the side of the LTTE in the history of the CID. As a junior officer he was part of the team that investigated and dismantled the LTTE intelligence networks that supplied and facilitated the attack on the Katunayake airport in 2000. He was a lead investigator into the 2006 assassination attempts on both Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Sarath Fonseka. He splintered the LTTE networks involved in these and the 2008 assassination of General Janaka Perera, and he participated in countless additional counter-terrorism operations.?
By desperately trying to brand a faithful public servant and national hero like Nishantha Silva as a terrorist just to please your strutting tin soldiers and to earn brownie points with your new-found political allies, you are degrading the office of the presidency to a degree that none of your predecessors ever have. My father at various times had fierce disagreements with both Presidents Chandrika Kumaratunga and Mahinda Rajapaksa. They called each other many things they would want to take back. But neither Presidents Kumaratunga nor Rajapaksa ever stooped so low as to try and brand my father as part of the LTTE. That is the refrain of lesser mortals, such as Gotabaya Rajapaksa, and apparently, yourself.
I urge you to remember that you have sworn an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution of Sri Lanka, not to uphold and defend your Chief of Defence Staff and those who rule by white van death. I do not know if these people are guilty of any crime. Neither do you. That is for a court to decide after a thorough criminal investigation of the kind that Nishantha Silva was so ably and tirelessly performing before you cut him off at the knees. Our role in the criminal justice system is to support investigators however they may require.?
For me, as a witness, that means answering their questions truthfully and comprehensively. For you, as a head of state, that means putting the law before your personal relationships, political needs and whims. It means making available to investigators the resources, political will and support from the state they require to get to the truth and present it before a competent court. Above all, your role is to make it clear to police officers across the country that working with dedication towards the pursuit of justice like Nishantha Silva has done will bring reverence and not retaliation.?
I have faith in the Criminal Investigation Department and the independent institutions of Sri Lanka such as the National Police Commission and Constitutional Council. They will not allow you to get away with such a blatant abuse of power.?
Mr. President, you have only two choices before you. You could be remembered as the President who quickly rectified an ill-advised lapse in judgment by immediately reversing the removal of Nishantha Silva from the CID and letting him do his job.?
Alternatively, you could wait until the independent National Police Commission or a court of law reviews your order and shoots it down. In that case you will be remembered as the President who tried to stop some of the most high-profile criminal investigations in the country ? and failed. Make no mistake, Mr. President. If you try to stand in the way of justice for my father and other victims of brutality, you will fail.
Yours Faithfully,
Ahimsa Wickrematunge
CDS charged and remanded until Dec. 15
Yesterday CDS Ravindra Wijegunaratne surrendered himself to the Colombo Fort Magistrates Court in connection with the investigation into his alleged involvement in aiding and abetting murder suspect Lt. Cdr. Hettiarachchi alias ?Navy Sampath? to escape arrest. One suspect, Laksiri Amarasinghe, has already been arrested in this connection, and remains in remand custody.? ?
The CID, represented by ASP Sisira Tissera and IP Nishantha Silva, informed Magistrate Ranga Dissanayake that the Chief of Defence Staff has been named as a suspect in this investigation. The CID listed several charges against the country?s senior-most serving military officer, including several charges under the Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act (APVCWA) No. 4 of 2015.??
Adm. Wijegunaratne was charged under Section 8 (4) (a) of the APVCWA for causing ?harassment, intimidation, coercion, violation, physical or mental suffering and loss or damage to the reputation? of Inspector Adrian Nishantha Silva as a consequence of Inspector Silva having made testimony in court that was adverse to Adm. Wijegunaratne. The admiral was also charged under Section 8 (4) (b) of the APVCWA for causing ?an adverse change to be made to the conditions of employment in the place of employment? of Inspector Silva as a consequence of the inspector?s adverse testimony. According to the law, these are non-bailable offences; each punishable by up to seven years of imprisonment.??
CDS Ravindra Wijegunaratne (in white uniform) who surrendered himself to the Colombo Fort Magistrates Court
The CID also complained against Wijegunaratne under the APVCWA and the Penal Code for his alleged involvement in the attack last Sunday on prosecution witness Lt. Cdr. Laksiri Galagamage at Navy Headquarters. The CID informed court that Wijegunaratne is suspected of participating in an unlawful assembly, criminal intimidation, attempting to assault a witness, and threatening a witness.??
Based on the submissions of ASP Tissera and IP Silva, the Magistrate said that the evidence of the CDS? involvement with trying to remove IP Nishantha Silva from the CID made clear that he was capable of interfering with the investigation. The Magistrate ordered that Wijegunaratne be remanded until December 15, 2018 and be produced before court on that day.??
Outside the court premises, several journalists and photo-journalists, covering the court proceeding, came under attack by unidentified assailants who arrived on motorbikes. The Magistrate ordered the Fort Police to take action against those initiating these assaults.? ??
? 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP bears all Temple Trees expenses: Kiriella
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 09:38 pm
UNP bears all Temple Trees expenses: Kiriella
	
Temple Trees is currently run the funds of the UNP and the assistance given by sponsors, UNP MP and ousted Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella told Parliament today.
Mr. Kiriella said this in response to a question raised by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake in Parliament last morning.
?No state funds are used to run the Temple Trees at the moment as our party and kind donors are assisting us,? Mr. Kiriella said.
?Utility Bills at Temple Trees are paid by us,? he added.
He added that anyone can use the large hall which is situated at Temple Trees premises other than the UNP.(Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP Group meeting decides RW should be PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 02:39 am
UNP Group meeting decides RW should be PM
	
The UNP's Parliamentary Group had unanimously decided that its leader Ranil Wickremesinghe should be the one, who should become Prime Minister as long the party had a majority in Parliament, party sources said.
This decision was made by the parliamentary group which met at Temple Trees last evening according to party sources.
The group had focused on the statement made by President that he will never appoint Mr Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister again.
The group had also been of the opinion that the constitution of the country cannot be violated just to satisfy whims and fancies of one person. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will support a UNF nominee as Prime Minister: TNA to President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 06:09 pm
Will support a UNF nominee as Prime Minister: TNA to President
	
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) today wrote to President Maithripala Sirisena and said that its MPs would support the appointment of a United National Front (UNF) nominee as Prime Minister and a UNF headed government.
In a letter signed by 14 TNA MPs, the party said in the circumstances to ensure that an MP is able to command the confidence of Parliament as Prime Minister, the Illankai Thamil Arasu Kadchi will support the restoration of a Government headed by the UNF as it existed prior to 26th October.
?We will also support the appointment of a nominee of the UNF who in the opinion of Your Excellency is able to command the confidence of parliament as Prime Minister,? the party told the President.
It said the MP who was appointed as the Prime Minister on the October 26 has not been able to prove that he commands the confidence of Parliament though one month has lapsed since the said appointment and though Parliament has met several times during this period.
?The inability of the MP who was appointed as the Prime Minister, to prove that Parliament has confidence in him as Prime Minister and the votes of No Confidence passed against him pertaining to his claim to be the Prime Minister have created a controversy in the Country as to whether the country is without a Prime Minister, a Cabinet and a lawfully constituted Government for more than a month. We respectfully submit that this situation should not continue. The view of the majority of Parliamentarians on the issue of whether the said MP commands the Confidence of Parliament to be the Prime Minister has been negative and has been demonstrated beyond doubt,? it said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: A happier work week
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
A happier work week
	
Andrew Barnes, founder of Perpetual Guardian, hopes to increase staff engagement and productivity
?
A company in New Zealand has stumbled upon a trick to a happier work week. Perpetual Guardian in New Zealand, a company which manages trusts, has successfully trialled a four-day working week, without any changes in wages!
The results of this landmark trial by Perpetual Guardian on its 240 employees in March and April this year revealed that 78 per cent of staff was able to successfully manage their work-life balance over the course of the experiment.? They worked four, eight-hour days but were paid for five working days.
?If employees are engaged with their job and employer, they are more productive. We believe efficiency will come with more staff focus and motivation, and this trial is a valuable and timely way to test our theories.? Christine Brotherton, the company?s head of People and Capability said.
The employees were happy to spend their time with friends and family, or simply do nothing on this spare day.?
Source: Perpetual Guardian
 
		
==============================
## Title: A story of shocks, revenge and betrayal
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
A story of shocks, revenge and betrayal
	
But we have seen the best and the worst of Sirisena during these three and a half year rule of the Yahapalana regime
The majority of Sri Lankans and most political parties are of the opinion that the Government should hold General Elections soon as possible to sort out the present political crisis. The country has a tiny Cabinet, a greatly restricted president and two individuals claiming that they are Prime Minister. These developments are due to the Government authorities opting to form a caretaker Government which has not received the blessings of?most nations.?
What the people of Sri Lanka need is a stable economy and a set of lawmakers who can ensure that the regime?s finances aren?t wasted and there are checks and balances when there is spending. We also need men with brains to set up a plan to sort out the debt commitment of the nation.?
Wickremesinghe had the habit of using the powers entitled to the president
	From another perspective isn?t Sirisena to blame for not putting Wickremesinghe in his place
	His critics have time and again told that Sirsena has to?be proactive
	Sirisena is associated with ?Janadhipathy Thaththa?
When the regime changed in 2015, Wickremesinghe was appointed as premier. This man Wickremesinghe brought in Singapore national Arjuna Mahendran as the Governor of Central Bank when there were other qualified Sri Lankans who could have been slotted into?this post.?
Sirisena was not a leader who would stamp his authority ruthlessly, but rather is a person who chooses to pinch a person hard, when he is opposed, threatened or challenged
A few years into the Yahapalana regime, president Sirisena said that Wickremesinghe?s economic policies had failed and suggested that he steps down as Prime Minister. Apart from the economic setbacks that the country had suffered there were other reasons for Sirisena to get rid of Wickremesinghe. One was that Wickremesinghe had the habit of using the powers entitled to the president. Now Sirisena says that he wants to probe the corruption that took place during the Yahapalana regime and has appointed a committee for?that purpose.?
From another perspective isn?t Sirisena to blame for not putting Wickremesinghe in his place as Prime Minister? It seems that Sirisena has the habit of ?closing the stable doors after the horse has bolted?.?
His critics have time and again told that Sirsena has to be proactive; a standout feature of a successful politician. This characteristic was prominent in former presidents J.R. Jayewardene and R. Premadasa. It is said that Jayewardene had demanded undated resignation letters from government ministers before they assumed duties. This way he had a control of all who worked for him.?
The problem with Sirisena is that he took the post of president rather lightly. When J.R Jayewardene introduced the executive presidency he knew what a monster he was creating. Even though Sirisena didn?t know quite well how to exercise the powers of the executive president, Wickremesinghe knew how to manipulate someone else?s post despite not having all the power he wished for. Sirisena has been quoted in newspapers as saying that he allowed Wickremesinghe to take decisions, only a president was entitled to, out of gratitude for helping him become the president of Sri Lanka in 2015.?
When Mahinda Rajapaksa was sworn in as Prime Minister after unceremoniously ousting Wickremesinghe, it gave a message that Sirisena was not a leader who would stamp his authority ruthlessly, but rather is a person who chooses to pinch a person hard, when he is opposed, threatened or challenged. In other words Sirisena knows that a cat needs not be killed brutally by the bashing it with a cricket bat, but instead can be drowned in a cauldron of freshly drawn milk.?
But we have seen the best and the worst of Sirisena during these three and a half year rule of the Yahapalana regime. All the chaos seems to have made his thinking sharp
There is no sign of Sirisena fighting out of the situation he is in. He temporarily patched up differences with former president Mahinda Rajapaksa and appointed the latter as premier. But Rajapakaa failed to produce his old magic. Now the Sirisena-Rajapaksa government is struggling to form the majority in parliament. Government ministers and parliamentarians supporting the regime keep walking out of parliament claiming that they wouldn?t be back till the Speaker acts according to the Constitution, follows standing orders and respects its traditions.?
One of Sirisena?s trump cards was to prorogue parliament till he formed the majority, but the court issued a stay order which overturned the president?s decision. Now president Sirisena faces another ?Wickremesinghe like? challenge from Speaker Jayasuriya; with the latter doing all he could to uphold what?s left of democracy within parliament. There are of course accusations that Jayasuriya is acting in a highhanded manner and is working with a bias towards the UNP. The Government claims that much of the turmoil now in Parliament is because of Jayasuriya not honouring parliament traditions.?
Sirisena in fact gains by this present turmoil. He needs time to map his next move and the present chaos probably seems to aid him. He didn?t surface as a politician doing productive work under past presidents because there was some order in the political set-up despite the country being gripped by a civil war. But we have seen the best and the worst of Sirisena during these three and a half year rule of the Yahapalana regime. All the chaos seems to have made his thinking sharp. The surprises he sprang on two consecutive Fridays suggest that he has the ability to shock his detractors. The leadership he has given the nation is shrouded with controversy, but also spiced with shocks, revenge and betrayal.?
Even though Sirisena didn?t know quite well how to exercise the powers of the executive president, Wickremesinghe knew how to manipulate someone else?s post despite not having all the power he wished for
In this context it seems apt to recall the last stages of Nobel Prize winner writer Ernest Hemingway. Life was so pleasant for him and he was addicted to the good life and the successes that money and security brought him. The American writer was working on a book on bullfighting, but old age and a faulty brain prevented him from finishing this literary product. He later took his life. Sirisena is associated with a best-selling biography (Penned by his own daughter) titled ?Janadhipathy Thaththa?. If Sirisena decides to script? his own life story he would probably struggle when he gets to the last chapter. He knows that the ending is not going to?be good.??
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: All operations of Temple Trees should be stopped: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 11:51 am
All operations of Temple Trees should be stopped: JVP
	
All operations in the Temple Trees should also be stopped, when the motion to curtail expenditure to the Office of Prime Minister would be passed in Parliament, Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake said in Parliament today.? ?
Meanwhile, JVP MP Bimal Ratnayake said President Maithripala Sirisena was responsible for the adverse effects to the country and he must apologize to the nation, said in Parliament.
He said President Sirisena and the Rajapaksas should be held responsible for the political and constitutional crisis.
Pic by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Boat Schools of Bangladesh
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Boat Schools of Bangladesh
     	 
  At the Daily Mirror, we believe that climate change is one of the greatest threats that we, as Sri Lankans, will face in the future.  Therefore, we intend to provide our readers with local and international content with the objective to educate and inspire. We would also like to learn from our valued readers about any ongoing initiatives in making Sri Lanka a more sustainable nation.   
 We aim to explore sustainable ways of living that have the most positive impact on not just our natural environment, but also for humans and animals.  
While topics such as global warming, pollution, and inequality are confronting, we believe it's time the media stopped shying away from these issues and became an active participant in finding solutions - and we hope you will join us. 
     
				 		 
	
	
?
Regardless of which part of the world you live in, adverse weather is becoming a commonality, increasingly hindering the day to day lives of many people across the globe. However in Bangladesh, adverse weather, especially in the form of monsoons, wreak havoc on a regular basis.?
In North Western Bangladesh, children are often affected the most, disrupting their education and endangering health. Children are often forced to brave heavy winds and rains for just a few hours of school, even making them unable to attend school for months at times. Shidhulai Swanirvar Sangstha, a local non-profit organisation however brings these children a ray of hope in times of difficulty.?
The organisation was founded by Mohammed Rezwan, an Architect by profession. For Rezwan the need was personal. Even though he was successful in education, he saw many in his hometown deprived of access to education due to the harsh weather during monsoons. With $500 of his own school scholarship money and an old computer, Rezwan set out to help the children of Bangladesh in any way he can. He considered dedicating his life to building schools and hospitals, but soon realized whatever he built would soon be inundated, come monsoons. Rezwan was then struck with the idea of boats, but had nobody to invest in his ambitious project.? After four years of hard work to collect funds, Rezwan finally had enough money to build his first floating school.
?
The boat first serves as a school bus, making periodic stops to get children onboard from riverside areas. The boat then docks and the class begins
?
Rezwan?s floating schools move from door to door to ensure that the education of children is not hampered by the rains. The boat first serves as a school bus, making periodic stops to get children onboard from riverside areas. The boat then docks and the class begins. With three classes conducted each day, the floating school is always busy and full of eager kids.
Each school consists of a classroom for 30 students, a laptop, a library full of books and electronic resources. The boat school provides basic primary education up to grade four. What?s more, the organisation has also introduced a unique environment based curriculum that teaches how to protect the environment and conserve water.
Today, Rezwan?s organization runs a fleet of boats acting as libraries, education centers and solar powered workshops. The boats themselves are outfitted with solar panels which power computers, lights and other equipment. What started out as a project to educate children, is today an important service provider to these otherwise ?cut-off? areas in remote Bangladesh. The organisation also runs floating clinics which have doctors and paramedics.
Shidhulai Swanirvar Sangstha has transformed the region?s waterways into pathways for education, information and technology giving hope and much needed support to isolated waterside communities.
SOURCE: Shidhulai Swanirvar Sangstha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bus topples into Hamilton canal killing 3 and injuring 19
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 05:26 pm
Bus topples into Hamilton canal killing 3 and injuring 19
	
Three female passengers were killed and 19 others were injured when a Colombo bound Jaffna luxury bus toppled into the Hamilton canal at Nattandiya this evening.
Police said the injured were admitted to the Maravila Hospital.The deceased were identified as residents of Jaffna.(Hiran Priyankara)
?
Video by Hiran Priyankara Jayasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: CDS transferred to Welikada from Magazine Prison
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 09:36 am
CDS transferred to Welikada from Magazine Prison
	
Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Ravindra Wijegunaratne, who was remanded yesterday was transferred to the Welikada prison from the Magazine Prison last night, Commissioner General of Prisons Nishan Dhanasinghe said.
He said the CDS was transferred to the Welikada Prison due to security reasons because there are possible threats from LTTE carders detained at the Magazine Prison.
The CDS was remanded by Fort Magistrate Ranga Dissanayake till December 5 for allegedly intimidating a witness when he appeared in the Colombo Fort Magistrate?s Court over his alleged involvement in the case of harbouring former Navy officer Prasad Hettiarachchi alias Navy Sampath.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cheeky best man switches place with bride
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Cheeky best man switches place with bride
	
?
You are waiting at the end of the isle, you turn around for your first glance at your bride and what do you see?? Your bearded best man and friend, dressed in a white gown, with a delicate lace veil.??
This was the case for American groom David Hofmann recently after his best friend Timmy Horton and fianc? Brianne Dennis<U+200B><U+200B> planned a prank together to shock the groom.
The reaction from Hoffman was well worth it, he burst out laughing once he saw his friend, vanishing his nerves in the process. ?Right in that moment, I was anxious. I was trying to calm my nerves because I was about to see my bride for the first time, Hofmann said. ?I was expecting to see Brianne and I turned around to see Timmy in a wedding dress. He was pale and hairy and we love each other very much, but not in that way. I was falling down laughing?.
When the real bride of the day finally emerged, David was overcome with emotion saying ?Brianne has always been beautiful so I didn?t expect anything less.?
Photographer Anna, a close friend of the couple, added: ?We made a forever memory and laughed so hard, everyone was crying.?
Photo Source: Anna Morrison
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Democracy is alive, ladies and gentlemen!
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Democracy is alive, ladies and gentlemen!
	
What?s the talk of the town? ?The town? of course can be anything from Cinnamon Gardens to Hokandara to Debarawewa. If you are talking about Cinnamon Gardens as the trope that it is for a significant portion of the decision-makers of the United National Party (UNP) and those who balk at power shifting to Debarawewa (or Kebithigollewa or Karandeniya or Kachchativu), then the talk is all about democracy.
Here are some of the low-tone rumbles that are making the rounds in that particular echo chamber: ?Democracy is under serious threat,? ?we need to fight to the last to safeguard democracy for future generations,? ?this is not about Ranil, it?s about democracy,? ?this is not about us, but about all of us (i.e. the entire nation).? Well, considering the deafening silence of most of these born-again democrats (the Sinhala term is better, ?heenen bayavunu prajaathanthravaadeen? or ?democrats waking up from a bad dream?) on all anti-democratic moves by the UNP from DS to Ranil and not forgetting JR and Premadasa and in particular the dictatorial party constitution and post January 2015 subversions, we can safely say ?it?s about you, it is about RanilWickremesinghe, it is about the UNP.?
In their case, it?s a matter of outcome-preferences framing political comment. In the case of the less partisan, the outcome-fears (?If MR returns, he will bring back the 18th?) overrides all. And so, they conclude (prematurely) that (a) the removal of Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and the appointment of Mahinda Rajapaksa in his place was illegal and unconstitutional, and (b) the dissolution of Parliament was illegal and unconstitutional. They conclude, therefore, that Speaker Karu Jayasuriya is a hero (never mind that he flouted procedures he was almost worshipping a few months ago).
The ?other lot? is no different. They have their outcome preferences, they have their fears. They will happily conclude that the President was acting constitutionally, never mind the high-handedness, never mind that if the UNP lost mandate and political legitimacy on February 10, 2018, so too did Maithripala Sirisena.
Let?s focus on democracy
Fact: We got a terrible constitution in 1978.Fact: Of the 19 Amendments passed since then, 18 were partisan and favoured incumbents. Fact: The 19A was flawed. Fact: the architects of the 19A, in particular Jayampathy Wickramaratne, the ardent backers (the UNP and the NGO cheering squad) and the ?aye-sayers? including those in the Joint Opposition except for Sarath Weerasekera, are guilty of irresponsibility if not utmost imbecility.
A polity is not made of a constitution alone. Democracy is not a synonym of either constitution or parliament. In these things, people count. In these things process matters. There are times when limits, especially those couched in vagueness, need to be tested. This is one. Whether Sirisena?s intention was to test the limit or otherwise is immaterial.
At the end of the day, the law-makers appear to be stumped. The President, for all the power-curtailing, has prevailed and in prevailing, at least for now, has thumbed his nose at the architects of the 19A and its approvers. Hopefully, the courts will offer clarity on all the vagueness that the executive and legislative branches of the state have together inscribed. At the end of the day, also, everyone is learning that constitutions are not cast in stone, that there are no accidental errors (no, not even the discrepancies in Sinhala and English and possibly Tamil versions), and most importantly, the people need not get into fisticuffs on behalf of their so-called representatives. If Parliament is a joke and parliamentarians are jokers, let them do their thing -- we can laugh. That seems to be a common enough response.
Let?s assume this happened in some country in Europe or even some other South Asian ?democracy?. There would be riots, it is safe to assume. By and large, Sri Lankans have determined, ?it?s none of our business?. It is our business, true, but then it seems more prudent to let the courts have a say before the streets do. Those who are street-bound are essentially a partisan lot; the majority will have none of it. That?s healthy. There?s a time for agitation, this just isn?t that time. The diehards will rally around their leader(s), i.e. either Ranil or MR, but let?s not fool ourselves into believing that they are doing this for ?all of us? or for ?democracy?.
The ?us? of it all, is biding time, it seems. ?Our? time may or may not come soon, but it will only be at the politically auspicious hour that ?we? will speak, it is safe to assume. Here?s a Facebook post (pruned and edited to capture the essence) that captures some of that ?us-sentiment?:
?The people of our country have been behaving exceptionally well. If any other country had a headless state, life would have been grim, but the lack of a Government has not deterred nor derailed our ppl [people] from their daily paths. Even though the macro environment is worrisome, focus is not lost. It proves we don?t need the 225 donkeys to govern and even if they did or didn?t no one seems to give two hoots. It proves our people our innately good, have the power to regard or disregard. Hopefully we will continue to be calm and collected, draw up the courage from our 2500 years plus culture and do what needs to be done to get over this speed bump and put our country back on track.? So what?s this hullabaloo about democracy then? Perhaps the answer can be found in an insightful observation made at the inauguration of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) by S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike on September 2, 1951.
?It will be thus seen that unlike other countries such as India, Pakistan, Burma, Indonesia, Ireland, etc., which advanced to Freedom through the instrumentality of Mass Movements based on clear-cut principles and policies, our Freedom Movement was really one proceeding from the top and cut off to a great extent from the masses (SWRD had previously referred to DS Senanayake and his aides getting the Soulbury Constitution amendment to obtain Dominian Status ?without placing amendment before country or parliament but prepared according to DS Senanayake?s personal views -- hint, hint). It has created a feeling in the minds of some people that our freedom is not something that the people have obtained but one that a few individuals have succeeded in getting, and one therefore that is looked upon to a great extent as the private property of these individuals, the benefits of which should be chiefly enjoyed by them. It is this psychology that is chiefly responsible for the nepotism and cliquism which are rampant today and for the reluctance to deal effectively with the many important problems that face us, a free country today, particularly in the context of the present trend of world affairs.?
SWRD?s own errors and culpabilities notwithstanding, this could be read as a damning account of the born-again democracy-brigade of today. This year marks the 200th anniversary of the 1818 Rebellion and the capture of Keppitipola. Democracy was blood-less and something we owe the DS Senanayakes, they believe and/or would have us believe and therefore it is an elite-birthed project for the benefits of political progeny, they seem to think. No wonder that the general public are not inspired by their siren call to save democracy from ?the yakkos?.
Well, the masses appear to know what?s what. In retrospect one might conclude that they knew the dangers of electing Ranil in 2005 and knew the dangers of re-electing MR in 2015. It is unlikely that they have any illusions about these two individuals or about Maithripala Sirisena. They know better than democracy-experts that democracy was always an unholy creature which didn?t die on October 26, 2018 and moreover, has to owe its longevity to the people, who have been patient and have largely refused to purchase all the lies about it. They know what it is and what it is not. They don?t need tuition on the same.
Author can be reached on: malindasenevi@gmail.com. www.malindawords.blogspot.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Devaluation of middle class professions
## Section: News Features
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Devaluation of middle class professions
	
Teachers, clerks, nurses, pharmacists, postmasters, stationmasters, public health inspectors, drug inspectors, income tax collectors and co-operative inspectors are some of the professions held by the working middle class of the country.? ?
However after the economic and social revolution in 1977 these occupations have been declining until today. Most businessmen engaged in commercial trade and importers became the conspicuous people in Sri Lankan society. During that regime the wealthy were more inclined to be engaged in buying and selling businesses rather than in producing items by using local materials. During this period Sri Lanka had been importing numerous kinds of ready-made items and our local industries collapsed.? ?
Producers became businessmen considering not only the then society but also in today?s society, where most people are merchants and there is a small percentage of people engaged in production. Producers are capable and know the efficacy of the society. The producer is subtle to know the value of the educated people.? ?
As tradesmen are the rich people in society, education became less important. Starting a business is an easier way of becoming rich than obtaining a job by studying. Traders have more money than educated people have. Yet the society came to respect businessmen more than educated middle class people. Highly educated people such as medical officers, engineers, advocates are mostly affluent people.? ?
The middle classes due to their limited wealth are often vulnerable people. But the society cannot proceed well without them. Those who are engaged in middle class occupations are mostly trained well. For example, nurses should be trained for four years, teachers and pharmacists are trained professionally.? ?
If the physics teacher is absent no one can put a labour worker of the school as a relief teacher. Yet the teacher is capable of working even in manual labour . When the officer of a Bank is absent a security person cannot be appointed in lieu of him. But the officer can perform the security job. That is the value of a profession. But some people do not consider the professional respect of a person. Middle class people are respected people in the society. They maintain the efficacy of the society. They are trained and do responsible jobs and we must protect the middle class which descend from far back as the feudal society.? ?
Senaka Hettigoda?
Registered Pharmacist, Galle?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Eliminate Violence Against Women
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Eliminate Violence Against Women
	
Commencing November 25 - the date designated by the United Nations - to Eliminate Violence Against Women and continuing for a 16-day period up to December 10 (the International Human Rights Day), the world commemorates 16 days of activism against gender-based violence.
Throughout the 16 days, governments, UN agencies, civil society, and activists come together to raise awareness on this issue that knows no social, economic, or national boundaries. According to The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) more than a third of women worldwide have experienced either physical or sexual violence at some point in their lives. Data released by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), shows that on an average, 137 women across the world are killed by a partner or family member every day. The report says it makes ?The home the most likely place for a woman to be killed?.
The report reveals that more than half of the 87,000 women killed in 2017 were reported as dying at the hands of those closest to them. Of that figure, approximately 30,000 women were killed by an intimate partner, while another 20,000 died at the hands of a relative.
In India, the National Crime Records Bureau statistics from 2012 to 2016 show that approximately 40% of female reported rape victims were minors, and 95% knew the rapist. The rapists belonged to the ?circle of trust? of extended family and friends.
Young girls have nowhere to go. The ?Guardian? points out the ?#MeToo? movement in the US, in which highly successful and wealthy women finally broke the silence about their experiences of sexual violence, have resulted in the US being ranked as the 10th most dangerous country for women in the poll of 198 countries.
In Sri Lanka, we have a higher female population (52%) than men. The maternal mortality ratio in the country according to the World Health Organisation, is one of the lowest in Asia. As part of Sri Lanka?s contribution to the world wide commemoration of the 16-day programme, the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) will light up the Town Hall building in bright orange for 16 days, highlighting the need to foster a safer environment for women and girls.
Article 12 of Sri Lanka?s Constitution provides for equality for women and men and non-discrimination based on gender and in 1993 adopted the Sri Lanka Women?s Charter. A study by Rasanjalee Perera of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura and Anush Edirisinghe of the University of Kelaniya -?Sexual violence against Women in Sri Lanka 2008?- showed, severe sexual abuses, incest, trafficking and abnormal sexual behaviour etc. have been increasing in the civil society.
The report found 69% of respondents were victims of rape while 22% of the others had been victims of gang rape. And further, there was a clear relationship with sexual violence activities and use of alcohol. When such crimes occurred the study revealed, 52% of the offenders had used alcohol.
The situation of Violence Against Women in Sri Lanka -- a country that boasts of a civilisation of over a thousand years of Buddhist civilisation -- is infinitely worse today. UNFPA statistics reveal that, one in every four women in Sri Lanka has been subjected to sexual abuse by the time she reaches 18! According to police reports, over 33,000 cases of violence against women and children were recorded between 2005 and 2016. Incidences of rape and incest according to the new police database, reveal an increase by 40% during the last 12 years, from 1,463 cases in 2006 to 2,036 in 2016. The report adds, ?cases reported to the police are likely very low compared to the real number of incidents that occur?. The situation therefore calls for urgent and immediate action rejecting this crime spree against our daughters mothers and sisters.?
But with our male-dominated Parliament embroiled in a Constitutional crisis of its own making, the women of our country could expect very little if any attention was paid to the growing problem of violence against women in our country.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Experience the Power of Four with Galaxy A9, The World?s First Quad Camera Smartphone
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:53 pm
Experience the Power of Four with Galaxy A9, The World?s First Quad Camera Smartphone
	
Left to right -? Yong - Keun Hwang - Director Mobile, Samsung Sri Lanka, Shantha Fernando - General Manager Head of Mobile Biz, Samsung Sri Lanka, Chanux Sudesh - Top Digital influencer, Christina Peiris - Brand Ambassador for Samsung / Miss Sri Lanka ' 17, Hanbae Park - Managing Director, Samsung Sri Lanka
?
Enhanced intelligent four cameras with 2x optical zoom, Ultra-wide Lens, Depth Lens and 24MP main lens help you capture beautiful moments like never before Samsung, Sri Lanka?s most trusted youth brand, today launched Galaxy A9 in Sri Lanka, with the world?s 1st rear quad camera, stunning, dual tone, reflective gradient design, vibrant colours, scratch-resistant durable glass back, flagship infinity display and unmatched performance.
?
Galaxy A9 comes with a larger and wider 6.3? Super AMOLED infinity display for immersive viewing experience which is further enhanced by Dolby Atmos surround sound making an ultimate entertainment device.? The smartphone is powered by Octa-Core Snapdragon 660 processor and a large 3800 mAh battery with fast charging capability that gives you the high speed performance you need, all day, every day.
?
Galaxy A9 is packed with Samsung?s latest, path-breaking camera innovations that enable consumers to do more, experience more and unlock more possibilities, every day. Galaxy A9 is the perfect companion for Instagram hungry millennials, letting them shoot in ways they could never do before.
?As a leader in smartphone technology, we are all about meaningful innovation. For the first time ever, we have brought the rear quad camera with Galaxy A9. With ultra-wide, optical zoom, low light capabilities and live focus, Galaxy A9 has a camera designed for every moment in the life of the young millennial,? said Shantha Fernando, General Manager, Head of Mobile Business, Samsung Sri Lanka.
?
Chanux Sudesh - Top Digital influencer
?
World?s First Rear Quad Camera?
?
? Galaxy A9?s camera comes with a telephoto lens capable of 2x optical zoom that allows you to take crisp, detailed shots, even from a distance. This is perfect for macro-photography, wildlife photography and any situation where you need to get up-close to the action.
?
? With Galaxy A9?s 24MP main lens, you can capture clear and bright images in both bright and low light conditions. In low light conditions, the A9 intelligently merges pixels to allow more light so that you get the best pictures in the day or at night.
?
? Galaxy A9 helps you express your creativity with the Depth Lens, giving you the freedom to manually manage the photos? depth of field and focus on the subject for stunning, professional looking images. Thanks to Live focus, every picture you take is now display picture worthy.
?
? Galaxy A9?s Ultra-Wide Angle camera allows you to capture not only your subject, but the whole scene. Presently, where most smartphones capture 77 degrees in their field of view, Galaxy A9 is able to capture 120 degrees; this lets you capture more expansive photos, just like what your eyes see. This comes in handy when you need to capture landscapes, city scape, group shoots or in any situation where you need to fit a lot into a single frame.
?
Galaxy A9 automatically recognizes 19 kinds of scenes and optimizes colour settings to suit the content?whether it?s a nightscape, a field of flowers, or a plate of food. Now you don?t need to worry about tedious details like colour saturation, white balance, and brightness. Enjoy the scenery, and let the Galaxy A9 do the hard work. Galaxy A9 also intelligently detects when there is a flaw in an image you just clicked (like closed eyes, facial blur or back-light) and notifies you so that you can capture the picture perfect moment.
?
Christina Peiris - Brand Ambassador for Samsung / Miss Sri Lanka ' 17
?
Galaxy A9 also comes with 24MP selfie camera with selfie focus and pro-lighting for clear selfies with studio quality lighting. For those who like to have fun on social media, Galaxy A9 lets you discover a new you with AR emoji. You can now create up to 36 animated emojis of yourself to add more expressions to your chats.
?
Powerful New Features for Exceptional All-day Performance
?
The reliable 3,800mAh battery life on Galaxy A9 lets you live without limits and enjoy outstanding long-lasting performance. The phone will be available in ? 6GB/ 128GB (expandable up to 512GB).
Designed to make life more convenient, Galaxy A9 features Bixby and Samsung Health. Galaxy A9 allows you to take advantage of the many multi-tasking benefits, including App Pair that allows users to launch two apps at once on a split screen, thereby providing the option to multitask. This feature is accessible directly from the Home screen of the smartphone. The device also comes with Face Recognition technology ? just hold your phone as if you are taking a selfie and it unlocks for use.
?
First Class Design
?
Building on Samsung?s heritage in first-class design, Galaxy A9 comes with a unique, dual tone, reflective gradient design crafted through a special anodizing process, designed specifically to achieve the most refined, premium finish.
?
Galaxy A9 is styled in three unique colours; Caviar Black, Lemonade Blue and Bubblegum Pink with a sleek and ergonomic design, that fits in one hand with a 3D Glass curved back for a high-quality comfortable feel.
?
The Galaxy A9 will be available at Rs.90, 490 across all authorized partners: Damro, JKOA, Softlogic, Singer and Singhagiri and across all authorized dealers.
?
The Samsung Experience Zone
 
		
==============================
## Title: Government MPs to boycott parliament today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 09:45 am
Government MPs to boycott parliament today
	
All parliamentarians of the Government have decided to boycott the parliament session today which is due to be held at 10.30am, Chief Government Whip S. B. Dissanayake confirmed.
?
?
Video by Buddhi, Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. is likely to boycott Parliament today as well
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 04:51 am
Govt. is likely to boycott Parliament today as well
	
The Government is likely to boycott Parliament today as well to not to face the challenge posed by the motion handed over to the Secretary-General of Parliament by six UNF Parliamentarians on November 19, challenging the constitutionality of the purported Government of Mahinda Rajapaksa to utilise public finance.
The final decision whether to participate or not in the debate would be decided by the Parliamentary Group of the purported Government this morning, he added.
The motion against the purported Government is to be taken up for debate and vote today.
Cabinet Spokesman, Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe told the weekly cabinet news briefing yesterday that the Government believed that the motion was sub-juice as it challenged a Constitutional issue that had been referred to the Supreme Court and also confronted the powers of the Executive President.
?We have repeatedly told the Opposition that to bring a No Faith Motion (NFM) adhering to Standing Orders and Parliamentary procedure. We have also told them not to challenge the authority of the President.
?What they have simply to say in the NFM is that the opposition does not have faith in the Prime Minister or the Government or both. They have not done that and this motion violates Standing Order and challenges the two Gazette notifications issued by President Sirisena and therefore, I don?t think we would participate in the debate tomorrow,? Minister Samarasinghe said.
He flatly rejected the suggestion by journalists that the purported Government of Mahinda Rajapaksa did not face the challenge or continuously boycott Parliament because the Government had the support of only 102 members, while the Opposition has the support of 122 members and added that the UNF as a political party had only the support of 101 members.
Minister Samarasinghe also refused to accept that the UNF commanded the support of the TNA and the JVP and added when the Vote on Account which was approved by the Cabinet on Tuesday is taken up for debate and approval, the Government was ready to show majority support (113) in Parliament.
Finance Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa would decide the day for the debate and vote on the Vote on Account before the end of the year and requested journalists to wait and see.
Responding to the Daily Mirror, Minister Samarasinghe said a Presidential election was not necessary to gauge the public opinion in the electorate as demanded by the Opposition as the tenure of office of President Sirisena was to expire in January 2020. But a General Election could be held for the same purpose though the next General Election was scheduled to be held in August 2020.
Both Cabinet Spokesmen, Ministers Samarasinghe and Dayasiri Jayasekera refused to admit that the UNF led Opposition alliance had the confidence of the majority of members in Parliament with 122 votes out of 225 House and said the purported Government with 102 was ready to show the majority when the time came. But did not say when the time would come for the Government to show 113. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
Pix by Nisal Baduge
 
		
==============================
## Title: Grant ruling power to party who secures majority: Wijeyadasa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 11:35 am
Grant ruling power to party who secures majority: Wijeyadasa
	
Higher Education Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe today requested Speaker Karu Jayasuriya in Parliament to grant the ruling power to the party who has secured majority in parliament and thereby to end the prevailing political turmoil.???
?I believe that you as the Speaker have the potential and capacity to intervene into this by even temporarily halting the parliamentary procedure and discuss the issue with the President,? Minister Rajapakshe said.
While the speaker appreciating the statement made by Minister Rajapakshe, said that he would discuss the issue with the President and take measures collaboratively to resolve the current political turbulence.
Pics by Pradeep Pathirana
Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hilton Colombo Invites You To Come Home For Christmas!
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 29 November 2018 10:40 am
Hilton Colombo Invites You To Come Home For Christmas!
	
Christmas is all about tradition and year after year Hilton Colombo welcomes back friends who have made a seasonal gathering at the hotel, a much anticipated ritual.? This season, Hilton Colombo invites you, your family and your friends to bask in their cozy, glowing atmosphere while they help you create truly special memories.
To delve into the spirit of the Festive season, Executive Chef Robert Mujagic and his team of chefs are creating delightful dining treats. From indulgent festive luncheons and dinners to glittering party nights, promising to fill this year with a Christmas essence that will have you and your loved ones reminiscing for years.?It?s going to be a Christmas cracker of a get-together, sipping on a Christmas cocktail in our beautiful glass-fronted L.A.B or tucking into a festive feast with family and friends in one of our restaurants? says Gigi De Silva, Marketing Communications Manager.?
ACHRISTMAS MARKET takes place on the 8th December from 10am ? 6pm at THE BLUE. Time for twinkly lights, candy canes, jolly men in red suits and an endless indulgence in all things that bring you delight! Come to the Hilton Christmas Market for seasonal goodies galore, unique gifts, fabulous brands, kids? play area, carols and a host of fun activities to keep the whole family entertained. So put on your Christmas stockings and get into the holiday spirit!
Gourmet fresh seafood and meats, fresh imported seasonal fruits and garden vegetables gourmet products including imported cheese, chocolates and nuts and an extensive selection of wines & beverages. Ready to drink Eggnog, Gluhwein Pot and roasted Chestnuts will be available at the Hilton Goodies Stall. Kids, look out, Santa is expected to visit too! Entrance to this event is free. Visit the many stalls that will showcase their products at special prices; Zirc,Thimble, Paper Frills, Kidz Hub, Liyawal, Relive, Wrook, Coco Express, Quaintrelle, Alankar, Warm House, Pendi, Cocoon Furnishing, Olive Couture, Green Garden,RedPierrot, House of Lonali, Cane Couture, Club House Vivaldi, Xylo, Nimanse, J Flat, House of Gifts, Amani, Goodness Me and SHA Foundation.
CHRISTMAS TREATS AT CAF? KAI; Re-discover sugar and spice and all things nice with the extensive list of cakes, cupcakes, cookies, hampers and other goodies as the pastry chefs have created some indulgent creations this Christmas.Visit the gift shop and purchase your stock of all the traditional festive favorites from Christmas puddings to beautifully decoratedChristmas cakes, Yule logs, chocolates and a whole lot more.? Exciting hampers with Christmas favs beautifully wrapped up, are also available.To help with all your customized holiday culinary needs, the chef will prepare your favorite Christmas menu, with great attention to your every need.? Special festive roasts with traditional trimmings are available at Caf? Kai.? Pre-orders will be undertaken. Open from 1st to 29th December 8.00am to 10.00pm fromSunday to Thursday and until midnight on Friday and Saturday.
Furthermore, at Caf? Kai, every piece of delight tells a story of the Chef?s love of food; using the finest ingredients that will bring out the best this Christmas. Stop by and pick up the perfect creation that speaks to you. Delicate gourmet savory and sweet delights to keep you happy all day. Caf? KAI is open daily from 7am to 10pm and until 11pm on Friday & Saturday whilst the Cake section is open daily until Midnight.
One of the highlights of the season will be the ?Choirs of Christmas? at the L.A.B. (Lounge & Bar) from 15th? to 25th December from 8pm ? 8.45pm and ?Christmas Interludes? at the Lobby with Tilanka on Flute, Lydia on Violin and Revel Crake on Guitar and JanithGamlath on Saxophone from the 10th until the 25th from 7.30pm to 8pm.??
Performing Choirs;
Resonance: 15th, 17th , 19th, 24th& 25thDecember
Choro Calibre: 16th& 18th December
Asteria: 20th& 21st December?
Camerati: 22nd& 23rd December
SANTA IN THE LOBBY from 20th - 24th December from 7.00pm - 9.30pm and on the 25th December from 11.00am - 3.00pm & 7.00pm - 9.30pm. Children can create memories with the jolliest man in the world!? Santa will be available to take photographs with you at Santa?s Railway Station.??
SANTA?S WHEEL OF FORTUNE: Snap a shot at Santa?s Railway Station located at the Lobby, upload it on Facebook or Instagram with the hashtags #HiltonColombo, #HomeforChristmas and #MyChristmasinSriLanka and stand a chance to win amazing prizes by spinning Santa?s Wheel of Fortune! 8th - 25th December from 12.00noon - 3.00pm and again from 6.00pm - 11.00pm.
SANTA?S TOY SHOP: It?s the season for giving.... Head over to Santa?s Toy Shop located at the Lobby from the 1st to 29th December and pick out a gift for your little one! Unique toys from Kid & Co this season. Open 10.00am - 9.00pm Sunday - Thursday? and10.00am - 10.00pm Friday & Saturday
FESTIVE AFTERNOON TEA at L.A.B from the 16th ? 24th December I 3pm ? 6pm
The classic afternoon tea has been revamped for a festive experience.? Enjoy sweet and savory treats with a festive twist with the High Tea Platter for Two. Plain and raisin scones, clotted cream and strawberry jam, Mini Red Velvet Christmas hat cup cake, Christmas cake with Holy Leaves, Egg nog Tiramisu, Mince Pie Wreath, Mini Yule Log, Christmas Brownie tree and from the sandwich range you cansavor the mini bagel with smoked salmon, cream cheese, cucumber and quail egg, honey glazed ham, apple with arugula and soft brioche, asparagus, sundried tomato and olive pinwheel, rotisserie chicken, watercress and mayo toasted sandwich. The savorytreats; Salmon and asparagus quiche, Roast Australian beef pie with winter vegetables, Prawn toast with sweet chili sauce and Turkey puffs with cranberry jelly.? Wash it down with a cup of tea or coffee served any way you like. RS 3888 NETT for two.
Enjoy aperitifs before dinner, relaxing digestives after your meal, or a creative cocktail before you retire for the day whilst you enjoy live entertainment nightly at L.A.B (Lounge & Bar)from 8.00pm to MidnightSunday to Thursday and till 1.00am on Friday & Saturday.?Rock this Country? ? Monday / ?Alley Cats? - Tuesday / ?In-Focus? - Wednesday & Friday/? ?En Route? ? Thursday / ?Miracle with Kevin & Geoffrey Fernando? - Saturday? /?Funky Loops? ? Sunday.
Continue the festive celebrations with fine Italian flavors from an a la carte menu, packed with specialties, and a wine list to match, at the Il Ponte, and Japanese cuisine at the IkoiTei located at the Dutch Hospital Shopping Precinct.
Gather around a GRAZE Table with family and friends and have a holly jollyChristmas this year by dining in at Graze Kitchen with your family and friends and savor a scrumptious festive buffet. Relish a magnificent array of luscious international cuisines, a range of appetizers and salads, a traditional Christmas menu, desserts and much more.A Christmas Endless High Tea Buffetwith a delightful festive range of classic favs prepared by our award winning culinary team will be available on the 22nd December priced at Rs 2988nett. Two sittings I 12.30pm ? 2.30pm & 3pm ? 5pm
On the night before Christmas, enjoy the Christmas Eve gala dinner buffet with traditional fayre at GRAZE KITCHEN for Rs 8,888NETT per person. Christmas Day Lunchwill be a family festive buffet that will dazzle the eye and overwhelm the palate, with all your favorite seasonal specialties, to make sure everyone can celebrateaccording to taste; also priced at Rs8,888NETT. The Christmas Day dinner buffet will feature elegantly presented Christmas classics alongside a selection of international dishes catering to guests with discerning tastes.Rs 7,888NETT.Culinary magic is presented on New Year?s Eve with an abundant selection of international cuisines and holiday classics on the buffet at Graze Kitchen at Rs 8,888NETT per person.
And of course no holiday is complete without a visit to the Sri Lankan and Seafood restaurant; Curry Leaf at the Hilton Colombo.? Whilst enjoying live entertainment, indulge in luscious seafood prepared to order, accompanied by a buffet of exotic local fayre with a festive twist on
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and new year?s eve.7pm ?Midnight, Rs 4888NETT.
Celebrate in grand style on New Year?s Eve at L.A.B the lounge & bar, with a host of exciting activities to keep you on your toes throughout the evening. This event will ensure you celebrate welcoming 2019 in true Hilton style.Band BREXIT with Geoffrey Fernando will play from 7.00pm - 12.30am and DJs Perfect Beat from 12.30am - 4.00am. Minimum Charge Rs. 5,000/- nett redeemable for Food & Beverage.
Boogie the New Yearin at the POOLSIDEby stepping back in time and re-living the sounds of the 1980s to 2000s with classics from these epic decades. Includes an international dinner buffet, breakfast and entertainment with six top DJs; Kapila, Naushad, Bonnie, Thoshan, Hiranya? and Sushan.? Fireworks at midnight!Corkage FREE. 9pm onwardsRs 9888NETT.? 50% discount on buffet for children 6 ? 12 years.
Celebrate the last day of 2018, and ring in the start of the New Year amidst the lavish surrounds of the Grand Ballroom.? Enjoy a decadent assortment of delicious canapes and cocktails served from 8.30pm ? 9.30pm.? Dine on a gala international dinner buffet menu crafted by the talented Executive Chef Robert Mujagic and his team along with live entertainment, offering an elegant atmosphere to countdown to 2019. And at the dawn of the New Year, indulge in a traditional Sri Lankan breakfast inclusive of western favs.Glasses will never be empty for a toast with 5 bottles of Premium Spirits and Wine and soft drinks included.Rs 18,888NETT Bands are Flame & Doctor, compered by Adam Adamally, 9pm onwards.
For details on the special package for corporate year end get-togethers in an elegant air conditioned marquee, please contact the Conference & Events team on 2492492. Furthermore be a guest at your own party whilst the experienced outdoor catering team takes care of everything.
The hotel is busy as Santa?s elves, are working on an enticing array of events, treats and magical finishing touches to make your 2018 festive break even more memorable.The Christmas Coordinators will be available to assist you from 1st to 31st December from 10.00am to 10.00pmat the SPECIAL EVENTS DESK AT THE LOBBY. ?We encourage you to book early to ensure you get your favorite table? says Gigi. In conclusion she mentions that one could spread the light and warmth of Hospitality by gifting that special someone a Hilton Gift Voucher.?Vouchers are valid for dining at any of our restaurants or for overnight stays in a Suite or Deluxe Room?. Special offers are available for Children; up to 5 years of age dine free and a 50% saving for children from the ages of 6 to 12 years ? applicable for buffets only.
For more information please call 2492492/2544 644or e-mail: colombo@hilton.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hold General Election?
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 29 November 2018 01:20 pm
Hold General Election?
	
Voice of Cleary today launched a signature campaign at Fort urging the authorities to hold a General Election. Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe?
?
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: I have mutual understanding with Prez: Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:10 pm
I have mutual understanding with Prez: Speaker
	
 I have no issues talking with President Maithripala Sirisena and I can discuss any matter with him because we have mutual understanding, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said.
He said so responding to Parliamentarian Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe during Parliament sessions to day.
 
		
==============================
## Title: I won't contest any election: Mahanama
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 03:33 pm
I won't contest any election: Mahanama
	
Responding to social media reports that Roshan Mahanama would be contesting the upcoming elections, former Sri Lankan Cricketer said that he has no intention of contesting any election.
He said in a statement that he would never get himself involved in any kind of political activity.
?To my surprise, I have been informed that a false news item is circulating on social media stating that I will be contesting in the upcoming elections. Please note that I have no intention of contesting any election and I am very disappointed that incorrect information is being published in social media,? he said.
He said he had served the country to the best of his capacity as a cricketer and he wants to be very clear that he would never get himself involved in any kind of political activity.
?I will always support valid charities as a responsible citizen, as I feel that one should not try to make a difference in someone?s life by using political means. I also wish to emphasize that my reputation matters and I have certain principles and values in life that I treasure. Therefore, I am making a polite request to all social media users not to mislead the public and harm my reputation,? the statement further stated.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Implementing majority viewpoint is not democracy: EC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 04:01 pm
Implementing majority viewpoint is not democracy: EC
	
Implementing the viewpoint of the majority is not what we call democracy but democracy is to implement the views of the majority in such a way that it would not prejudice the minority, Election Commission (EC) Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya said.
He said this at the Galle District Secretariat today.
?We cannot call it democracy if the views of the majority are implemented at the cost of the minority viewpoint. Real democracy prevails only when minority rights are protected,? Mr. Deshapriya said.
He said the essence of true democracy is the franchise which should be carefully used.
?The elections should be carried out in a peaceful atmosphere without violating the franchise of the people. We often witness the franchise of the people being violated and misused,? Mr. Deshapriya said.?
?I request everybody to respect the views of others and to act in a peaceful manner without violating the rights of others,? he added.
?
Video by D.G.Sugatapala
 
		
==============================
## Title: Majority in House should be given power: Rathana Thera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 08:39 pm
Majority in House should be given power: Rathana Thera
	
MP Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera said today the faction which commands majority in parliament should be given powers to form a government and that the President could not halt?it.
The prelate told that parliament cannot be maintained without the confidence of majority.
"If someone from the UNP commands majority in parliament, President cannot halt?it. If we are for upholding democracy, parliament cannot be run without the confidence of the majority," he said.
The?Thera?said a caretaker government with all parties should be formed for a period of three to six months and go for an election as a solution to the current political standoff.
"This crisis cannot be resolved by blaming the President. When there was no agreement among the executive, legislature and the judiciary, it leads to political impasse," he said.
The issue of the electoral system leads to disagreement between the legislature and the judiciary, Ven. Rathana Thera added. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
Pic by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Motion curtailing funds of PM's office passed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:29 pm
Motion curtailing funds of PM's office passed
	
The motion presented to Parliament to curtail expenditure to the Office of the Prime Minister was passed in Parliament by a majority of 123 votes, with no opposition, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya announced a while ago,
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Motion on financial matters can't be moved by an MP: Dinesh
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 10:46 pm
Motion on financial matters can't be moved by an MP: Dinesh
	
Minister and Leader of the House Dinesh Gunawardane said today a motion on financial matters should be approved by the cabinet before presenting it in parliament according to section (152) of the constitution and said such a motion should be presented in the House only by a minister.
He told a news conference held at the parliament complex that there were no provisions for an opposition MP to present a motion to curtail expenditure of the Prime Minister in the house.
He said there was a case being heard in courts against the Prime minister and the government and thus there were no provisions to debate a motion being heard in courts either.
He said the Speaker had violated decisions of his Predecessor that matters being heard in courts could not be taken up for debate in the House.
Minister Gunawardane said the Speaker had violated the Constitution and Standing Orders by including a matter being taken up in courts in the order book for debate.
He said convening of Parliament yesterday was illegal and unconstitutional and added that they requested the Speaker to act according to the Constitution and Standing Orders.(Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
?
Video by Susantha
Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Motion passed!
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 29 November 2018 04:36 pm
Motion passed!
	
The motion which was presented to Parliament to curtail expenditure to the Office of the Prime Minister was passed today. UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe is seen here together with MP Lakshman Kiriella during the vote. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: New UNP led alliance to be registered soon-Ranil
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 07:54 am
New UNP led alliance to be registered soon-Ranil
	
The United National Party (UNP) together with other parties which stand for democracy will soon register a new political alliance, its Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe said yesterday.
Mr. Wickremesinghe said this when he met UNP members of local bodies at Temple Trees last evening. ?We will soon register a new political alliance which we will form together with all parties who stands for democracy and rule of law in the country,? Mr. Wickremesinghe said, adding, ?The objective of this alliance is to defeat and push those who stage coups out of politics.
He thanked all the parties which are working together with the UNP including the TPA, JHU, SLMC ACMC and MPs such as Rajitha Senaratne and Arjuna Ranatunga. He also thanked grassroot level members of the UNP. (Yohan Perera)
?
Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament adjourned till tomorrow
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:35 pm
Parliament adjourned till tomorrow
	
The parliament session was adjourned till?tomorrow?morning, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said. He said the session would be convened at 10.30 am.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament session commences
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 10:32 am
Parliament session commences
	
Today?s parliament session commenced a short while ago with Speaker Karu Jayasuriya in the chair.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders? meeting commenced
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 09:09 am
Party leaders? meeting commenced
	
A Party Leaders Meeting, chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya commenced at the Parliamentary complex a short while ago to discuss the today?s agenda in Parliament.
It was reported that the party leaders representing the Government have boycotted the party leaders? meeting.?
?
Video by Buddhi, Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez, SC cannot dispute Speaker?s rulings  Kiriella
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:00 am
Prez, SC cannot dispute Speaker?s rulings  Kiriella
	
Former Leader of the House, UNP MP Lakshman Kiriella, in an interview with Daily Mirror, speaks about the current political crisis and the way forward. He says the traditions of the British parliamentary system should be followed in case of ambiguity in our laws governing parliamentary affairs. He says the President should respect the opinion of the UNP parliamentary group in selecting someone as the Prime Minister as present PM Mahinda Rajapaksa does not have a parliamentary majority.
?
Sajith will play an important role. It would be something much more than before
	We are ready for the polls. In fact, our rank and file has been galvanized by this illegal act
	Any Prime Minister, chosen without an election, should immediately show his majority
	We have followed the Standing Orders laid down by Parliament to govern its businesses
Q There is a video clip going viral in the internet which shows Tamil National Alliance (TNA) MP M. A. Sumanthiran confronting you after a parliamentary vote last week. What happened actually?
After conducting the electronic voting, I wanted to ask for a division by name. Otherwise, anybody could accuse us of manipulating the vote electronically to inflate the number of votes. I did it at the behest by leader Ranil Wickremesinghe. But, Mr. Sumanthiran rushed to me and asked otherwise. He said names were appearing already on the scorecard. There is no truth in the allegation that the latter is influencing the political work of the UNP. It is a blatant lie.
Q In your view, how will this crisis end?
Now, it has been four weeks since Mahinda Rajapaksa had been appointed as Prime Minister. Up to now, he has failed to show the majority in Parliament. He does not have a mandate from the people to be the PM. He was appointed by the President. Then, he should show his parliamentary majority. It is the first thing he should have done. In the 1990s, there was a situation like this in India with four Prime Ministers being appointed in three years.
?The coalitions crashed there. When a new PM was appointed, he subjected himself to a floor test every time. This is the parliamentary tradition. You have to face the floor test. Unless he does a floor test, this will end up in anarchy.
Q What is your advice to sort this out unless the two parties are ready to back down from their respective positions?
Under Section 48(2) of the Constitution, if a no confidence motion is carried, the Cabinet and the Prime Minister cease to exist. Thereafter, the President should appoint a Prime Minister who commands the support of the majority members of Parliament. We submitted two no confidence motions. They were passed by Parliament. There are two ways of submitting motions. One is the regular way giving five-day notice. The other way is to suspend the Standing Orders and bring a motion. If Sri Lanka is on the verge of being invaded by a foreign country, we have to discuss it immediately.In emergency situations, you can suspend the Standing Orders.
Q Actually, there is no such emergency crisis like the one you mentioned. The government also argued that it should be brought only through the normal procedure. 
Why didn?t you follow the normal procedure giving five days? notice??
This was such an emergency situation. On November 13, the court issued a Stay Order. The court stayed dissolution of Parliament. Actually, the date fixed for Parliament to meet was November 14. We had only 24 hours. We had to decide soon.
Q However, there is no constitutional requirement for the new Prime Minister to subject himself to a floor test on the very first day. How do you counter that argument?
There are so many things not mentioned in the Constitution but accepted by tradition. According to the Parliamentary Privileges Act, we are bound by the rules of the British Parliament. Any Prime Minister, chosen without an election, should immediately show his majority.
Q They insist on the normal procedure. Are you ready to follow the normal procedure?
We have followed the Standing Orders laid down by Parliament to govern its businesses. Once the Speaker certifies something, either the Supreme Court or the President cannot question it. It is wrong for the President to question it. Now the Speaker has certified the two no confidence motions. The only way to nullify is to bring yet another motion and adopt it. We challenged Mahinda Rajapaksa to bring a counter motion if possible.
Q But, the President constantly refuses to accept the Speaker?s position. What is your view?
That is wrong. Under the Constitution, the President is responsible to Parliament. He cannot decide on his whims in selecting someone as the Prime Minister. He should respect the will of the UNP group in selecting someone from our side as the Prime Minister.
Q What is the alternative to come out of this crisis?
First, I told Mahinda Rajapaksa, ?You are a popular figure. To hang on to power without a majority is a blemish on your reputation?.
Q There was a suggestion from Mr. Rajapaksa to declare a general election. How prepared are you for it?
We are for an election. We are ready for it under a duly constituted government. This is not a duly constituted one. It is a rogue, unlawful government.
Q There is a school of thought Parliament cannot meet because of this Stay Order. What is your interpretation of this Stay Order??
If the dissolution is stayed, Parliament can meet. That is why we met on November 14. There can be various views. The most accepted one is that Parliament can meet.
?
Under the Constitution, the President is responsible to Parliament. He cannot decide on his whims in selecting someone as the Prime Minister. He should respect the will of the UNP group in selecting someone from our side as the Prime Minister
President Sirisena will never give it to Sajith. He is trying to divide our side. The UNP is not his private property. He has openly said that he was not keen on this. He is ready to come through an election. Only after he appointed Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister, he said he had offered premiership to Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and Sajith Premadasa first. He never discussed it?with us.
?
Q How ready is the UNP for an election as a party?
We are ready for it. In fact, our rank and file has been galvanized by this illegal act.
Q Are you ready for any compromise with the other side to pass a resolution asking for an election?
There is no compromise. We will not meet the President again. When we met him on November 15, he asked us to bring the same motion the following day.How can we bring it the same day without suspending the Standing Orders? The President accepted the suspension of the Standing Orders the same day.
Q There are media reports that MP Sajith Premadasa will be appointed as the Prime Ministerial candidate of the UNP next time. How credible is it?
President Sirisena will never give it to Sajith. He is trying to divide our side. The UNP is not his private property. He has openly said that he was not keen on this. He is ready to come through an election. Only after he appointed Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister, he said he had offered premiership to Speaker Karu Jayasuriya and Sajith Premadasa first. He never discussed it with us, though.
Q Do you think that the UNP needs a facelift at the next election?
Yes, Sajith will play an important role. It would be something much more than before.
Q There are reports about a common front being formed by the UNP. How true is it?
Yes, we are forming one.
Q Will it be registered under the diamond symbol?
Yes, it will be registered. The diamond is the most desired symbol. Still, discussions are underway. We are at the initial stage now. The idea is to start a political movement.
Q Would you agree to a common candidate?
We have not gone that far yet. The alliance will select the leader.
Q How soon would it happen?
It will happen very soon. We are planning a series of agitation campaigns. I want to tell you another. Secction 52 (3) of the Constitution says the Secretary to a Ministry shall cease to hold office upon the dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers. Our position is that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet stand dissolved now. The Secretaries cannot hold office now. If they hold office and execute illegal orders, they can be liable. Without a Secretary, there is no room for the implementation of the government policies. Financial regulations say that officials shall be held responsible personally to the government if he directs to perform anything without proper authority.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez to meet Opp. Leader, UNF leaders to resolve crisis
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 06:42 pm
Prez to meet Opp. Leader, UNF leaders to resolve crisis
	
President Maithripala Sirisena has assured Speaker Karu Jayasuriya to hold separate discussions with the Opposition Leader and the Leaders of the United National Front (UNF) tomorrow?evening to arrive at an immediate solution to the political instability, the Media Unit of the Speaker said today.
In a statement issued over the brief meeting which was held between Speaker Jayasuriya and the President at the Presidential Secretariat this?evening, the Media Unit said the Speaker has brought to the President's attention the current instability in the country.
"The Speaker told the President that all spheres of the country have become unstable today. He said the rapid depreciation of rupee and the collapsing of the investment sector and the tourism sector would be unbearable for the country. Therefore, the Speaker said that immediate solutions should be given to the instability to which the President responded positively. The President also commended the Speaker's contribution to find solutions," the statement said.
The Speaker met the President following many requests made by party leaders and other factions in Parliament today.
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Purported Government? spent Rs.840 mn on helicopter rides: Ravi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 29 November 2018 11:01 am
?Purported Government? spent Rs.840 mn on helicopter rides: Ravi
	
?The purported Government? had spent Rs.840 million on the helicopter rides for the last 21 days without considering the expenses, United national Party (UNP) MP Ravi Karunanayake said in parliament.
He said this while presenting the motion to curtail expenditure to the Office of Prime Minister.
?We have the legitimate authority to cease these types of alleged expenses and thus we are not hesitant to take such actions,? he added.??? ?
Pics by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sampath Bank Takes ?Obe Diyunuwata Ape MagaPenweema? Seminar to Kurunegala
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 29 November 2018 12:45 pm
Sampath Bank Takes ?Obe Diyunuwata Ape MagaPenweema? Seminar to Kurunegala
	
(From left) Mr. ThusharaWalawedura, Development Officer (Policy and Research), Import and Export Control Department;Mr. D. R. S. Hapuarachchi, Senior Commissioner, Department of Inland Revenue;Mr. C. S. AchalaChandrasekara, Deputy Director of Customs;Mrs. AyodhyaIddawela Perera, Deputy General Manager - Corporate Banking, Sampath Bank PLC;Mrs. ManoriKulasekera, Assistant Director, Sri Lanka Export Development Board (North Western Provincial Office); and Mr. R. H. R. W. Kamalsiri, Director General, Sri Lanka Customs speaking at the event.
The latest edition of ?Obe Diyunuwata Ape Maga Penweema?, the interactive seminars hosted by Sampath Bank for representatives of the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) sector, was held at the Kandyan Reach Hotel in Kurunegala recently. This is the fifth installment of the program which brings together representatives from the local SME community and related industry stakeholders to better address collective issues encountered by SMEs in the line of imports and exports.
Speakers at the event included Mr. D. R. S. Hapuarachchi - Senior Commissioner, Department of Inland Revenue; Mr. C.S. Achala Chandrasekara, Deputy Director of Customs; Mrs. Manori Kulasekera, Assistant Director, Sri Lanka Export Development Board (North Western Provincial Office); Mr. R. H. R. W. Kamalsiri, Director General, Sri Lanka Customs;Mr. ThusharaWalawedura, Development Officer (Policy and Research), Import and Export Control Department; and Mrs. AyodhyaIddawela Perera, Deputy General Manager - Corporate Banking, Sampath Bank PLC.
Addressing the representatives of the SMEsector from Kurunegala and surrounding areas who were present at the event, Mrs. AyodhyaIddawela Perera said, ?Small and medium enterprises contribute immensely to the development of this country. This is why, Sampath Bank, since inception, has supported these industrialists and provided them with the financial assistance they need to develop their businesses. These workshops, which we are now rolling out island wide, are yet another step we have taken in this direction. On behalf of the bank, I take this opportunity to show our appreciation to all these entrepreneurs from the SME sector for their efforts and dedication in aiding the development of our nation.?
(From left) Mr. R. H. R. W. Kamalsiri, Director General, Sri Lanka Customs;Mrs. AyodhyaIddawela Perera, Deputy General Manager - Corporate Banking, Sampath Bank PLC;and Mr. D. R. S. Hapuarachchi, Senior Commissioner, Department of Inland Revenue addressing the forum.
?
The Bank?s Trade Services Unit has been conducting the ?Obe Diyunuwata Ape Maga Penweema? knowledge sharing sessions since late 2017 and has already conducted seminars in Colombo, Galle, Kandy and Negombo with plans to hold such forums in key business centers around the island this year.Sampath Bank leverages its relationships to connect these businesses with one another as well as other relevant stakeholders through these seminars which bring together a host of government institutions and trade bodies. While the representatives from SME sector were able to voice their concerns on some of the minor nitty-gritties related to imports and exports with the other stakeholders, they were also delighted that the responses they received addressed these areas and will support them in their future endeavors.? ?
Established in 1987, Sampath Bank has become a state-of-the-art financial institution that continues to be a market leader today thanks to its constant innovation and customer focused approach to business. Its unique tailor-made solutions, superior services and convenience of access have allowed Sampath Bank to further differentiate itself from the competition, making it the bank of choice for many in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
