## Title: No connection to any political party: Kumar
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:09 am
No connection to any political party: Kumar
	
Cricket legend Kumar Sangakkara yesterday refused reports of him backing a certain political party and said that he has no affiliation with any political party.
In a tweet, he said he was disappointing to learn that his?comment on the Local Government (LG)?elections is being used by unscrupulous elements to say that he?supports?a certain political party.
?I have no connection to any party. I only hope any elected official will put our country first and not their party,? he said.
Disappointing to learn that my comment on the LG elections is being used by unscrupulous elements to say that I support a certain political party. I have no connection to any party. I only hope any elected official will put our country first and not their party.
? Kumar Sangakkara (@KumarSanga2) February 8, 2018
Remember at the Local Government Elections on the 10th of February no matter where you live in Sri Lanka ?bad officials are elected by good citizens who do not vote. ?
Stop, Think, Vote. pic.twitter.com/vrzatxha3N
? Kumar Sangakkara (@KumarSanga2) February 5, 2018
==============================
## Title: No night show at the zoo today, tomorrow and day after
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 05:35 pm
No night show at the zoo today, tomorrow and day after
	
The night show at the National Zoological Gardens in Dehiwela which came to be a tourist attraction in will not be held today, tomorrow and the day after because of the Local Government Elections, Zoological Gardens Director General Dammika Malsingha said today.
She said the night show being held from 7pm to 10pm has been cancelled because the Zoo employees had been deployed for election duty.
However, the Zoo will remain open from 8.30 am to 6 pm as usual.
Ms. Malsingha said the night show not being held would not inconvenience the nocturnal animals because there is sufficient staff to attend to the feeding of the animals.?
The night show will recommence from Monday. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: North Korea has military parade on eve of Olympics in South
## Section: International
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:18 pm
North Korea has military parade on eve of Olympics in South
	
?
North Korea held a military parade and rally on Kim Il Sung Square on Thursday, just one day before South Korea holds the opening ceremony for the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.
More than 10,000 troops trained for the parade at a military airfield for several weeks and residents had practiced in plazas around the North Korean capital with bouquets of plastic flowers to spell out slogans during the parade.
A South Korean government official said tens of thousands of people participated or watched the parade on Thursday morning in Pyongyang. It wasn?t clear if Kim Jong Un spoke during the event, as he has on previous prominent national events.
The South Korean official also says it wasn?t immediately clear whether North Korea displayed strategic weapons such as intercontinental ballistic missiles during the parade. The official didn?t want to be named, citing office rules.
The North had said the parade and rally would mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of its military.
Feb. 8 has been seen as a less important founding anniversary but was elevated this year in part because it is the 70th a nice round number.
But the Olympics undoubtedly weighed heavily in the decision to elevate the occasion, and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is going out of his way to make sure the North will hold attention throughout the games.
Following a last-minute proposal during Mr. Kim?s annual New Year?s address, North Korea is sending 22 athletes to compete and a delegation of more than 400 musicians, singers, martial artists and cheering squads to the games.
Mr. Kim is also dispatching his younger sister, Kim Yo Jong, to attend the opening ceremony. That in itself is a major development she is one of his closest confidants, holds a senior party position and her trip will mark the first time any member of the ruling Kim family has visited the South since the Korean War.
THE HINDU, 08th FEBRUARY, 2018
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Novel way of offering the ?liquor bribe?
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:50 am
Novel way of offering the ?liquor bribe?
	
?
A local poll candidate in the Kandy district has distributed among his constituents a chit to be used as a token to buy a specific quantity of liquor from a wine shop in the locality.?
?
Villagers keen on enjoying a free drink in the evening are seen queuing up at the candidate?s residence to receive the ?bar tokens? these days, they say.
The candidate?s active supporters who would linger about his residence for hours on end at previous polls would now disappear from the scene as soon as they receive their liquor token, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Police still uncertain of Udayanga?s claim
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 04:46 pm
Police still uncertain of Udayanga?s claim
	
Police said today they had not been officially informed of the claim made by former envoy to Russia,Udayanga Weeratunga that he was released by INTERPOL.
Police Media Spokesman Ruwan Gunasekara told a media conference that the delegation sent to Abu Dhabi to bring back Mr.Weeratunga to Sri Lanka was still holding discussions with the authorities on this matter.
Despite the warrant issued by INTERPOL on request made by the Sri Lankan government, a delegation had been dispatched to bring back the ex-diplomat based on the bilateral understanding and the diplomatic relations between the two countries. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rights groups voice concern over Maldives
## Section: International
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:17 pm
Rights groups voice concern over Maldives
	
?
THE HINDU, 08th FEBRUARY, 2018-Amid growing calls internationally for the Maldivian government to abide by the rule of law, human rights organisations working in the region have strongly condemned the recent developments in the Indian ocean island.
South Asians for Human Rights (SAHR) said it was ?deeply concerned? at the political crisis engulfing the Maldives, following President Abdulla Yameen?s increasingly ?authoritarian and undemocratic actions?.
It said, ?Mr. Yameen stands accused of multiple charges of corruption and human rights violations? ? allegations that he has denied in the past ? the human rights organisation noted that the strongman President has been ?politically isolated.?
The Maldives has been witnessing a heightening political crisis since February 1 when the Supreme Court delivered a major ruling ordering the release of nine Opposition leaders, including exiled former President Mohamed Nasheed. On February 5, Mr. Yameen declared a state of emergency, citing ?security concerns.? While the Chief Justice and a Supreme Court judge were arrested soon after, the remaining three judges on Tuesday annulled the portion of the order releasing dissident leaders.
SAHR chairperson Sultana Kamal said in a statement that Mr. Yameen?s actions attacked two key pillars of liberal democracy ? Parliament and the judiciary. ?These acts show blatant disregard for rule of law and have justly drawn both international criticism and local protests in Male.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sarvodaya Development Finance: Unfolding the success story of a pioneer in microfinance
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:22 am
Sarvodaya Development Finance: Unfolding the success story of a pioneer in microfinance
	
Sarvodaya Development Finance Ltd (SDF), a brainchild of the globally renowned Sarvodaya Movement, is a financial firm specialised in empowering the grassroot communities with financial solutions. Staying abreast of modern technology and innovation, SDF has created new avenues and continuously supported the growth of aspiring micro, small and medium entrepreneurs throughout the island. In retrospect of its significant milestones and achievements, Chief Executive Officer of Sarvodaya Development Finance Dharmasiri Wickramatilaka elaborated on the journey of a pioneer in micro finance industry.
Can you share some of the turning points and milestones of SDF?
SDF is the brainchild of Sarvodaya Movement, a globally recognised non-governmental organisation engaged in social work and economic development at grassroot level. Since its inception in 1958 from Kanatholuwa village in Kurunegala, Sarvodaya Movement has been serving the communities to uplift their living standards. By the 70s and 80s, the services further expanded with the establishment of Sarvodaya Shramadhana Societies, entities that functioned as back-banks, supporting the community by lending money, and facilitating deposits. With the 2010 law imposed by the Central Bank, it was compulsory for all organisations accepting deposits to register as a financial institute. This was a major turning point which saw to the birth of Sarvodaya Development Finance.
What are your thoughts on the evolution of SDF?
SDF?s predecessor SEEDS (Sarvodaya Economic Empowerment Development Service), was a firm specialised in lending money to develop the grassroots. SEEDS later evolved into Deshodaya Development Finance Company Limited (DDFC), which implemented capacity building leadership development and entrepreneurship development. DDFC also undertook discussions of community issues and submission of proposals to relevant authorities. Following a momentous growth attained over a period of three years, DDFC was later re-branded as Sarvodaya Development Finance, with a renewed mission to empower the grassroots on a broader scale.
How do you differentiate SDF from other leading financial institutions?
Unlike many financial institutes, SDF is not solely profit driven. 80 percent of SDF?s ownership goes to Sarvodaya Movement while another 20 percent is backed by philanthropic investors from Japan. Inspired by the magnanimous objectives of Sarvodaya Movement, SDF returns its profits back to the society to uplift the living standards of rural communities. Sarvodaya maintains nine Children?s Homes including the Masevana Home for Teenage Mothers, five centres for differently-abled persons, and three Elders? Homes through its government approved charity arm - Suwasetha Sewa Society. The society also manages a Kidney Patients? Home in Anuradhapura, which provides free accommodation and care for patients receiving dialysis.
How do you best describe your company?s expertise in Microfinance?
SDF is strongly backed by Sarvodaya Movement?s cumulative expertise spanning over half a century.? Sarvodaya has proactively supported the growth of numerous enterprises and trained hundreds of individuals in microfinance sector. We are truly happy to observe the career progress of those trained by us, where some of them have already reached the pinnacle of their careers in the financial industry.
How do you view SDF expanding its services to the MSME sector?
Many Sri Lankans belong to the financially exclusive society, and are not eligible to receive financial support from mainstream banks and financial firms. SDF has played a major role to uplift their lives, by offering proper guidance and financial support. We offer Micro enterprise loans, enabling microfinance firms to gradually grow into medium size industries. Therefore, to stay ahead of the competition while driving our customers towards a niche market, SDF expanded its services from micro finance to MSME sector.
As a financial institution proactively engaged in grassroots development, what are the?
special products and services offered by SDF?
Our products are categorised mainly by consumption and enterprise requirement. SDF has introduced a gamut of products including micro loans, SME loans, leasing, personal loans, pawning, saving accounts and fixed deposits in addition to Lanka Money Transfer and Western Union. ?Apu Gaman Cash? is a special leasing scheme for three wheel owners to streamline their transactions. We also offer a host of saving options including fixed deposits and the most popular fixed saver accounts, which facilitates monthly saving for a period of time and eventually converts into a fixed deposit.
Can you elaborate on the achievements of SDF?
At SDF, we strongly believe in good governance, transparency and integrity. We are 100 percent compliant with the Central Bank regulations and this is reflected in all our financial reports. We have won the Compliance Award for three consecutive years at the annual award ceremony organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. SDF won the Compliance Merit Award in 2015-2016, and Silver Award in 2016-2017 (for companies with assets less than Rs.20 billion). As a relatively small finance company in the industry, this is indeed a significant recognition and achievement for SDF.
How does SDF cope with the technological advancement in the financial sector?
Inevitably we are all moving towards a digital era. SDF too has embraced modern technology to bring greater convenience to our customers. We have introduced mCash platform, in partnership with Mobitel, to streamline our existing collection process and provide a fully secure environment to perform transactions round the clock. mCash also helps boosting overall checks and balance in the company, and we plan to expand this service for deposits as well. We have also facilitated our customers with the convenience of performing withdrawals from any ATM across the island.
What are the future plans of SDF?
In order to bridge the growing skill gap among employees, we have planned special internal training programmes for our staff to cope with the modern day technological challenges. We are also developing a virtual bank system, to accept customer enquiries and provide prompt feedback via online.?
With its aim to become a truly development bank in due course, we at SDF continue to uplift the MSME sector while going the extra mile to support the growth and development of the financially inclusive communities.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Second US shutdown in 2018 begins
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:15 pm
Second US shutdown in 2018 begins
	
The US government has shut down for the second time this year after Congress failed to pass a key budgetary measure on time, BBC reported a short while ago.
Lawmakers had hoped to approve a new spending bill before federal funding expired at midnight.
However, Republican Senator Rand Paul has ended hopes for a quick vote when he demanded a debate in the chamber on his amendment to maintain spending caps.
In January, a similar failure to pass a bill led to a three-day government shutdown.
The federal Office of Personnel Management said government operations would "vary by agency".
"Employees should refer to their home agency for guidance on reporting for duty," it said in a brief statement.
Both the Senate and the House of Representatives need to approve the new two-year spending deal.
The shutdown was essentially guaranteed an hour before the deadline, when the Senate voted for a recess until 00:01.
Despite the delays, the Senate is due to vote on the budgetary measure after 01:00. The House will not vote on the deal until the Senate approves it.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL says Udayanga was released, prevented leaving UAE
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 06:07 pm
SL says Udayanga was released, prevented leaving UAE
	
The government today confirmed that former Sri Lankan Ambassador to Russia?Udayanga Weeratunga has been released by the UAE authorities but he has been prevented from leaving the territory of the UAE?until investigations are concluded.
In a joint statement, the Foreign Affairs Ministry and the Law and Order Ministry said Mr. Weeratunga was intercepted in the UAE on Sunday 4th of February 2018 when he attempted to leave to the United States.
?This arrest was made on the basis of a ?Blue Notice? issued by the Interpol. The purpose of this notice was to trace and locate Mr. Weeratunga ?as a person of interest in a criminal investigation?. However, as the law in the UAE and the rules governing Interpol ?blue notice? prevented the continued detention of Mr. Weeratunga, he had been released by the UAE authorities subsequently,? the statement said.
It said Mr. Weeratunga?presently remains in the UAE?and the Police in the UAE are investigating this matter. ?Mr. Weeratunga has been prevented from leaving the territory of the UAE until the conclusion of these investigations,? he said.
In the meantime, the FCID, which is investigating the allegations and complaints against Mr. Weeratunga in Sri Lanka, are working with the Interpol in Abu Dhabi on this case, the government said.?
?The Sri Lankan Embassy in Abu Dhabi has also retained Lawyers in the UAE specializing in immigration matters to advice the Government of Sri Lanka on this matter. Moreover, a delegation of Sri Lankan officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Attorney General?s Department and the FCID are presently in the UAE having discussions with the concerned authorities in the UAE with the aim of having Mr. Weeratunga deported to Sri Lanka to answer the allegations leveled against him,? the statement said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLFP candidate goes missing
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 03:30 pm
SLFP candidate goes missing
	
W. P. S Kurera, a female candidate contesting for the Wennappuwa Pradeshiya Sabha through the additional list of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, has been reported missing as of yesterday.
A complaint was lodged at the Wenappuwa Police by her husband today claiming that the mother of two was admitted to the Marawila Base Hospital on February 5 and that she went missing on February 8. (Jude Samantha)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Voting is your right won by your forefathers in 1931
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:00 am
Voting is your right won by your forefathers in 1931
	
In 1978 the first-past-the-post system was changed to a proportional representation system or PR system.?
??In the PR system you vote for a party, and for the candidate of your choice. Furthermore the PR system increased the division within our people, in addition to main political parties, to candidates within parties, ethno-politics and many other factions.
?Your dislike to the PR system gathered momentum and your voice of dissent to the PR system was heard, and now it is changed to the first- past-the-post system. So, for the first time voter and for many others who voted for the first time after 1978, this is going to be a new experience, as you are going to select the candidate of your choice, not the choice of the party hierarchy.??
?Take this opportunity and exercise you?re voting right and pay homage to our forefathers who convinced our colonial masters that our people are ready to exercise universal adult franchise, and was given this right in 1931 even before India. This will convince the political powers that you are part of all decision making for Sri Lanka and after this, they will make sure to consult you, the voters, when any crucial national decision is taken.?
This local government election is as important as a national election, as it has the power to change the course of an elected government to sit back and change in to a system you aspire to be
Hence, this local government election is as important as a national election, as it has the power to change the course of an elected government to sit back and change in to a system you aspire to be. Furthermore, it will bring balance and checks, as those opposing a government may get power in some local government areas. Hence, as much as the government in power they too will exercise some power to make your aspirations come true.? ?
This will act as a yardstick for you, when you vote next time in a national election.??
Women have been voting since 1931, however, there participation in decision making on crucial matters, outside their families, is lacking. This system is further improved by increasing the participation of women in this decision making process.? ?
This is the beauty of this system.? ?
You may think one vote --your vote -- may not make a huge difference.?
But millions of? ?one vote? sure will.??
 
		
==============================
## Title: When blood refuses to clot
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:27 pm
When blood refuses to clot
	
?
Blood is an essential life sustaining component in our bodies. Recall the last time you experienced a cut or injury to your body. It would most likely have been a small? wound. Remember how the blood initially discharged fast, then slowed down and stopped completely. All this happened during a short span of a few minutes. Our bodies have mechanisms to keep the blood from leaking out of the vessels. But there are certain conditions where this mechanism fails and even a small wound could be fatal. These conditions are called bleeding disorders. Today in Health Capsule, we present an interview done with Dr.K.A.C Wickramaratne, Consultant Haematologist and Senior Lecturer at the Faculty of Medicine, Karapitiya, during which he spoke at length when answering questions about bleeding disorders.?
?
Q What is Haemostasis?? ?
In order to carry out its functions optimally, blood should be maintained as a fluid inside the vessel and should clot immediately if the vessel is damaged. If blood form solid ?clots? inside blood vessels, it may lead to death of the patient. In such instances death will come in the form of a heart attack or a brain attack. On the other hand, when a blood vessel is damaged bleeding has to stop immediately which happens as a result of the forming of a blood clot at the site of injury. If this doesn?t happen the person would bleed out. There should be a delicate balance between the two because a slight tip of balance either way could be fatal. This process is called haemostasis.? ?
Q How does a wound stop bleeding following an injury?? ?
Clotting of blood after a vessel is damaged is a complex process with the participation of multiple factors. To make a long story short, von Willebrand factor (vWF), a special protein in blood, binds to a protein called collagen in the damaged site. This makes way for platelets, the small disc like particles in the blood to come and bind at the site, which then attracts more platelets to the site. So, a blood clot is formed, blocking the leaking of blood.? ?
To make the platelet plug solid and retainable, a crisscrossing meshwork of fibrin is formed as a result of a cascade activating a series of proteins in plasma, called coagulation proteins. This process, called coagulation, stops the bleeding completely, anchoring the platelet clump. The final process looks after the healing of the wound, which includes the gradual breakage of the anchoring meshwork that is replaced by vessel wall tissues.? ?
Q What happens during a bleeding disorder?? ?
A bleeding disorder is any problem in the factors or components required for the complete clot formation. That includes platelets, von Willebrand factor, collagen and all the coagulation factors.? ?
?These can have two problems; reduced concentration below the required levels and the defective function of the factor.? ?
These diseases are commonly acquired due to diseases in the body. E.g.: platelets are reduced when dengue fever is present. Coagulation proteins reduce to levels below normal. This condition occurs during liver disease such as cirrhosis. When these components are not adequate or not working appropriately, people experience bleeding disorders. Some of these conditions are acquired in later life or may be coming from generations down as l (inherited) diseases. Low platelets can also be seen with blood cancers or related diseases. The platelet function can also be inhibited by drugs taken for heart attacks such as apirin, clopidogrel, dipyridamole etc.? ?
Q How do these patients present?? ?
The patients present with excessive and unusual bleeding, including heavy bleeding from a minor injury or during some instances spontaneous. They may complain of bleeding on the skin with no trauma or unusual blood stains in saliva, blood in urine, nose bleeds etc. Women can have heavy periods; a condition called menorrhagia.? ?
When platelets or vWF is present in blood? in very low amounts or if these are defective, bleeding occurs mainly into the skin and mucosa. Dot like bleeding patches, bleeding from gums, nasal bleeding, big patches of bleeding spots and profuse bleeding following trauma are common in these patients.? ?
When coagulation factors are defective or less, bleeding usually occurs some time after. This type of bleeding is seen as bleeding into joints (haemarthrosis) or big bleeds into muscles (haematoma).? ?
A typical story in many patients with this condition is heavy bleeding following a tooth extraction. If the bleeding is immediate it is most likely due to a problem in platelets or vWF. If there was no bleeding issue after extraction and if the patient starts bleeding some times later, this is usually a problem in coagulation factors.? ?
?
Q What are the common bleeding disorders seen today?? ?
Von Willebrand Disease
This is the commonest out of all the bleeding disorders, with one in hundred individuals having the disease. It is inherited and may go unnoticed as ?something normal? in the family; specially among females. For instance the women in these families tend to have heavier menstrual periods than normal.? ?
Haemophilia?
This is a very rare disease, with only around 2000 patients being present in all of Sri Lanka. Haemophilia occurs due to a deficiency of some coagulation factors. Commonly it is the deficiency of factor VIII or IX (different factors are named with roman letters). This disease is transmitted from genes; ex: mother to son. Females generally do not have main disease. Therefore, maternal uncles with bleeding problem could be indicative of haemophilia. These patients can present at toddler age, with bleeding into joints when trying to stand.? ?
Q? How do you treat patients with bleeding disorders?? ?
Patient education on various bleeding patterns is vital during treatment.? ?
Coagulation defects such as haemophilia can be treated by giving periodic injections. Nowadays patients are trained to receive injections at home. In main hospitals haematologists have established haemophilia day centres to provide better care for such patients. These patients should be advised to avoid contact sports and to keep away from risky behaviours.? ?
Platelet problems demand proper identification of the underlying disease. Steroids may be prescribed during some immune diseases.? ?
They should not take Aspririn or related drugs without proper consultation of a doctor due to the risk of bleeding. They should always alert the doctor about their condition whenever they seek medical care.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: When political voices shoot down experts? view
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:00 am
When political voices shoot down experts? view
	
The population growth and urbanization attract much interest, but at the same time are major concerns that have a mutual nexus. As estimated, nearly four million people are living in urban areas in Sri Lanka today.
?Researchers state that the figures are expected to grow up to 6.8 million by 2030. The national population is growing at the rate of 1.0 percent annually, whereas the urban population is growing at a higher rate of 3.0 percent, official statistics reveal. The current urban population is distributed throughout 134 cities and towns, 17 Municipal Councils and 38 Urban Councils. There are 52 cities with more than 50, 000 people living in each. The country?s urban population consists of 15 percent of the total. It will reach 30-35 percent by the year 2030 and over 50 percent by 2050, respectively.
Renowned Urban Sociologist at the University of Colombo Dr. Chandrasiri Niriella, during an interview with the Daily Mirror discussed about the current urbanization issue in Sri Lanka and its concerns. He further aired his views about Megapolis development plan and the Chinese-funded Port City project.
?Dr. Niriella recently launched a book titled ?Sociology of Housing and Sustainable Urban Development?. His research work has been based on urban studies particularly in cities, urban housing, urban neighbourhoods and ethnic harmony in Sri Lanka. Dr.Niriella authored the book, Urban Housing Policy in Sri Lanka(2010); Ethnic Strife and Urban Neighborhood Ties (2010); Urban Poor (2012); Sociological Study of City (2012); A Guide for Research Proposal Writing (2013); and, Urban Sociology(2014), and various research articles in urban studies.?
?Invisible City? and the urban poor
An invisible city, defined by Urban Sociologist Niriella, refers to the people whom we walk pass everyday in cities and towns, but who often go unnoticed by many. It includes the urban poor, beggars, homeless people, prostitutes, the elderly, disabled people, alcoholics and drug addicts.? ?
?Among tall buildings, vehicles and nicely dressed middle-class and capital-class people, the above mentioned people are paid little or no attention. I am concerned about them as to how they could be welcomed into the urbanization and all other social changes,? he said.? ?
He noted that the ?benefits? received by urban elites, to exclude the poorest groups which he referred to as ?invisible city?. He opined that the homeless in cities are living with many issues including very poor living conditions, high levels of overcrowding and deprivations (water, sanitation, health care, schools).? ?
On the other hand, such people- who have no proper source of income- are always at a risk of eviction from their informal settlements or temporary camps, he said.? ?
He stated that the problems of urban poverty are rooted due to inadequate Government policies and a poor state of planning for urban growth and management.? ?
Housing issue
The major problem caused by population growth and urbanization is housing space. In fact, Sri Lanka is having a critical housing problem.? ?
As statistics indicate, 51 percent of the Colombo?s total population still lives in slums. These places are known as shanties. On the other hand, housing complexes are mushrooming all over the country. It is reported that a considerable number of such condominiums don?t meet the required standards and the constructors ignore the social, environmental and geological matters pertaining to the expectant residents of those condominiums. At this rate, no doubt, the demand for houses and urban infrastructure is expanding rapidly with the population growth and urbanization.?
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa also introduced his plan Mahinda Chinthanaya in 2010. He vowed to develop the country as a fivefold centre in terms of navigation, aviation, knowledge, energy and commercial
According to a study carried by Dr. Niriella, the following are factors for migration of people to the condominiums.? ?
?(1) Opportunities are plentiful to enjoy the benefits of many facilities available because the city of Colombo is the main commercial and administration centre of Sri Lanka.? ?
(2) Living in Colombo helps parents to admit their children to popular or leading schools
.? ?
(3) Business opportunities are plentiful in Colombo, hence living there facilitates easy access to diverse kinds of businesses.? ?
(4) Transport facilities are ready to reach the state and private sector places of employment.
? ?
(5) People find it easier and more profitable to buy a house in a housing complex instead of building a house.? ?
(6) Land disputes, different kinds of private clashes and conflicts, abuse and insults identifiable as a common feature in a rural society are completely absent in a housing complex. This is because all houses in a housing complex are built according to approved plan on blocked out lend with a limited space.? ?
Dr. Niriella pointed out that in such a background as discussed in the preceding pages, the increase of land prices in urban areas and the corresponding increase of prices of building material are phenomenally inevitable.? ?
He said that there would be many environmental problems due to the gathering of large number of people in cities.?
?
?
He pointed out that in such a background as discussed in the preceding pages, the increase of land prices in urban areas and the corresponding increase of prices of building material are phenomenally inevitable.? ?
?
He added that there would be many environmental problems due to the gathering of a large number of people in cities.? ?
?
Development plans?
Dr. Niriella, recalled the efforts made by several previous governments in order to launch urban development plans in the country.? ?
?The Presidential Task Force appointed in 1998 by Former President Chandrika Kumaratunga, to look into the urban issues, was also unsuccessful,? he said.? ?
The national population is growing at the rate of 1.0 percent annually
The current urban population is distributed throughout 134 cities and towns, 17 Municipal Councils and 38 Urban Councils
The country?s urban population consists of 15 percent of the total
Since 2000, there had been a development plan, introduced by National Physical Planning Department. According to the plan, there had been five regions concerned which included Western metro, Southern metro, Eastern metro, North Central metro and Northern metro.? ?
?Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa also introduced his plan Mahinda Chinthanaya in 2010. He vowed to develop the country as a fivefold centre in terms of navigation, aviation, knowledge, energy and commercial. We don?t know what happened to his plan after his defeat in his third re-electing attempt,? he said.? ?
Dr.Niriella claimed that many development plans, projects and programmes done by professionals for many Government still remain as they had not been launched properly.? ?
?Our politicians neglected the professionals? opinions and worked according to their wishes and political agendas. Our politicians are not willing to listen to intellectuals like us.? ?
?The lack of cooperation shown by Sri Lankan politicians when working with professionals in the country?s journey towards development, has created many problems to the people and the country,? he emphasized.? ?
Megapolis
Asked his view about the current Government?s Megapolis plan, which is basically about three cities -including City of Information Technology in Malabe, City of Habour in Colombo and Industrial City in Katunayake- Dr.Niriella said that the project which is obviously a political programme would not be a success.? ?
?My opinion is that if some politician wants to work for the country, he or she should bring all stakeholders together. Otherwise, it is merely a waste of time, money and labour. Further, the country needs a holistic development plan, not a micro level plan like Megapolis,?he opined.
Our politicians neglected the professionals? opinions and worked according to their wishes and political agendas. Our politicians are not willing to listen to intellectuals like us
He underscored that in order to launch such a massive development plan, the country should have a strong Government, adding that there is no such Government at the moment.? ?
Although it is good that both the main political parties have joined, what?s unfortunate is that there are many disputes and disparities among the leaders, he opined.? ?
Asked whether the Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development has ever sought his advice and instructions, he replied in the negative.
? ?
Underlining the importance of a research culture, he said that research on urban development in Sri Lanka is inadequate. He added that there is a gap between scientific research and public policies in Sri Lanka and it doesn?t let research information reach the public.? ?
Port City
After the controversial Chinese-funded Port City project is completed, it is expected to make a huge impact on all the hotels located within Colombo. As a result Colombo city business will also collapse, Urban Sociologist Niriella observed.? ?
?China didn?t come here to support us or extend friendship. They came here as a result of links with the Former President Rajapaksa. Existing issues with India also made China to gain a foothold in Sri Lanka. India didn?t help us as our leaders expected which made them to seek help from China. China and Pakistan have close relationships. If China wants to launch an attack on India by any chance, gaining a strong foothold in the nearest country to India makes it easier for them. They are in Colombo, Hambantota and almost everywhere,?said Niriella.?
He said that Sri Lanka has become a victim of Asia?s most powerful country China and South Asia?s most powerful country India.? ?
He outlined that the country could overcome the problems with a solid plan and all parties have to join hands together, setting aside personal agendas.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: When  treating  lower back pain
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 01:19 pm
When  treating  lower back pain
	
?
Lower back pain is a common problem, so if you suffer from it, you are not alone. Managing low back pain may not be simple. You need to be aware of a number of factors which will help you decide what to do to in terms of treatment. This week Health Capsule spoke to Dr. Sujeewa Weerasinghe, National Organizer of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapists, to bring you more knowledge on how to cure lower back pain.? ?
Lower back pain affects people of all ages from children to the elderly. This ailment is a frequent reason for patients to seek medical consultations. The 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study estimated that low back pain is among the top 10 diseases and injuries that account for the highest number of DALYs (The Disability-Adjusted Life Years) worldwide.??
It is difficult to predict when? lower back pain will occur. The first episode of this ailment can come when you are a boy or during adulthood.? And after being diagnosed with lower back pain the symptoms tend to recur over a period of time. The lifetime prevalence of lower back pain is estimated at 60% to 70% in industrialized countries (one-year prevalence 15% to 45%, adult incidence 5% per year). The prevalence rate for children and adolescents is lower compared to adults, but is rising. Prevalence increases and peaks between the ages of 35 and 55. As the world?s population ages, lower back pain will increase substantially due to the deterioration of the intervertebral discs in older people. In most instances of lower back pain, the problem may settle within a few weeks. However, many people are still affected by pain in some way throughout the year. Flare-ups are also very common. Though you recover despite not taking medication it is advised that you seek medical assistance.??
Causes?
The back is a complicated structure comprising bones, joints, ligaments and muscles. You can sprain ligaments, strain muscles, rupture disks, and irritate joints, all of which can lead to back pain. While sports injuries or accidents can cause back pain, sometimes the simplest of movements?for example, picking up a pen from the floor? can have painful results. In addition, arthritis, poor posture, obesity, and psychological stress can cause or complicate back pain. Back pain can also directly result from disease of the internal organs, such as kidney stones, kidney infections, and blood symptoms.??
Signs and symptoms are: Muscle ache, shooting or stabbing pain and pain that radiates down your leg.??
Back pain for many people is often experienced as a pain or discomfort located between the lower ribs and buttocks with or without the addition of leg pain.? Symptoms can range from muscle ache to shooting pain, limited movement, altered walking and difficulty in standing straight. If sciatica occurs along with a back problem, nerve pressure is experienced as pain that radiates down the leg and possibly into the ankle or foot. A sensation of being pricked with pins and? needles and even numbness can be felt.??
Acute lower back pain generally lasts for a few days to weeks and is usually caused as a result of trauma or arthritis. Lower back pain that persists for longer than 3 months is considered chronic.??
Back exercises are almost always necessary to rehabilitate the spine and alleviate back pain. A controlled, gradual exercise program that is tailored to an individual is usually the most effective. Limited flexibility or range of motion of the back lots, or bone loss cause lower back pain. A typical response to back pain is to take it easy either by staying in bed or least refraining from performing any strenuous activity.?
A frequent question asked is why the lower back is so prone to injury?? ??
The lower back is subject to injury while lifting a heavy object, twisting, or when forced to do a sudden movement. Any one of these activities can cause the muscles or ligaments to stretch or develop microscopic tears. Over a period of time, poor posture or repetitive stress can also lead to muscle strain or other soft tissue problems. And while muscle strain sounds simple, pain in the lower back area can be severe.??
Relieving pain
Physiotherapy can help you overcome lower back pain. Physical Therapy (PT) involves treatments that focus on prevention and management of injuries or disabilities. PT helps to relieve pain, promote healing and restore function and movement.??
PT is practiced by a professionally trained physical therapist. A physical therapist is a specialist skilled and educated specifically in evaluating and conservative management. The goal of physiotherapy is to restore pain-free movement and to help you maintain this improvement long-term. Physiotherapists use a range of modalities to achieve these goals. These can encompass things such as hands-on type treatment, exercise therapy, dry needling or electrical modalities to name a few. Recovery can take time and can be related to various factors. These include the severity of the problem and also the state of your tissue prior to injury. For example, if you are a 55-year-old manual worker, your spinal tissue may be degenerated (worn out) prior to injury. This may mean a slower recovery than in a 21-year-old with less degenerative changes in the spine. Other contributing factors can include your general health, your weight, whether you are a smoker, your fitness and if you suffer from depression. One of the biggest risk factors in suffering a back injury is a previous back problem. You need to continue with general fitness and do ?core? exercises long after you recover from your back injury. This helps? prevent lower back pain from recurring.
?Another popular question asked is how Physical Therapy is used to treat pain? An important aspect to keep in mind about physical therapy and pain relief is that each individual may respond differently to therapy. People have different types of bodies, different patterns of movement and different habits. Physical therapists and their trained staff can monitor each individual and correct improper habits and movement patterns.??
A therapist may focus on decreasing pain using either passive or active therapy.?
Examples of passive physical therapy include:?
Manual therapies, Heat/ice packs and Electrical stimulation (including TENS units) and Ultrasound.??
Examples of active physical therapy include: Movement based activities, including stretching and range of motion exercises, Specific strengthening exercises, Pain relief exercises and Low-impact aerobic conditioning.??
Posture and work
Your posture and the work you do can contribute to the development of lower back problems. Prolonged sitting, working in a bent forward position and heavy or repeated lifting can all be factors in you developing a back problem. These need to be addressed if you want good results.??
Benefits of exercise
When done in a controlled, progressive manner under the supervision of Physiotherapist, exercises for relieving back pain have many benefits. They include: Strengthening the muscles that support the spine, removing pressure from the spinal discs and facet joints, alleviating stiffness and improving mobility, improving circulation to better distribute nutrients through the body (including the spinal discs), and releasing endorphins (which can naturally relieve pain). A frequent release of endorphins can help reduce reliance on pain medication. Endorphins can also elevate mood and relieve depressive symptoms, a common effect of chronic pain.??
Resting for more than a day or two can actually undermine healing and worsen pain. Engaging in exercise and fitness activities helps keep the back healthy by allowing the discs to exchange fluids which is how the discs receive nutrition. A healthy disc will swell with water and squeeze it out, similar to the action of a sponge.?
Exercising using a prescription?
An effective exercise program targeting the back should be comprehensive. It should work the whole body even as it targets the back. Exercise can be thought of in the similar manner like any other health prescription: A qualified health professional will customize exercise based on a variety of factors.?
These factors typically include: The clinical diagnosis, whether pain is considered mild, moderate, or severe, whether the pain relief is necessary to tolerate activity and the frequency of prescribed exercises.??
Maintaining exercise program?
Adherence to exercise is one of the most important factors for long term pain relief. However, maintaining an exercise programme can be difficult for a variety of reasons, including pain worsening with activity, economic constraints and low motivation. In one study, the most common reason for lack of adherence to exercise was increased pain caused by activity. When this is the case, an exercise professional can incorporate pain reduction and management as primary parts of the exercises.?
?
Tips to prevent pain
Exercise your core. Strong core muscles are important to provide support for the lower back and avoid injury. Low-impact cardiovascular exercise?like exercise walking?increases blood flow to the spine, which supplies healing nutrients and hydration to the structures in your lower back.??
Correct your posture.?
? ?Poor posture places pressure on your back and can cause degenerated discs to become more painful. Support the natural curve in your lower spine by using an ergonomic chair and set a timer on your phone to remind yourself to check your posture as your work throughout the day. Make sure to get up and walk around at least once an hour if you sit most of the day. If you can, use a standup desk for at least part of the day.?
Lift heavy objects correctly. Even if you?re young and strong, you can still injure your lower back if you lift a heavy object incorrectly. If you don?t know the proper technique, see Avoid Back Injury with the Right Lifting Techniques.??
Be a savvy athlete.?
? ? No matter how fit and athletic you are, a wrong move could injure your lower back. Make sure you understand the potential lower-back pitfalls of your favorite sport??
Improve your overall physical health. The spine reflects the overall health of your body. Anything you can do to improve your overall physical fitness and general health will benefit your lumbar spine as well?including drinking lots of water, minimizing/not drinking excessive alcohol, eating an anti-inflammatory diet (or less inflammatory), and stopping smoking/avoiding any nicotine intake.??
Stretch your hamstrings.?
? ? A little-known cause of low back pain is tight hamstrings. Simple hamstring stretching exercises can help decrease the pressure on your pelvis and provide relief across your lower back. Not all forms of hamstring stretching are good for all types of backs though, so check with your physical therapist first. Many modifications are available.??
Learn how to be a defensive driver.?
? ?Brush up on your defensive driving skills and always have a plan to get out of a bad situation on the road.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: 70 years of resilience and romanticism
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:00 am
70 years of resilience and romanticism
	
Just the other day I came across a Facebook post written by a foreigner (I can?t remember the nationality of the author). He or she wrote something to the tune that Sri Lanka, widely vilified as a failed state even after we had defeated arguably the single most dangerous terrorist organisation in the world, had much to be grateful for: free education, free healthcare, freedom of religion, an integrative society that rehabilitated former terrorist cadres, and the resilience of the people. This coming from a foreigner who probably would have set foot in the country for a short time reminded me, rather cynically I should say, of the many glamourous accounts of the former Soviet Union by first-time idealists who had never visited Russia before.? ?
It?s okay to go overboard sometimes. Okay to say your country is the greatest in the world. Okay to say that there?s much to be grateful for. What?s not okay, though, is turning a blind eye to certain realities. Hours after that well-intentioned foreigner posted on social media, a Sri Lankan posted some of those realities which I felt needed to be made clear; in a nutshell, that the free education we receive suffers from qualitative deficits, that the free healthcare we get has become bureaucratised (need we mention the many strikes that doctors and nurses perpetuate everyday?), that freedom of religion is okay as long as you?re Sinhalese and Buddhist, that integration works for LTTE cadres as long as they flirt with the Establishment (think of Karuna Amman), and that while the people are resilient, their lives are deeply complicated.? ?
Who are the romantics?
? ?
Obviously, not everyone agrees. Not everyone would consider what was posted palatable. One week after the free nation in us turned 70, perhaps it would do well to revisit history, to privilege facts over frill, to understand where we are and to keep the debate: this compels from romantics on both sides of the divide. Naturally enough, this provokes a significant question; when it comes to that debate, who are the romantics?? ?
The romantic nationalists are easier to identify. They are the idealists who believe not just in a better tomorrow, but a better today. They turn a blind eye to the realities that occupy our lives because they privilege the nation over the individual. Their opponents would suggest that they suffer from apathy, indifference, and a not-so-healthy dose of an inferiority complex, that what they idealise in terms of historical monoliths is miles away from the true status of those monoliths. Even in the arts, this apathy persists. We are wont to inflate the national hero without delving into what turned that hero into who he or she eventually became. We are very often anti-American at heart, regardless of political affiliations, but what we borrow from the United States is their romanticised disregard for history. The cowboy film in America, and the Cinemascope epic, is adapted here into the final battle in Aloko Udapadi, which turns out to be so inflated that we can only suspend our disbelief.? ?
The romantic anti-nationalists are less easy, but still not that hard, to identify. They generally hail from close academic circles, and if they are not wont to rubbishing the nation and all its ills without considering the arguments put forward by their ideological opponents, they go a step further and perpetuate the ultimate myth: that we were better off under the colonialists. These are the same academics who criticise the Buddhist clergy?s involvement with the independence movement and what is felt to be their orientation towards socialist politics, and at the same time praise the status quo authoritarianism of Lee Kuan Yew?s Singapore (H. L. Seneviratne?s The Work of Kings, otherwise an interesting sociological document, fails precisely because it sustains this contradiction throughout). In other words, we had better prospects as a Dominion, never mind that we were never free, because we had it both ways; we would be defended by the Queen?s Army while the locals would be free to pursue their own national interests, in terms of economics.? ?
What they privilege? ?
The latter opinion is, even today, widely disseminated, though only by a diminishing demographic; the generation of the fifties and the sixties, educated in the Ivor Jennings-styled University system, largely in English, and comprising, for the most, those academics pointed out above. They are a rare breed, but what they lack in numbers they make up for through academic and ideological unity. To put it in perspective, what they privilege ? economics ? is so important to them that everything else ? culture, identity, national freedom ? dissolves away and can be thrown to the dust.? ?
If we empathise with the first of these two groups on the basis of their affiliation with the ideal of nationhood and sovereignty, then it goes without saying that there?s nothing wrong in empathising with the second of those groups on the basis of their rational, albeit flawed, conception of economics and technocracy. The romantic nationalists have been put down, in print, by the young and the old, everywhere, since time immemorial. Their critics snigger, and not without reason, when they hear Sekara?s Me Sinhala Apage Ratai and in particular the following words: Mulu lova eya ratata yatayi. There?s nothing wrong in healthy criticism of this sort, the way I see it, because going overboard with nationalism risks a serious long-term problem.? ?
Which is this; in any country, trying to shackle itself from colonialism, the most immediate nationalists, who emerged after the dawn of independence, hailed from a rather elitist English-oriented (if not bilingual) background that gave them access to the University and the Civil Service. We see this in other postcolonial societies too ? Gamal Abdel Nasser in Egypt, Kwame Nkrumah in Ghana, Jomo Kenyatta in Kenya ? and we see in the best of them an ability to transform their elitist backgrounds to a populist base on which complete independence was sought. Neither Nasser nor Nkrumah nor Kenyatta, on that count, were content in perpetuating the elitism that they had imbibed in their early years; they succeeded in making their backgrounds the buffer on which they based their populist, nationalist calls for freedom and sovereignty.? ?
The romantic nationalists have been put down, in print, by the young and the old, everywhere, since time immemorial. Their critics snigger, and not without reason, when they hear Sekara?s Me Sinhala Apage Ratai and in particular the following words: Mulu lova eya ratata yatayi
But those who followed these elites-turned-nationalists, born from the structures of empowerment which those elites opened (in Sri Lanka, free education; in Egypt, the concept of Pan-Arabism), were somewhat doomed because they repudiated any need to imbibe the modernity their forefathers had. In other words, especially in societies run on religious lines, the spiritual was raised to a position higher than the material, which proved to be the undoing of both in later decades. The ultimatum here is that these societies were contorted by their own independence struggles and movements.? ?
As a final point though, if these points are adequate for us to criticise the romantic nationalist, it?s only fair to consider that the base on which criticism of over-the-top nationalism is sustained ? the existence of elites ? is also the base on which we can constructively assess the romantic anti-nationalist. Here too, the argument is both simple and complex; that Dominion status, while superficially emboldening us through the fact that our defences and foreign affairs would be handled by a foreign entity, would not embolden us to look after our own economic interests, because those in charge of handling those interests, before and after independence, were fatally tied to the interests of the colonialist: in other words, the colonial elite, the colonial bourgeoisie.? ?
UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: A lifesaver and silent killer!
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 01:28 pm
A lifesaver and silent killer!
	
?
Food is a major requirement for humans since it provides nutrients for energy, growth and maintenance of life. But at present food is a major threat to humans due to food poisoning. Patients present with the condition as a result of improper food handling and processing practices. Unsafe food can be the cause of or can contribute to many health, social and economic issues.??
Food borne illnesses
The World Health Organization (WHO) defines food borne illnesses as diseases, usually either infectious or toxic and caused by agents that enter the gastrointestinal (GI) tract through the ingestion of contaminated food or water which contains harmful biological and chemical residues.??
Types of illnesses
Foodborne infection ? Once contaminated food is eaten, the pathogens in them can bring about illnesses.? ?
	Foodborne intoxication- Caused by toxins produced in food by pathogens.??
	Foodborne toxin- mediated infection ? Caused by toxins produced in the body by infected pathogens.??
Major causes
Biological
Pathogenic bacteria ? Salmonella spp., Campylobacter jejuni, Escherichia coli, Listeria monocytognes, Vibrio spp., Shigella spp., Clostridium botulinum, Clostridium perfringens and Staphylococcus aureus etc.??
?
?
Parasites ? Cyclospora spp., Cryptosporidium parvum, Giardia intestinalis, Trichinella spiralis and Entamoeba histolytica etc.??
?
Viruses ? Norovirus and Hepatitis A
	Chemical
	Pesticides ? Weedicides, insecticides and Fungicides??
	Metals ? Silver, lead etc.??
	Veterinary drugs??
	Natural toxins ? Fish toxins (histamine, Ciguatera toxin, Paralytic shellfish toxin), Mushrooms toxins (Amatoxin, Phallotoxin), Aftlatoxins??
How does food get contaminated?
Inadequate personal hygiene during food processing.? ?
	Cross contamination (Through knifes, cutting board or other utensils)??
	Use of improper storage and cooking temperatures.??
	Contamination through animal waste ( During slaughter with gut content).?
Raw or under-cooked meat, poultry, beef, fish and shellfish, eggs, unpasteurized milk, dairy products, contaminated water, improperly canned or fermented food, improperly smoked and salted fish, unwashed fruits and vegetables, certain types of wild mushrooms, food prepared by a person infected with a virus and improper food packaging.
?
Vulnerable groups??
Anyone can develop foodborne illness, but people in certain groups are more likely to fall sick and be seriously ill. They are; infants, young children, pregnant women, older adults and persons with chronic diseases.??
Severe types
Most of foodborne illnesses are acute while rarely, foodborne illnesses may lead to more serious complications including;??
Reactive arthritis
Reactive arthritis may develop after a person is infected with Campylobacter, Salmonella and Shigella. It develops pain in their joints, irritation in the eyes and pain during urination. Reactive arthritis can last for months or years and eventually it can lead to chronic arthritis.??
Hemolytic ? Uremic Syndrome (HUS), Renal Failure?
HUS is a serious illness that usually occurs when E. coli bacteria infects the digestive tract and produces toxic substances that destroy red blood cells. HUS may lead to acute renal failure, which is a sudden and temporary loss of kidney function. HUS is most common in children.??
Brain damage
Listeria infection inflames the membranes surrounding the brain. If a newborn infant is infected with Listeria, long-term consequences may include mental retardation, paralysis, blindness, deafness or stroke.??
Spontaneous abortions in pregnant women
Foodborne illness caused by Listeria monocytogenes, Toxoplasma gondii, Salmonella and Campylobacter jejuni during pregnancy can cause serious health problems, spontaneous abortions, premature delivery, stillbirth or even bring to death to the mother.??
Paralysis of respiratory muscles
Clostridium botulinum and certain toxins in fish and seafood can paralyze the respiratory muscles.??
Guillain-Barr? syndrome
It is a disorder characterized by muscle weakness or paralysis which begins from the lower part to upper part of the body. This illness is mainly caused by Campylobacter jejuni.??
?
Symptoms
Food poisoning symptoms may range from mild to severe and may differ, depending on the cause of infection. The length of time it takes for symptoms to appear also varies and depends on the cause of the infection. But the typical time length can range from as short as 01 hour to as long as 28 days. Most common symptoms for foodborne illnesses are; diarrhea with or without blood, dry mouth, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, mild fever, headache, feeling faintish, blurred vision, weakness, numbness of skin and shivering.? ?
Diagnosis Methods
Diagnosis methods include the performing of physical examinations using signs, blood test and stool culture. These tests help in the identifying of pathogens.
Prevention
Keep clean - Wash hands before handling food, during food preparation and after using the washroom. Also wash and sanitize all surfaces and equipment used during the preparation of food. Protect kitchen area and food from insects, pests and other animals.??
	Separate raw and cooked foods - Separate raw meat, poultry and seafood from other foods. Use separate equipment and utensils such as knifes and cutting boards when handling raw foods and store food in containers to avoid them coming in contact with raw and prepared foods??
	Cook thoroughly- Cook food thoroughly, specially meat, poultry, eggs and seafood and reheat cooked food thoroughly??
	Store food at proper temperature - Quickly refrigerate all cooked and perishable food preferably below 5o C. Do not store food for too long even in the refrigerator and do not thaw food at room temperature.? ?
	Use safe water and raw materials - Use pure water or treat it to make it safe. Select fresh and wholesome food, choose food processed safely; such as pasteurized milk and properly wash fruits and vegetables with clean water, especially if they are meant to be eaten raw. Do not use food after its expiry date??
?
In conclusion, foodborne illnesses are a major factor related to public health and significantly contribute to the cost of health care. Each year a higher percentage of the human population is susceptible to falling sick due to food poisoning. However, foodborne illnesses are preventable by sticking with food safety practices. Safer food contributes to healthier and longer lives and less costly health care.? ? ?
(The writer holds a Postgraduate Degree in Industrial and Environmental Chemistry from the University of Kelaniya and an Undergraduate Degree in Food Science and Technology Management from the Wayamba University of Sri Lanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Absorb SAITM students into State medical faculties: MFSAC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:40 pm
Absorb SAITM students into State medical faculties: MFSAC
	
The Medical Faculty Students? Action Committee (MFSAC) today urged the government to absorb students belonging to the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) into State medical faculties in order that they can continue with their medical education.
MFSAC Convener Ryan Jayalath told Daily Mirror that the authorities should provide medical education to qualified SAITM students at existing State medical faculties and make them graduates of the Wayamba and Sabaragamuwa universities by establishing new medical faculties in the said universities.
?Medical students and their parents have jointly put forward this proposal. We have even discussed the said proposal with the students of SAITM,? he said.
He said some of the SAITM students had agreed to proceed with this proposal even though others with political agendas had decided against such an arrangement.
Earlier, students of State universities protested against the governments recent decision to establish two separate entities called ?Sunset? and ?Sunrise? under the Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT) by abolishing the SAITM.
Speaking about the Mahapola Scholarship scheme, he said ten installments had been left unpaid due to the boycott of lectures by students for ten months last year during the time the protest against the SAITM was launched.
?This is a huge injustice to these students. Though they have not attended lectures during that period they will be completing the course before leaving university. These authorities have brought down the number of Mahapola Scholarship payment installments to forty from fifty,? he said. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: AG against granting bail to Aloysius
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:14 am
AG against granting bail to Aloysius
	
The Attorney General?s Department today filed written submission at Colombo Fort Magistrate?s Court against granting bail to Perpetual Treasuries Limited Owner Arjun Aloysius and its CEO Kasun Palisena. (Faaruk Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: All set for LG polls
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 9 February 2018 03:03 pm
All set for LG polls
	
Distributing of ballot boxes for the tomorrow?s Local Government election commenced this morning. Seen here are ballot boxes distributed in the areas around Colombo. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Aloysius never asked to be moved to prison hospital: Wife
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 07:15 pm
Aloysius never asked to be moved to prison hospital: Wife
	
Arjun Aloysius? wife, Anjalie Mahendran today rejected the news item that her husband had requested admission to the Prison Hospital.
?He had never requested for a transfer to the Prison Hospital,? she said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Aloysius?s request for hospital denied
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:43 am
Aloysius?s request for hospital denied
	
The Prisons Department has turned down a request made by Arjun Aloysius to be admitted to the Prison Hospital citing he was suffering from a back pain.
Department sources today said the request made on Wednesday (7) was denied after medical officers examined Mr. Aloysius.
Though his request has been denied, the medical officers had provided him with basic treatments.
Meanwhile, another request made by Mr. Aloysius to provide him with a pillow brought from outside has also been rejected.
However, he had been later provided with an ordinary pillow and a mattress used by other inmates.
Perpetual Treasuries Limited (PTL) Owner Aloysius and its Chief Executive Officer Kasun Palisena were re-remanded on Monday till February 16.
The two are being detained at a special elite prison cell in the E Section of the Welikada Prison in Colombo.
According to sources, no politician other than Mr. Aloysius?s family members had visited him after he was remanded. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: American Center, Colombo closed indefinitely
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 01:07 pm
American Center, Colombo closed indefinitely
	
The American Center in Colombo which is being operated by the US government will remain closed until further notice, the US Embassy said today.
?At this time, scheduled passport and visa services at the US Embassy will continue during the lapse in appropriations as the situation permits. ?The American Center in Colombo is closed until further notice,? the Embassy said in a tweet.
 
		
==============================
## Title: American Center resumes normal operations
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 08:50 pm
American Center resumes normal operations
	
Operations at the American Center in Colombo which is being operated by the US government has returned back to normal, the US Embassy said a short while ago.
?The U.S. Embassy has returned to normal operations,? the Embassy said in a tweet.
The Daily Mail reported that the US House of Representatives had narrowly passed a sweeping bipartisan budget deal, ending an hours-long government shutdown and clearing the way for huge increases in both defence and domestic spending.
The 240-186 vote sends the 400 billion dollars (?287 billion) spending plan to President Donald Trump, who has promised to sign it.
Passage of the measure came over the opposition of Democratic leaders who demanded the promise of a vote to protect ?Dreamer? immigrants brought to the country illegally as children.
A band of tea party Republicans was also against the legislation over what it sees as spiralling spending levels.
The government shut down at midnight on Thursday after Kentucky senator Rand Paul blocked plans for a quick senate vote, blaming his fellow Republicans for being ?complicit? in the looming return of trillion-dollar budget deficits.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Anniversary has given her a golden opportunity
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:49 am
Anniversary has given her a golden opportunity
	
?
A fair and lovely one appointed to a prominent school in the upcountry thanks to the weight of a leading politico has been collecting monies from the girl students to make a gold chain of a length equal in measurement to her height, they say.
?
She has planned to use this gold chain as an offering to a much venerated sacred shrine to mark the upcoming anniversary celebration of the school.? Meanwhile, she has got a gold chain made for herself as well with the funds collected.?
The money collecting for making the gold chain is known to the education authorities at all levels in the province, but they all play deaf and blind to it for they fear of incurring the displeasure of the powerful politico, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Autism isn?t the end of the world
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:21 pm
Autism isn?t the end of the world
	
?
By Navodya Weligamage?
The smile of a baby brings joy and happiness to everybody in the family, including the parents. The parents are awaiting their newborn with millions of expectations and heartfelt love. How would it feel if the parents get to know their newborn is Autistic? Yes, it is true that the arrival of an autistic child disrupts the entire family life. It is necessary to organize differently to accommodate this child with different behaviour. But how do you know if it?s autism?? ?
Before you come to any conclusion, it is very important to have a wide knowledge of this disorder. First, we must know what autism is.? ?
There are plenty of definitions on this special disorder. However, we could identify Autism as a severe and early developmental disorder of the child appearing before the age of three. It is characterized by isolation, disruption of social interactions, language disorders, non-verbal communication and stereotyped activities with restricted interests. Usually present in infancy, autism spectrum disorder may appear more prominently when entering school.? ?
?Autism spectrum disorder is characterized by significant difficulties in two areas,? says the website of the Quebec Federation of Autism which adds, ?that is, communication and social interactions and behaviors, activities and restricted or repetitive interests. Each person with ASD is therefore different, unique, with a set of signs and symptoms. In addition, events can also change over time, and it is often said that there are as many forms of autism as autistic people!? ?
?
Autism affects three main areas of the child? ?
	Social interactions? ?
	Communication, both verbal and nonverbal? ?
	Behaviour, with repetitive, stereotyped gestures, rituals, narrow interests? ?
?
What is social interaction?
Interaction plays an important role in one?s life when it comes to his or her social life. Without interacting with others, we would not have a better social life. The neurological disorders such as autism disturbs the development of the child and prevents him from building up better relationships with others. The main reason for this is that people with autism will tend to over-interpret or not understand some formalities of everyday life. In the same way, the behaviours induced by this disease are therefore often poorly adapted and poorly understood by people not yet sensitized.? ? People with autism seem to have difficulty in attributing emotions, thoughts and feelings to other people. It must be understood that someone?s thinking is essential for community life. For example, we know how a child feels when the ice cream cone in ones hand drops! People with autism have great difficulty in recognizing another person?s emotional states, as much as they fail to interpret their own emotions, making social interactions very complex.? ?
What to expect
The child?s behaviour will sometimes be inappropriate in the interactions between the child and the parents, but also in a less private situation.The child, who does not understand his environment, risks isolating himself or herself from everyday interactions. It will be very difficult for a person like this to make friends or join groups. Also the child will have difficulty in understanding the socially shared rules (do not make inappropriate comments, etc.). Sometimes we see some of the parents find it very difficult to deal with the inappropriate comments of their autistic child. It is important to have better knowledge of his or her behaviour otherwise, he or she will be helpless.? ?
Also the child will not use his non-verbal abilities (gestures and facial expressions) to facilitate understanding of ideas. He will not naturally seek the company of his peers and may be refractory to interaction in general. Most importantly, an autistic child will avoid the eyes of people who communicate with him. This greatly disrupts the child?s ability to build lasting relationships with others.? ?Causes?
To date, no single cause has been found for autism and it is likely that several different causes may lead to the development of signs in autism.Current research strongly suggests that there are neurological and genetic bases. The risk of developing autism does not depend on the social or educational level of the family or ethnicity.? ?
Identifying that your child is autistic has always been a challenge. Let?s have a look at the signs and symptoms of Autism.? ?
Signs and symptoms?
Although autism is hard to diagnose before the first 24 months, symptoms often surface between 12 and 18 months. If signs are detected by 18 months of age, intensive treatment may help to rewire the brain and reverse the symptoms. That is why scientists say that it is important to identify an autistic child.? According to helpgide.org, the earliest signs of autism involve the absence of normal behaviours?not the presence of abnormal ones so they can be tough to spot. In some cases, the earliest symptoms of autism are even misinterpreted as signs of a ?good baby,? since the infant may seem quiet, independent, and undemanding. Some autistic infants don?t respond to cuddling, reach out to be picked up, or look at their mothers when being fed.? ?
If your baby doesn?t:
Make eye contact, such as looking at you when being fed or smiling when being smiled at? ?
	Respond to his or her name, or to the sound of a familiar voice? ?
	Follow objects visually or follow your gesture when you point things out? ?
	Point or wave goodbye, or use other gestures to communicate? ?
	Make noises to get your attention? ?
	Initiate or respond to cuddling or reach out to be picked up? ?
	Imitate your movements and facial expressions? ?
	Play with other people or share interest and enjoyment? ?
	Notice or care if you hurt yourself or experience discomfort? ?
?
As a parent, you?re the best person to identify any situation your child is in. There is no one who knows your child better than you. Perhaps you would think that it is the responsibility of the pediatrician. No it is not! You are the one who is responsible for your child?s betterment. A quick visit to your pediatrician doesn?t allow him to identify all the signs and symptoms of any kind of disorders specially autism. If you are a parent or parent to be, it is your duty to make yourself well educated. The key is to educate yourself so you know what?s normal and what?s not.? ?
Here we give away the keys to widen your knowledge on this topic. According to scientists and Britannica.com, what you are supposed to do is:? ?
Monitor your child?s development.
Autism involves a variety of developmental delays, so keeping a close eye on when?or if?your child is reaching the key social, emotional, and cognitive milestones is an effective way to spot the problem early. While developmental delays don?t automatically point to autism, they may indicate a heightened risk.? ?
Take action?
Every child develops at a different pace, so you don?t need to panic if your child is a little late to talk or walk. It can be natural as well as unnatural. When it comes to healthy development, there?s a wide range when using the word normal in everyday conversation. But if your child is not meeting the milestones keeping with his or her age, or you suspect a problem, share your concerns with your child?s doctor immediately. Don?t wait!
Don?t accept a wait-and-see approach.?
Many concerned parents are told, ?Don?t worry? or ?Wait and see.? But waiting is the worst thing you can do. You risk losing valuable time at an age where your child has the best chance for improvement.? ?
(The writer can be reached? at weligamagenavodya@gmail.com)?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bangkok air pollution warning, children asked to stay indoors
## Section: International
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:16 pm
Bangkok air pollution warning, children asked to stay indoors
	
?
REUTERS, 08th FEBRUARY, 2018- Residents in Bangkok, one of the world?s top tourist destinations, were warned on Thursday the city?s air quality had hit dangerous levels just days after the country?s pollution control agency appealed to residents to wear face masks.
Air pollution in the Thai capital has come under increasing scrutiny in recent weeks with residents complaining of smog and respiratory problems. Some schools were closed on Thursday or kept children indoors.
Air Quality Index (AQI) formulas usually include up to six main pollutants including PM2.5, PM10, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and ground level ozone.
The Pollution Control Department reported PM2.5 dust in the Bangkok Metropolitan at midday on Thursday and at midday it was measured at 72-95 micrograms per m3, with the likelihood that it would increase.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bodhi Poojas to stall wheels of justice
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:52 am
Bodhi Poojas to stall wheels of justice
	
?
There is a business tycoon, a buddy of a leading politico, much in the news these days for being a key accused in a staggering scam that has rocked the country.?
?
His close associates and lackeys led by high-ups of a brewery now under temporary closure are reportedly conducting a series of Bodhi Poojas and other religious observances at a popular place of worship hallowed by the visit of the Buddha to invoke blessings for his protection from the wheels of justice.
Meanwhile, the employees of the sealed brewery too are participating in religious ceremonies to pray for the safety of their jobs, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Brig. Fernando acted within embassy premises: Navin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 09:27 am
Brig. Fernando acted within embassy premises: Navin
	
In a hard hitting letter to the two pro-LTTE British MPs, who demanded the withdrawal of Defence Attache Brigadier Priyankara Fernando?s diplomatic status, Minister Navin Dissanayake yesterday said Brigadier Fernando enjoys diplomatic immunity for actions performed within the embassy premises and that it was most disturbing and offensive to witness protesters being allowed to carry flags belonging to the LTTE in the UK where the organisation has been banned.
The letter addressed to British MPs Joan Ryan and Siobhain McDonagh by the minister identified himself as the son of late Gamini Dissanayake, a presidential candidate who was assassinated by the LTTE and was the deputy leader of the UNP at the time.
?My father was assassinated by the LTTE, the political wing which both of you surreptitiously support. The LTTE has been banned in your country and has been designated as a terrorist organisation by many countries including yours.
February 4, marks the Independence Day of Sri Lanka and is a day of joy and celebration to all Sri Lankans. The front organisations of the LTTE, which both of you support, gathered a few hundred supporters to protest outside our embassy in the UK on this day. What is most disturbing and offensive to us Sri Lankans was the carrying of the LTTE flag and the abusive and vituperative comments made by the protesters,? he said.
He said Brigadier Fernando was within the premises of the Sri Lankan Mission and his acts cannot be questioned either diplomatically or legally because he enjoys full diplomatic immunity for acts done within the embassy compound.
?This tradition is the accepted practice in diplomatic regulations and the tradition is followed everywhere. As the protesters? behaviour was offensive to Sri Lanka, Brigadier Fernando who is a vigilant officer of the Sri Lanka Army pointed to the lion emblem in his uniform to countenance the disgust he felt when he saw LTTE flags displayed in front of him,? he said.
Dissanayake said both the MPs have been carrying out a deeply hateful, vindictive and offensive campaign against Sri Lanka.
At a time when brutal terrorism has been eradicated and all communities are building bridges to live as one nation, the MP?s continued support to front organisations of the LTTE is self-serving and pathetic, he pointed out.
?Tell your contacts in these front organisations to contribute to their own brethren in the north and east without continuing to fuel the flames of hatred and ethnic division. Sri Lanka needs a real sense of reconciliation without individuals like you trying your utmost to belittle the real achievements that are taking place on the ground. In any event, we stand with Brigadier Fernando steadfastly and he will continue as our Defence Attache in the UK,? he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CDB expands wings with launch of latest branch in Ampara
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:19 am
CDB expands wings with launch of latest branch in Ampara
	
Having carved its name as a business entity that proudly upholds the vision of being a financial powerhouse that will foster entrepreneurial innovation and workmanship, Citizens Development Business Finance PLC (CDB) opened its newest branch in the city of the Eastern province of Sri Lanka Ampara.
Situated in the central locality of 66, D.S. Senanayake Street, this newest branch which brings CDB?s branch network to a total of seventy, further augments CDB?s strong ethos of enriching lives through the extension of financial services, with an acute focus of integrating all demographics into the national development process.
Chief Guest CDB Director/Chief Credit Officer Sasindra Munasinghe ceremonially inaugurated the branch. The opening was attended by a large number of customers who reiterated their confidence in CDB by availing themselves of the plethora of financial services solutions that CDB has on offer. The emphasis on innovation and the use of technology, among which are many firsts in the country, coupled with unparalleled customer service, have all presented numerous laurels on CDB throughout its history of twenty years, giving this financial services powerhouse a firm foundation to be ?Your Friend? as its tagline indicates.
Manned by a team of highly dynamic motivated individuals who mirror CDB?s values in customer service excellence, the Ampara CDB branch will extend the usual portfolio of its extensive services to this town. From fixed deposits to savings accounts and lending facilities including personal loans, gold loans, business loans, property loans and leasing, CDB will serve the community of Ampara extensively. The currency exchange facilities that CDB offers will also be a boon to the large number of diaspora and expatriates in Ampara.
CDB MD/CEO Mahesh Nanayakkara has always driven a strong mindset at CDB to make it a holistic financial services provider, believes that with CDB?s establishment in Ampara which combines a vibrant economic hub for the country with its dynamic trade and tourism persona, the company will be adding a vital conduit to develop the town?s presence as a key economic driver for the country.? ?Our integrated business strategy is benchmarked on excellence at all levels and expansion to reach to every single of our citizenry is integral to our success. The fact that we are placed among the Top seven NBFIs in the country is a testament to our commitment to serve our communities from every segment of society, reaching out through an integrated business model that uses state of the art technology and personal interaction for continued sustainability. Now that we are in Ampara, we can reiterate that focus even more.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Children seen carrying ballot boxes in Polonnaruwa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 09:30 pm
Children seen carrying ballot boxes in Polonnaruwa
	
A child was seen carrying ballot boxes from the polling centre situated at Pulathisipura National College of Education to another polling centre in Polonnaruwa today.
The distribution of ballot boxes commenced this morning and 295 polling centres have been installed with 3,500 officials being assigned for election duty in the Polonnaruwa District.
When contacted Polonnaruwa Government Agent Ranjith Ariyaratne said he was unaware about using children to transport ballot boxes due to his busy schedules.
However, a legal officer at the National Child Protection Authority said it was illegal to deploy underage children for such activities. (W.A. Piyathilaka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: ComBank sets new ATM withdrawal record in December 2017
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:20 am
ComBank sets new ATM withdrawal record in December 2017
	
The Commercial Bank of Ceylon dispensed an astounding Rs.50.769 billion in cash through its automated teller machines (ATMs) in December 2017, setting a new record and achieving an important milestone in such disbursements.
The 750-terminal network processed more than eight million withdrawal requests over the 31 days of the month at an average of over 258,000 transactions a day, emphatically reaffirming its reliability, the bank said.
As the country prepared to celebrate Christmas and the dawn of the new year, transactions peaked on December 22nd (Rs.2.372 billion), December 29th (Rs.2.167 billion), December 8th (Rs.2.154 billion), totalling Rs.6.693 billion on those three days alone, with the network processing more than 911,000 requests for cash.
On 10 of the 31 days of the month, Commercial Bank ATMs dispensed more than Rs.1.75 billion per day, and on 23 days withdrawals exceeded Rs.1.5 billion a day, the?bank disclosed.
However, the record for cash dispensed in a single day on the Bank?s ATM network still stands at Rs.2.79 billion, set on April 7th 2017.
The only Sri Lankan bank to be ranked among the Top 1000 banks of the world for seven years consecutively, Commercial Bank operates a network of 261 branches and 756 ATMs in Sri Lanka. The bank has won more than 30 international and local awards in 2016 and 2017 and has over the years received multiple awards as Sri Lanka?s Best Bank, Best Trade Bank, Strongest Bank and Most Respected Bank from a number of local and international institutions?and publications.
Commercial Bank?s overseas operations encompass Bangladesh, where the bank operates 19 outlets, Myanmar, where it has a Representative Office in Yangon, the Maldives, where the bank has a fully-fledged Tier-I bank with a majority stake and Italy, where the bank operates its own money transfer service.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dimo partners HNB to enable Mercedes-Benz and Jeep purchase solutions
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:21 am
Dimo partners HNB to enable Mercedes-Benz and Jeep purchase solutions
	
From left: Business Development Executive Mahesh Ratnayake, Business Development Executive Roshan De Silva, Personal Finance Senior Manager Kanchana Karunagama, Personal Financial Services Head Viraj Mendis, Leasing Senior Manager Nalin Dissanayake, Hatton National Bank SME and Retail Banking Deputy General Manager Sanjaya Wijemanna, Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Group CEO Gahanath Pandithage, Mercedes-Benz, Jeep and Chrysler Vehicle Sales General Manager Rajeev Pandithage, Mercedes-Benz Commercial Vehicle Sales Business Unit Manager Shamal Fernando, Mercedes-Benz, Jeep and Chrysler Operations Manager Niroshana De Silva, Mercedes-Benz Passenger Vehicle Sales Business Unit Manager Dinesh Gunaratne, Jeep and Chrysler Vehicle Sales Business Unit Manager Harin De Silva, Mercedes-Benz, Jeep and Chrysler Business Development Assistant Manager Ushani Samaranayake and Mercedes-Benz, Jeep and Chrysler Vehicle Sales Marketing Head Shervin Fernando
?
Once again demonstrating their strong commitment towards customer-focused service, Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC (Dimo) announced a partnership with Hatton National Bank (HNB) that will provide faster, easier, and more accessible leasing options for clients purchasing Mercedes-Benz vehicles.
The HNB-Dimo lease promotion will be applicable to brand new Mercedes-Benz passenger cars and commercial vehicles, as well as pre-owned vehicles and Jeep SUVs sold by Dimo. The agreement offers extremely comfortable terms that can be structured to suit a customer?s preference. It includes special interest rates for both brand new as well as pre-owned vehicles with the flexibility to configure the equated monthly installments with residual values up to 40 percent on a repayment period spanning up to seven years. In addition, Dimo will offer preferential prices exclusively to HNB customers for the Mercedes-Benz Passenger vehicles, Vito, and Jeep Renegade.
With a relationship spanning over a decade, the partnership between HNB and Dimo has ensured exceptional customer satisfaction. HNB has received recognition from numerous international and local institutions for excellence in diverse business and support functions. HNB?s 251 customer centers spread across the island enable an incredibly wide reach, which offers convenient access for Dimo customers who wish to take advantage of their leasing options.
The long-standing relationship between Dimo and Mercedes-Benz is a partnership built on innovation and excellence. The most recent in a long string of awards is Dimo?s accolade at the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) Brand Excellence Awards 2017, during which Mercedes drove home with the Silver Award for International Brand of?the Year.
The only authorised distributor for Mercedes-Benz and Jeep in Sri Lanka, Dimo has repeatedly proven its commitment towards focusing on individual customer needs and preferences, by paying attention to detail, and ensuring each client enjoys a purchasing experience free of any hassle.? In addition to this, Dimo offers after-sales services which?are unmatched.
A premier distributor of luxury vehicles in Sri Lanka spanning over 75 years, Dimo has cultivated an irreplaceable and long-standing relationship with vehicle enthusiasts across the country as a result of their impeccable service.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Distribution of ballot boxes begins
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:01 pm
Distribution of ballot boxes begins
	
Distributing of ballot boxes for the tomorrow?s Local Government election commenced this morning. Seen here are ballot boxes distributed in Galle, Nuwara Eliya, Badulla, Vavuniya and Polonnaruwa districts.
In Nuwara Eliya (Pix by Shelton Hettiarachchi)
In Badulla (Prasad Rukmal)
In Galle (Sugathapala Diyagahage)
In Polonnaruwa (K.G. Karunaratne)
In Vavuniya (Romesh Madushanka)
In Anuradhapura - Athula Bandara
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dysentery-the destroyer in disguise
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 01:24 pm
Dysentery-the destroyer in disguise
	
?
Dysentery, in general is defined as an infectious disease, characterized by the inflammation of intestines, more specifically the colon, resulting in the passage containing mucous mixed with blood. Patients with this condition often complain of abdominal pain and fever.? ?
Lack of proper hygiene and the presence of poor sanitation are two of the most significant causes behind the spread of dysentery, which happens largely through contaminated food and beverage consumption.? ?
There are two common types of Dysentery: Bacterial Dysentery and Amoebic Dysentery.? ?
Both conditions can be diagnosed by checking the patient?s history regarding the duration during which the symptoms were present and the severity and also through a thorough physical examination.? ?
Your doctor will use a culture test using stool samples in order to detect and identify the real causative agent. This test will confirm diagnosis. With regard to some patients, a sample of the mucus from the colon lining or a tissue sample of the colon will also be obtained for further evaluation.? ?
Blood tests and the levels of serum electrolytes will be assessed to identify the risk of dehydration, which occurs as a result of on-going fluid loss. Additionally, other screening tests such as x-rays, CT scans, ultrasound examinations and MRI scans can be used in some patients who are at a risk of developing complications associated with lungs or the liver, especially in the case of amoebic dysentery.?
?
Since the two conditions are caused by two different types of microorganisms the signs and symptoms, method of diagnosis and treatment would often differ accordingly. Therefore, in this article we discuss these illnesses separately, so that next time you are diagnosed with one of them, you will know what to expect and what to do.? ?
QWhat is Amoebic Dysentery (Amoebiasis)?
It is defined as a type of Dysentery caused by Amoebic organisms resulting in great amount of fluid loss from the body.? ?
Entamoeba histolytica is the commonest amoeba, causing amoebic dysentery which enters the body in the form of a cyst via contaminated food or beverages. This cyst breaks into fragments after entering the digestive tract and converts in to an active organic form known as Trophozite. The disease arising this way would then invade the tissue linings of the colon or may even penetrate into the bloodstream, leading to severe conditions in lungs, liver and other important organs of the body. This invading process of Amoebic Dysentery is known as metastatic amebiasis.? ?
Q How can I know if I?ve developed Amoebic Dysentery?
The symptoms which develop slowly are characterized by,? ?
Diarrhoea associated with blood-mixed stools (blood dysentery).? ?
Fever (which may only be noted if complications such as liver abscesses are developed in the course of the disease).? ?
Chronic amoebic dysentery can result in severe inflammation of the colon, referred to as necrotizing colitis and an increased risk of colon rupture. So it is important to seek treatment before the condition leads to unwanted complications.? ?
?
QWhat is Bacillary Dysentery?
This is a type of Dysentery caused by a group of bacteria of the genus, Shigella, which is why this condition is also known as Shigellosis or Shigella dysentery. The four major strains of bacteria under the genus Shigella include, S. dysenteriae, S. boydii, S. sonnei and S. flexneri. All of them could cause Dysentery in more or less manners.? ?
?
Q How can these bacteria enter my body?
These pathogens enter the body along faeco-oral route-usually as a result of poor hygiene, improper food handling, low socio economic states etc. The bacteria, invading the colon tissues will secrete a harmful toxin, named Enterotoxin which then attacks the intestinal lining of the colon, resulting in pain and diarrhoea.? ?
?
QHow would I present?
You will be most likely to complain of:? ?
Diarrhoea with or without blood? ?
Abdominal pain and cramps? ?
Tenesmus (a feeling of incomplete defecation, where you will note a constant urge to pass stools even if nothing passes out when you go to the washroom)? ?
Mild to high fever? ?
Rectal pain? ?
Chronic bacillary dysentery if left untreated may cause severe conditions like hemolytic uremic syndrome which can result in kidney failure. Malnourished children, affected with the condition might lead to a spreading of bacteria all over blood resulting in, bacteremia, which is then referred to as Shigellosis.? ?
Therefore it is highly advisable to seek immediate medical advice when you come across similar signs and symptoms.?
?
?
Q How will I get treated?
Your doctor will take a history about how the disease started and proceeded, examine you and ask for certain tests in order to arrive at the exact diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is made, treatment will start immediately to avoid unnecessary consequences.? ?
The most common treatment for bacillary dysentery includes antibiotics such as Ciprofloxacin, Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and Nalidixic acid. More importantly, Anti-diarrheal medications such as Diphenolate, Loperamide are strongly prohibited in these cases since they are known to exacerbate the situation.? ? ?
?
QWhat are the measures to be followed for prevention?
Washing hands properly after contact with potentially infected people, surfaces or goods.? ?
Careful washing of hands must be done before and after; eating or handling food, visiting the bathroom, touching surfaces in common use (public transportation, public washrooms etc.)
? ?Use separate towels? ?
Make sure to disinfect toilets after use if a person in the family or group has dysentery.? ?
Wash all laundry which has come into contact with an infected person in hot water.? ?
Avoid crowded settings, food handling, childcare and health care, during and at least 48 hours after the infection has resolved.? ?
Eat the food hot or within 2 hours of preparation? ?
Store cooked food below 4 C or above 60 C and separate raw and cooked foods to avoid cross-contamination (salads, uncooked etc)? ?
If repeated outbreaks are noted in the area without any obvious infected person, make sure that such asymptomatic carriers do not handle food, feed or otherwise take care of children or handle anything which has to do with them.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: EU adds SL to money laundering blacklist
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 February 2018 01:50 am
EU adds SL to money laundering blacklist
	
The European Parliament has confirmed that Sri Lanka, Tunisia and Trinidad and Tobago were on the European Commission?s blacklist of countries at risk for acts of money-laundering.
In a statement, the European Parliament on Wednesday said despite intense efforts by some Members of the European Parliament (MEPs), they have failed to achieve the 376-vote absolute majority needed to reject the inclusion of Tunisia, Sri Lanka, and Trinidad and Tobago in the European Commission?s list of non-EU countries considered to have strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and terrorism financing regimes.
?The vote on Wednesday reflected the split in Parliament over the issue, with 357 votes in support of the motion to 283 votes against and 26 abstentions,? it said.
As part of its obligations under the EU?s Anti-Money Laundering Directive, the European Commission is periodically obliged to draw up a list of ?high-risk third countries?.
European Parliament has veto power over the blacklist, which is one of the tools in the European Union?s armoury to protect its financial system against money laundering and terrorist financing.
In mid-December, in line with its custom of following the lead of the international Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Commission has decided to include Sri Lanka, Tunisia and Trinidad and Tobago to its blacklist.
In a statement to Parliament on Monday, the Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality, Vera Jourov?, declined some MEPs? requests to de-list Tunisia as one of the blacklisted countries
 
		
==============================
## Title: Female in Astrology
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:45 pm
Female in Astrology
	
The Astrological rules and principles enunciated in ancient works on Vedic Astrology by sages like Varahamihira or Parasara are targeted to the male, perhaps because, they have always dealt with the astrological rules and principles relating to the female under a separate branch of Astrology called ?Stri Jataka? or Female Horoscopy.
Although the general principles and techniques relating to making predictions, delineating character etc. in regard to horoscope reading set forth in the works of Hindu Astrology are applicable to both genders, despite the commonplace reference to the male gender, certain rules set out under Female Horoscopy are peculiar or germane to the females.
?
An imperative for selecting a female partner in life? ?
This means that a male partner for a female may be selected by consulting the general information and principles relating to horoscope reading, but one should necessarily consult the rules and principles given under female Horoscopy as well to select a female partner for a male. Biological factors warranting Female Horoscopy
Certain biological characteristics peculiar to the feminine sex like puberty, menses, conception, and child delivery have led to the founding of Female Horoscopy as an independent branch of Astrology.? ?
Attaining puberty is considered an important event for a female in Female Horoscopy.?
The first menses of a female according to Astrology marks an event of much physical, mental and spiritual significance.?
All ancient astrologers have said that marrying a VIRTUOUS WOMAN would neutralize all malefic planetary influences that a man is subject to enabling him to lead a comfortable and happy life.?
Similarly, the marriage is the turning point in the life of a female for it leads to the full flowering of her potential as the female of species.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Future for Sri Lanka Enhancing entertainment and tourism through reclaimed beaches
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:00 am
Future for Sri Lanka Enhancing entertainment and tourism through reclaimed beaches
	
The rationale for beaches to be formed by reclaiming the sea is found in many parts of the world
?
The recent Proposals of the Megapolis Ministry to reclaim the Sea around the Galle Face Green and to extend it Southwards to Dehiwela, is a commendable idea. In addition, the Expressway coming into the City Centre with links to other Expressways going North and South, will be a realistic move. At the City end, the Expressway linking the Port, Port City and the underground access to the City Hotels and the Marine Drive going South is appropriate as there would be a North - South link and would ease the traffic circulation.
? ?
The reclamation of the Sea takes time. In Rio De Janerio, Brazil, the Copacabana Beach and the adjoining Beaches with improvements to the Infrastructure has taken almost 60 years to complete and consequently totally transformed the area as a Tourism Hub in Rio.? ?
Therefore, Sri Lanka should also follow this concept and use the sea sand for reclamation, after studying the backdrop to reclaiming land from the sea. The reclamation would need to be preceded by a Marine Planning search exercise along the island?s coastal belt. It could then identify the coastal zones suitable for reclamation, rather than pre- determined boundaries in proximity to existing urban hubs. Its rationale will exclude harmful environmental and marine ? based coastal hazards to dominate requiring reciprocative remedial measures at very high cost. In this connection, initially it would be necessary to find out the width and length of the beach needed to be formed; in comparison to similar Tourist Complexes elsewhere in the world. Its decision can then be surveyed along the Sri Lanka?s coastline to study naturally formed beaches that may be suitable to be declared. Its impact on the sand dunes and mangroves may need to be factored therein.? ?
Reclaimed land?
The rationale for beaches to be formed by reclaiming the sea is found in many parts of the world for different purposes. Thus, in Singapore, more than 1/3rd of the country is on reclaimed land and the land is used for tourism,entertainment, sports and recreation, parks and for cultural activities. Similar development has taken place in Hong Kong where the Disneyland and even the Airport are on reclaimed Land.?
In Macau, Japan, South Korea, Malta, Middle East, Maldives and even in Bangladesh reclamation has happened. Consequently, the existing Infrastructure and Land Use within the City will remain, but, linked to the reclaimed area similar to the Port City in Colombo. This area will have to be carefully planned and designed to generate economic and social benefits to the Country. Extending the reclamation from Colombo to Mount Lavinia will further enhance the economic potential of the Country with Tourism and other related activities happening on the reclaimed land.? ?
Therefore, Sri Lanka should also follow this concept and use the sea sand for reclamation, after studying the backdrop to reclaiming land from the sea
Nationally, the Tourism belt between Beruwela and Galle could be reclaimed where appropriate to expand the Tourism related activities.This has become important as the land alongside the beach is inadequate due to its close proximity to the railway lines and the Galle Road. Consequently, it has become a deterrent for large scale comprehensive Tourism Development. Two options are available:? ?
Firstly, to reclaim the sea to give bigger frontages for the hotel development and for other tourism activities. However, in Hikkaduwa, this may not be possible, due to the presence of corals, and in a few other locations. In addition, in view of Sri Lanka?s small island status and due to the fact that populations in coastal areas have generations of associations with beach fronts, (eg: fishing boats parking) it is best to secure the participation of these people during the early stage of Project formulation. Otherwise, a conflict between the tourist facility and the community that now exists in Kalpitiya Tourist Zone, could dampen the ultimate vision of this exercise.? ?
Secondly, to move the Railway and Road further to the East. It can be done, but, there may be some resistance from the villages. However, with generous compensation and alternative lands given to them they may agree to move. If so, greater benefits could be achieved as a larger Land parcel could be released for extensiveTourism Development.? ?
Taking a cue from developed nations?
Sri Lanka should take a cue from other Tourism Developed Asian countries like Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and even Vietnam. In these countries, they have Strategic Regional Plans for each Region highlighting the strengths of each region and by providing the missing activities such as entertainment, shopping, restaurants, sports and recreation including highways, railways, airports and IT infrastructure to be competitive not only with other regions, in the respective country, but, also, internationally. This is their success story.? ?
Unfortunately, in Sri Lanka, we have not yet advanced to this stage to provide sustainable tourism. A good example, is the tourism hotels in the Eastern Region. There are hotels, but, to get the tourists to travel to the hotels with the prevailing traffic congestion, is a issue, as it takes many hours to reach their hotels. Consequently, after you get there, besides the beach there is very little organized activity to keep them longer.? ?
?
In addition to the traditional attractions such as, the beaches, wildlife reserves, cultural sites, tourism should cater for different age groups and introduce a variety of other activities such as, sailing, water sports, fishing, horse racing, golf, adventure events like climbing, biking, hiking, for tourists to be occupied.? ?
Another area that Sri Lanka has not yet commercially exploited is Cruise Tourism. Cruise ships are getting larger in size. The numbers of passengers are between 2500 ?3500. If Sri Lanka, is to attract cruise ships the Port of Colombo must be able to provide a exclusive area in the Harbor for this activity, by providing more tangible docking and terminal facilities to accommodate larger ships.? ?
Nationally, the Tourism belt between Beruwela and Galle could be reclaimed where appropriate to expand the Tourism related activities
The current experience in Sri Lanka has been around 50 passenger ships per year. These are mostly ships carrying between 500 to around 2000 passengers. The objective should be to double this number initially and promote larger ships with greater numbers of passengers to visit Sri Lanka.? ?
The concept in Singapore and Hong Kong is for Cruise ships to use the ports as a hub, and Singapore handles over 1.5m cruise passengers per year .The Tour operators and tourism in general, will get a huge boost if this concept is successful in Sri Lanka. There are other benefits that Sri Lanka could exploit by bringing in large number of high spending tourists, similar to other countries such as Europe, North America, Caribbean, and East Asia where it is a huge business, Sri Lanka could also compete if tourism oriented infrastructure is provided, with duty free shopping and other commercial activities.? ?
A growth of the locally available reservoir of knowledge, experience and enthusiasm to upscale tourism is the magnet to be harnessed. It provides the breakthrough that can facilitate the multiplicity of the allied policies to harmonize for achieving sustainable tourism and economic development. Therefore, the way forward is for the ministries of megapolis and Western Development,tourism development, and of ports and shipping to mobilize local expertise and prepare viable development plans for implementation on a Public Private Participation Model- (PPP).? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heartfelt hope for a healthy life
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:39 pm
Heartfelt hope for a healthy life
	
?
Your health faces a fair share of challenges everyday. Adhering to positive? and healthy life patterns helps you support your body?s defence system in safeguarding health. However this doesn?t happen always when people are presented with the option of shielding themselves against the consequences of malady. It is especially quite unfortunate when your life is predestined to be inflicted by disease even before birth. Such is the reality of ?congenital heart disease?. While it is disheartening to hear that there are innocent young people threatened with heart complications at the time of birth, medical science has wasted no time in progressing to an era where there seems to be hope for life through treatment. Dr. Duminda Samarasinghe, Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist of the Lady Ridgeway Hospital, Colombo spoke to Health Capsule on congenital heart disease.? ?
Congenital heart diseases occur at birth. They are defects in the structure of the heart that arise at the time the baby develops within the mother?s womb. ?Conditions such as hole in the heart, narrow blood vessels, abnormal drainage and positioning of the blood vessels of the heart are a few such ailments that come under the condition called congenital disease.This condition possesses some risks, but the risk isn?t defined. The congenital condition does not necessarily mean that it is hereditary,? explained Dr. Samarasinghe.? ?
Generally 6-8 out of 1000 normal new born babies suffer from congenital heart disease in Sri Lanka. Based on these statistics, Dr. Samarasinghe stated that around 3000 children are estimated to suffer from congenital heart disease annually. A child born with Down Syndrome is threatened with a 40% probability of suffering from congenital heart disease.? ?
?
Causes for the condition? ?
Genetics take major blame for causing defects in the heart structure thus leading to congenital heart disease. According to Dr. Samarasinghe, it is very rarely caused by other reasons. ?Conditions such as diabetes, viral infections and illnesses in the mother may result in adverse effects on the baby during pregnancy. Drugs taken as medication for various ailments during pregnancy can also affect the baby and lead to this condition,? he warned. Lithium in drugs taken for psychiatric conditions and alcohol consumption during pregnancy are also linked to congenital heart diseases. The cardiologist added that in Sri Lanka, 90-95% of the congenital heart defects have no specific cause that can be accounted for. ?The heart is a complex structure. Congenital heart diseases occur when a defect arises in some element somewhere in the heart. It is uncontrolled,? he expressed.? ?
?
Signs and symptoms? ?
Dr. Samarasinghe stated that there are give-away signs to identify a case of congenital heart disease. These signs help health authorities to take immediate medical action. ?The baby appears blue at birth. The baby may be breathless and could develop breathing abnormalities. There can also be recurrent breathing infections like pneumonia. Display of poor weight gain and poor feeding habits of the baby are some signs. The doctor may detect chest murmurs coming from the heart which are not normal. If these symptoms are observed, immediate medical attention should be sought,? he stressed.? ?
The effects of congenital heart disease may be present since birth or may even appear during later years of adulthood. It depends on the lesion and the individual. However if this condition is left untreated it leads to fatality.? ?
Dr. Samarasinghe accentuated that the best and most resorted to method of diagnosing congenital heart disease is by way of an echocardiogram. ?It is an advanced way of detecting even the most minor lesions of the heart,? he added.?
?
?
Timely treatment? ?
The Cardiologist explained that congenital heart disease is divided into 3 cases. ?The type of congenital heart defects that come under the first category are minor lesions. These issues do not require treatment and patient is able to lead a normal life,? the cardiologist stated.? ?
?The second case of congenital heart disease calls for treatment, but is curable and can be treated. This treatment is of two ways. Surgical intervention is the first method which is conducted by specialized surgeons. As the word ?surgery? implies, this requires the opening up of the chest to correct the defect. The second method of treatment is the catheter-based intervention. This treatment is performed by a cardiologist. This is a more advanced method of treatment which does not require the opening up of the chest to correct the defect. Catheters are medical devices in the form of thin tubes. In this case, a catheter will be passed through a vein of the leg or arm to reach the heart and the defect will be corrected. This method is performed under expert advice,? continued Dr.Samarasinghe.? ?
The third case is unfortunately one that cannot be treated easily. This condition takes on a more complex form where treatment is very difficult. He further added that resorting to the type of treatment that is demanded by these kinds of conditions is impractical when treating patients in a country like Sri Lanka.? ?
?
Prevention, not always an option? ?
Speaking on prevention, congenital heart disease is a condition where prevention can do so little. It is not an option, but every little effort is worth it. ?Planning on having children during early years without resorting to late thirties and forties is a precautionary measure that can be considered. The more later you have children in life, the higher are the risks of giving birth to children with Down Syndrome. This makes way for a higher probability of congenital heart disease in the baby,? said Dr. Samarasinghe. Mothers taking good care of themselves during pregnancy is another positive step. Avoiding drugs unless they are absolutely necessary and prescribed under medical guidance. Avoiding smoking and alcoholic consumption, remaining vigilant to staying healthy during pregnancy and taking steps to avoid unnecessary exposure to viruses and illnesses such as German Measles and Chicken Pox is vital.? ?
According to Dr. Samarasinghe, treatment has proven successful and 90% of the patients are able to lead normal lives after treatment, provided they adhere to positive lifestyle patterns and medical advice.? ?
?
Noble initiative? ?
When speaking about saving the little lives threatened by congenital heart disease through treatment, it is important to shed light on a noble initiative, Project Little Hearts. The project strives towards minimizing the number of child deaths that occur through congenital heart disease. It is a project supported by the Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians, that plans to construct a 10-storeyed Cardiac and Critical Care Complex to provide facilities and treatment to ensure that these little hearts keep beating happily for many years.? ?
Citizens of Sri Lanka are invited to join in this noble project by making donations.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: His sidekick is a snatch-thief
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:51 am
His sidekick is a snatch-thief
	
?
A drug addict known to be a sidekick of a leading Western Province purohita has gone on a spree of snatching gold chains from women in the area.?
?
People in the area are reluctant to make complaints against this ?Kudda? to Police because of his close connection to the powerful politico.?
Some villagers say they had complained to the purohita himself about the snatch-thief, but the latter would brush off their complaints saying, ?That boy is a good chap. I don?t think he would do such things!?
 
		
==============================
## Title: HNB rolls out 600th smart self service sachine
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 9 February 2018 10:21 am
HNB rolls out 600th smart self service sachine
	
HNB PLC announced further expansion to its cash withdrawal and deposit touch-points, providing customers with more convenience to make cash withdrawals and deposits.
Further solidifying its presence in provincial towns, HNB recently commissioned its 600th smart self service machine (SSSM) at Kavita?s Store, Ratnapura. With this expansion, the bank has now effectively increased its cash touch-points extensively.
HNB Card Centre and Electronic Delivery Channels Head Mangala P. Wickramasinghe said: ?At HNB, we are committed to placing customers at the heart of the banking experience. While we have seen increased usage of online banking and mobile payments, we also understand some of our customers do have cash needs and our physical banking touch-points remain an important part of our network to fulfill these needs. Over the years, through our strategic partnerships, we have increased our presence across Sri Lanka to make banking even more convenient for?
our customers.?
As the name suggests, the smart self service machine (SSSM) at a popular shopping location offers customers a plethora of services including cash withdrawal and deposits, real-time fund transfers even to other bank accounts, credit card payments and utility payments. Currency conversions, online cheque acceptance, cardless transactions, topping up of HNB prepaid cards such as Smart Pay and Wally-E are all possible at any of the SSSMs.
In keeping with the bank?s recent efforts to expand its scope of technologically enhanced services, HNB has been driving progressive improvements into its SSSM network. Having successfully implemented the very first cash recycling machine in the island, the bank has incorporated cashless payments plus direct deposits to HNB Accounts, through its customer deposit machines (CDM). Even non-HNB customers could make utility payments through the CDM?s, most of which are on a real-time basis. As the largest payee aggregator in the banking industry, HNB has a portfolio of more than 80 plus registered payee partners from a range of diverse industries such as telecommunications, insurance, education and asset management. The collective needs of these partners are served by the bank?s state-of-the-art payee system.
The partnership with Lanka clear national payment switch has also extended all banking services which were limited to HNB customers previously, to a wider banking population. At a reasonable cost, HNB?s ATM services could be accessed by customers of several other banks which are partners of LankaPay. The tie-up has made possible for HNB to serve its customers plus those of certain designated banks as well as Sri Lanka?s unbanked population, through various cash and non-cash related services.
With over 600 SSSMs-including 438 dispensing machines and 162 cash deposit machines-HNB is the 100 percent net acquirer among all acquiring banks in Sri Lanka and over the last year, recorded a 73 percent Year-on-Year (YoY) expansion in overall transaction volumes and a further 70 percent YoY increase in average transaction value. The bank was awarded with the Best ATM Network of the Year award at the LankaPay Technnovation Awards 2017 for the bank?s unprecedented levels of service, reach, availability and quality provided through its smart SSM network.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Judging character by the position, length and shape of fingers- (II)
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 9 February 2018 12:44 pm
Judging character by the position, length and shape of fingers- (II)
	
Last week we discussed the significations of each finger based on their length and position in relation to other fingers.
Today, we propose to discuss the significations of each finger based its shape.
Two distinct features have to be taken into account in the study of the shape of fingers. They are:
(1) The shape of the Tip of the first or the nailed phalanx,
(2) Presence or absence of knots at the joints of phalanges.
It is the forepart rather than the hind part that gives a distinct shape to a finger. Now let us examine the significations of each finger in relation to its shape.
First finger
Pointed: The subject is intuitive and idealistic in his religious beliefs.
Conical: Has a sharp perception and great love for reading.
Square: A lover of truth.
Spatulate: Overenthusiastic about going into action.
Second finger
Pointed: Morbid fear of the supernatural.
Conical: Rational in religious beliefs.
Square: Sagacious.
Spatulate: Very active.
Third finger
Pointed: Idealistic about arts and poetry.
Conical: Artistic bent in thinking.
Square: Keen on revealing reality through arts.
Spatulate: Loves performing arts (Dancing, acting).
Fourth finger
Pointed: A pronounced bent for acquiring scientific knowledge.
Conical: Tactful.??
Spatulate: Desire to be active in business (Hawking goods, visiting factories etc. Not a sedentary occupation)
 
		
==============================
## Title: LEPROSY SPREADING AMONG CHILDREN
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 9 February 2018 11:45 am
LEPROSY SPREADING AMONG CHILDREN
	
 
		
==============================
## Title: Merkel under fire from own ranks over German coalition deal
## Section: International
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:16 pm
Merkel under fire from own ranks over German coalition deal
	
?
REUTERS, 08th FEBRUARY, 2018- Chancellor Angela Merkel faced criticism from within the ranks of her own conservatives on Thursday for making concessions to her center-left Social Democrat (SPD) coalition partners to seal a governing alliance a day earlier.
Merkel, who leads the Christian Democrats (CDU), ceded the powerful finance ministry to the SPD in a coalition deal finally agreed on Wednesday, more than four months after a national election last September in which both blocs lost support.
?I think the cabinet formation, as it is now, is a political mistake,? said Christian von Stetten, a CDU lawmaker who represents business interests, told broadcaster ARD, adding that this applied in particular to giving up the finance portfolio. Handing over the finance ministry shows the high price the conservatives had to pay to renew the ?grand coalition? with the SPD that has governed Germany since 2013, and secure Merkel?s fourth term in office.
Mass-selling daily Bild said Merkel had sold out.
?Chancellor at any price,? Bild wrote on its front page. ?Merkel gifts the SPD the government.?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Netanyahu lashes out at police as graft probe nears end
## Section: International
## Date: 9 February 2018 02:14 pm
Netanyahu lashes out at police as graft probe nears end
	
?
JERUSALEM AFP Feb8, 2018 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has lashed out at police over claims detectives probing graft allegations against him were targeted by private investigators as the probe reportedly nears completion.? ?
Pressure has built on Netanyahu with police investigating him reportedly set to hand over their recommendations to the attorney general next week in the long-running probe.? ?
Israeli media have reported that police are expected to recommend that the long-serving prime minister be indicted for bribery, fraud and breach of public trust.? ?
Israeli authorities have refused to comment publicly on the reports. The attorney general is expected to take weeks or months to decide how to proceed after receiving the recommendations.? ?
On Monday night, Police Commissioner Roni Alsheich said in an interview with Israel?s Channel 2 television that detectives probing Netanyahu had been targeted by private investigators to dig up dirt on them.? ?
Netanyahu posted a response on Facebook late Wednesday in which he lashed out at the police commissioner, calling suggestions that he sent private investigators on such a mission ?ridiculous.? ?It is shocking to discover that the commissioner has repeated the mistaken and ridiculous suggestion that Prime Minister Netanyahu sent private investigators after the police who are investigating him,? the post said.
 
		
==============================
