## Title: A story about reconciliation - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:24 am
A story about reconciliation - EDITORIAL
	
President Maithripala Sirisena underscored the efforts taken by Sri Lanka to restore democracy when he spoke at the 73rd Session of the United Nation?s General Assembly in New York, on September 25.?
President Sirisena probably had a spring in his step when walking to the podium to make the speech because he knows that, unlike in the past, Sri Lanka is slowly earning the respect of the international community where peace and reconciliation in the island are concerned.?
This is why he quite rightly said that the international community should view Sri Lanka from a fresh perspective. His well-thought out speech also included the statement that Sri Lanka was making efforts to consolidate peace and forging ahead in development and such efforts needed the support and the understanding of the international community.?
The past regime staunchly defended the actions of the security forces, but there have been times when the present Yahapalana Government was found wanting in speaking for the efforts taken by Government troops, in quelling a terrorist rebellion, in the midst of criticism from the international community and several rights organisations. The president?s statement that Sri Lanka wouldn?t accept interference by foreign nations in resolving its internal problems speaks well of a stance taken by a patriotic leader.?
Sirisena also spoke at the Nelson Mandela International Peace Seminar which was held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly. He said that he wished world leaders would emulate Mandela, adding that, ?Mandela was a world leader who showed how to use power for the benefit of the people and give it up without greed?.?
However, Back in Sri Lanka, there is some criticism that president Sirisena still enjoys unlimited powers as the Executive and backtracked on an election promise to pass more of his powers to Parliament.?
Be that as it may, what must be taken note of is that Sirisena accepted an invitation to speak at this peace seminar, largely because this year marks the centenary birth anniversary of Mandela.?
For the record, just before he was imprisoned, Mandela had said that he was even ready to die if that was needed to achieve democracy. But what was most notable in his struggle for the freedom of the black community was that Mendela forgave his detractors the moment he was released from prison. The ability to forgive is so essential when any nation takes the road to reconciliation.?
The Yahapalana regime talks at length about its reconciliation programmes. The president himself told the world out there, in New York, of how his chargers are taking efforts to consolidate media freedom, good governance and the independence of the judiciary. But like Mandela, if both parties in the Sri Lankan conflict- who tore peace in the island to shreds, took away the lives of thousands and denied wives their husbands and the children their fathers and mothers and most importantly education to students in the north and the east-don?t shelf their pride and say sorry to each other for the turmoil they caused, Sri Lanka?s reconciliation efforts would resemble a wound that has healed on top, but festers beneath.?
This is why the president said in his speech in New York that Sri Lanka has drawn much from the 30-year conflict and is making efforts to prevent such a thing from recuring.?
It must be noted that UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres had spoken of a chaotic world order. Guterres had said, ?Trust on the rule-based global order and among states was at breaking point. Democratic principles are under siege?.?
As much as Sri Lanka needs the support and understanding of the international community, it doesn?t need any nation putting a spanner in the works towards the efforts taken to ensure peace and reconciliation. This is why it was vital for the president to state that Sri Lanka has no enemies and is friends with all countries.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Australian Court releases Kamer on bail
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 08:08 am
Australian Court releases Kamer on bail
	
Mohamed Kamer Nizamdeen, the 25-year-old Sri Lankan University student accused of plotting to assassinate Australian politicians has been released on bail, after an expert found the sole piece of evidence couldn't be connected to him, the ABC News reported today.
Mr Nizamdeen?was arrested in August after a colleague found a notebook allegedly containing details of plans to kill Malcolm Turnbull and his former deputy Julie Bishop.
He?has spent four weeks in jail facing a terror charge - his family and supporters have maintained he is innocent.
"The prosecution has become aware that an expert handwriting examiner found an inconclusive result on the relevant entries contained in the notebook," prosecutor Christina Choi has told the Central Local Court in Sydney.
Without a conclusive expert opinion suggesting the defendant was the relevant author, evidence for the charge has been significantly weakened.
Mr Nizamdeen was charged with collecting or making documents likely to facilitate terrorist acts on August 31.
Last week, hundreds of people gathered in his hometown in Sri Lanka to protest his treatment in prison.
The alleged list of targets also included the former speaker Bronwyn Bishop, the Sydney Opera House, major train stations and police stations across the Harbour City.
Mr Nizamdeen's lawyer said police had conducted eight hours of interviews with the student which also did not uncover anything against the suspect.
"Let's be clear, Mr Nizamdeen today was granted bail because the case against him is extremely weak, almost non-existent," his lawyer Moustafa Kheir said.
Mr Kheir said his client wanted to "pass on some appreciation" for the support he's been receiving.
"He especially wanted to pass on a thank you to his colleagues at the University of New South Wales."
Detectives allege the Sri Lankan national was acting on his own, and despite police telling a media conference he appeared to be an Islamic State affiliate, they had not charged him with being a member of a terrorist organisation.
The court heard other material belonging to Mr Nizamdeen - like his computer, mobile, and other documents - did not show he had any extremist ideology.
"No extremist ideology material has been located on devices found in possession of Mr Nizamdeen," Ms Choi said.
The prosecutor said the New South Wales?Police Commissioner had also submitted a confidential affidavit to verify these circumstances.
Mr Nizamdeen's been living in Australia on a student visa which was cancelled after his arrest.
The court heard arrangements are being made to get him a bridging visa so he won't be sent to immigration detention.
In the meantime, the court ruled Mr Nizamdeen can't leave the country or get a passport and he'll have to live with his uncle in northern Sydney.
He's due to face court again in October.
 
		
==============================
## Title: China rejects claim of election meddling
## Section: International
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:12 am
China rejects claim of election meddling
	
?
?By Anna Fifield (c) 2018, The Washington Post, Sep 27, 2018 - BEIJING - China is flatly denying President Donald Trump?s accusation that it is interfering in November?s midterm elections, implying that it is the United States that has a track record of meddling in other countries? business.? ?
With an acrimonious trade dispute rumbling on and amid an increasingly fractious security environment, the latest tit-for-tat could worsen the relationship between the world?s two largest economies.? ?
?I believe the international community knows very well who is most used to meddling in the internal affairs of others,? Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, told reporters Thursday. He did not name the United States directly but was responding to a question about Trump?s assertion Wednesday at the United Nations that Beijing was attempting to influence the midterms.? ?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: DIG Nalaka Silva gives voice sample to Analyst
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 12:17 pm
DIG Nalaka Silva gives voice sample to Analyst
	
DIG Nalaka Silva gave a voice sample to the Government Analyst?s Department this morning in relation to the investigation into the alleged attempt to assassinate President Maithripala Sirisena and Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
Colombo Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayarathne yesterday ordered the DIG to give a sample to the Government Analyst.
The Magistrate ordered the Analyst to check whether the DIG?s voice matches with that in the recorded telephone conversation between him and Anti Corruption Force Organisation Working Director Namal Kumara.
?
?
Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Digital law vital to digitize state institutions: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 05:18 pm
Digital law vital to digitize state institutions: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said today the introduction of a digital law was necessary to give a timeline for state institutions to digitize their services.
He said this on the occasion to mark International Day for the Universal Access to Information.
?There is an initiative to digitize the entire government process. The Digital Infrastructure Minister has briefed me about some major achievements on that matter but some sectors are slow. This is why it is necessary to introduce a digital law. Some of the issues addressed in this legislation will be the reduction of face to face meetings but there is a long way to go before we achieve our objectives,? the Prime Minister said.
?As a result of promoting the knowledge industry we have to make that commitment to open access. Information available will change the learning structure, especially the higher education system. In doing so there are many initiatives which we have undertaken. The relevant ministers have already discussed the digital economic strategy. I hope it will be approved by the cabinet next week or the week after. We are now studying on making Sri Lanka a logistics centre and also on the possibility of starting an off shore financial centre," he said.
"This legislation is being discussed. That again is a basis for knowledge industry. It changes the way in which business is done and therefore Sri Lanka would become a business centre. I will be meeting with Sri Lanka Association of Software Service Companies (SLASSCOM) after I return from Norway to discuss special tax incentives that will be made available to the industry in next year.? he added.
The Prime Minister highlighted the need to look to the future and ask ourselves where Sri Lanka's future was.
?We are a small country located in the middle of Indian Ocean. Our markets are limited. We have to look for skills which we have to utilize and build on. If you identify them, you come up with niche market manufacturing and becoming a part of global value chain. Second is tourism and thirdly the logistics as we are at the middle of Indian Ocean. The fourth is the knowledge industry, the total knowledge industry is our future," he said.
Telecom, Digital Infrastructure Development and Foreign Employment Minister Harin Fernando said his ministry together with the Ministry of Education had introduced new technology such as Internet of Things (IOT). ?We have initiated the first ever artificial intelligence driven chat-box solution for the government information Centre GIC 1919,? the Minister said. Government had liberalized the telecommunications sector , promoted healthy competition in private sector and had deployed South Asia?s first commercially operating 3G and 4G connectivity technologies.
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said his ministry was committed to prepare the younger generation to face the changing world where Apps are the order of the day. He said this will be done by distributing tabs to schoolchildren hoped to increase IT literacy in the country to 100 per cent. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Doctor beaten by wife
## Section: Weird News
## Date: 28 September 2018 07:10 am
Doctor beaten by wife
	
A doctor, who complained to the Kollupitiya police that he was beaten by his wife till a broomstick was broken, was found to have five paramours and thirteen children, during the police investigations.
It was revealed during investigations that he had three children from his wife and that he had been beaten by his wife when he came to take their two and a half-year-old child.
The suspect had taken the child despite his wife?s beatings and had given the child to his second paramour, but the Kollupitiya police had mediated and given the child back to the wife.
It was further revealed that the suspect was an MBBS graduate doctor who had worked at a hospital away from Colombo and had given up his job.
His wife is reportedly residing at a house belonging to the doctor in Kollupitiya, with the three children. (Srinath Prasanna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gota case filed by BC: Interim order extended till Dec.5
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 05:46 pm
Gota case filed by BC: Interim order extended till Dec.5
	
The Court of Appeal today extended till December 5, the interim order preventing the case filed by the Bribery Commission against former defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and some others from being heard in the Colombo Magistrate?s Court.
The order was delivered by an Appeal Court Bench comprising Achala Wengappuli and Arjuna Obeysekara.
Mr. Rajapaksa was given time till October 19 to file objections while the case was fixed for November 30. (Thilini DeSilva and Ranjan Katugampola)
 
		
==============================
## Title: GTF condemns President sirisena?s move to drop war crime charges against its troops
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:09 am
GTF condemns President sirisena?s move to drop war crime charges against its troops
	
?
The Global Tamil Forum (GTF) is dismayed at the Sri Lankan Government?s initiatives to abandon its repeated commitments to address accountability issues related to war crimes. President Sirisena?s recent public statement that he will make a special request to the UN General Assembly and the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to drop war crimes charges against his troops to ?settle? the issue of accountability is outrageous and must be censured. It is also feared that President Sirisena?s calculated plan is to link the release of the long-held Tamil political prisoners to a general amnesty for all including those from the military responsible for serious brutality and war crimes. GTF condemns such approach to accountability in the strongest possible terms and turn to the international community to thwart any such misplaced and short-sighted attempt?at its infancy.? ?
?
The national conflict in Sri Lanka is replete with instances of Sri Lankan governments making commitments to address minority communities? concerns, and then abandoning them at the slightest of opposition from the hard-line elements of the majority community. The difference this time being the commitments were made to the international community to administer justice, but its untrustworthiness is receiving world-wide publicity. Concerns about trust were raised when Sri Lanka co-sponsored the 2015 UNHRC resolution, but this was famously countered by the then Foreign Minister saying, ?Don?t judge us by the broken promises, experiences and U-turns of the past.? Alas, the country appears to have not moved away from its past, irrespective of all the promises made by the new coalition government that came to power the same year.? ?
Despite Sri Lanka?s attempt to conduct the last stages of the war without witnesses, including by ordering the withdrawal of the UN and other international aid agencies in war zones, evidence of brutality came to light in the form of videos and photographs and victim statements after the conclusion of the war.The systematic violence ? sexual abuse and cold-blooded execution of war surrendees, indiscriminate shelling of hospitals and safe zones, and denial of desperately needed humanitarian assistance ? pricked the conscience of the world, and made to realise its failure to prevent tens of thousands of deaths, mostly Tamil citizens, in the hands of the country?s security forces. Sri Lanka?s continual denial, intransigence, as well as its refusal to honour the agreement with the then UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon to address war time accountability issues, triggered a series of international?
and UN initiatives.? ?
?
"Former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid, consistently argued? for the establishment of such a specialized court supported by? international practitioners. Firmly convinced that progress has? virtually stalled, in 2017 he called on the member states to explore? other avenues, including the application of universal jurisdiction, to? press for accountability"
The UN Secretary General appointed a Panel of Experts (2011) to address accountability issues related to alleged war time abuses, and an Internal Review Panel (2012) to prevent the repetition of the Sri Lanka-type failure. Former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navanethem Pillai, was instrumental in setting up the OHCHR Investigation on Sri Lanka (OISL), in 2014, under the guidance of eminent international jurists. The conclusions of these investigations were unambiguous ? ??. there is credible evidence that war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed by all parties to the armed conflict that need to be tried by an internationalised special court.?? ?
A core group of countries consisting of US, UK, Macedonia and Montenegro provided leadership at the UNHRC to help Sri Lanka deal with its painful past. The UNHRC resolutions of 2013 and 2014 urging the government to take steps to promote accountability and reconciliation were passed without Sri Lanka?s consent. However, with the formation of the new government in 2015 ? mandated for Good Governance ? Sri Lanka adopted a different approach by co-sponsoring UNHRC resolutions (2015 and 2017) and extending cooperation, albeit slowly. These resolutions (30/1 and 34/1) on ?promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights? were in fact compromised outcomes, with the adoption of establishing a Sri Lanka based judicial mechanism ? including participation of foreign judges, prosecutors and investigators.?
Former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid, consistently argued for the establishment of such a specialized court supported by international practitioners. Firmly convinced that progress has virtually stalled, in 2017 he called on the member states to explore other avenues, including the application of universal jurisdiction, to press for accountability.? ?
?
Despite the veneer of civility, the commitment and conviction of the Sri Lankan government to implement the UNHRC resolutions have been lacking. Every notable step, such as operationalising the Office of the Missing Persons (OMP), was taken after years of delay but invariably days before the commencement of a UNHRC session, aiming mainly at managing international expectations for the moment.With regards to the crucial aspect of asserting criminal culpability, three years after sponsoring the 2015 resolution, no court has been set-up, not a single indictment served, and no one brought to justice. Even in the emblematic cases ? the killings of 5 students in Trincomalee; the massacre of 17 aid workers of the French charity ?Action Against Hunger? in Muttur (both in 2006); and the execution-style murder of the high-profile journalist Lasantha Wickrematunge (2009) ? the progress is almost zero and in essence for ?show?. Those responsible for these dastardly crimes remain free; some with credible accusations of involvement continue to occupy high government positions and some with ambitions for higher offices. It is in this context that President Sirisena is making attempts to drop war crimes charges against Sri Lankan armed forces, apparently as a concession for the ?progress? his government has made!? ?
In dealing with international crimes the world has made leaps of progress during the last seven decades ? International Military Tribunal, International Criminal Court, ad hoc International Criminal Tribunals and Hybrid Special Courts. For serious international crimes, such as crimes against humanity and genocide, states can no longer use sovereignty as a defence and individuals can?t hide behind state responsibility. It is precisely crimes of this nature that were committed in Sri Lanka and the country appears to have wasted an opportunity to address the problem on its own or with international support?
and participation.? ?
?
"Those responsible for these dastardly crimes remain free; some with? credible accusations of involvement continue to occupy high government? positions and some with ambitions for higher offices. It is in this? context that President Sirisena is making attempts to drop war crimes? charges against Sri Lankan armed forces, apparently as a concession for? the ?progress? his government has made! "
Even the thought of President Sirisena receiving UN consent to abandon Sri Lanka?s international commitments is unthinkable and can lead to irreparable damage to peace and justice in the country, with unforeseen outcomes for the world at large. No doubt it will lead to the alienation of the Tamil community and its political leaders, effectively extinguishing the prospect of reconciliation. International efforts will intensify to apply universal jurisdiction and economically isolate Sri Lanka. Its rehabilitation into respectability that began after 2015 will start to recede, with long-term damage to peace and prosperity. More importantly, this will convey a clear message to other budding dictators and military regimes with despicable human rights record that they can live out international focus and resolutions without serious consequences. In other words, despite the progress in universalising human rights and rule of law, enough holes exist for bad behaviour and inhumanity ? a dangerous precedent indeed.? ?
Outright rejection of President Sirisena?s ill-conceived initiative will indeed be a victory for decency, justice and humanity of the world, in particular for the citizens of Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: His far-sighted plan to steal an ECG machine!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:02 am
His far-sighted plan to steal an ECG machine!
	
?
When the main city council had procured three ECG recorder-machines for the three medical centres being run by it, they had also received an extra-recorder-machine free as part?of the bargain.
?
The three machines installed in the three medical centres are said to lying idle gathering dust as ECG recordists have not been assigned to these centres.
The worst part of this affair is that the extra-ECG machine received by the council has gone missing now.
It has come to light that the politico, who took the initiative to purchase the ECG machines with an eye on the extra-machine, had quietly taken it away. But he has failed to take any interest in appointing an ECG recordist for any of the three centres, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: HR situation in Sri Lanka: Govt.?s commitment gives ray of hope
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 September 2018 02:39 am
HR situation in Sri Lanka: Govt.?s commitment gives ray of hope
	
Attorney-at-law Priyalal Sirisena (Left), Herman Kumara (Centre) and Hans Fridlund, Programme Manager at UPR Info UPR Info Country Coordinator brief the media about improving the human rights situationin the country
(Pics by Waruna Wanniarachchi)??
?
As a country that is in the process of recovering from a 30-year ethnic conflict, many people affected by the war are yet to enjoy their basic rights such as safety, ownership of lands and settling down in permanent shelters. In a war-torn backdrop, a country has to start its forward march from scratch. The struggle to establish a framework to deliver justice to affected victims- including internally displaced persons (IDPs) and their families, victims of torture and abuse among others- was experienced by successive governments. However, under the Yahapalana regime, Sri Lanka recently expanded its commitment to Human Rights by ratifying the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearances and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Implementing the Office of Missing Persons (OMP) and several other mechanisms were quite challenging and the contribution by civil society groups is commendable. Yet, Sri Lanka as a country has a long way to go in terms of achieving?
these objectives.? ?
However civil society groups and human rights activists believe that the freshly drafted National Human Rights Action Plan (NHRAP) needs to be executed with immediate effect.
?167 Recommendations were based on ideas by civil society groups?
Speaking at a recently held press conference, UPR Info Country Coordinator Herman Kumara said that it?s important that the civil society groups get involved in implementing the human rights framework. ?Back in 2012 we carried out the UPR process, but the Government of Sri Lanka didn?t get involved with the civil societies. However, we now observe that the Government has been involved in some way or the other. Sri Lanka received 230 recommendations in relation to human rights and 167 of these recommendations were based on the proposals and ideas presented by the civil society groups. But we need to check how they will be implemented in future. There are various issues in relation to human rights that haven?t been solved to date,? said Kumara.? ?
?
"The struggle to establish a framework to deliver justice to affected victims- including internally displaced persons (IDPs) and their families, victims of torture and abuse among others- was experienced by successive governments"
He further said that the civil society collective immensely contributed to the drafting of the NHRAP, but this contribution isn?t satisfactory in terms of executing this plan. ?Another concern is that there are several issues with regard to the constitutional amendment process. We also raised concerns with regards to lands and people who were affected by the war. Here we noticed that the Government is ready to provide solutions for these issues with the necessary infrastructure and resources. But we also observed that these plans aren?t being implemented at the grassroots level. This is because most displaced or affected families live without basic needs. They are insecure in terms of safety, ownership of lands etc. but it was mentioned that almost 88% of lands have been released to the owners,? he added.? ?
According to Kumara, the Office of Missing Persons needs to commence operations with immediate effect. ?In terms of torture and abuse we don?t see a shift in the attitudes of Government officials. But we appreciate the fact that the attitudes of certain officials have changed in a positive way,? he said.? ?
?State bears the primary responsibility of implementing the Review?
UPR Info is a non-profit, non-governmental organisation that aims to raise awareness on the Universal Periodic Review and to provide capacity building tools to all stakeholders such as UN Member states, parliamentarians, civil society groups, media and academics. In his comments, Hans Fridlund, Programme Manager at UPR Info, said that a defining feature of our engagement with partners is that we don?t seek to impose any pre-set agenda on national voices. ?We are simply a facilitator and a partner, ready to support national efforts with technical expertise on the UPR.? ?
?In order to achieve this endeavor, we support national UPR stakeholders both before and after the review,? Fridlund continued.?Before the review we extend support to Governments in the consultation process and drafting of the National Report. After the review, we collaborate with actors to kick-start the implementation process at the domestic level through discussions between Government officials and civil society representatives and to report back to the Human Rights Council halfway between reviews.?? ?
Speaking on the Recommendations Hans said that one of the strengths of the Universal Periodic Review is that it covers the full set of human rights including economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and political rights and group rights. ?Implementation of UPR recommendations must be coupled with addressing recommendations coming from other United Nations Human Rights mechanisms such as the treaty body system and the Special Procedures. Recommendations from national processes and the National Human Rights Commission should also be taken into consideration as well as the state?s obligations towards the Sustainable Development Goals. In this vein, it was encouraging to see a recommendation calling for the incorporation of the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women into Sri Lanka?s domestic system, and that Recommending states seized the opportunity to make recommendations calling for the full implementation of Human Rights Council resolution 30/1 ?Promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka?,? he added.? ?
When asked about how the 167 recommendations should be implemented by the State, Hans said that the Universal Periodic Review is a state-led peer-review mechanism and as such the state bears the primary responsibility for their implementation. However civil society is a recognized actor in the follow-up process and should thus be involved in the realization of recommendations,? said Hans.? ?
According to Hans, in the absence of an official follow-up mechanism, voluntary mid-term reporting is a good practice to take stock of the implementation levels of all recommendations, noted and supported, halfway between reviews.? ?
?Slow progress in terms of implementation is a question??
Airing his views on this review, attorney-at-law Priyalal Sirisena said that the National Human Right Action plan contains a specific chapter on Internally Displaced Persons and Returning Refugees. ?It speaks of creating a policy and framework to address displacements, provision of interim facilities, release of occupied lands, compensation for IDPs and returnees, supporting their livelihood and establishment of Office for Reparations.
These action plans are welcomed by the civil society. However, the implementation of these proposals requires a proactive and cooperative approach by the relevant ministries, including the Ministry of Resettlement, Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Lands etc. Resettlement is not going to be meaningful unless proper preparations and restoration of livelihood are taken care of. The NHRAP seems to describe what needs to be done, yet the slow progress in terms of implementation is a question,? said Sirisena.? ?
?
"Civil society is a recognised actor in the follow-up process"
Although the war ended in 2009, issues relating to IDPs, war victims and victims of abuse were neglected by successive Governments. ?These are matters falling under transitional justice which are happening very slowly,? Sirisena continued. ?The resettlement of IDPs is a crucial issue, yet getting delayed due to political and other reasons. The government-declared 80% of the lands acquired by the military in war-time have been released to civilians, but civil society activists have pointed out that the figures were not correct.? he added.? ?
?
"Resettlement of IDPs a crucial issue"
In terms of interventions which could be carried out by the Government, Sirisena believes that fast resettlement and restoring livelihoods of the affected population is an urgent necessity. ?Yet the process seems very slow,? he added. ?Sri Lanka has reaffirmed its firm commitment to United Nations resolution 30/1 at the Universal Periodic Review last November. This resolution prescribes four transitional justice mechanisms to be established, of which OMP and Office of Reparations are two mechanisms. A Truth Commission and Accountability mechanism are yet to be established. In achieving justice for the affected people, accountability mechanism is a must, but it has already become a matter of much controversy. It should be noted that the Government made a voluntary pledge at the UPR session at Geneva to establish these four mechanisms including a judicial mechanism. For any transitional justice process with an ethno-political aspect, openness and bold steps by the Government are necessary to make things move forward, despite criticisms,??he concluded.
 
		
==============================
## Title: I stand by what I said: Mangala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 01:27 pm
I stand by what I said: Mangala
	
Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera yesterday dismissed the criticism, over his recent response to a statement made by Colombo?s Archbishop Malcolm?Cardinal Ranjith, saying he stood by what he said. ????
?What I said was correct and I stand by it,? he said in response to a?journalist at an event held at Royal College, Colombo.
When asked about the joint opposition?s pledge to continue criticising the minister?s response, he said, ?The JO can come to Colombo again, stage a protest and show its incompetency,?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: If ordered, we can contain Mobs in the North: Army Commander
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 08:01 pm
If ordered, we can contain Mobs in the North: Army Commander
	
The mobs operating in the North can be contained if the Army is given the necessary powers even for a limited period of time, Army Commander Lieutenant General Mahesh Senanayake said today.
He said this to journalists after visiting the Dalada Maligawa in Kandy to seek blessings for the Sri Lanka Army on its 69th Anniversary.
The Commander said the Army would fulfil its duties should the government decide to give more powers to the army.
?National security is something all citizens are entitled to. The Army is strong and national security is one of its main duties. We know better about national security than others. Nothing has changed. It is the army which secured victory for Sri Lanka in its fight against the LTTE. Similarly, the army will be always ready with its services to safeguard the country,? he said.
The Commander said any decision with regard to army camps were being taken after discussions with the army. ?Therefore, camps are not being removed in an arbitrary manner. However, the army is ready to re-organise and re-situate the camps to ensure national security,? he said.(Nadeeka Daya Bandara)
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Impact of the benevolent planet on  your life
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 28 September 2018 12:18 pm
Impact of the benevolent planet on  your life
	
? ? ? ? ? Jupiter?s transit switch to Scorpio on October 11? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
?
Jupiter, the largest planet in the Solar system which is also looked on as the most beneficial planet in Astrology, which has been passing through the zodiacal sign Libra since September 12, 2017 will enter the zodiacal sign Scorpio at 19.21 hours on October 11, marking, perhaps, the astrologically most significant celestial event for the current year.
?
Bestowing prosperity and protecting the Earth
Indian sage Mantreshwara has said in his celebrated work, Phaladeepika that Jupiter is the most powerful of all the planets in countering malefic influences and bestowing prosperity.
According to astronomers, Jupiter protects the Earth and the life on it due to its location in the Solar system. They say that there is an asteroid belt in between Mars and Jupiter and it is positioned in such a way that its gravitational pull prevents asteroids from hurtling towards the Earth.?
?
Forward and backward movements of Jupiter? ? ? ? ? ??
Jupiter usually takes about 13 months to traverse one sign in the Zodiac and its transit in Scorpio will continue, disrupted by one retrograde movement, until its final ingress into the next sign, Sagittarius on November 05, 2019.?
Jupiter while on its direct movement will enter the Sagittarius sign on March 29, 2019 and will turn back on its journey towards Scorpio on April 10, 2019 to re-enter it by April 23, 2019. It will resume its direct movement by August 11, 2019 to complete its passage in Scorpio by November 05, 2019.? ?
?
? ?
Vedha places
The effects of a transiting Jupiter produces good or bad, and are negated if any other planet is transiting in a House named as a Vedha place at the same time in relation to the transiting Jupiter.
The Houses where the transiting Jupiter produces favourable effects and the Houses where Vedha operates in respect of each of such Houses as well as the Houses where the transiting Jupiter produces unfavorable effects and the Vedha Houses from where other planets negate the bad effects are shown below.?
?
Prediction of results based on Chandra Lagna
Predictions on effects produced by planets in transit, as a principle, are based on the Chandra Lagna or the Natal Moon sign, not on the birth Lagna or the Ascendant. Let us now consider the long term and short-term effects that Jupiter in Scorpio is going to produce on individuals depending on their Moon sign or the Chandra Lagna.??
Aries (Mesha): For Aries Chandra Lagna natives, Jupiter will be in their 8th House. This is not a favourable position for them. Natives are advised to be their alert to meet obstacles and unfavourable developments which could cause worries and anxieties. You have to be on your guard against possible thefts of your valuables. Circumstances that could make you unhappy at your workplace or fall foul of the law of the state are possible. Unnecessary travelling, change of residence and high expenses may trouble you. The period up to April 2019 is not favourable for making investments either. Natives may also develop health problems relating to stomach and liver.?
Taurus (Vrushabha): For you, Jupiter will move into your 7th House, an important quadrant or a Kendra. Natives will benefit from Jupiter?s direct aspect over the Lagna. Time ahead is very auspicious for young men and women looking forward to matrimony.? Love affairs of natives may culminate in marriage. Natives also can look forward to marital happiness, a happy family time and a child birth. Financial position will turn for the better. Your business may turn more profitable. Opportunities may come your way to expand your business. For those employed, a rise in the career is possible. You are likely to develop a religious and an altruistic bent. A long journey to a sacred place is on the cards. Time ahead is also favourable for students pursuing higher education.?
Gemini (Mithuna): For Gemini natives, Jupiter will be in their 6th House. This is not a favourable position. You will have to take extra pains to avoid misunderstandings, disputes and differences with family members and friends to safeguard your cordial relations with them. Machinations by rivals and enemies, attempts at discrediting you, thefts of valuable possessions are strong possibilities. Distance yourself from undesirable elements for they could bring disgrace to you. Students may find impediments to their?educational pursuits.?
Cancer (Kataka): Jupiter will begin transit in the 5th House of Cancer natives. Meanwhile, the special aspect of Jupiter too will fall on the 5th House making this transit doubly favourable. The birth of a son, happiness from children, cordial relations with peers, seniors and colleagues and a rise in the career are strongly indicated in times ahead. Natives can also look forward to recognition and rewards for their skills and hard work.? Matrimonial prospects are very bright for bachelors and maidens.?
Leo (Sinha): Jupiter is due to move into your 4th House where he does not produce favourable results when in transit. You have to be in readiness to face possibly unconnected circumstances that could cause a variety of problems such as threats to family harmony, disputes with relatives, deprival of homely comforts and separation from the family. Students may find themselves faced with impediments to their studies. You are advised to keep away from animals which may cause you injuries. Avoid gaming activity and speculation-related trading for you may suffer heavy losses.? Desist from any action likely to antagonize or cause displeasure to your employer or superiors for there is a threat to your employment.?
Virgo (Kanya): Jupiter is to transit in the 3rd House from your Chandra Lagna where it does not hold out remarkably favourable results. However, the fact that Jupiter is to favourably influence your 7th, 9th and 11th Houses signifying considerable gains is a plus factor. These three Houses gaining strength from Jupiter would mean that you are to have a happy family life, some measure of fortune and a sound financial position respectively. However, you cannot look forward to these gains as a matter of course; you have to put in some extra-effort to reach out to them.?
Libra (Thula): Jupiter is due to leave your Lagna for the 2nd House of Scorpio for its 13-month transit. In fact, Jupiter is more favourable for material success in the 2nd House than in the Lagna. Therefore, natives can look forward to a period of prosperity ahead. Jupiter is also to favourably influence your 6th House assuring success and achievements, the 8th House holding out sudden gains and the 10th House indicating a possible rise in the career. So, you can look forward to a generally happy and prosperous time ahead.?
Scorpio (Vrushika): Jupiter?s switching of signs will have the greatest impact on you for it will be in your Lagna or the 1st House for about 13 months beginning October 11. Jupiter?s transit in your Lagna will bring about a change in your outlook on life.? You will develop an altruistic bent. You will become more interested in cultivating human and spiritual values than in accumulating wealth or in increasing your wealth. Incidentally, Jupiter?s special aspect from Scorpio will fall on your 5th and 9th houses and the direct aspect over the 7th House. So, the natives can look forward to the benefits that these Houses represent: advancement of knowledge, cordial relationship with the spouse and the business partners and luck and prosperity among a host of?other gains.?
Sagittarius (Dhanu): Jupiter will be transiting in your 12th House beginning October 11 where it will not be strong enough to produce favourable effects. Unforeseen untoward circumstances can cause you problems in the time ahead. Your health may deteriorate and your relations with relatives may get strained. Worries will plague your mind and you will find yourself unhappy very often. However, there are redeeming aspects as well. Jupiter will from your Lagna cast its beneficial aspect over the 4th House, 6th House and the 8th House favourably influencing them to enable them to produce?beneficial results.?
Capricorn (Makara):? Jupiter will begin transiting in your 11th House from October 11 where he will be so comfortably placed as to bestow on you increased wealth, business success and a good social time. You will find yourself in the company of learned friends who will be of immense help to you. Meanwhile, Jupiter will favourably influence your 3rd, 5th and the 7th Houses assuring you of cordial relations with siblings and help and co-operation from them, recognition for efforts and skills in arts, science and literature and marital happiness among other benefits.
Aquarius (Kumbha): The benevolent Jupiter will be in your 10th House beginning October 11 where the planet will not be able to produce any remarkable favourable effect on your life. You must be on your guard against possible attempts at bringing you into disrepute and you may not get benefits commensurate with your efforts. However, you will reap some gains due to Jupiter?s beneficial aspect over your 2nd, 4th and the 6th Houses. The 2nd House thus strengthened will bring you an increased income and a happily family time, the 4th House comforts and assets like land and vehicles and the 6th House the success in contests?
and competitions.
Pisces (Meena): In your case, Jupiter will begin its transit in Scorpio from your 9th House which will place you in a very fortunate position. Jupiter, your own Lagnadhipati will cast his beneficial aspect over your Lagna, the 3rd and the 5th Houses. You can look forward a period of peace, happiness, fame and prosperity. There will be an increase in your wealth, a rise in your status, happiness in the family and a rise in your career. You will embark on your activity with much confidence, a positive outlook and a burst of new energy.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Learn how to treat  migraine
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 28 September 2018 12:45 pm
Learn how to treat  migraine
	
?
Migraine is a neurological condition that affects many in Sri Lanka. It has multiple symptoms, but it is frequently characterised by intense, debilitating headaches??
In an interview with the Health Capsule Dr. Bimsara Senanayake, Consultant Neurologist of the National Hospital, elaborated more about the condition.? ?
?
What is migraine?
Migraine is a kind of primary headache disorder. That means it does not have any secondary cause, such as a brain tumour. Migraine by definition means ?hemikrania? derived from Greek origins, which means pain on one side of the head. Usually migraine headache sufferers have a headache on one side of the head. The sides in which the headache occurs can change. It is one of the most common causes of headache in the world. 10% of the people of our nation suffer from a migraine disorder. Hence it is one of the commonest neurological problems. Interestingly out of that 10% the majority are females. For every 1 male there will be 2 female suffering from migraine.? ?
?
Reasons for migraine?
It occurs because of a physiological process that takes place within our brains, between blood vessels and nerves, therefore it is neurovascular disease. There is swelling of these blood vessels due to various triggers, which thereby causes pain. It is important to note that the headache is only one symptom of migraine. Migraine has numerous other symptoms along with the headache, one common symptom is the blurring of vision which is knows as vision aura. Other symptoms are numbness, weakness of neck and arms, nausea, vomiting and feeling faintish. In some rare cases even brain fever can develop. This is why we call migraine a phenomenon or a syndrome in which case there it is collection of symptoms. In fact there are some cases where patients suffer from migraine sans headache. Further migraines occur because of a mixture of genetic and environmental factors.? ?
?
Though many feel that migraine is a benign? condition, migraine has a huge impact on the economic life of a country and the social life of the people. This is because of the large numbers that suffer from migraine. For instance around 1,000 people might not go to work because of a migraine attack. This is because it is such a common condition.??
?
Types of migraine??
There are two broadly different kinds of migraine; migraine with aura and migraine without aura. Aura is a kind of? warning, which means that before you get the headache you get a warning, such as blurring of vision, you start seeing zigzag lines or flashes of light. Some auras are called fortification spectrum. That is where you see something like a fortress. You even go totally blind for a period of time. In other instances you can start seeing large figures that are usually smaller (macropsia) or start seeing regular sized figures smaller ( micropsia). This particular aura is called the ?Alice in Wonderland? syndrome.? ?
Non vision associated auras are smells, numbness, a tingling sensation. Migraine with auras are also called classical migraines, but the common migraine does not have an aura. The majority of patients, around 80%, do not have an aura.? ?
Some patients can have hemiplegic migraine, this is similar to a stroke. The word hemiplegic simply means paralysis on one side of the body. A person with hemiplegic migraine will experience a temporary weakness on one side of the body as part of their migraine attack. This can involve the face, arm or leg and be accompanied by numbness, or pins and needles.Or your cranial nerves can get paralysed, where the eyelids cannot be lifted.??
?
Diagnosis and treatment?
First you must take a detailed history of the patient and see if there are any triggers that cause the migraine. Some such triggers are:??
Bright flashes of light ( photo phobia)- this can occur when you go out in the sun??
	Loud noises (phonophobia)? ?(Hence a lot of migraine sufferers go into dark quiet rooms.)? ?
	Food- dairy products ( milk, butter,yoghurt), citrus food, chocolates, certain fruits that contain a chemical called serotonin, ( bananas, pineapples, tomatoes), peanuts??
	Women can suffer from migraine during menstruation- this is called menstrual migraine??
Treatment has two components: we try to cure the acute attack and secondly we try to prevent migraine recurring in the long-run. When a patient suffers an attack he will take a prescribed pain killer. Secondly he must take drugs to prevent attacks in the future. Such preventive drugs need to be taken for around 6-8 months, so that the patient can gradually space it out. In addition you must be aware of your triggers and hence avoid them.? ?
?
Need of scanning the brain??
A lot of migraine patients who come to us fear that they are suffering from a brain tumour. Not all migraine patients need to undergo a scan because the degree of the migraine can be clinically diagnosed. The diagnosis is hence done through a clinical history, not by a blood test or a scan. Some people have the wrong idea that a migraine can be diagnosed through a scan.?
?
?
When do you meet your physician?
These are the red flags of migraine where you must consult your physician; if you?re having episodic headaches ( headaches which come and go, for example where you get one attack now and then you get an attack in another 2 weeks time)? ?
If you are having a constant headache or if your usual headache pattern changes it is something to take seriously.?
?
When you get the worst possible headache that you have got in your entire life, where it feels like someone has hit you hard on the head, it might be migraine or/and there might be a certain bleeding in the brain.?
?
Further, if there are certain associated problems along with the headache such as a stroke, loss of consciousness, confusion, fits, this might not be migraine hence a brain scan may be needed.? ?
Therefore, you must seek treatment if you?re having such symptoms.? ?
?
Prevention mechanisms without medicine?
The first thing is that the triggers must be identified. You can use UV protective sunglasses to avoid harsh light. Food associated with migraine can be avoided and also noisy places. Mediation, acupuncture, botox, massages and relaxation activities can also help?relieve migraine.? ?
?
Economic consequences??
Though many feel that migraine is a benign condition, migraine has a huge impact on the economic life of a country and the social life of the people. This is because of the large numbers that suffer from migraine. For instance around 1,000 people might not go to work because of a migraine attack. This is because it is such a common condition. In developed countries they have done a calculation of how many work days and school days are lost because of migraine and it runs into a billion dollar loss annually. Hence the WHO ( World Health Organization) takes the condition very seriously because of the large damage caused. Though it does not cause death it?causes disability.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Oil drenched Dikovita beach  a growing concern
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 September 2018 02:58 am
Oil drenched Dikovita beach  a growing concern
	
Cleaning the slick using sacks to absorb oil
Pics by Pradeep Pathirana and Nimalsiri Edirisinghe? ?
?
ikovita and Uswatakeiyawa are popular beach destinations among local beachgoers frequenting the Western coast. Unfortunately, the beach stretch is not available anymore for beachgoers due to an oil leakage that occurred off the coast in Dikovita, on the night of September 08.? ?
Sea, beach and water breakers in the area were covered with furnace oil resembling a black blanket thrown over the sea. The Navy, Army, Coast Guards and volunteers jointly cleaned the beach manually. It took nearly two to three days to complete the cleaning.? ?
The beach became clearer gradually during the past two weeks, despite the rocky mound areas, having tiny ponds, being spoiled by layers of oil.? ?
The pipeline carrying oil to Kerawalapitiya Refinery Complex in Muthurajawela had leaked the oil in mid-ocean. A joint group is investigating the incident to find the location of the accident and whether it was caused by the UAE ship which was unloading oil.? ?
Dr. Terney Pradeep Kumara, General Manager of Marine Environment Protection Authority (MEPA) says that roughly about 10 tonnes of furnace oil had leaked into the sea following the accident. They had managed to clean the slick up to 60% and they expect the residue to decompose naturally.
Total impact? ?
?The oil patch spreads 2 Km around the Thaldiyawatta beach. Nature will take three to five months to clean the residue. But it might take five or more years to decrease the total impact of oil on the ecosystem. The oil residue on rocks and the beach are practically difficult to clean and if we take cleaning to that level, it will definitely damage the ecosystem at a more serious level,? he explained.? ?
?People used to bathe and play on this beach, but after the oil spill, all the activities on the beach must stop until it restores.? he emphasised.? ?
?
"The oil residue on rocks and the beach are practically difficult to clean and if cleaning is taken to that level, it will definitely damage the ecosystem at a more serious level"
Dr. Deeptha Samarathunga, Senior Scientist from Environmental Studies Division of the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency (NARA) said they have been carrying out an investigation from September 09 and they cannot comment on the damage without completing it and analyzing the full report. He further said that the preliminary report would be released within two weeks, and the full report would take three to five months to be completed. The research will monitor how the fisheries, local and foreign tourists have been affected.? ?
?
"The beach had been their livelihood for years. Nobody comes here to bathe in the sea anymore and it has impaired Their business and lives. Sometimes they used to earn more than 3000 rupees a day"
?The oil spill impacted the beach stretch from Dikovita up to the Negombo area and the stretch from Dikovita to Pitipana contained oil patches until September 20,? he said.? ?
A source from Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Ltd, (CPTSL) meanwhile confirmed that the joint group removed the slick within two days of the accident upon the request of the villagers and the institution is getting ready for the courts? procedure in the future.? ?
Henri Rodrigo, a grocery shop owner in Thaldiyawatta, opposite the popular ?Besama? Beach said that the beach had been their livelihood for years. ?Nobody comes here to bathe in the sea anymore and it has impaired our business and lives. Sometimes we used to earn more than 3000 rupees a day,?said Rodrigo.
He said that the water breaker was a newly added feature to avoid severe sea erosion after construction of the Port City was initiated.? ?
?
	The beach became clearer gradually during the past two weeks
	
	
	They had managed to clean the slick up to 60%
	
?Sand mining is the main culprit of sea erosion here. Four or five deaths occur annually when the drunken visitors who are unable to control themselves meet up with deep underwater slopes. Those sharp slopes are a result of sand mining. The oil leakage in 2015 destroyed the mangroves and this time the beach, the sea and our livelihoods were not spared,? he said.? ?
He noted that though the beach is an attraction, it is not developed nor managed by the Government. ?If they develop this as a beach park in the future, it would be beneficial to us as well as visitors. He mentioned that there were problems in their village such as unsatisfactory lighting facilities on the road along the beach, problems regarding waste management and issues with drunken visitors.
Chemical odour? ?
Villager Antony Jude said that the unpleasant chemical odour of heated oil during midday was suffocating them day and night. ?The contaminated sand and rocks are still there on the beach, and it will wash into the sea after the Waarakan (off season for fishing) when the sea roughen,?? ?
Mahaweli Development and Environment Ministry is planning to purchase a high-tech ocean cleaning vessel to clean the waste in saline water and also the14 tourist beaches in Sri Lanka under a special project, according to informed sources.?
?
	"Though the beach is an attraction, it is not developed nor managed by the Government
	
	
	The research will monitor how the fisheries, local and foreign tourists have been affected"
	
?
On the much celebrated International Coastal Clean-up Day, which falls on September 15, the islanders held coastal clean-up programmes. Meanwhile, this accident occurred in the West coast in Sri Lanka and experts are still investigating on the extent of damage.? ?
Authorities should take strict measurements to ensure similar incidents do not repeat. This sensitive ecosystem will take more time to recover. If the furnace oil leaks into the Negombo lagoon, the aquatic environment consisting fauna and flora, a fishing community and fish consumers are at stake.? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: People shaped by Buddhist civilization don?t violate HR: Cardinal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 01:18 am
People shaped by Buddhist civilization don?t violate HR: Cardinal
	
Archbishop of Colombo Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith yesterday said that people who had been shaped by Buddhist civilization do not violate human rights and added a society which attempts to make human rights a religion, could safeguard human rights effectively through Buddhist teaching.
Cardinal Ranjith expressed these views at the prize giving of Kanduboda Shri Saranankara Daham Pasala in Delgoda organized by the Ven. Parakaduwe Sri Saranankara Thera recently. Chancellor of the Kelaniya University Ven. Dr. Walamitiyawe Kusaladhamma Thera presided over the event.
He said there were threats posed on religions at present and added that Buddhism was the backbone of this country and it was a religion which had been followed by the people in this land for a long time.
?Rights of all people in this country are safeguarded when Buddhist culture is safeguarded. Anti religious ideologies are being filtered into the society today. We have to put them aside and safeguard religions,? he said.
?Since we have inherited a great culture over the years, there is no need to think about human rights in a special way. Religions are not followed in some countries. Human rights are safeguard in our country much more than what is prescribed by the UN in Sri Lanka because of the Buddhist environment,? he added.
He also said the efforts made by the Buddhist clergy to bring up children according to Buddhist principals were commendable. (Sudath Pubudu Keerthi)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM at opening ceremony of Colombo Declaration
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 28 September 2018 09:34 am
PM at opening ceremony of Colombo Declaration
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe speaks at the opening ceremony of Colombo Declaration on Media Freedom and Social Responsibility while from left UNSCO Country Director Eric Falt, Director Commonwealth Media Trust Lindsay Ross, SLPI Chairman Kumar Nadesan and Minister of Media and Finance Mangala Samaraweera looks on. Pix by Nisal Baduge
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM chats with kids at book fair
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 28 September 2018 01:41 pm
PM chats with kids at book fair
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe is seen talking to two kids during his visit to the Colombo International Book Fair at the BMICH today. He aslo bought some books at the fair. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM launches ?GoodSport? magazine
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 28 September 2018 09:55 pm
PM launches ?GoodSport? magazine
	
?GoodSport? magazine published by the National Olympic Committee (NOC) was launched under the patronage of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at the Kingsbury Hotel, Colombo today. Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe? ??
?
?
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pneumonia Dreaded malady of lungs
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 28 September 2018 12:41 pm
Pneumonia Dreaded malady of lungs
	
?
How many times during your childhood have you heard the phrase, ?child, don?t get wet, you?ll end up with pneumonia!?. Pneumonia is one of the diseases that all of us fear and this concern is justifiable considering the significant morbidity and mortality associated with it.? ?
?Pneumonia, the symptoms of which first described by Hippocrates nearly 2500 years ago, has been prevalent throughout the sands of time, ailing mankind up until now. Not only does pneumonia pose a serious threat to the patient?s health, it is also a massive burden to the society, mainly due to the high cost of treatment. Therefore, a sound understanding of the process of this disease is helpful in our daily lives.?
?
In this edition of Health capsule, we have consulted Dr. Wathsala Gunasinghe, Consultant Respiratory Physician, District General Hospital, Monaragala, who will be answering some of the more frequently asked questions relating to Pneumonia.?
?
?
What is pneumonia?
Pneumonia can be described as an infection of the deep lung tissue. The small air-filled sacs (alveoli) of the linings are predominantly affected in this condition and these air sacs get swollen (inflamed) and can get filled with fluid.? ?
?
How does Pneumonia usually present?
Pneumonia can affect one or both lungs and commonly give rise to symptoms like cough, fever, chills, breathlessness and chest pain that worsen with breathing.? ?
?
What are the common causes of pneumonia?
Many germs, such as bacteria, viruses and fungi can cause pneumonia. It can also occur following viral flu. In addition, pneumonia can be caused due to more than 30 different causes. Because pneumonia treatment depends on its cause, understanding the cause of pneumonia is important.? ?
Pneumonia is classified according to the types of causative germs and where you got the infection from. Bacteria like Streptococcus pneumonia, Mycoplasma and viruses like influenza and respiratory syncytial virus are common causes of pneumonia.? ?
The most common germs affecting children are different to that of adults and the elderly. People with poor immunity tend to be affected by uncommon germs.? ?
?
Those having a greater risk of developing pneumonia
Although anyone can develop pneumonia, certain groups of people tend to be more vulnerable.? ?
These groups include babies and young children, people over 65 years of age, people with cancer; especially those who are receiving chemotherapy, people who smoke or drink alcohol to excess, people on drugs who suppress the immune system, and those with HIV are at more risk of developing pneumonia and related adverse events.? ?
In addition to these groups, patients who are in or were recently admitted in hospital can develop pneumonia due to germs acquired during the hospital stay, which is called ?Hospital Acquired Pneumonia?.? ?
?
Is pneumonia contagious?
Majority of pneumonia can spread from one person to another. Both viral and bacterial pneumonia can spread to others through inhalation of airborne droplets from a sneeze or a cough. But fungal pneumonia doesn?t spread from person to person.? ?
?
What are the complications of pneumonia?
In some patients pneumonia can cause complications. Bacteria spreading to the blood stream from a lung infection (bacteraemia), failure to maintain blood oxygen level due to extensive tissue involvement (Respiratory failure) are serious complications of pneumonia. Patients with these complications will need care in Intensive Care Units.? ?
In addition lung cavities with pus (lung abscess) and fluid accumulation of pleural cavity (Pleural Effusion) can also occur as complications of pneumonia. Sometimes these fluid collections need draining with insertion of a chest tube.? ?
Very rarely, despite medical therapy, pneumonia can lead to death; especially in people with weakened immune systems, extremes of age or chronic diseases.?
?
Diagnosis and treatment?
Pneumonia is diagnosed based on the patient?s complaints, examination findings, Chest X-ray findings and blood investigation results. Sometimes, testing of sputum is also one.? ?
Pneumonia can be serious so it?s important to receive treatment quickly. The main treatment for bacterial pneumonia is antibiotics. Severe viral pneumonias are treated with antiviral therapy where available. Pneumonia due to fungal infections which are rare in previously healthy individuals, are treated with antibiotics. In addition, controlling the temperature, maintaining adequate hydration and treating any chest pain are also necessary.? ?
When the Pneumonia is mild, the patient can be managed with oral antibiotics and can remain at home. Antibiotics are usually given for a duration of 5 days.? ?
When the pneumonia is severe, when the patient is very ill or when the patient belongs to a high risk category, hospital admission is recommended. Afterwards the patient is treated with antibiotic injections. Combinations of antibiotics are used in these cases. These patients might need oxygen therapy, Nebulization, intensive care support and monitoring.? ?
Patients who develop pneumonia while in hospital or who are on immunosuppressive medications are treated with potent intravenous medications.? ?
Completing the course of antibiotics prescribed by the doctor is necessary to prevent complications.? ?
?
Duration of recovery?
Recovery time varies a lot from person to person and depends on a person?s general health, age and how severe the pneumonia is.? ?
It is important to realize although the cough and fever might subside early, feeling of ill health and fatigue can last up to 3-6 months.? ?
Plenty of rest is advised in the initial period with gradual recommencement of daily activities.? ?
?
Can we prevent pneumonia from occurring?
Vaccination and good health habits can be helpful in reducing the risk of Pneumonia. Pneumococcal vaccine and yearly influenza vaccine are recommended for patient categories with risk of pneumonia. In addition, good hygienic practices can help minimise the spread of responsible germs. Covering your coughs and sneezes, disposing of used tissue properly and regular hand washing are helpful.? ?
Smoking can increase the susceptibility to respiratory infections and therefore quitting smoking is advised.? ?
?A healthy lifestyle with regular exercises, a well balanced diet and adequate rest will also reduce the risk of respiratory infections.? ?
In summary, Pneumonia is a potentially serious infection of the lungs, but can be cured with timely diagnosis and medical care in majority of cases. You can reduce the risk of pneumonia through the cessation of smoking maintaining good hygiene by taking adequate nutrition.? ? ?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Powerful 7.7 magnitude quake hits Indonesia
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:35 pm
Powerful 7.7 magnitude quake hits Indonesia
	
Indonesia has been struck by a series of earthquakes today, including a 7.7 magnitude tremor, according to foreign reports.
The massive earthquake measuring 7.7 magnitude hit Indonesia today after a 6.1 tremor overnight.
The first magnitude 6.1 tremor hit 55km north west of Palu, Central Sulawesi at 3.01pm (local time), striking at a depth of 18.1km, according to data from the US Geological Survey (USGS).
This was followed by a 5.4 magnitude quake, which struck 77km north east of Palu, just minutes later at 3.03pm (local time).
At 3.29pm (local time) a 4.9 magnitude tremor hit 57km north of Palu. Tremors were felt as far as Bali.
The series of earthquakes all landed in the Ring of Fire, so-called because a huge number of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions take place there.
It is not known yet if there are any injuries.
Indonesia straddles the highly volatile Pacific 'Ring of Fire', where many of the world's volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occur.
The country has been rocked by a string of deadly earthquakes on Lombok Island this summer, leaving more than 500 people dead.
About 390,000 people remain displaced after the quakes, according to Indonesia's disaster agency. (The Express)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez comment only valid if SL withdraws co-sponsorship: Sarath
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:29 am
Prez comment only valid if SL withdraws co-sponsorship: Sarath
	
Referring to the remark made by President Maithripala Sirisena at the UN?General Assembly?that Sri Lanka should be allowed to handle its own internal affairs, former MP Sarath Weerasekara said the President?s comment would only be valid if the government withdraws the co-sponsorship of 30/1.
Rear Admiral Weerasekara, who?is in Geneva to counter the pro-LTTE propaganda, said Sri Lanka?is legally bound to implement the recommendations in the resolutions unless it is withdrawn as per the President?s remarks.
He said, ?The technical assistance provided by the UN had already culminated in a resolution charging Sri Lanka of war crimes.?This resolution 30/1 was adopted by this council without a debate or a vote because it was co-sponsored by a delegate and he did that without the approval of the President or the cabinet. Hence it has no legal base.?The USA has withdrawn from this council accusing it as politically biased and hypocritical. Since the US was the main sponsor of 30/1 the co-sponsorship too should be nullified automatically.?
Germany was occupied by UK and USA for years after world war 11. More Germans were killed as prisoners?of war after the war than during the war.
Germany still pays reparations to Israel. We saved 300,000 during the war and rehabilitated 12,000 after the war. It?s a pity that Germany and UK of all the countries are now pushing us to implement 30/1.
The US has threatened sanctions against ICC if it persecutes American soldiers. PM Theresa May said she will change the Human Rights laws to protect her soldiers. Our President too thanked our soldiers who defeated terrorism. It implies he rejects the war crimes. Then why 30/1? Many things can be negotiated Mr. President, but sovereignty, never!?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Probe on IGP will be completed soon- Nalin Bandara
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:25 pm
Probe on IGP will be completed soon- Nalin Bandara
	
The committee probing allegations against IGP Pujith Jayasundara will complete the investigation as soon as possible, Deputy Minister of Law and Order, Nalin Bandara Jayamaha told a news breifing today.
Responding to a question asked by journalists as to when investigations would be completed, he said he cannot give a time frame but it would not be delayed for any reason.
Referring to a statement made by an Indian about a plot to assassinate former president Mahinda Rajpaksa, the deputy minister said the Indian's family members had said the man was suffering from a mental illness as a result of an accident .
He also referred to the alleged plot to kill President Maithripala Sirisena and former defense secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and said Mr. Rajapaksa had stated that he was satisfied with the security provided. ?Government spends Rs.3.5 million a day for former defense secretary's security,? the deputy minister said.
He said the investigations were being carried out by the CID without any political interference. He said DIG Nalaka de Silva and others would be remanded if the Judiciary decides it was necessary.
Mr. Jayamaha also dismissed claims that sniper rifle belonging to the police had disappeared. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Railway services along Kandy mainline disrupted
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 06:14 pm
Railway services along Kandy mainline disrupted
	
Railway services along the Kandy mainline were disrupted due to a breakdown of the Kandy-bound intercity train at Keenawala a short while ago, the Railway Control Room said.
It said all the trains along the mainline would be delayed following the incident. (Pushpa Weerasekara)??
?
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Right of Reply: female genital mutilation
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:05 am
Right of Reply: female genital mutilation
	
?Female Circumcision: An Islamic practice brings untold benefits to women? Article in Daily mirror of Tuesday September 18th 2018 by Asiff Hussein.??
This is in response to the above article in which the writer argues in favour of the controversial topic of female circumcision advocating ?hoodectomy? (excision of prepuce) as opposed to ?Female Genital Mutilation? such as ?clitoridectomy?( excising the clitoris with the ?hood?), and ?infibulation?(excising clitoris and upper half of labia minora).? ?
We have identified three parts in this article:? ?
The first covers the Islamic basis and hence justification as proposed by the author for this procedure, the second covers the health benefits to the female and male partner as a result of this procedure. The third is a problem of semantics/nomenclature/ definition of the procedure as understood by the author.? ?
As to the first, we admit straightaway that we are not qualified at all to contest the learned author?s knowledge of the religion of Islam. What is indisputable is that religious scholars over the millennia have agreed that the ?hadiths? which deal with female circumcision are at the very best ?weak?. This means that they cannot be used to create an Islamic ruling since it is not certain whether they came from the Prophet or not. The Quran does not mention female circumcision, even though a whole sura (chapter) is devoted to the Islamic life of the female and protection of the health of the female. Moreover, a feature of concern is that there is evidence that the Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) did not subject his daughters to any of the procedures of circumcision as defined by Mr. Hussain. There is also an oft repeated narration that the Holy prophet once looked at his eldest daughter Fathima and tears poured from his eyes and that moment later he had looked at her again and smiled. When questioned as to why he wept and smiled soon after, he had said that a vision had appeared to him of her funeral and that tears had come to his eyes and that soon after a vision had come showing him meeting up with her in paradise, which had brought the smile to his face. We leave our readers to infer and to come to their own conclusions relevant to this discussion.? ?
Unfortunately the second part on ?Medical Benefits? carries myths and errors which we find unacceptable. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), any type of female circumcision has no known health benefit. One needs to understand that the male and female genital anatomy are totally different in terms of structure, function and susceptibility to diseases and infections and what applies to one need not necessarily apply to the other.? ?
In the female, the clitoris is the uppermost organ in the perineum, a vestigial structure with no useful physiological function. It has a prepuce or ?hood?. A little distance below it is the urethral orifice which transmits urine and does not get involved in sexual activity. Further below this is the vaginal orifice and passage which is a canal for sexual activity and the passage for childbirth. Sexually transmitted infections?
infect the vagina.? ?
?
"Unfortunately the second part on ?Medical Benefits? carries myths and? errors which we find unacceptable. According to the World Health? Organization (WHO), any type of female circumcision has no known health? benefit."
The male organ, the penis on the other hand serves as a passage for urine, sperms and comes into direct mucosal contact with the vagina during intercourse. Mucosal to mucosal contact facilitates transmission of sexually transmittable diseases from female to male and vice versa. The male urethra (urinary passage) is thus vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases, especially gonorrhea. Circumcision in the male exposes the distal end of the penis, the glans penis to outside air resulting in change of its outer covering from mucosa to stratified squamous epithelium. There is Level 3 (weak) evidence to show that such circumcision protects some males from HIV infections. The clitoris on the other hand, being some distance from the site of sexual activity, has no role to play in transmitting or receiving sexually transmitted diseases, or giving protection from urinary tract infections. Female circumcision therefore plays no part in protecting a female from these diseases including infection from the Human Papilloma virus (HPV). The example of Hollywood actor Michael Douglas ?giving oral sex to women? and contracting the Human Papilloma (HPV) virus is totally irrelevant. HPV is commonly found in females who have unprotected sex with multiple partners, whether the female is circumcised or not. In any case there is a less painful and more reliable preventive strategy, a vaccine to prevent HPV infections in girls.? ?
Mr. Hussain also writes about smegma, unpleasant smells etc during oral sex due to smegma originating from the uncircumcised clitoris. He is probably unaware that there is more smegma produced under the labia and no amount of hoodectomy or washing only the clitoris is going to reduce this.? ?
The third point he makes is about semantics. The words ?Hoodectomy?, ?Clitoridectomy? and ?Infibulation? are certainly meaningful to the informed. The complete typology and subdivisions of Female Genital Mutilation can be obtained From: http:/www.who.it/reproductivehealth/topics/fgm/overview/en/
The vital question is ?Who is going to perform this operation? Would that person be aware of these different types and been trained with the knowledge and management of complications of scarring. Who maintains standards/ quality control? There is evidence that such scarring causes stricture or severe narrowing of vaginal passage giving rise to complications such as obstructed labour, foetal and even maternal death in the mutilated child later on in life. (http:/data.unicef.org)? ?
For males, there is the traditional village ?Ostad? who has acquired expertise passing it from father to son or an acolyte through apprenticeship. Then there are MBBS doctors trained to carry this out usually under local anasthesia in an operation theatre environment. Thirdly there are even Consultant surgeons who carry them out. Circumcision is a therapeutic operation for a condition called ?Phimosis? where the foreskin or prepuce cannot be retracted. One of us has over 50 years of experience in surgical practice. He has seen a fair number of young boys, even infants with horrendous injuries to the penis as a result of errors/ misadventures during the act of circumcision. These have occurred in spite of the male penis being very much larger and easily accessible when compared to the clitoris and its hood which is hidden in the labial folds, especially in children. Such injuries usually go undisclosed and the incidents are closely guarded as parents do not want negative publicity for and stigmatization of the unfortunate victim.? ?
During the times of ?ignorance? before the birth of Islam, as propagated by Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him), female children were often killed soon after birth or even buried alive. Female circumcision too was a cultural practice prevalent in pre Islamic Arabia. One of the proud achievements of Islam is the banning and stopping of these barbaric practices, together with emancipation of the innocent little girl child and protection of women. We need?
not go back.? ?
Professor A.H. Sheriffdeen FRCS, Emeritus Professor of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Colombo and Dr. Ruvaiz Haniffa MD, Head, Family Medicine Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rupee depreciation not the end of the world: FM responds to Royal College students
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 11:02 am
Rupee depreciation not the end of the world: FM responds to Royal College students
	
In response to a question posed by one of the students of Royal College, Colombo, Finance and Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera yesterday said the depreciation of rupee was not the end of the world.
The Minister came with this reply at a special briefing held at the Royal College with the participation of students. The Minister and State Minister Eran Wickramaratne were attending an Exhibition on Innovation and the launch of the Royal College?s television channel.
Instead of delivering a speech, the minister decided to sit for a briefing and invited the students to ask him questions with the intention of getting their opinion and views about how the country should go ahead.
Responding to a question on depreciation of rupee, Minister Samaraweera said since the beginning of this year, US dollar has becoming stronger and the US interest rate has been increased. Using US dollars from Sri Lanka?s foreign reserve to control the depreciation of rupee was not a wise move, he said.
?We need our savings because we need to pay Rs.1.9 trillion as loans this year. In the next two years, we will have to pay Rs.4.2 trillion. Our priority is to pay debts on time than appreciation of rupee. Otherwise we will end up like Greece,? he said.
?This is not the end of the world. The previous government released Rs.4.1 billion into the market to control the depreciation but it still depreciated by 14%. Ours is only 8% at the moment. Putting money into the market is not the solution. We should somehow manage savings and prevent spending on unnecessary things. MPs, Ministers should stop importing fancy cars. We may have to reduce importing bottles of wine and cheese and stick to local produce for a while. The economy is not going to crash. In a way this is a good point for us to expedite programme to make Sri Lanka an export-oriented economy. The situation will get better, but I can?t tell when would it be,? he said.
Meanwhile, responding to other questions he said our education system itself stifled in creativity and innovative thinking.
?Our system is not created for it. Students are like slaves and no room for creativity. Thinking outside the box is not allowed. Also, if someone is saying that private universities should not be there, they are petty minded and ungrateful beings. They have got an opportunity but it doesn?t give them the right to prevent others' opportunities out of jealousy. We will take some action,? he said.
?
Video by Indika Sri Aravinda
 
		
==============================
## Title: SAITM again with a ?shamed GMOA?
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 28 September 2018 03:12 am
SAITM again with a ?shamed GMOA?
	
?
?GMOA Secretary Haritha Aluthge told a news conference that their counsel were currently studying the facts included in the judgment and that the GMOA?s emergency Central Committee which was scheduled to meet next week would decide on this matter.? (DM Online)? ?
This same news report concluded saying, the GMOA ?would further discuss these matters with President Sirisena.? For the GMOA, ?these matters? would mean heavy damage caused to its inflamed ego and how it could now save face in public with the Supreme Court (SC) upholding the ruling given by the Court of Appeal(CoA) on the much-shuffled and messed-up SAITM medical students? issue.?
To cut short a two-year plus long story, the GMOA played an insane role in denying SAITM medical students their right and legitimate opportunity of becoming medical doctors. GMOA leaders with utterly-irrational and illogical selfish demands opposed the local private medical faculty paid for in SL Rupees, while accepting foreign medical colleges paid for in US dollars. Often, there is no acceptable guarantee on the quality of medical education in these foreign medical colleges the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) can vouch for. Ruining his well-earned social reputation, Prof. Carlo Fonseka played one of the most disgusting roles in SLMC history as its president, accused of changing conclusions and recommendations of its own committee appointed to investigate and report on the status and quality of medical education in SAITM. As documents marked during the CoA hearing showed, he had it changed to say SAITM medical students cannot be registered by SLMC as medical practitioners, to fall in line with the GMOA and the medical faculty deans who also oppose SAITM.?
In justifying the SLMC denying registration for SAITM medical graduates, GMOA leaders, the State university medical faculty deans and others screamed registration of ?half baked? medical doctors from SAITM would have a very bad impact on people?s health. The GMOA leaders should therefore explain how 120 complaints against medical doctors, all graduates from State university medical faculties and probably members of GMOA too, came to be lodged with the SLMC in 2012. These cases were dragged on for almost six years. Of them, in three cases the accused medical doctors were found guilty, while others are pending. Talking of quality medical education, during the tenure of Prof. Carlo Fonseka as SLMC President, there were no records available of any assessments done on any State university medical faculty. From what is openly known, the Rajarata Medical Faculty should be closed down for lack of competent and qualified academic staff. Perhaps, there are too many other deficiencies there, if properly assessed. The same hold true with many other State university medical faculties, though GMOA leaders avoid answering questions on quality of medical education in our State university medical faculties. With a huge hoax woven around SAITM, the SLMC denial of provisional registration to SAITM medical degree holders was celebrated as final victory by GMOA-led campaigners.?
This SLMC decision was challenged over two years ago in the CoA by a SAITM medical graduate on June? 14, 2016, requesting the CoA to direct the SLMC to register her provisionally as a medical practitioner on her application made to the SLMC on June 6, 2016. Seven months later, the CoA ruled on January 31, 2017, the ?petitioner? is duly qualified for provisional registration and the SLMC should therefore register the ?petitioner? provisionally. GMOA opposed the CoA decision and Prof. Fonseka as SLMC President followed suit, appealing against the CoA ruling. There was a single member in the SLMC who had sanity of mind to tell his member colleagues the CoA ruling was balanced, firm and well-formulated after serious study, and therefore to appeal against the CoA ruling would only demean the SLMC, with every possibility the SC would uphold the CoA ruling to the letter. Yet, with Manohara de Silva PC, known as a legal advisor to Mahinda Rajapaksa retained by Prof. Carlo Fonseka for the SLMC, the CoA ruling was opposed and the SC was petitioned on March 13, 2017, requesting the SC to quash the ruling made by the CoA.?
Yet, in a landmark ruling by the SC given on September 21 last which upheld the CoA ruling after 18 months with Rs.100,000 as compensation for the petitioner, would now allow any private medical college to be established, with due approvals obtained with required standards guaranteed. There is no semblance of a chance now for the GMOA and others who tagged after the GMOA leadership to have the SC decision altered. This basically brings the GMOA leadership to its knees. What the GMOA?s emergency Central Committee scheduled to meet next week could decide on this matter, is far from any commonsense imagination. For GMOA Secretary Haritha Aluthge to tell the media they would meet with the President to ?further discuss these matters? only goes to say they are now ?clean bowled? and are trying to save face publicly. The GMOA now has no serious backing even among the medical profession. Its loud and angry statements made at a hurried media briefing against any proposed changes to the SLMC, threatening it would resort to the most drastic trade union action ever taken in history, has only been left to joke about. It declared strike actions all through the SAITM protests, were always failures, though Ministers Kiriella and Wijeyadasa Rajapaksa and State Minister Dr. Harsha de Silva had knee jerks to take firm decisions on the SAITM issue.?
?
"GMOA leaders should explain how 120 complaints against medical doctors, all graduates from State universities, came to be lodged with the SLMC in 2012"
The SC ruling now creates a precedent not only in allowing a legal right to establish private medical colleges, but also in SLMC? having to pay all other SAITM? medical students due compensation for damage done to their future life as professionals. A minimum of two years of their professional life had been robbed by the SLMC decision in refusing to accept them for provisional registration, when in law, the SLMC had no legal right to deny, as the CoA ruling endorsed by the SC clearly says.?
The SC ruling also holds this government responsible for not making decisions and delaying a final decision. In its ruling the SC says, ?While this appeal was pending, the government has taken several steps with regard to SAITM and the students of SAITM. Eventually, on June 28, Parliament enacted the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University (Special Provisions) Act No. 17 of 2018 which inter alia provided for the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University to award, on such terms as may be determined by its Board of Management, an MBBS degree of that university to students who have completed the study programme leading to the award of an MBBS degree at SAITM. However, these steps were taken by the government and the enactment of the aforesaid statute all occurred, long after the petitioner filed her application in the Court of Appeal and also long after the SLMC filed an application in this court seeking this special leave to appeal from the order of the Court of Appeal.??
What it says very diplomatically and in legal lingo is that the government should have taken adequate steps before the SAITM medical graduate petitioner sought legal redress, or at least before the SLMC filed an application with the SC. Whatever decided and steps taken after the SAITM medical graduate sought legal redress by way of a petition to the CoA will not be held as valid in providing the petitioner due justice. Although the GMOA is confused as always, the SC has cleared the path for this government to stand firm in finally resolving the SAITM issue. After well over two years of hesitancy, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University (Special Provisions) Act No. 17 of 2018 stands alone and aside, and is in no way a contradiction, as the SC ruling had taken it into consideration. It now allows the government to follow the SC ruling and have the SLMC implement as ruled by the SC. The Health Minister is therefore directly responsible in having the SLMC provisionally register all medical graduates from SAITM. As such the SC ruling does not provide any necessity for the President or any minister in this government to discuss the SAITM issue anymore with the GMOA or with any other party.?
The only issue as I see now is how all batches of medical undergraduates of SAITM could proceed with their medical education. The first batch is now accepted legally as qualified for provisional registration. Therefore, other batches of undergraduates after them who have paid for their medical education to SAITM should also have that same opportunity without any restrictions. Denying rest of the SAITM medical students the right and opportunity given to the first batch would now amount to open discrimination. In plain language, this leads to a resurrection of the SAITM medical faculty. How the government would address that is left to be seen with the present GMOA leadership reduced to press statements and nothing more. In this new situation, it would be wise for medical doctors to have the GMOA wiped clean of irresponsible and unprofessional conduct and elect a more intelligent and a rational leadership. The SC ruling in that sense is a ?godsend? to government medical doctors too.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLCC to supply cashew nuts to SriLankan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 07:20 pm
SLCC to supply cashew nuts to SriLankan
	
Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation (SLCC) will supply cashew nuts to SriLankan airlines from next month, SLCC Chairman Damsiri Bandara Karunaratne said today.
Quality of the cashew nuts served on SriLankan flights came up for scrutinity after President Maithripala Sirisena remarked on the quality of the cashew nuts served to him on a Colombo-bound flight.
Mr. Karunaratne said SriLankan purchased cashew nuts from SLCC until 2016 but the airlines had later decided to purchase it from a Dubai-based supplier at a lower price.
He said following a discussion with the Public Enterprise & Kandy City Development Minister Lakshman Kiriella it had been decided to resume the supply of cashew nuts to the airline.
?Local cashew has a large market especially in Europe. SriLankan cashew is known as the queen of nuts and is considered to be a high quality product. The Cashew Corporation is always keen to supply high quality cashew nuts to the local and international market. Because of the quality our prices may be high compared to other imported nuts,? Mr. Karunaratne said.
However, the purchasing price of the cashew nuts to SriLankan is yet to be negotiated. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker refers request of summoning Parliament to PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 07:24 am
Speaker refers request of summoning Parliament to PM
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has referred a request made by the joint opposition to summon Parliament to Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
A spokesman from the Speaker?s office told Daily Mirror that a request made by the JO to summon Parliament was referred to Prime Minister the latter has the power to make a request to summon the House.
Joint Opposition Group Parliamentary Group Leader Dinesh Gunawardene in a letter addressed to Speaker had requested that the House is summoned immediately in order to discuss the alleged plot to assassinate President Maithirpala Sirisena and on the current economic crisis brought on by the devaluation of SLR against US$.
Parliament was to meet on October 9, 2018, originally, and therefore the JO wants it convened before that date. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The fury of a scorned female politico!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 28 September 2018 09:58 am
The fury of a scorned female politico!
	
?
A female politico who had taken offence for excluding her followers from an aid programme launched by a party heavyweight is said to have begun boycotting the public functions, which the party chief and the other party bigwigs are billed to attend as distinguished guests.
?
The family members of a prominent party stalwart had taken the initiative to distribute an aid package to party supporters as a vote-catching gimmick given the polls are around the corner.
The female politico too had sent them a list of her close followers to be included in the list of aid package beneficiaries drawn up by them. However, they had discarded the list sent by her and proceeded to distribute aid among their own selectees.
Angered by this ?act of discrimination?, the female politico had made a complaint to the party hierarchy, but the latter had failed to intervene.
She is said to be going around her area these days telling all and sundry that she would teach a good lesson to the party high-ups for the step-motherly treatment being meted out to her.
 
		
==============================
## Title: The secret behind order to hire stage and tent!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:03 am
The secret behind order to hire stage and tent!
	
?
This white-collar one who was functioning as a district manager was suddenly elevated to the position of an Assistant General Manager thanks to his close connection to a high political authority.
?
An order was given by him to the lesser mortals in the establishment that they should always hire the stage and the tent for all public functions which the high political authority attends, from a place he had named has become a subject of hush-hush among the employees, they say.
The stage ? tent combine has become a frequent necessity for the authorities of this establishment functioning at the periphery as the high political authority would invariably attend several opening ceremonies in a month these days and hiring the stage has become a source of sizable income to the businessman who owns it and a good part of it goes into the hands of the establishment high-up, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three promises to prevent heart attacks
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 28 September 2018 12:54 pm
Three promises to prevent heart attacks
	
? ? ? ? Tomorrow is World Heart Day? - September 29, 2018? ? ? ? ? ?
?
Juggling between work, family and personal life? Well, it may be a daily struggle for some with added amounts of stress. Stress accompanies unhealthy changes in lifestyle, leading to many complications in relation to your health. Stress-eating, smoking and alcohol may be possible alternatives to de-stress, but they would definitely put your life at risk. As such, an unhealthy diet, a sedentary lifestyle and smoking have been identified as three contributors to heart disease. Heart diseases are a common cause of deaths among people across the world and it has been found that more changes in lifestyle are direct risk factors. Hence, in view of World Heart Day, which falls tomorrow (September 29), the Health Capsule spoke with Dr. M.R Mubarak, Consultant Cardiologist and President of Sri Lanka Heart Association (SLHA) to help shed light on coronary artery diseases and activities done by the SLHA.? ?
?
What are Coronary Artery Diseases?
?Coronary Artery Diseases (CAD) are caused due to cholesterol deposits in the coronary arteries,? Dr. Mubarak said in his opening remarks. ?These deposits block the arteries resulting in a myocardial infarction or a heart attack. It is a disease prevalent all over the world and occurs in relation to age. When you grow old, cholesterol naturally deposits in the arteries. But at present, what we are worried about are cases that contribute to premature coronary artery disease. This is a new trend where people between 35-40 years of age also suffer heart attacks. As such this disease is associated with the younger generation due to changes in lifestyle. Diet, exercise, level of stress, smoking and alcohol intake are immediate contributors.?the doctor said.? ?
According to him, 1/3rd of deaths that occur in the world are due to cardiovascular diseases including heart attacks and strokes. This means heart attacks are the main cause of 17 million deaths that occur annually. ?In Sri Lanka we do not have exact figures, but we generally know that out of the deaths recorded daily 20-25% of them happen due to heart attacks. And 80% of these deaths could be prevented by controlling the risk factors,? he added.?
?
Coronary Artery Diseases (CAD) are caused due to cholesterol deposits in the coronary arteries. These deposits block the arteries resulting in a myocardial infarction or a heart attack. It is a disease prevalent all over the world and occurs in relation to age
Risk factors?
The risk factors for CAD have been known for years, but still we are lagging behind when controlling them. The most common risk factors include :? ?Hypertension : This should be detected and treated and this is why we encourage people representing the younger ages to check whether their blood pressure is high. People usually have a belief that they will check blood pressure only if they develop a headache or feel dizzy. But it should be checked regularly since such changes occur silently in most instances.? ?
Diabetes : People know the symptoms of high blood sugar levels hence they need to be aware and get regular checkups. If the sugar level is high patients are advised as to how they could control the diet and do exercises. In extreme cases they are given pills or insulin.? ?
High cholesterol : This also could be detected by doing a blood test. Just because a person is fat it doesn?t mean that he or she would have high cholesterol levels in their blood. Sometimes there are slim people who have high amounts of cholesterol. Hence, individual appearance cannot be used as a mode to detect whether a person has cholesterol. The total cholesterol count should be kept below 200 at all times.? ?
The above three risk factors are disease-related and in addition to that many other risk factors occur due to a person?s lifestyle. These include :? ?
Smoking : This is a major risk factor as it could increase a person?s risk of developing a heart attack, by many folds.? ?
Diet : It is important to avoid fats and lipids and opt for natural fibres and nutrients. Therefore it is recommended that people eat more fruits and vegetables. They should cut down on animal fats and carbohydrates as well.? ?
Sedentary lifestyles : People are always seated. Even in an office they tend to be less active and they don?t even use the stairs at times. People wait for the lift even to get to the first floor. Therefore it is recommended that people do some kind of activity for 30 minutes, five days a week.? ?
Obesity : This is where a person?s body weight is disproportionately high in relation to the height.? ?
Stress : This includes work, job and family stress.? ?
?
Symptoms?
Some of the common heart attack signs and symptoms include :? ?
Pressure, tightness, pain, or a squeezing or aching sensation in your chest or arms that may spread to your neck, jaw or back? ?
	Nausea, indigestion, heartburn or abdominal pain? ?
	Shortness of breath? ?
	Cold sweat? ?
	Fatigue? ?
	Feeling Lightheaded or sudden dizziness? ?
?
Diagnosis and treatments
?Once a person suffers a heart attack it is important to seek medical help immediately,? Dr. Mubarak continued. ?Usually people take tablets and waste time. But what should happen is that the patient should be rushed to hospital. Once the patient relates the incident the surgeon will conduct an ECG. A special blood test called a Troponin Test is done to help in the diagnosis. Wasting time means you are wasting your heart muscle. A heart attack is where one of the arteries gets blocked 100% which results in the adjacent area not getting a blood supply. In such situation the heart muscle starts dying. At the hospital once a heart attack is diagnosed, people are sent for treatment. If the facilities are available the patient will be taken to the CAD lab. There an angiogram will be done to find the place of the clot using a wire or balloon. After this test, stent is put in the artery. After this operation blood flow will be restored. But if these facilities are not available there will be a delay in the cure. In that case there are clot-dissolving medicines called Thrombolytic medications which are administered through a vein. Here the blood clot dissolves and other medicines are given including a high dose of Aspirin,?he went on to explain. Recovery takes some time and according to Dr. Mubarak, getting treatments sometimes is a lifelong process. ?After a person suffers a heart attack, he or she should regularly check the pressure, sugar and other risk factors which have been mentioned already. Some treatments will continue for a year. Afterwards they need to get back to their normal lives. Taking preventive medicines is important. The first attack comes with an unforgettable pain. They have an inherent feeling that they are going to die. Therefore, secondary prevention is also important because a person has already suffered one attack and there are possibilities for another since the risk factors are already the in the body,?explained?
Dr. Mubarak.
?
World Heart Day 2018
This year?s theme for ?World Heart Day? is ?Make a Promise for my heart, your heart and all our hearts?. The three promises are to eat healthily, to be active and to stop smoking. The Sri Lanka Heart Association (SLHA) is a member of the World Heart Federation, which is represented by nearly 200 organisations in 100 countries. ?When it comes to SLHA it is an important organisation since its member-base includes cardiologists, cardiac surgeons and everybody involved in treating heart diseases,? Dr. Mubarak added. ?We participate in the World Heart Day and its main aim is to prevent heart diseases rather than looking at treating the diseases,?he affirmed.?
In view of the World Heart Day the SLHA has organised a walk on Sunday (September 30) from BMICH to Lanka Hospital. According to Dr. Mubarak, it will be a day full of educational activities, raising awareness on the three promises and how people should change their lifestyles accordingly. ?Several entertainment items are also lined up to spread a message to the youth and children who are next in line and are vulnerable to develop heart diseases,? he added. ?In addition to that certain health camps and check-ups will be done to give an idea about what they should know about their body,?he concluded.?
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP welcomes President?s UNGA statement
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 September 2018 05:13 am
UNP welcomes President?s UNGA statement
	
UNP yesterday welcomed the statement made by President Maithirpala Sirisena in United Nation?s General Assembly (UNGA).
UNP MPs Hector Appuhamy and Dr. Kavinda Jayawardene welcomed the President statement at the UNGA media briefing last afternoon.
?What president told at the General Assembly is that Sri Lanka should be allowed to work independently without any interference. This is something that has to be done, and therefore, what President said was correct,? MP Appuharmy said.
Dr. Jayawardene who responded to a question raised by the journalists whether the government is prepared to enhance the security of Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa as there has been a plot to kill him, said security of Mr. Rajapaksa should be enhanced if it is necessary. At the same time he said adequate security has been given to the former President. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Valuable timber turn into Ipil-ipil and Gliricidia!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:04 am
Valuable timber turn into Ipil-ipil and Gliricidia!
	
?
Two illicit loggers who happened to be buddies of an influential politico were recently caught red-handed transporting timber of two kinds of protected trees from a reserved forest in the ?Kandiya? area in Digamadulla.
?
The two loggers managed to contact the powerful politico soon and the latter went into action to help his buddies.
Later, the law enforcing agents who arrested the two illicit loggers and the truck loaded with valuable timber found it difficult to hush up the case but were not able to disregard the politico?s request either.
So, they charged the duo for the lesser offence of felling ipil-ipil and gliricidia from the forest reserve, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Voices of Peace?: A novel approach to peace &reconciliation
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 September 2018 11:08 am
?Voices of Peace?: A novel approach to peace &reconciliation
	
Sarah Kabir at the launch of her book ?Voices of Peace?
Nearly a decade after the end of a thirty-year civil war that once racked the island, there are voices still unheard and stories yet untold. With the intent of bringing the conversation of post-conflict reconciliation to the fore, Sri Lankan researcher and author Sarah Kabir released her book ?Voices of Peace? on 26 September. The launch event was held at the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute in Colombo, and was attended by a diverse audience of academics, activists, members of the press, and invitees.
While there have been many discourses and publications on the topic prior, Voices of Peace with its unique format of storytelling, attempts to blur the lines of division by offering accounts from both sides of the conflict ? humanising the very real struggles of both. Having spoken extensively with -and not just interviewed- over sixty active agents of the war, Sarah has chosen the stories of twenty; ten former LTTE cadres, and ten ex-Sri Lankan military personnel. Their accounts are accompanied by compelling images captured by photographer Munira Mutaher.
In a presentation introducing the publication, Sarah emphasised, ?Voices of Peace encourages every reader to not just talk about these stories, but to listen.? Asserting that this was more a tool to influence policy on peace-building than mere reading material, she stressed further, ?l urge you all to empathise with the storytellers, to internalise their message, and to act on it.?
The main aim with which she embarked on this undertaking however, she says, was primarily to shift ownership of the peace building process to those on the frontline. On a more personal note, relieving these veterans of the burden of bearing their untold stories was added incentive. The balanced narrative through which these stories are told has readers empathising with each individual, irrespective of political inclination.
Dr.Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, Executive Director, Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA) speaks at the ?Voices of Peace? launch while author Sarah Kabir and fellow guest speakers Aaranya Rajasingam, Women?s Rights and Peace Activist,Dr.Jehan Perera, Executive Director, National Peace Council of Sri Lanka, Saliya Pieris PC, Chairman, Office on Missing Persons (OMP) of Sri Lanka look on.
Gathered to celebrate the release of the book was an esteemed panel of speakers moderated by Executive Director at the National Peace Council of Sri Lanka, Dr.Jehan Perera. Dr.Vinya Ariyaratne, Dr.Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, Aaranya Rajasingam and Saliya Pieris (PC), each offered their erudite views on the themes of peace and national reconciliation in a post-conflict Sri Lanka.
At the event, Dr.Jehan Perera acquainted attendees with Voices of Peace, lauding Sarah?s initiative at the same time: ?In a divided society there is a need for an appeal to the heart.? Sarah Kabir does that through capturing detailed stories of those whose lives have been torn due to the war. It is harder to negate an individual's story that has been brought alive.Her book points to the need for a Truth Commission in Sri Lanka like there was in South Africa.?
Dr.Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, Founder Executive Director of the Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA), opined: ?Looking through the mine of information that is compiled in the book, the one cry that comes forth is the equality and oneness of all people in their struggles and experiences. In this light, we need to look for ways in which we can move forward towards the future as a people, united.?
Dr.Vinya Ariyaratne, General Secretary of Sarvodaya, too, was all praise for the project. ?In a time where our country really needs reconciliation, Voices of Peace is a tremendous contribution to not just this discourse, but also to further research, and to mobilise even ordinary citizens to get more involved in the process.??
Sarah Kabir is a researcher and humanitarian worker. She has a BSc. in Social Policy from the University of Bristol, and an MSc. in International Development and Humanitarian Emergencies from the London School of Economics. After her Masters, her focus has been primarily on peacebuilding and development work.
Dr.Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, Executive Director, Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA)
Sarah has actively participated in research projects concerned with Philanthropy and Development, Diaspora and Remittances, and Pesticides and Global Health alongside researchers from the Universities of Sussex and Durham. In addition, she has worked with various international and local organisations within the civil society sector, her work appearing in various academic publications and research reports.
Over two years in the making, involving extensive research, compilation, and production, Voices of Peace is the first book Sarah has authored. Currently, only the English language edition will be made available. She hopes to reach a wider readership however, by having it translated to Sinhala and Tamil. To place orders for delivery and for preferred pricing on bulk orders contact 0773515262. Voices of Peace will also be available at leading bookstores.
Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa at the launch of ?Voices of Peace?
Hon. (Prof.) G.L.Peiris - United People's Freedom Alliance(UPFA), Hon. Vasudeva Nanayakkara - United People's Freedom Alliance(UPFA), Hon. Eran Wickramaratne - State Minister of Finance and Ven. Dambara Amila Thero - University of Sri Jayewardenepura
H.E. Hanspeter Mock - Ambassador of Switzerland, Deviyani Iddawela De Silva, Hon. Dr. Harsha De Silva - State Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs,? Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa - Former Secretary to Ministry of Defence, Saliya Pieris PC, Chairman - Office on Missing Persons (OMP) and Dr. Paikiasothy Saravanamuttu, Executive Director, Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA).
Aaranya Rajasingam - Women?s Rights and Peace Activist, Dr. Jehan Perera - Executive Director, National Peace Council of Sri Lanka, Hon. Namal Rajapaksa - United People's Freedom Alliance(UPFA) and Hon. Thalatha Athukorala - Minister of Justice & Prison Reforms.
Guests at the 'Voices of Peace' book launch
?
 
		
==============================
## Title: ?Why take my watch to an authorised agent?? : Expert advice from Chatham Luxury Watches
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 September 2018 10:33 am
?Why take my watch to an authorised agent?? : Expert advice from Chatham Luxury Watches
	
While most mechanical timepieces come with guarantees of durability, the intricate machinery with which they operate can still be subject to some degree of wear and tear. With regular and expert care however, your luxury wristwatch will keep ticking for years.
Multi-brand luxury watch boutique Chatham Luxury Watches is long reputed as the most established purveyor of original, luxury Swiss timepieces in the country.?
For an agent of such esteem, it is only warranted that expert guidance in watch care is offered to each client deciding to invest in a luxury timepiece, for the entire duration of the ownership journey.?
Providing an all-encompassing suite of watch services and repairs to ensure that all watch needs have been completely catered to, the Chatham Service Centre and its technical team of trained experts is ideally positioned to service or repair that timepiece; whether it requires a simple battery replacement, or a complete restoration. The boutique?s in-house service centre tends to the needs of watches designed by any brand housed in-store.
The Chatham Service Centre,not only meets the stringent standards of service for brands such as Rolex, but is also the only authorised service centre in Sri Lanka for a number of luxury Swiss watch houses such as Omega, Cartier, IWC, Chopard, and Jaeger-LeCoultre.
Servicing a watch is crucial for two reasons; to ensure both longevity, and accurate performance. If a watch is notably fast or slow, that could be an indicator that it needs to be serviced in order to keep the movement running smoothly.
?Servicing a luxury watch is a painstakingly precise and meticulous task that should only be left to the professionals in authorised service centres,? says Sheruni Jayawardhana, Customer Service Manager of Chatham Luxury Watches. ?All of our clients are confident that our in-house team of skilled technicians can be entrusted with the custody of their most prized timepieces, and that they will be returned to them in peak condition.?
Choosing an authorised service centre for the aftercare of your time piece is key. Having your watch opened in a non-hygienic environment can expose it to dust, dirt and other particles that can enter and affect the intricate mechanism. It is also extremely crucial that only original components are used in any repairs.
Chatham?s state-of-the-art watch workshop -located at its flagship boutique in Galle Face- is equipped with strictly only manufacturer-approved tools and machinery. The company?s brand-certified watchmakers are, not only highly skilled in Swiss techniques of watch repair and conditioning, but are also passionate about their craft.
The technical team at Chatham Luxury Watches has received intensive training individually from each of the brands gracing its shelves. As is the case with quintessential watchmaker Rolex, for instance, only after a rigorous process of assessment at the manufacturers of these respective brands for specific watch models, are they certified to handle each respective model.
Following an initial inspection of the timepiece presented, a consultation to map out the best route of repair for your investment -as determined by the brand- is then offered. On the eventual completion of repair work, an exhaustive series of tests is conducted -in accordance with the high standards and strict guidelines of the brands represented-, certifying that the watch can finally be returned to its wearer in prime condition.
The most accredited workshop in Sri Lanka has been inspected and approved by the world?s most respected brands, and it is this commitment to premium service and expertise that guarantees for every customer a truly first-class experience.
?
 
		
==============================
