## Title: Petition demanding general election handed over to MR
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 December 2018 08:23 pm
Petition demanding general election handed over to MR
	
An organistaion by the name The Voice of the Buddhist Clergy (Pevidi Handa) handed over a petition to former president Mahinda Rajapaksa at Abhayaramaya today demanding a general election. Pix by Damith Wickramasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Possession of toxic drugs: 96 sentenced to death, 275 imprisoned for life
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 08:46 pm
Possession of toxic drugs: 96 sentenced to death, 275 imprisoned for life
	
Ninety-six suspects including eight women had been sentenced to death by Magistrates Courts across the country during the period of 2008 to 2018 after being found guilty of possession of toxic drugs, Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said today.
He said 275 suspects including 34 women were handed life imprisonment between 2008 to November 2018 for the same charge.
SP Gunasekera said the convicts were charged for possessing drugs such as heroin, cocaine, morphine or opium.
Meanwhile, the spokesman said a total of 430.5 kilos of heroin valued more than Rs. 5,166 million had been seized this year.
He said the police have arrested 37,304 individuals on charges of possession of heroin.
 The second largest heroin detection of 231.5 kgs and the fifth largest heroin detection of 103 kgs were recovered this year, he said.(Darshana Sanjeewa)

Video by Sanath Desmond
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prima Sunrise Bread sponsors Sri Lanka Junior Open Golf for 11th Consecutive Year
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 08:51 am
Prima Sunrise Bread sponsors Sri Lanka Junior Open Golf for 11th Consecutive Year
	
The sponsorship cheque is seen given by Mr. Tan Beng Chuan  Group General Manager of the Prima Group, Mr. Shun Tien Shing  General Manager of Ceylon Agro Industries and Mr. Sajith Gunaratne  Deputy General Manager of Ceylon Agro Industries, the promotors of Prima Sunrise Bread. The Sri Lanka Golf Union was represented by (Retd) Air Chief Marshal Mr. Harsha Abeywickrama  President and Mrs. Niloo Jayatilake  Chairperson of the Junior Sub Committee andMr. Sudath Getawakanda  Treasurer or Mr. Nishan Navaratne - Secretary
This year too and for the 11th consecutive year, Prima Ceylon continues its sponsorship of the most prestigious event in the junior golf calendar, the Sri Lanka Junior Open. With more than a decade of magnanimous sponsorship this generous support by Prima Ceylon is ample testimony to its continued commitment to promoting junior golf in the country in partnership with the national body for golf in the country the Sri Lanka Golf Union.
The Sri Lanka Junior Open Golf Championship scheduled to be played between the 2nd  4th January at the RCGC remains the acid test for juniors who are also required to make it through gruelling Regional Junior Opens also sponsored by Prima Ceylon as well as a number of club level tournaments throughout the year. The Sri Lanka Junior Open is thus the established benchmark for national rankings of junior golf. The winner of the Sri Lanka Junior Open will be crowned the National Junior Champion in both boys andgirls categories.
The committed sponsorship of junior golf by Prima has been invaluable to the Sri Lanka Golf Union in promoting the sport island wide and this year increased participation is expected especially from the Kandy, Anuradhapura and Nuwara Eliya regions. The popularity of the sport is seen to be growing mainly due to the focused outreach programs carried out by Sri Lanka Golf to propagate the sport at the grassroots. This initiative was the brainchild of the Junior Sub Committee of Sri Lanka Golf as a means to identify the nations young golf talent with a view to nurturing and developing them for future national and international representation.
This event will once again be conducted according to four age group categories as follows; 15-18 years (Gold Division), 12-14 years (Silver Division), 10 -11 years (Bronze Division) and 9 years and under (Copper Division). The overall winner over the 18hole events will be declared the Sri Lanka Junior National Golf Champion (Boys/Girls) for the year 2018.
Reigning Junior Champion Vinod Weerasinghe who is currently in the USA is expected to return to the island in time to defend his title. Vinod, the top ranked junior has already won this prestigious event twice before and with the ongoing professional coaching he is receiving overseas is very heavily tipped to carry the title this year as well. However, a quartet of young golfing talent namely the juniors S. Dhuwarshan, Aroon Aslam, NirekhTejwani and Yannik Kumara are expected to provide stiff competition to Vinod this year provided these talented youngsters steady their temperament and are able to hold their nerve under pressure.
In the girls category top junior golfers Taniya Balasuriya and Kayla Perera are once again expected to fight tooth and nail for the title. In this, the girls category, it is extremely heartening to see such naturally gifted players like Balasuriya and Perera emerge onto the local golfing landscape. Still in their mid -teens, the duo have enormous potential to go the full distance and evoke memories of past Sri Lankan greats such as ThuhashiniSelvaratnam and Tiru Fernando. Provided they stay focused, both have the ability to perform well in the international circuits as well.
In the more junior categories K. Danushan, Shanal Binuksha, Levon Niyarepola, Reshan Algama, Sherin Balasuriya, Kavindha Samarasekera M. Lidhurshan, M.S Sanjey and C. Dharaniyan from Nuwara Eliya have been identified as the emerging talent and this event should provide them a golden opportunity to showcase their skills and it is hoped the youngsters play to their fullest potential.

Prima Sunrise, the title sponsor of this tournament, will as always provide nutrition for the players during the event.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Public debate on political impasse
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 December 2018 10:32 am
Public debate on political impasse
	
A public debate on whether a presidential or parliamentary election is the best solution to the current political crisis was held last evening at the Viharamahadevi Open Air Theatre. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel





 
		
==============================
## Title: Pushpanjali 7 A Beautiful Tribute to Indian Music Maestros Lakshmikant and Pyarelal
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Pushpanjali 7 A Beautiful Tribute to Indian Music Maestros Lakshmikant and Pyarelal
	
The 7th Pushpanjali Concert initiated by Bharath Lanka Kala Padanama was held on November 24 at the Disaster Management Ministry auditorium, in collaboration with the India  Sri Lanka Foundation under the aegis of the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka. This years concert celebrated the lives and music of renowned musicians of Indian cinema, Lakshmikanth Shataram Kudalkar and Pyarelal Ramprasad Sharma. 
The evening was a treat for any and every Hindi movie music lover as the show comprised of 25 of the most memorable songs of the two music directors. The show began with Sathyam Shivam Sundaram from the movie of the same title sung by Visharad Deshani Vithanage which had the audience at the first note. Her voice together with Sarath de Alwiss music was a great start to the show. This was followed by many other hits from Lakshmikant-Pyarelal movies such as Pasarmani, Milan, Dosti, Bobby, Haathi Mere Saathi, Aan Milo Sajna, Shagrid, Abinethri, Hamjoli, Tootaan, Aap Aye Bahar, Aye, Pushparani and Suhana Safar. The selection of songs has been done well to treat the audience. The duo, it was revealed, have composed melodies and provided music for 485 songs for Asha Bhosle,712 for Latha Mangeshkar, 388 for Mohommed Rafi, and 402 for Kishore Kumar. Hence it would have been a difficult task to select from such a wide range of songs for this concert. 
A majority of the singers for this concert were trained singers with Visharad titles before their names, which made the event even more melodious. There were some who really captured the hearts of the audience because of the nearness they were able to bring to the original. Deshani Vithangage, Ishani Siriwardana, Sithara Madhushani and Sanjaya Hemal to name a few. It must be noted that the zest of Fathima Ramzina was as delightful as her voice and her stage presence. The mature, soothing voice of Sunil Dharmawardhana really gave life to the songs. My overall favourite voice was that of Dev Shyaman Priyankara who took the audience back in time to the golden era of Hindi movies and songs. The depth and the variety in his voice modulation made the event unforgettable.
The evening was a treat for any and every Hindi movie music lover as the show comprised 25 of the most memorable songs by the two music directors
More than that, he was enjoying the performance and it certainly was a joy to watch him and hear his signing. For an event like this, the key to success is in rehearsing. There were one or two young singers who did not seem to have rehearsed well. Singing before the music starts or before the interludes end, clearly was a short coming on the part of certain singers. Something for the organizers to think about and avoid inthe next concert.
A huge tribute to Sarath de Alwis whose music direction was the strength of the show. With his years of experience and probably his own love for Hindi music of yesteryear, he is probably the only music director who could provide for nearly 4 hours with such clarity and precision. His orchestra at this concert was able to ensure that the audience enjoyed the songs just as they would remember from the past. It is a skill coupled with stamina that has to be admired and credit goes to de Alwis. I could not help but notice the tabla player who was giving more than his best to give the right rhythm by moving from one instrument to another. 
The MC for the evening Waruni Nanayakkara was able to beautifully thread the songs from one to the other and also give information about the lives of Lakshmikanth-Pyarelal. Her knowledge and competency in Hindi was a treat.
During his speech (the only speech in the entire concert) Kesaralal Gunasekera, President of the Bharath Lanka Kala Padanama mentioned how the entire foundation operates on a voluntary basis for the sheer love of Hindi Movie Music. Linking with other like-minded organizations such as India-Sri Lanka Foundation and Hindi Rasika Sangamaya set up by Priyantha Gamage, the Bharath Lanka Kala Padanama is ensuring that the cultural links between India and Sri Lanka remain alive. This event needs commendation and support from both countries as it is very important that India and Sri Lanka which has had various diplomatic ties for centuries, continue to appreciate each others cultures. This was quite significant as the event was graced by the Deputy High Commissioner and the First Secretary of the Indian High Commission. I am certain that the India-Sri Lanka Foundation which functions under the Patronage of the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka will continue to support these efforts year after year so that the Sri Lankan fans of Hindi music can immerse in beautiful melodies of the by gone era.
I also learnt that the Hindi Rasika Sangamaya has been set up over 15 years ago and they too hold a concert annually, which too is free of charge for those who enjoy Hindi music. A commendable deed indeed.
A gentleman who has attended all seven Pushpanjali concerts revealed that the concerts have always been free and was wondering how it is possible for a voluntary organization to have such a massive concert and offer it for free and in addition, provide refreshments as well. It must be acknowledged that at a time when the country is going through such unfathomable turmoil, the concert brought some sanity to the lives of the audience to at least forget the political menace for a few hours. Needless to say it would have been a herculean task to fund-raise for this event at this point in time due to the political chaos. So once again hats off to the organizers for not letting their devoted audience down this year.
Being my first, this concert was clearly about the influence Hindi Cinema and music had on the Sri Lankan audience in the last century, and the love and determination of the organizers to keep it alive. As mentioned during Kesaralal Gunasekaras speech, a lot of credit should go to the chief organizer Sam Samarasinghe who has worked behind the scenes to make this concert a grand success. But no performance is complete without a team and I am sure that all office bears, the patrons and the general committee have done their part to bring this 7th concert to us.
At a time when aesthetic sense is slipping away from the Sri Lankan public, it is highly commendable that there are still volunteers that work tirelessly to bring the artistes and the fans together through concerts such as Pushpanjali. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ranil stresses need to establish new Parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 01:26 am
Ranil stresses need to establish new Parliament
	
 UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday stressed the need to establish a new Parliament, scrapping the Executive Presidency through a referendum.
Mr. Wickremesinghe made these proposals at a seminar organised by the Professionals for Democracy held at the Galle Face Hotel last morning.
The citizens of this country have spoken out against the childish behaviour of MPs in the House. I propose that a new Parliament is needed. We have to listen to the voice of the people and punish the MPs who misbehaved recently. The President seems to be ignoring the legislature. If that is the case we will scrap the executive presidency through a referendum. A new Parliament could help achieve this goal, he added.
We have moved towards preserving democracy and towards safeguarding the constitution. The judiciary has also moved towards the same. This is not sufficient as we have to move towards scrapping the executive presidency by a referendum. We need the support of all the professionals to achieve this, he said.
Mr. Wickremesinghe said he offered to resign and go home when he head former President Mahinda Rajapaksa was appointed Prime Minister but remained following the advice of others. He said he realized that there was a great force backing him to fight for democracy.
Referring to the statement made by President Maithripala Sirisena that he will not appoint him as the Prime Minister even though all 225 MPs request him to do so, Mr. Wickremesinghe said he is not bothered by it as it was the President that will have to face the consequences and no one else.
Finally, he said he will respond to Mr. Sirisena though his culture. I was ridiculed, criticized and scolded. I will reply to the President through my culture.
Akosha Bamuna once ridiculed and criticized the Buddha. Then Buddha asked him if he offers refreshment to a visitor and the latter refuses the food that is offered, then who does that food belong to. Akosha said that food belongs to him. Then Buddha answered him saying he will not accept the scolding and criticisms which Akosha made. You can have all that he told Akosha.
Likewise, I will also not accept the criticism and ridicule from President Sirisena. I will not scold him or criticise him and he can take back all that he has said thereafter, Mr. Wickremesinghe said. (Yohan Perera)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Save the planet and win millions
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:02 am
Save the planet and win millions
	
Richard Branson is giving away $3 million for the creator of a greener air conditioning unit

If you ever had an idea to reinvent the regular household air conditioner, but never had the motive to, this might be your lucky day. 
			
			Richard Branson
			
		
Air conditioning has become a necessity in tropical Sri Lanka. Today, extreme heat is not just uncomfortable but also threatening our health. But the air conditioning unit, now a basic household appliance upon which we heavily rely on for comfort, is not good news for the environment.
Air conditioning units (AC units) have a negative impact on the environment as they add to greenhouse gases that trap heat. A number of outdated AC units with refrigerants have been shown to damage the ozone layer protecting us from excess UV radiation from the sun. The problem is, there are still a significant number of old air conditioner units in operation. It is predicted that by 2030 over half of the worlds population will live in hot climates. The hotter our environment gets, the more dependent we are on the AC unit. So how do we fix this problem
The Rocky Mountain Institute has the answer: the Global Cooling Prize offered by the institute and endorsed by none other than Virgin founder and philanthropist Richard Branson. They will be offering $3 million to the air conditioning genius who will come up with a solution that will have at least five times less climate impact than todays standard residential AC units. The foundation believes that through technological innovation, the winner of this competition will solve the critical climate threat that comes from the growing demand for room air conditioning.
If you think youve got the answer to this global issue, preliminary applications are due in June 2019 while the short list will be announced late 2019. To learn more about this amazing prize visit www.globalcoolingprize.org
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC has no jurisdiction on Presidents Proclamation: AG
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:46 am
SC has no jurisdiction on Presidents Proclamation: AG
	
The Attorney General yesterday (5) emphasized that the Supreme Court is precluded from exercising jurisdiction in respect of the alleged violations of petitioners Fundamental Rights and from granting the relief prayed for by the petitioner and that it has no jurisdiction on the Presidents proclamation of dissolution of Parliament.
Attorney General Jayantha Jayasinghe with Solicitor General Dsappula de Livera, Senior Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Rajaratnam, Additional Solicitors General Demuni de Silva and Farzana Jameel as well as Deputy Solicitor General Nerin Pulle, Senior State Counsel Shaheeda Barrie, State Counsels Kanishka de Silva and Manohara Jayasinghe instructed by Senior Additional Solicitor General Sepalika Tiranagama in his submission further stated that the dissolution of Parliament by the President does not constitute executive and administrative action.
Ten Fundamental Rights petitions against the declaration of dissolution of Parliament by the President came up before the Bench comprising Chief Justice Nalin Perera, Justices Buwaneka Aluwihare, Sisira J de Abrew, Priyantha Jayawardena, Prasanna S. Jayawardena, Vijith K. Malalgoda and Murdu Fernando.
Attorney General in his submission stated as follows:
The allegations on the dissolution of Parliament prior to the expiration of four years and six months and the intentional violation of the Constitution and an abuse o power by the President are not justifiable under Article 126 of the Constitution as there is a specific and prescribed procedure set out in Article 38(2) of the Constitution, setting out the manner in which the Supreme Court may exercise jurisdiction regarding her alleged intentional violation of the Constitution and abuse of power by the President.
Any Member of Parliament may by a writing addressed to the Speaker, give notice of a resolution alleging that the President is permanently incapable of discharging the functions of his office by reason of mental or physical infirmity or that the President had been guilty of intentional violation of the Constitution, treason, bribery, misconduct or corruption involving the abuse of powers of his office or any offence under any law, involving moral turpitude.
He is to set out full particulars of the allegation or allegations made and seek an inquiry and report thereon by the Supreme Court.
No notice of such resolution shall be entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of Parliament unless it complies with the provision and such resolution is passed by no less than one-half of the whole number of Members of Parliament.
Where such resolution is passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of members voting in its favour, the allegation or allegations contained in such resolution shall be referred by the Speaker to the Supreme Court for inquiry and report.
Where the Supreme Court reports to Parliament, the Parliament may by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Member remove the President from office.
When the Executive Head of State is vested with paramount power and duties, he should be given immunity in the discharge of his functions.
Article 38 has made provision for the removal of the President for intentional violation of the Constitution, treason, bribery, misconduct or corruption and any offence under any law involving moral turpitude.
It is essential that special immunity must be conferred on the person holding such high executive office from being subject to legal process or legal action and from being harassed by frivolous actions.
That is the rationale for the immunity cover afforded for the Presidents actions, both official and private.
However, this would not be the case, as the Supreme Court may continue to exercise jurisdiction in respect of the conduct of the President which constitutes executive and administrative action.
The acts of President impugned do not constitute executive and administrative action under Article 126 and is therefore covered by the immunity conferred by Article 35 of the Constitution.
The dissolution of Parliament cannot be considered an act of the government or agency of the government to constitute executive and administrative action for the purpose of Article 126.
The dissolution is a power exercised by the President under Article 33(c )and 70(1) qua (in the capacity of) the Head of State and the Supreme Court cannot exercise jurisdiction in respect of such conduct under Article 126.
Article 126 was not intended to be an instrument by which the judicial arm of government could usurp the function of the Head of State.
The dissolution of Parliament cannot constitute a violation of fundamental rights. It enhances the sovereignty of the people to exercise their franchise.
The President as custodian of the executive power of the people is empowered to exercise the power to dissolve Parliament in the best interests of the people.
The proclamation of dissolution of Parliament was exercised by the President in good faith and in the best interests of the People.
The Presidents power to dissolve Parliament at any time is reinforced by Article 62(2) of the Constitution.
The power to dissolve Parliament is a prerogative power which cannot be subject to judicial review. The Presidents proclamation is a political question which courts are ill-equipped to review. (S.S.Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo  Reveals A Magical Festive Season
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:02 pm
Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo  Reveals A Magical Festive Season
	
Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo dawns the magic of the season with the festive tree lighting and introduction of Bebop & the Barking Crickets  the band extraordinaire for Colombos ulitimate New Years Eve party.
Colombo, 03 December 2018:Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo welcomes a magical festive season with a curated selection of celebrations beginning with a compilation of the best musicians from across continents to make this New Years Eve an unforgettable experience.
The Bebop and the Barking Crickets(The BBC) will present a compilation of vintage swing music of the 1920s with jazz and ultra-modern house, hip-hop and post modern juke box pop music. A nostalgic music genre that meets a modern twist and concept with its smooth yet upbeat tempo beats, to deliver the right kind of festive cheer at a 21st century venue.
The New Years Eve Party at the Lawn, Weve got that Swing will highlight the pulsating tones of Bebop & the Barking Crickets and three New Year eve packages that offers exciting dealson the best eats, cocktails and spirits to revel further at Colombos ultimate New Years Eve Party.
The magic of the season sprinkled with tastes of tradition to festive twists that will delight young and young-at-heart, is the perfect formula at the festival feasts that are on the cards, at Table One  the all day dining restaurant.
The hotels Executive Chef Patrick Buttgereitand his kitchen brigade have orchestrated gourmet lunches, dinners and brunchesat the Capital Bar and Grill featuring a dazzling array of delectable appetisers, an extensive Christmas carvery and interactive seafood counter,complemented with a host of condiments and sides to make thespirit bright.
A midday respite in the luxurious comforts of the Sapphyr Lounge and imbibe of the festivities with delicate delights that reflect the season. The Christmas-inspired beverages and pattisseries, tailored to reflect the seasons best whilst the sounds of Christmas will resonate from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Kyle Pretorius, Resident Manager, Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo comments,  We want Colombo to experience a celebration like no other and since we are further postioned as Colombos vibrant social event destinationWeve got that Swingat the Lawn will make it an apropos venue for an unforgettable evening.
Perfect as gifts this Holiday Season, the festive hampers are filled with gourmet treats that will definitely make the Christmas celebration merrier. Starting from the 1 to 25 December, orders should be placed 24 hours prior to collection at the festive desk located at the gingerbread house.
This year, Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo has partnered with the Boys Industrial Home and Orphanage, in Colombo. The Home endeavours to educate and empower the youth toward a more prosperous future. Guests who wish to partake in this worthy cause can purchase a Wishing Card valued at Rs. 500 from the Festive Desk or any of the restaurants, and tie this to the Moon Moonelephant sculpture placed in the Lobby. The entire donation value of Rs. 500 will go toward the Boys Industrial Home and Orphanage.
For reservations or more information on the many dining options, call (+94) 117 888 288 or email: festivedining.slcb@shangri-la.com
The sounds of electro swing by Bebop and the Barking Crickets comprises of:
Zoe Theodorou - With captivating stage presence, Zoe projects the kindred spirits of Aretha Franklin, Chaka Khan, and Ella, Sarah Vaughn and Whitney Houston into a vibrant musical adventure. From her silky-smooth jazz vocals to her passionate performances, Zoe is soul and spirit, vibe and voice, all in one. This songstress has won a Canadian Gospel Music award for Best Jazz Vocal for her debut album, "Essence of Life".
Keith - The ultimate triple treat, Keith is a premier vocalist, saxophonist and keyboardist. Keith has shared stages with Alicia Keys, Sheena Easton, and other music greats. Though a star of many instruments, his passion is creating magic through the saxophone. His inspiration tributes are to Charlie Parker, David Sanborne, John Coltrain, and Michael Brecker.
Raul Paulino from Colombia - A pure genius behind the drums and percussion instruments, Paulino considers his style, selftaught. His music revolves around Jazz language and its derived currents, a feat that has him playing to packed audiences at jazz festivals globally.
Pablo - A pianist, composer and performer, for Pablo, travelling to France, United States and Brazil, allowed him to explore diverse music influences. Today as a DJ, his unique style presents a composition of piano, beatbox and electronic tools, blended with jazz.
Located at One Galle Face along the Galle Face Green promenade, the most exclusive address in Colombo, Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo offers uninterrupted Indian Ocean views and stunning city panoramas from its 500 guestrooms and suites, and 41 serviced apartments. The hotels six innovative restaurants and bars make Shangri-La Hotel, Colombo the citys dining destination and social hotspot. The hotel also offers unique lifestyle experiences with Shangri-Las signature CHI, The Spa, a 24-hour Health Club, and an elevated swimming pool overlooking the ocean. Boasting the largest events space in the region, the hotel can cater for up to 1500 guests in banquet style, and offers many other event spaces including a breezy outdoor lawn with marquee on the 4th Floor.
Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts currently operates over 100 hotels with a room inventory of over 41,000. Shangri-La hotels are five-star deluxe properties featuring extensive luxury facilities and services. Shangri-La hotels are located in Australia, Canada, mainland China, Fiji, France, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mongolia, Myanmar, Philippines, Qatar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sultanate of Oman, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. The group has a substantial development pipeline with upcoming projects in Australia, Bahrain, mainlandChina, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. For more information, please visit www.shangri-la.com.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Showery condition to continue
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:33 pm
Showery condition to continue
	
The prevailing showery condition would continue over the island during the next few days due to the low-level atmospheric disturbance in the Bay of Bengal to the South-east of Sri Lanka, Department of Meteorology said.
It said North-east monsoon is getting establish gradually over the country.
It said a low-level atmospheric disturbance had formed in the Bay of Bengal to the South-east of Sri Lanka and it would be likely to develop into a low-pressure area during the next few days.
Showers or thundershowers would occur at times in Northern, Eastern, North-central and Uva provinces and in Hambantota district.
Heavy falls about 100mm can be expected at some places in the Central, Eastern, Uva, Sabaragamuwa and Southern provinces, it stated.
It further said misty conditions might occur at some places in Central, Sabaragamuwa and Western provinces during the morning.
As there might be temporary localized strong winds during thundershowers, they requested the general public to take adequate precautions to minimize damages caused by lightning activity.
Sea areas off the coast extending from Colombo to Mannar via Puttalam and the sea area extending from Matara to Pottuvil via Hambantota can be fairly rough at times as the wind speed can increase up to 50 kmph.
Naval and fishing communities are also requested to be vigilant in this regard. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL ranked second in the Global Climate Risk Index 2019
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 11:07 am
SL ranked second in the Global Climate Risk Index 2019
	
Sri Lanka had been ranked second among the countries most affected by extreme weather events in 20 years since 1998 in the Global Climate Risk Index 2019.
The Long-Term Climate Risk Index listed Sri Lanka, Puerto Rico as the top two affected countries.
Sri Lanka was ranked fourth in the Climate Risk Index (CRI) in 2016 and it was in the 76th position in the Human Development Index (HDI) in 2017.
The Global Climate Risk Index 2019, was released at the annual climate summit in Poland's Katowice city yesterday. The report was prepared to analyse damages caused by the extreme weather events that took place from 1998 to 2017.
According to the annual CRI for 2017, Puerto Rico, Sri Lanka and Dominica ranked as the most affected countries in 2017 followed by Nepal, Peru and Vietnam. For the period from 1998 to 2017, Puerto Rico, Honduras and Myanmar rank highest. Nepal was ranked fourth and India 14th in the list.
According to the index, altogether, more than 5,26,000 people died as a direct result of more than 11,500 extreme weather events; and losses between 1998 and 2017 amounted to around US$ 3.47 trillion.
The Index said, in May 2017, heavy landslides and floods occurred in Sri Lanka after strong monsoon rains in southwestern regions of the country. More than 200 people died after the worst rains on the Indian Ocean island since 2003. The monsoons displaced more than 600 000 people from their homes and 12 districts were affected. The inland southwest district of Ratnapura was most affected where over 20,000 people faced flash floods.
The Global Climate Risk Index 2019 analyses to what extent countries and regions have been affected by impacts of weather-related loss events such as storms, floods, heat waves etc. The most recent data available for 2017 and from 1998 to 2017 were taken into account. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: So who is cheering the 19th Amendment now
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
So who is cheering the 19th Amendment now
	
When Maithripala Sirisena said bye-bye to the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and went against Mahinda Rajapaksa, there were wild cheers from those who supported the United National Party (UNP) and/or were against the Rajapaksa Regime. Sirisena was hero. He was poster-boy. Chandrika Kumaratunga even said that he was the only honest politician in the party she once led. 
It was not only about ousting Rajapaksa. It was about doing things differently. It was about correcting flaws. It was about putting in place robust systems that made for good governance and the prevention of corruption and incompetence. So it was not just about regime change; it was about good governance as well. It was about democracy; so said the good governors if you will. A key part of that programme was dealing with the cornerstone of the 1978 Constitution, the Executive Presidency. 
The rhetoric was about abolishing it. The word on the manifesto was change and not abolition. Sleight of hand, certainly. Then came the 19th Amendment. It wasnt abolished. Even constitutional experts such as Nihal Jayawickrema said that the 19th did away with 80% of presidential powers. 
Not only was the 19th mischievously (rather than carelessly) worded to make for a bloated cabinet, it made a mockery of independent institution thanks to the clauses regarding the composition of the Constitutional Council. The decisions of the politician-heavy body, made even more politically suspect by the inclusion of politically compromised independents clearly subverted the objective. The appointment of judges, in one case seniority being disregarded, clearly indicates that these commissions alone wont deliver. Whether they are necessary is also a moot point. After all, not all democracies that are said to be thriving have independent commissions. The members, let us note, are not answerable to the voter. 
Need we even talk about how its authors and approvers bungled the issue of presidential powers pertaining to dissolution of Parliament 
And where are we at, ladies and gentlemen who fervently believed that the Yahapalanists were serious about good governance Well, what we have is a situation where the only individual who possesses power is in fact the Executive President. Thats Maithripala Sirisena. And hes a man who earned the wrath of all, mind you. So much for the project of the anti-Rajapaksa forces to scuttle the Executive Presidency! 
Now how did we get to this Did those who hand-picked Sirisena err in judgment Thats certainly one argument. Did they have no other option Thats possible too. Whats most laughable about it is that all those who point fingers at Sirisena act as though they had done nothing to put him in a place where he could do what he did. Theres no place or sympathy for navet in politics, ladies and gentlemen, sorry. 
What is not funny is this: the most ardent voices against Sirisena were dead silent about his many acts perverting democracy (some of which were jointly plotted with the UNP; for example dissolution of Parliament on the day the COPE Report on the Central Bank bond scam was to come out). They were fine with postponing local government and provincial council elections. It is only when Sirisena tripped the UNP that their purported democratic sentiments were wounded. 
Its simple. The 19th Amendment was a document that was made to benefit the UNP. The hitch was that its success depended on the goodwill of the President. Thats how serious Jayampathy Wickramaratne was about constitutional amendment. It was, in short, a third rate document produced by perverted notions of the political. 
The entire saga has thrown up one redeeming factor. The people are far more mature than their representatives
The most serious question now is, where do we go from here Put another way, what do we do now If it is a matter of tiding over a crisis, then one of two things would do the trick. First, a court determination affirming that dissolution was constitutional. It would imply that the court has determined the 19th Amendment itself (specifically the clauses regarding dissolution) was unconstitutional in the first instance. There is precedence of the judiciary making such determinations, for example certain articles in the 13th Amendment. We cannot be presumptuous though. Court can determine that dissolution was unconstitutional. It can determine otherwise as well. 
That would upset the UNP of course. It would only benefit a political formation led by Rajapaksa and Sirisena. Indeed, Rajapaksa might prevail even if he shed Sirisena. The outcome may not be the best to be desired, but whoever wins we would have a new chapter and a new dispensation. Whether or not the government formed subsequently addresses the vexed issues that have generated this crisis is another matter. At least there would be clarity. 
What if court determines otherwise That would mean that the unsavoury status quo would remain, pending further court determination. It would also mean that the people would be forced to watch while the UNP played hide-and-seek with sovereignty and the peoples will (i.e. refuse to go for a General Election), and the Sirisena-Rajapaksa combine (or the forces they represent, individually) try to figure out how to deal with the arithmetic conundrum in Parliament. 
In such a situation, the out for the nation would, unfortunately, be predicated on one of three individuals (on account of the office they hold or believe they hold, and as leaders of political formations) taking a step back. 
Sirisena, Wickremesinghe and Rajapaksa can all decide to blink. Whoever blinks would confer the initiative to the political other (of this moment). Sirisena stands to lose all if he steps back and reinstates Wickremesinghe. Wickremesinghe and the UNP will lose so much initiative that it would cripple whatever hope remains of clinching a General Election. Rajapaksa alone can step back, give the edge to the UNP momentarily and still retain enough clout to score a decisive election victory. He has the language, the pulse of the people and the political sense to give a bit of ground and immediately recover lost ground with interest. It is easy to stick to guns and insist it is done for the love of the country and the people. It is harder to say I am not going to be party to a tug-o-war where country and people are used as a rope  I will let go. 
In the long run, however, the entire nation must revisit the discourse of constitution-making. It has to be a serious matter and not the frivolous exercise it has been since 1978. Lawmakers must understand that it is not a means to tide over a difficult moment. The worth of a proposal has to be assessed not in terms of whether or not one likes (or dislikes) the immediate beneficiary but how one would feel if someone considered despicable were to benefit. For example 19th was flawed but the UNP went along because of the benefits. The political silliness of betting it all on Sirisenas goodwill alone should be enough to disqualify that party from the right to govern this country  they are far too sophomoric for the serious business of governance. The same goes for the SLFP and the newly formed Sri Lanka Podijana Peramuna (SLPP) because their representatives voted for this same amendment. 
The entire saga has thrown up one redeeming factor. The people are far more mature than their representatives. Theyve been patient. Theyve watched with dismay and disgust. It is not imprudent to believe that they are waiting for their moment. That is a court decision too. It is, in a way, a SUPREME court decision. That case cannot be postponed forever. 
malindasenevi@gmail.com. www.malindawords.blogspot.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankas second largest heroin haul
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 December 2018 05:12 pm
Sri Lankas second largest heroin haul
	
A mammoth heroin haul of 231.5 kilos valued at more than Rs. 2,778 million--the second largest heroin haul in Sri Lanka--was seized by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) officials in the seas off Beruwala Wednesday night.Pix by Kushan Pathiraja
 
		
==============================
## Title: St. Euphrasias Safe Home, Nayakakanda House of refuge, repose and rehabilitation
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
St. Euphrasias Safe Home, Nayakakanda House of refuge, repose and rehabilitation
	
The idyllic Good Shepherd Convent is located in the heart of Wattala, down the busy Hendala Road. As you walk through its large double gates you are instantly made oblivious to the hustle and bustle of the world outside and immersed into the serenity that dominates its premises. Lush greenery, a humble grotto and a chapel will hold your gaze -and at the heart of it all is St. Euphrasias Home for women and girls in distress.
Taking up the roles of healing and rehabilitation, the sisters of Good Shepherd Convent harbour the victims of rape, abuse, incest, child marriage cases, sexual violence etc. Orphaned, impoverished or victims of legal difficulties, they have all been subjected to vices of society. Regardless of caste or creed, labels and wounds these young girls are able to rediscover self-dignity and aspire to be responsible citizens.
The girls are immersed in a programme focused on a holistic growth
	Additionally, programmes like Beads to Business introduced by an NGO named Emerge Lanka are also conducted
	The lack of teachers for certain subjects was an especial blow for the 15 or so girls currently sitting for their GCE O/Ls
History
Twenty sixth January 1926 dates Sir Hugh Clifford, the Governor of Ceylon and Rev. Dr. Anthony Coudert OMI, the Archbishop of Colombo declaring open St. Euphrasias Home for women and girls in distress. By the end of the first year about 90 admissions were received by the institution. An industrial school was built with Government approval and vocational skills and subjects like embroidery and cooking were taught. The home continued to grow and in 1938 a separate home for unwed mothers and later a crche and a nursery were erected. As the requirement for a more academic curriculum heightened, in 1922 classes were organized for those whose schooling had stopped midway. Special lessons were conducted for those who needed to sit for the GCE O/L Examinations.
Present Day
Initially though the majority of the admissions were through private sources, today they are mainly controlled by the Department of Probation and Child Care (DPCC). Many of the girls admitted are subjects of ongoing cases referred to by the courts and thus require secure care. Currently 50 girls reside within these walls under the supervision of several nuns and caretakers.
Development of residents
The girls are immersed in a programme focused on a holistic growth which includes educational, skill development, social, psychological, spiritual and cultural development. A non-formal education is provided and those eligible may sit for the GCE O/L Examination.
While awaiting results, skills training is provided at one of the 2 centres of vocational training run by the GSC nuns. Job placements are found for those suitable for employment and with permission from the DPCC they are returned to their families.
Additionally, programmes like Beads to Business introduced by an NGO named Emerge Lanka are also conducted. This specific programme was intended to equip teen survivors of abuse with the business and math skills needed to lead healthy, self-sufficient lives.
Orphaned, impoverished or victims of legal difficulties, they have all been subjected to vices of society. Regardless of caste or creed, labels and wounds these young girls are able to rediscover self-dignity and aspire to be responsible citizens
Life within the sanctuary
Members of the convent family have familiarised themselves with a strict routine which marks school-time, prayer times, study hours, clean- up days etc. ensuring discipline and productivity. Within the week the girls enjoy zumba lessons, drama, dancing, arts and crafts, sports and outdoor games. Counselling, meditation and prayer are regularly conducted with the aim of healing the wounds of their past. They even celebrate small-scale cultural and religious festivals.
Inside the wooden doors of the home, the girls maintain a self-grown garden where vegetables, fruits and flowers are grown. They each tend to their own plants learning to nurture, parent and reap fruit in life. Two former residents shared how sibling-like friendships are also formed making good-byes hard.
Leaving the Nest Having completed GCE O/L and/or GCE A/L exams they choose their own paths. Some who wish to work are sent to safe places and some who come through courts are sent back to the families by the courts themselves. Others pursue vocational training at Sethsewana Bolawalana  another Good Shepherd institution where girls aged 16-25 from child development centres, rehabilitation centres and institutions run by GSC Sisters (and others) are able to develop skills and competencies needed to function in society. Following this course, they will receive job training.
The Daily Mirror had the opportunity to speak with two former residents of S.Es home who are currently being vocationally trained there in graphic design.
One of them aged 18, described her 9 month stay with the nuns as follows.They understood us, showed us true love and changed our outlook on life. She added that they always pushed us forward and encouraged us to learn and work hard.
The other aged 19, added to these sentiments. They helped me fix my life.Recalling a tender memory; she added, I fell ill the day before my A/L Exam, and it was sister who nursed me and helped me face the exam.
Graphic design, tailoring, beauty culture and crafts are a few avenues these girls may choose to follow. By giving the girls such opportunities and supporting them, the convent aspires to prove that an individuals past and setbacks could be made irrelevant in the process of moving forward, achieving goals and chasing dreams.
Silent struggles
Some girls only have the clothes they are sent here in, said a sister- in -charge of the safe-home.
The safe-home receives no fixed or consistent funds. Running the household and the in-built school, providing for 50 teen-aged girls and other miscellaneous expenses are covered with only annual flag-day contributions and additional donations. Nevertheless, the girls are kept healthy, happy and safe.
Finding permanent teachers for the school is another challenge. The lack of teachers for certain subjects was an especial blow for the 15 or so girls currently sitting for their GCE O/Ls. Many had disrupted school lives, having been institutionalised since the ages of two or three. Giving priority to such students and to those sitting for national exams, the nuns still persevere and even arrange after-school tuition. Furthermore, printing test papers and study aids are done within the home, which is yet another financial burden to bear.The Nayakakanda community welcomes generosity and all forms of assistance, whether it be clothing, school supplies, dry rations, financial assistance or simply your time and empathy. Nothing goes unappreciated. Philanthropists may contact the home at 0713373881.
It is the cause of unfairly victimised young girls that you consider in aiding this institution, for every contribution goes toward securing their future.
 
		
==============================
## Title: State functions, meetings only in State-owned Auditoriums: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 08:34 pm
State functions, meetings only in State-owned Auditoriums: President
	
On the instructions of President Maithripala Sirisena, a circular had been issued by the media unit to notify ministries, departments and statutory boards to refrain from holding any functions, meetings or any other programmes relating to their affairs, in Hotels, especially in Luxury hotels.
The President had taken this step in order to curb the unnecessary expenditure incurred in holding these state functions in Luxury hotels when there are plenty of auditoriums belonging to the state and other institutions available for these purposes.
 
		
==============================
## Title: TELO wants written commitments from UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 08:50 am
TELO wants written commitments from UNP
	
The Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization (TELO), which is one of the parties aligned with the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), asked a written commitment from the United National Party (UNP) to implement the 13th Amendment in full, along with land and Police powers and to merge the North and the East as a condition for support it to form a Government, it is learnt.
The TNA allies- Ilankai Tamil Arasu Katchi (ITAK), TELO and Peoples Liberation Organization of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE)  held a meeting on Tuesday evening and discussed its preliminary decision to support the appointment of a UNP nominee as the Prime Minister.
There are two MPs Selvam Adaikkalanathan and Vino Noharathalingam- representing TELO in the TNA.
The TELO representatives said the TNA should secure a written commitment to address five demands as a condition to support the UNP at this hour.
The release of military held land, the repealing of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) and the freeing of LTTE suspects commonly called Tamil political prisoners, are the three demands.
TELO member M.K. Sivajilingam told the Daily Mirror the TNA leadership was not agreeable to ask a written commitment from the UNP.
Therefore, the meeting ended inconclusively, he said.
The alliance partners will meet again today for further discussion.
The TNA has 16 seats in Parliament. One of them has already joined the Government, and another remains neutral.
Out of the remaining 14 MPs, TELO is represented by two members.
The ITAK is the dominant party represented by TNA Leader R. Sampanthan and influential members such as M.A. Sumanthiran and Mavai Senathirajah. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The form of the crisis is parliamentary, but the content is bourgeois rule Wije Dias
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
The form of the crisis is parliamentary, but the content is bourgeois rule Wije Dias
	
This year marks the 50th anniversary of formation of the the Revolutionary Communist League (RCL) of Sri Lanka in 1968. The RCL functions as the Sri Lankan section of the International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI), and was renamed the Socialist Equality Party (SEP) in 1996.
Daily Mirror spoke to Mr. Wije Dias, the General Secretary of the SEP, on a series of issues, including the foundations and principles of the RCL and SEP, the ongoing political crisis in Sri Lanka, and the challenges of uniting the working class across international lines to build a socialist alternative to the current capitalist system.
Trade Unionism is bourgeois politics
	Workers are exploited by the investors of capital
	The revolutionary class must act independently
	The ICFI is a fraternal organisation of all sections of the working class
Q This year marks the 50th anniversary of the Revolutionary Communist League (RCL) established in 1968, and later the Socialist Equality Party (SEP). What were the reasons for the formation of the RCL and SEP
I was a founding member of the RCL in 1968. Initially we were in the LSSP youth leagues when it joined the Sirimavo Bandaranaike coalition in 1964. We were keen to fight capitalism - politically, economically, administratively, and culturally. But by joining the coalition, the LSSP had committed itself to sustaining this degenerating system.
The LSSP (R) faction, or Revolutionary, led by Edmund Samarakkody, opposed the coalition. We transferred our allegiance to them. But we soon discovered that they were also following the same line of class compromise as the LSSP.
At the Peradeniya University library we came across the newsletter of the British section of the International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI), led by Gerry Healy. We read Healys pamphlet, Ceylon - the great betrayal, and a significant sentence in it was: The origins of the coalition cannot be found in Colombo, but only in Paris. Paris was the headquarters of the International Secretariat of the Fourth International (FI), which was dominated by Pabloites.It was their politics that had guided the LSSP into the coalition. And the LSSP (R) leaders opposed discussing this issue because they wanted to follow the same Pabloite line.
We then broke away from the LSSP (R) and formed the Shakthi group. In 1966-67,we were introduced to comrade Wilfred Spike Pereira,who encouraged us to continue our work in line with the ICFI. He insisted that we study the history of the FI. We discovered there had been a split between 1961-63,when the founding leader of the ICFI and US Socialist WorkersParty leader Joseph Hanson had joined the Pabloites. We read many documents to understand the political issues involving such splits. It is on this basis that we formed the RCL in 1968.
This period was also a watershed in the global class struggle. The French general strike of 1968 forced de Gaulle out of power. In the UK, PM Edward Heaths Conservative Government was ousted.The dictatorships of Caetano in Portugal and and Franco in Spain were brought down.The climax was in 1975, when the mightiest imperialist military was defeated in Vietnam.
After the Second World War, the world capitalist system had to be regenerated on the strength of the US economy
Q You mentioned Pabloite revisionism. The SEP is a Trotskyist party. What is the difference between Trotskyism and Pabloism
Pabloism originated in the Trotskyist movement after the end of the Second World War (WW2). After the war, the world capitalist system had to be regenerated on the strength of the US economy. Projects like the Marshal Plan helped rebuild Europe. The IMF and WB granted easy loans to capitalist states,which gave concessions to workers whenever they struggled for better social conditions.
India and Sri Lanka got independence under a parliamentary form of government. The Bolshevik Leninist Party of India (BLPI), which included India, Sri Lanka and Burma, split into three, and accepted the parliamentary system.They retreated from the revolutionary politics of the FI, and adapted to a reformist line, which led to the emergence of Pabloism.
Q Was this reformist line set within national boundaries, or did it have an international perspective
They revised the international perspective within national boundaries. Trotsky established the FI against Stalinism and Social Democracy to develop an alternative revolutionary leadership for the world working class. The Pabloites revised this in relation to Stalinism.
After WW2 Europe was divided into two. Eastern Europe was dominated by Stalinist regimes, and Western Europe was dominated by the US.
The Pabloites argued there would be no independent revolutionary movement of the working class. They said the main contradiction was not between imperialism and the world working class, but between imperialism and Stalinism.
So Pabloism was an adaptation to the post-war settlement between imperialism and Stalinism, and to the parliamentary system established in the colonial countries, giving room for nationalist movements to emerge.
Q How did these changes affect Sri Lanka
The BLPI initially opposed parliamentary politics and characterised it as a conspiracy against the people. They opposed independence and called it fake. They said for real independence, the working class must unite and overthrow capitalist rule. But they gradually adapted to the post-war independence settlement.
Q How did Keerthi Balasuriya, the first General Secretary of the RCL, help develop an internationalist, revolutionary perspective into the movement, especially within the context of Sri Lanka
Keerthi Balasuriya was the youngest among us, and was still schooling when he joined the Shakthi group. Among us, he gained the best grasp of the lessons of the theoretical and political struggles of the FI. So when we formed the RCL he was elected as General Secretary.
He waged a struggle against the revisionism of the LSSP (R) and the syndicalist tendencies of trade unions. He was a brilliant student of politics and he guided the party until his untimely death in 1987.
Q Regarding Trade Unions (TUs), the SEP is a strong critic of Trade Unionism.
Yes.
Q TUs can be politicised and corrupt in many cases. But what do you feel about the coming together of Trade Unionism and revolutionary politics
Trade Unionism is bourgeois politics. Its capitalist politics. It fights for workers rights within the framework of capitalism. Lenins 1902 pamphlet What is to be done fights against the current of Economism - which was Trade Unionism. He says Trade Unionism can only develop bourgeois consciousnesses, or capitalist consciousness, within the working class. Therefore revolutionary Marxist politics has to be brought into the working class, through a revolutionary party.
Q So does this mean the working class is not inherently revolutionary
Objectively it is the revolutionary class. But there is a gap between revolutionary consciousness and revolutionary class activity. Revolutionary consciousness must be introduced into this objectively revolutionary social force. According to Marxism, the revolutionary consciousness doesnt come automatically from the working class. By itself, the working class could spontaneously develop only the bourgeois consciousness of Trade Unionism, and make demands from their employers.
The world capitalist economy is facing a greater crisis than during the 1929 Wall-Street crash
Q How can the working class go beyond making economic demands
That also can happen automatically. Trade Unionism developed to have a controlled form of agitation under the bourgeois state. When employers refuse workers demands, workers appeal to the state. TUs bring pressure on capitalist governments to answer the problems of employers and the working class. They dont want to overthrow the state, but instead make appeals for favour and support to win their demands.
Revolutionary politics begins with a perspective of overthrowing the capitalist government and establishing a workers and peasants government. These political perspectives can only be introduced by a revolutionary Marxist movement. It doesnt automatically and spontaneously come out of working class struggles.
Q Organizing the working class has many challenges. In Sri Lanka almost two-thirds of workers are in the informal sector. How can such workers be organized How would you approach that challenge
Take farmers for instance. Thats an informal sector of economic activity. They produce for the market, work by themselves, buy products, transfer their produce into money,and make more agricultural produce. This informal system later develops as a formal sector, and workers organize around it.
Hotel workers form organizations. So do professionals like the GMOA. The IT sector is a growing informal sector.But the fundamentals have not changed. Workers are being exploited by the investors of capital in their sectors. 
Q But those are more privileged workers. Im talking about more vulnerable groups like domestic workers or migrant workers.
Plantation workers started as immigrant workers, but they formed unions and became one of the most powerful sectors of the organized working class. These things happen automatically.
But TUs are so discredited that people dont like to join unions.They recognise that the leadership is working for employers, and for the TU bureaucracy. Even in the plantations,enrolment is decreasing.
Thats why we made some policy changes in the 1990s regarding the national question and TUs. The dissolution of the Soviet Union (SU) exposed the bankruptcy and reactionary nature of nationalist programmes.
The leaders of the 1917 revolution had an internationalist socialist perspective. But when Stalin assumed leadership in 1923-24, he developed the theory of socialism in one country. Trotsky opposed this. But Stalinism developed as the main nationalist tendency within the working class.
With the dissolution of the SU, the Stalinist bureaucracy admitted they could no longer develop their perspective. If a vast country like the SU could not sustain itself on a nationalist programme,how can small nationalist separatists sustain themselves
So we gave up the traditional Marxist demand to the right of self-determination. We support every democratic demand of the oppressed minorities, but insist on the unity of the working class between the oppressed people and the oppressor people. We fight for a socialist solution to resolve the deprived democratic rights of the oppressed people. Thats the programme we develop.
Regarding TUs, we previously fought within TUs, to win over the leadership to the Marxist revolutionary party. But now we propose to build alternative organisations to TUs called workers Action Committees (ACs). These ACs function like soviets. The supreme soviet is the legislative council which elects an executive. We had that organizational structure under Lenin and Trotsky. We want to establish ACs and develop an alternative political perspective to capture power from the hands of the capitalists.
Q Regarding self determination, Tamil nationalist groups make the argument of historical, cultural and linguistic rights. Are those not valid arguments
As demands they are valid. Their linguistic and cultural rights are suppressed. Sinhala was made the only official language to suppress Tamil. The privileges given to Buddhism goes against Hinduism, Islam and Christianity. As Marxists and materialists we dont believe in religion.But those who believe must have the right to practice their religion. We defend that right.
We fight against all forms of oppression. But we insist that it is through a socialist transformation of society that these rights can be exercised and achieved. For that we have to join together, cutting across national, racial, linguistic and religious divisions.
We support every democratic demand of the oppressed minorities, but insist on the unity of the working class
Q According to the SEP, what are the global factors that have contributed to the ongoing political crisis in Sri Lanka
The effects of international changes are reflected in this crisis. The world capitalist economy is facing a greater crisis than during the 1929 Wall-Street crash. The development of Russia and China as capitalist countries has antagonised established imperialist countries. US imperialism, which is seeking to maintain world domination, is aiming for an aggressive militaristic policy against Russia and China. Sri Lanka, being in a strategically important location, is very much involved in these disputes.
Mahinda Rajapaksa wanted money and equipment for the war. The West couldnt respond to this, but China gave lavish loans. After the war,China provided more loans for so-called development projects. This antagonised the US. They wanted regime change, and got their chance when Rajapaksa declared an early presidential election.They hurriedly organized through Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and the Clinton Foundation to bring Rajapaksas party secretary as the common candidate.
But the new Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government was restricted because they could not approach China as Rajapaksa had. With a crisis of investments and aid linked to heavy conditions, the masses got restless and rebellious.
The class struggle was developing in the latter years of the Rajapaksa regime as well. The FTZ workers protested the Bill to remove their EPF rights, and worker Roshan Chanaka was killed by the police. The following year fishermen protested rising fuel prices, and Anthony Warnakulasooriya was killed. In 2013 the people and workers of Rathupaswala demanded drinking water,and the military killed three persons.
This development of class struggle didnt abate after the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government was established. There were just a handful of days without some agitation or other, somewhere in the country. The rupee was depreciating, exports were collapsing and aid was drying up. Sirisena and Wickremesinghe couldnt continue as they had planned. So Sirisena got the support of the Rajapaksa clan and Wickremesinghe placed his hopes on the support of Trump, May, Macron, Merkel and Modi.
The SEP sees this not just as a crisis between two factions of the capitalist class, but also as a crisis of the parliamentary system itself. The form is parliamentary, but the content is the crisis of bourgeois rule. There are differences in the form and content of everything. The 2008 breakdown took the form of a financial crisis, but the content was the entire capitalist economy.
What must be replaced is the parliamentary system of rule and the capitalist state itself. And it must be transformed into a workers and peasants state based on ACs. That is how we explain this crisis. And that is the proposal we make to the people to get ready for.
Q We hear the common refrain that achieving international socialism through uniting the working class across racial, religious, linguistic and national boundaries, is not practical. And instead, what is needed is periods of transition, or critical support for non-working class governments. What is your response to this
The two words critical support is itself a fraud (laughs). Either you support or you oppose. However much you criticize this government, nobody is there to listen. Its not for a lack of criticism that Sirisena is acting as he is now. Even if he doesnt read the papers but goes through the cartoons, he would realise the people dont like him. Sirisena has to find an alternative. But the wont do so in the way we think, but in the way a capitalist ruler thinks. The change he expects is within this system. Therefore he replaced Wickremesinghe with Rajapaksa.
Q But my question is how do you respond to idea that the unification of the world working class across dividing lines is not practical
Thats a response of lazy minds (laughs). Where has the scientific Marxist experiment been made to say its not practical
Trotsky established the Fourth International to develop an alternative revolutionary leadership for the world working class
Q Didnt that experiment take place in 1917 in Russia
It happened.But it was short lived. It was disoriented. Thats why Trotsky took the initiative to build a left opposition within the Bolshevik party. He wanted to get rid of the Stalinist bureaucracy, and reform the Bolshevik party, and the Third International. He tried for ten years until 1933.
He explained that the bourgeois class in the decay of imperialism couldnt perform progressive tasks. Therefore the revolutionary class has to act independently. If the revolutionary class aligns with the bourgeoisie it blunts the weapons of the revolutionary class and mutes its aspirations.
The final punch was the experience of the German Communist Party. Trotsky advocated for a united front between the German Social Democratic party and the Communist Party to stop Hitler from assuming power. That call was ignored and Hitler took power in 1933. Then Trotsky decided against reforming these parties, as they were dead as far as the revolution was concerned. So he built an alternative international and founded the FI in 1938. The SEP is the representative of this in Sri Lanka.
Q What is the role of the SEP in Sri Lanka to galvanise the working class in the larger international context Can a small working class in a small country exert much influence over global happenings
The ICFI doesnt consider the size of a country to recognise its political line. We are a fraternal organisation of all sections of the working class, whatever language, culture or nationality. We are fraternally in unity. We are equals, and we are fighting for social equality. We live in a small country, but we are a part of the world, no less than the US. There are global conditions under which we all live. The international unity of the working class must be achieved on a socialist basis to come out of this very dangerous situation, with a developing world war, right wing movements,and dictatorships all over the world.
 
		
==============================
## Title: The President has assured that the current political impasse endured by Sri Lanka would come to an e
## Section: Poll
## Date: 6 December 2018 10:07 am
The President has assured that the current political impasse endured by Sri Lanka would come to an e
	
==============================
## Title: TUs protest against President
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 December 2018 10:04 pm
TUs protest against President
	
A number of Trade Unions today staged a protest outside the Fort Railway Station demanding the immediate resignation of President Maithripala Sirisena. The protesters also demanded the authorities to release political prisoners, an end to racism and recognition of the LGBTQ community. Pix by Damith Wickramasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two suspects nabbed with heroin valued at Rs.2,778mn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 09:52 am
Two suspects nabbed with heroin valued at Rs.2,778mn
	
A mammoth heroin haul weighing 231.5 kilogrammes valued at more than Rs. 2,778 million--the second largest heroin detection ever made in Sri Lanka--was seized by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) officials in the seas off Beruwala on Wednesday night.
Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said the heroin haul was seized when it was being trafficked into the country in a boat five nautical miles off Beruwala. Police have arrested two smugglers along with the haul.
He said 224 parcels of heroin were packed in 11 empty bags of sugar and suspects the illegal drug has been brought from Pakistan.
The spokesman said the STF, Navy, Coast Guard and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) had also assisted the PNB officials in carrying out the raid.
The raid was conducted as a result of a weeks-long investigation. Disputes among several smugglers also helped the officials in conducting the raid successfully, SP Gunasekera said.
He said the suspects, 34-year-old Mohammed Risvi and 38-year-old Dilip Susantha from Beruwala detained for further questioning after produced before the Colombo Chief Magistrate.
SP Gunasekere said investigation are being carried out by the officials to identify and arrest if any other individual had involved in this heroin smuggling.
This was the second largest heroin detection. The largest heroin haul of 261 kgs was recovered in Orugodawatta last year by the Customs and PNB officials, he said.(Darshana Sanjeewa)

Video by Sanath Desmond
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP to move Confidence Motion on RW
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 07:42 am
UNP to move Confidence Motion on RW
	
The United National Party (UNP) would move a confidence motion pledging solidarity with its leader Ranil Wickremesinghe to become the Prime Minister on December 12, it is learnt.
The decision has been taken by the UNP in the wake of President Maithripala Sirisenas avowal that he would not reappoint Mr Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister no matter what.
A confidence motion has never been moved in Parliament. If it happened, it will be the first time.
Earlier, the UNP, with the backing of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), moved two No Confidence Motion on two separate occasions.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya declared them as passed by voice vote.
However, it is learnt that six JVP MPs would not vote for this confidence motion. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: We need volunteers as our politicians
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
We need volunteers as our politicians
	
How self-centred or other-centred are we This being the principle virtue of our character, one of the main ways to measure or recognise it is our critical role as volunteers or first responders in emergencies and crises. Do we think of self-survival and run away from it or do we have the courage to take a risk and run into the situation with the intention of rescuing or helping someone or doing whatever possible 
The Good Samaritan parable being one of the most powerful and important examples, the exiled Tibetan Buddhist leader the Dalai Lama has also said that the intelligent way to be selfish is to work for the welfare of others. The civil rights crusader Martin Luther King, Jr. has challenged the world by saying lifes most persistent and urgent question is, What are you doing for others
Two of the greatest figures of modern times have also given us gems on volunteerism or being first responders in a crisis or emergency. Indias legendary visionary Mahatma Gandhi has said the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others while one of the worlds greatest scientists Albert Einstein has said only a life lived for others is worth living. He may have meant this is more powerful than splitting the atom.
These reflections and thoughts for contemplation came to mind as the United Nations marked the International Volunteer Day. 
The UN General Secretary Antnio Guterres in a statement says, the diverse and dynamic role of volunteerism in promoting the Sustainable Development Goals merits strong support from Governments and other stakeholders. On this International Day, he has thanked volunteers for their efforts to leave no one behind.
According to the UN, International Volunteer Day (IVD) mandated by the UN General Assembly, is held each year on December 5. It is viewed as a rare chance for volunteers and organizations to celebrate their efforts, to share their values, and to promote their work among their communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), UN agencies, government authorities and the private sector.
Apart from mobilising thousands of volunteers every year, the UN Volunteers (UNV) programme contributes to peace and development by advocating the recognition of volunteers and working with partners to integrate volunteerism into development programming.
This years theme is volunteers build resilient communities. 
This year, IVD celebrates volunteer efforts that strengthen local ownership and the resilience of the community in the face of natural disasters, economic stresses and political shocks. Every year, more than 6,500 UN Volunteers serve with UN entities in some of the most challenging environments across the world, and 12,000 UN Online Volunteers complete more than 20,000 assignments online through the UNV Online Volunteering service.
Sri Lanka today is suffering from a political shock and economic stress in the aftermath of the worst political turmoil since independence. President Maithripala Sirisenas decision on October 26 has left Sri Lanka in a crisis where some say we have two governments or two Prime Ministers while others say we have no government, no prime minister and no Cabinet. Social media has portrayed the President as the government today while the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal are due to give important verdicts in the coming days.
With many politicians now being seen as market place commodities if not something worse, this is the time for volunteer impartial groups and emergency first responders to come forward courageously and inspire civil society in determining the course of affairs which could change the history of Sri Lanka.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wickrema Bids Adieu
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Wickrema Bids Adieu
	
Dr. Wickrema Weerasooria selling the first Development Lottery Ticket in January 1983 to President JR Jayewardene in the presence of Mahapola Minster Lalith Athulathmudali and Menikdiwela, Secretary to the President
Sri Lanka is poorer with the passing of Dr Wickrema Sena Weerasooria last Tuesday. There were so many aspects to his life, and he was so many things to so many people, that it is difficult to know where to begin. Most Sri Lankans who can yet recall the J. R. Jayewardene presidency remember Wickrema as the all-powerful secretary to the Ministry of Plan Implementation, one of the few ministries of which the president was the subject minister. Wholly trusted by JRJ, Wickrema ran his ministry in effect as chief executive, simply keeping the president informed of the more important goings on. The ministrys mandate was all-encompassing, and he wielded the power of his office with an effectiveness that has not since seen parallel. Things simply got done, and as was the need of the times, his focus was largely in rural development and healthcare, from family planning to child nutrition.
Wickrema devoted much of his time to charity, especially in support of the blind
He never knew how to relax. There was always a queue outside his study at home
Earned his stripes in the Jayewardene administration through his contribution to the election campaign of 1977
Wickrema earned his stripes in the Jayewardene administration through his signal contribution to the election campaign of 1977, of which he was the architect, when the UNP came in from behind to secure a five-sixths majority in parliament, entrenching the party in office for almost 20 years. His father, the celebrated Queens Counsel N. E. Weerasooria, had been a close friend and associate of J. R. Jayewardene, which led in turn to the president affectionately treating the youthful Wickrema as his protg. And so skilful was Wickrema in delivering one electoral victory after another that many forgot that he was, if you peeled away his political exterior, an eminent legal luminary in his own right.
Born in 1939 and having schooled at Royal College, Wickrema went on to secure his LLB from the University of Ceylon, leading his batch with first class honours. After being called to the bar, he took to practising law while lecturing, first at Peradeniya and then at Vidyodaya. It was while at the former that he met Rohini Dissanayake, a student at Peradeniya, who shortly thereafter became his wife. She herself was the daughter of Andrew Dissanayake and the sister of Gamini Dissanayake, at that time a fledgling opposition MP who would go on to become one of the most outstanding ministers of the Jayewardene Government and leader of the opposition, meeting his untimely death aged just 52 at the hands of the LTTE while contesting Chandrika Kumaratunga for the presidency in 1992.
Having obtained his PhD from the London School of Economics in 1972, Wickrema took up an appointment as a lecturer in banking law at Monash University, returning to Sri Lanka to engage in the overthrow of the Sirimavo Bandaranaike government in 1977. Having served a decade as a permanent secretary, he was made High Commissioner in Canberra in 1986, in which post he served until 1990, when he returned to Monash as an Associate Professor of Law, serving also as Director of the Banking Law Centre established by the National Australia Bank.
Wickrema devoted much of his time to charity, especially in support of the blind. His specialization was in the law of banking, a subject on which he was to author several scholarly textbooks, both in Sri Lanka and in Australia. In retirement he continued with lectures in this discipline, to would-be bankers, accountants and managers. The access teaching gave him to young minds was something he continued to relish right up to his death. Meanwhile he served also as Insurance Ombudsman and an active member of the University Grants Commission.
So skilful was Wickrema in delivering one electoral victory after another that many forgot that he was, if you peeled away his political exterior, an eminent legal luminary in hisown right
He was impish to the end, and chuckled as he told me only two weeks ago that he had had to wait until he was almost 80 years old to be fired from a job for the first time: as advisor to President Maithripala Sirisena, a post to which he had been appointed in early 2015. The fellow didnt even have the guts to tell me to my face, said Wickrema, waving the noxious missive at me. He just sent me a letter of termination. And this was the same person who only four years ago used to hang around here asking for tips on how to win elections.
Wickrema never knew how to relax. There was always a queue outside his study at home, which was an unholy mess, cluttered with books, papers, notes and assorted memorabilia. From there he directed operations, calling on his extensive network of contacts to help solve the problems that were brought to his desk.
People came to him because they knew he could get things done. From these duties he could be dragged away only by his three grandchildren, of whom he could never have enough. His last words were, Wheres Ayaan, his oldest grandson.
To pigeonhole Wickrema as a public servant, a diplomat, a lawyer, a philanthropist or an academic would be to miss the spirit of this astonishingly versatile man. His was an extraordinary humanity, finely blended with just the right amount of mischief to always keep one on ones toes. They dont make them like him anymore.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will appoint commission over misconduct of Speaker: Mahinda Yapa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 10:17 pm
Will appoint commission over misconduct of Speaker: Mahinda Yapa
	
A commission would be appointed to look into the alleged undemocratic actions taken by the Speaker, the Parliament General Secretary and the Sergeant-at-Arms when they are elected to office, MP Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena said today.
Addressing a news briefing, he alleged the Speaker, the Parliament General Secretary and the Sergeant-at-Arms had acted in violation of the Constitution, the Standing Orders and the Parliamentary tradition.
They should be held responsible for the commotion created in Parliament. If the Speaker had acted in line with the Standing orders and the Parliamentary tradition, recent tense situations in Parliament would have not been created, the MP said.
He said the Sergeant-at-Arms had also not acted in a responsible manner in carrying the mace into parliament on the day when the Speaker entered parliament from a side door.
The recent Parliamentary sessions were not held in a legal manner and thats why we thought of boycotting the sessions. It was apparent that Speaker Karu Jayasuriya was very much partial to the UNP and always trying to act according to the tunes of the UNP, he added. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will make necessary changes if 19A has disputed clauses: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 06:27 pm
Will make necessary changes if 19A has disputed clauses: President
	
If the 19th Amendment to the Constitution has any disputed clauses in relation of its procedures, the President would commit himself to make necessary amendments to the areas which are politically muddled, following parliamentary procedures, the President's Media Division (PMD) said today.
In a statement, the PMD said President Maithripala Sirisena would make sure these changes would ensure that the 19th Amendment's core and democratic values are preserved and it would be further strengthened.
The 19th Amendment was passed as a result of the irresistible courage and the leadership of President Sirisena in order to resolve problematic areas in Sri Lanka's democracy. The 19th Amendment paved the way for the establishment of independent commissions and to strengthen the structure of the democratic institutions. The amendment was a victory of the people who hail democracy and was also a requirement to take the country to a new era," the statement said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: BBDO Lanka wins Agency of the Year at Campaign Asia-Pacific awards
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:21 pm
BBDO Lanka wins Agency of the Year at Campaign Asia-Pacific awards
	
BBDO Lanka Senior Account Director Chanithi Gunasekera with the 'Rest of South Asia Agency of the Year - Bronze' award awarded to BBDO Lanka in Mumbai, India
BBDO Lanka bids goodbye to the year 2018 by being recognised as one of the most creative agencies in the region at the Campaign Asia-Pacific Agency of the Year 2018 awards, marking the end of another year of spectacular awards success.
BBDO Lanka was awarded the 'Rest of South Asia Creative Agency of the Year - Bronze' award by Campaign Asia-Pacific at its gala awards presentation for the South Asian region held at Taj Lands End, Mumbai, India last night (4 December).
This marks the fourth occasion that BBDO Lanka has entered the highly rigorous and eminent competition and been awarded a Rest of South Asia Creative Agency of the Year award. It took home the Gold in 2017, Silver in 2012 and Bronze in 2015.
Said BBDO Lanka Senior Account Director Chanithi Gunasekera upon picking up the award, This is our fourth win and we are all very excited to be part of a team that drives excellence in creativity and effectiveness across all the mediums and brands we work on. And of course its always great to end the year on a high that motivates us to do even better in the coming year.
Celebrating its twenty-fifth year, Campaign Asia-Pacific Agency of the Year awards celebrate the people, the work and the organisations achieving exceptional success in the highly exciting and fastest-growing media, marketing and advertising markets in the world. The awards highlight worthy leadership, creativity and innovation, outstanding business performance, development of talent and contribution to the industry.
Campaign ensures the Agency of the Year awards continue to maintain its reputation for integrity and credibility by creating stringent entry criteria, enlisting a decidedly respected judging panel comprised of prominent senior marketers from key business categories as well as Campaign editors, and independent auditing, with the results tabulated by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
This year Campaign further elevated the standards of entry criteria by introducing compulsory management endorsement, further validating the accuracy of each entry submission, and providing judges the right to raise queries regarding any information submitted. Changes were also introduced to the methodology of how business growth is stated to increase transparency further.
Said BBDO Lanka MD Santosh Menon, "Last December we celebrated being the only Sri Lankan agency to win at Tangrams Effectiveness Awards in Singapore while also winning at Effie Awards Sri Lanka and Campaign Asia-Pacific's Agency of the Year awards. This year too we are delighted to win big at Spikes Asia, Effie Awards Sri Lanka and now at the Agency of the Year awards.
It demonstrates our consistent effort at delivering highly creative work for our clients, year after year. It is always wonderful when this work is entered into international competitions and wins us recognition. It shows that we follow a high quality process that delivers globally recognised creative outputs for our clients, year after year. All credit to our team in Sri Lanka who has achieved these accolades.
BBDO Lanka began its awards haul in 2018 by winning a Silver and Finalist award at Effie Awards Sri Lanka. It then brought home the only metal for Sri Lanka at the Spikes Asia Festival of Creativity 2018 in Singapore for its corporate social responsibility campaign 'Unity Speech' for Ceylon Today in commemoration of International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to Victims of Terrorism. The powerful radio spot featured the original voices of prominent Sri Lankan leaders, both political and intellectual, who had fallen victim to terrorism, reminding people of their hopes for peace and harmony in the country, in a single speech.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Bhumi: must have sustainable products for people who care
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:05 am
Bhumi: must have sustainable products for people who care
     	 
  At the Daily Mirror, we believe that climate change is one of the greatest threats that we, as Sri Lankans, will face in the future.  Therefore, we intend to provide our readers with local and international content with the objective to educate and inspire. We would also like to learn from our valued readers about any ongoing initiatives in making Sri Lanka a more sustainable nation.   
 We aim to explore sustainable ways of living that have the most positive impact on not just our natural environment, but also for humans and animals.  
While topics such as global warming, pollution, and inequality are confronting, we believe it's time the media stopped shying away from these issues and became an active participant in finding solutions - and we hope you will join us. 
     
				 		 
	
	

You may think that one straw in your beverage isnt going to hurt right Its just one straw. But imagine if even just a quarter of the worlds population said that every single day, its just one straw. Multiple that by billions of people and over the year, thats a lot of rubbish. But its not just straws that are the bad guy here, think of all the other disposable plastic products you might use that you thought were unavoidable. That is, until now.
Enter Bhumi, an eco-friendly social enterprise that is bringing sustainable products to Sri Lanka.
Creators of Bhumi, Shilpa and her husband became inspired to start the business after visiting Cambodia earlier this year. In terms of their currency, its value is much lower than ours but every caf had metal and bamboo straws and we thought, if they can do it here, its crazy that Sri Lanka isnt doing it! Personally, we were already doing things such as composting at home but we had never thought about it in a business sense. Shilpa said in an interview with Mirror for Hope.
Dedicated to making ethical, cruelty-free, palm oil free and sustainable products more accessible to people in Sri Lanka, all their products are sourced, manufactured and shipped in a way that protects the planet to the best of their abilities. How do they do this
They dont use air freight. Instead, when shipping, they find out if any business has space left in a crate already coming to Sri Lanka and theyll share the space.
	When sourcing products, there must be full transparency and certification the for the whole products journey. We dont want to come up with an ethical product at the end that has issues in between that we dont know of. I would rather lose out on the locally made label if it means we are getting products that are high quality and really ethically made. Shilpa said.
Their huge range of reusable stainless-steel and bamboo straws are currently Bhumis biggest selling item. Boutique cafes and hotels (especially those owned by expats and millennials) were amongst some of Bhumis first customers. Mothers are also buying sets for their families, which sets a great example for the children on how to look after the environment day to day.
The reusable straws are available in a variety of colours and sizes, even metallic rainbow, now just imagine how great that will look on your foodie snaps on Instagram!
While it may seem that reusable straws are the cool new product of the moment, Bhumi has many other eco-fabulous products for your home. Heres some of the current favourites:
Shampoo bars. Replace that plastic bottle is the shower with one of these bars that works like a bar of soap. Just lather and wash.
	Silicon reusable menstrual cups. For the ladies, this genius product can last for up to 10 years. With a one-off cost, you can save thousands of rupees that you would normally spend on conventional plastic sanitary products.
	Palm oil free soaps. Also, currently in production with a local supplier, Bhumi are making a soap dish from wood offcuts that makes sure your soap stays ventilated in the bathroom. This means no more unnecessary wastage or having to scrub grimy soap gunk off your soap holder.
	Wooden toothbrushes and wooden handled cotton swabs. Although the toothbrush heads are still nylon and cant be recycled, the wooden parts can be composted when you are finished.

Even with reusable straws gaining in popularity, there is a resistance among the hospitality community to switch from plastic to reusable. The main concern seems to be the belief that the businesses wont be able to clean them fast enough (its easy, you receive a small cleaning brush with every straw). Paper straws are available in Sri Lanka and can seem like an attractive alternative, but most brands will have a coated plastic lining on the inside (the same as coffee cups) to stop it from going soggy, which means theyll also have to be thrown out.
Down south, hotels, cafes and expats are embracing sustainable options faster. Along the coast, because they are living there, on the beach, they see the environmental impact of plastic. It affects their livelihoods so they are motivated to do something about it. In Colombo people dont have to deal with the garbage and repercussions. When you live in a city, garbage just goes away. Imagine if the garbage collector didnt turn up in Colombo and you had to manage your own garbage! Shilpa said thoughtfully.
Bhumi is continuing to evolve as they discover more eco-friendly options. Gaining inspiration from their own lives, as well as family and friends, they have plenty of ideas for helping people become more self-sustainable. Head over to their Facebook or Instagram page to check our new products as they arrive, eco tips and cute animal photos  something we could all have more of in our lives!
So, what are you waiting for Be the change you want to see in the world, set an example to your friends and family and show you care about the environment, and look incredibly good doing so!
 
		
==============================
## Title: Candidates can now take their IELTS on computer with The British Council
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:50 pm
Candidates can now take their IELTS on computer with The British Council
	
Rob Low - Country Examinations Director of British Council Sri Lanka
The British Council in Sri Lanka has announced that IELTS candidatesin the country, registered through the British Council, can take the globally recognised English proficiency test on a computer.
At an event held at the British Council Colombo on Wednesday 5 December, guests and members of the press were introduced to the operations and benefits of this novel test-taking experience, one that is certain to bring greater ease and flexibility to test-takers in the country.
The computer based alternative offers more test sessions a week, allowing candidates greater flexibility in scheduling their assessment dates in comparison to the fixed calendar schedule of the paper-based format. Candidates will also be able to receive their test results sooner -in 5days as opposed to the 13-day waiting period of the alternative system.
We are consistently dedicated to improving the IELTS test-taking system and experience, said Gill Caldicott, Country Director of the British Council in Sri Lanka, commenting at the event on this new step forward. IELTS on a computer is significantly beneficial in more ways than one, offering candidates greater flexibility and convenience.
The new computer delivered format, allows candidates to take the Listening, Reading, and Writing sections of the examination on a computer, while the Speaking test will remain face-to-face. While the first three sections have to be completed on the same day, the latter can be taken upto a week either before or after the other sections have been completed. It is important to note however, that the test content, scoring, timing, and level of difficulty, will remain the same irrespective of the mode in which they are taken.
Gill Caldicott - Country Director of British Council Sri Lanka

IELTS on computer is not intended to replace the paper-based system, but will serve only to provide more options to candidates, added British Council Sri Lanka Country Examinations Director, Rob Low. Rest assured, candidates choosing this new computer delivered alternativewill be taking the same trusted English language test, with the same security arrangements as with the paper delivered option.
IELTS is one of the worlds most popular English language tests for higher education and migration, with over threemillion tests taken in the past year alone. Recognised by over 10,000 educational institutions, employers, and immigration bodies worldwide, in Sri Lanka it is more popularly taken by those who wishing to pursue migration, education, and employment options abroad.
IELTS on computer was first launched in Australia in December 2017, and has since been introduced across the IELTS network in 2018.
The British Council, as the established primary provider of English language education and resources in Sri Lanka, is currently offering testing at its Colombo premises thrice a week, with more sessions set to be scheduled -up to three times daily- over the course of the coming months.
For more information on computer-delivered IELTS visit https://takeielts.britishcouncil.org/ielts-on-computer
Rob Low - Country Examinations Director of British Council Sri Lankaand Dileepa Manawadu- Head of Business Development - UK Qualificationsof British Council Sri Lanka

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dissolution of parliament: Interim order extended
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 05:11 pm
Dissolution of parliament: Interim order extended
	
The Supreme Court today extended the interim order, which suspended the Gazette on dissolution of parliament till December 8.
Further hearing of the petitions will resume tomorrow.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Envoys confident MS will do the right thing
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 04:27 pm
Envoys confident MS will do the right thing
	
A group of diplomats who had met UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe had said that President Maithirpala Sirisena will have to do the right thing at some point of time and that they were confident of such an eventuality.
Several Ambassadors and high Commissioners of leading countries have met Mr. Wickremesinghe at Temple Trees on Wednesday evening. Mr. Wickremesinghe who had briefed them had said President Sirisena does not appear to be prepared to work in accordance with the constitution, UNP sources said.(Yohan Perera)


 
		
==============================
## Title: EU Chamber of Commerce concerned over political uncertainty in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 02:43 pm
EU Chamber of Commerce concerned over political uncertainty in SL
	
The European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka (ECCSL), the American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) and the Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Sri Lanka (AHK Sri Lanka) said yesterday they were gravely concerned about the present political uncertainty and upheaval in the country.
Issuing a statement, they said, We are of the view that the current situation will result in many adverse economic and social consequences to the country, if it remains unresolved. We would like to highlight that foreign investors and potential businesses are increasingly losing confidence in the reliability of the business environment of Sri Lanka and are reluctant to enter the Sri Lankan market due to the current instability. Most of our members who are established in Sri Lanka and whom have been surveyed are already experiencing negative impacts on their businesses
We request the relevant political authorities to ensure a stable and reliable business environment through the legal and democratically established institutions as soon as possible. It has been observed that decision making procedures and Government processes have been adversely impacted and in some cases financial damage has been caused to business. We appeal to all parties, political or otherwise, to respect the rule of law to avoid FDI outflow and to enable us to continue promotion of FDI to Sri Lanka. We remain dedicated to the cause of promoting Sri Lanka to European and American investors and to promote fair business and sustainable bilateral trade,
 
		
==============================
## Title: Former boxer H. D. R. Jayaweera dies He brought colour and glamour to boxing
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Former boxer H. D. R. Jayaweera dies He brought colour and glamour to boxing
	
I am extremely sad to note the death of H. D. R. Jayaweera, a former Carey College boxer and National Champion. His funeral was held on December 5. The late Jayaweera was the most stylish boxer that Carey College ever produced during the late 60s and early 70s.
He brought colour and glamour to the boxing arena during that period and won many best Boxer Trophies. He was famous for wearing world famous EVER LAST boxing shorts. We all remember and admired not only his shorts. He was a classic boxer who had all the punctures and produced beautiful combinations. You will not see that type of boxer at present. In 1969 the up-country vs low-country schools boxing meets were held in Kandy. I was in the up-country team. To make the team, my coach late Derrick Raymond wanted me to shift one weight up to 110 pounds and fight Jayaweera. To be honest I was reluctant as Jayaweera was senior to me and he definitely had a reputation and I thought it would be difficult for me to handle the challenge, but my coach thought otherwise.
He brought colour and glamour to the boxing arena during that period and won many best Boxer Trophies. He was famous for wearing world famous EVER LAST boxing shorts
To make things further difficult without my knowledge Raymond has altered the programme and our bout was shifted to be the last bout of the evening. By the time we entered the ring both the Colombo Schools and Kandy Schools had won 7 bouts each. It was a very close contest. Since I was a southpaw, I got the impression, that Jayaweera would find it difficult to adjust himself. I was ahead in the 3rd round and with my victory Kandy Schools won the championships.
He was our life-long friend. Whenever our team travelled to Colombo we stayed at the St. Josephs College hostel. Jayaweeras house was just opposite the road. We used to visit his home. He had a lovely collection of boxing magazines and photographs of International boxers. His elder brother H.D Kumarasiri was also a boxer. Jayaweera was a close friend of all the Sylvestrians during that period. We always admired this stylish boxing during that era. Apart from that he was a sincere friend who was willing to entertain friends. We will always think of him and we will always remember him, as a dear friend and a brilliant boxer and he will be in our thoughts forever. Good Bye dear friend.
-Nimal Lewke
 
		
==============================
## Title: Free medical camp in Katugastota
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Free medical camp in Katugastota
	
The Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies Union successfully conducted a free medical camp at Enderuthene, a remote village close to Katugastota. Nearly 300 patients benefited by this camp. More than 10 doctors and 3 pharmacists volunteered and rendered their service for this noble cause. The President of the Central Ceylon Muslim Ladies Union Zulaiha Nazeer with the guidance and untiring efforts and assistance of her active committee members, was able to make this event a great success. A large amount of medicines were donated by well wishers. (Hafiz Marikar)
 
		
==============================
## Title: HAPPY Clicks
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
HAPPY Clicks
	
	helping a brother out
	
Pix by Kushan Pathiraja
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hold General, presidential polls on same day: CaFFE
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 07:37 pm
Hold General, presidential polls on same day: CaFFE
	
The only solution to the ongoing constitutional and political crisis was to conduct a Presidential and General election simultaneously on a single day as early as possible, the Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) said.
CaFFE Executive Director Keerthi Tennakone told the media today that President Maithripala Sirisena was constitutionally empowered to declare a Presidential poll after the completion of four years in his office on January 8, 2019. If the politicians and political parties who continue to shout from roof tops demanding an election as a way out from this impasse can come to a agreement and make a request to President to dissolve Parliament with the consent of a two thirds majority in Parliament in early 2019.
If this becomes a reality we can have a new President, new government, new cabinet and a new Parliament with new hopes by next February. But to do that political parties and politicians must give a break to their political expediency, personal agendas and show maturity and statesmanship because this issue is an unprecedented political and Constitutional crisis and victims are none other than the 22 million people, the economy, our cultural and social values, Mr. Teennekone stressed.
If all politicians and political parties truly desire to protect democracy I dont see why they should oppose to this. If they cannot agree to hold a general election before four and half years, President Sirisena can declare a Presidential poll after January 8, he emphasized.(Sandun A Jayasekera)
It was a setback for the democratic tradition practiced for decades in Sri Lanka to seek the legal redress for the clash between the executive and the legislature. Truth is that this crisis was started with the expulsion of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe from the premiership and replacing him with Mahinda Rajapaksa by President Sirisena. Therefore, it is up to President Sirisena to bring this precarious situation to normalcy because he is the creator of it, he added.
Commenting on the cry to protect democracy from many quarters, Mr. Tennekone said it was peculiar and hilarious to witness that every Tom Dick and Harry shout to safeguard democracy today.
 
		
==============================
## Title: HUAWEI Mate 20Pro - Adding the edge to higher intelligence with an enduring 4200mAh battery and 40W
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:30 pm
HUAWEI Mate 20Pro - Adding the edge to higher intelligence with an enduring 4200mAh battery and 40W
	
HUAWEI, Sri Lankas number one smartphone brand recently unveiled their state-of-the art Mate 20 series including the revolutionary HUAWEI Mate 20 Pro to the Sri Lankan smartphone market. The HUAWEI Mate 20 series, powered bythe Kirin 980, worlds first 7nm AI chipset, has been reviewed across the globe as one of the most feature-laden flagship devices presented in 2018. Among Mate 20 series many novelties including the Super Charge feature, The HUAWEI Mate 20 Pro features groundbreaking improvement on battery life.
The device houses a large, high-density 4200mAh battery, in a body that is less bulky than its competition. To add to its exciting features, Both HUAWEI Mate 20 and Mate 20 Pro supports 40W HUAWEI SuperChargeTM, which gives the device70% battery in30 minutes.
Resolving the doubts as to what the state of the battery might undergo, after these exceptional speeds, The HUAWEI SuperCharge adaptor designed with multi-step safety system which is certified by Germany's TV authority.
Commenting on the technology, Country Head HUAWEI Devices Sri Lanka, Peter Liu statedFulfilling the HUAWEIs constant promise of Born Fast, Stay Fast, we are delighted to present HUAWEI Mate 20 Pro with the record breaking battery power and technology which enables convenience and ease to our users. The HUAWEIMate 20 Pro is designed to be the best mate of consumers, accompanying and empowering them to enjoy a richer, more fulfilled life with higher intelligence
Battery life, efficiency and the performance of Mate 20 Pro is equally provided with the embedded technology. The SoC at the core of smartphones has a determining factor in a devices performance and efficiency. Manufactured with the cutting-edge 7nm AI technology process, the SoC of HUAWEI Mate 20 Pro fits 6.9 billion transistors within a die the size of a fingernail. Compared to Kirin 970, the latest chipset is equipped with CPU that is 75 percent more powerful, GPU that is 46 percent more powerful and NPU that is 226 percent more powerful. Furthermore, the efficiency of the components has also been elevated: the CPU is 58 percent more efficient, GPU is 178 percent more efficient, and the NPU is 182 percent more efficient.
The Kirin 980 is the worlds first commercial SoC to use the Cortex-A76-based cores. HUAWEI has innovatively designed a three-tier architecture that consists of two ultra-large cores, two large cores and four small cores. This grants the CPU, the flexibility to allocate the optimal amount of resources to heavy, medium and light tasks for unprecedented levels of efficiency, simultaneously improving the performance of the SoC while enhancing the battery life. The Kirin 980 is also the industrys first SoC to be equipped with Dual-NPU, granting it higher On-Device AI processing capability to support any and all AI applications.
With the entrance of HUAWEI Mate 20 Series,HUAWEI is easily crowned top in the fast-charging charts. Not only does the device have a new super-fast 40W fast-charging standard, it also boasts the largest battery among the top flagship smartphones.Merging these twofeatures, the Mate 20 Pro presents itself as the smartphone of dreams, when it comes to battery performance.
The Mate 20 series devices comes with a one year warranty and will be available for consumers at all HUAWEI Experience Centres with Sri Lankas leading smartphone marketer, Singer Sri Lanka PLC ensuring the availability of the Mate 20 series devices island wide. Selected Dialog and Mobitel outlets would also market the new devices with the HUAWEI Mate 20 priced at LKR 124,999 and HUAWEI Mate 20 Pro priced at LKR 174,999. The designs are available in 6GB RAM + 128GB ROM configuration and PORSCHE DESIGN HUAWEI Mate 20 RS with 8GB RAM + 256GB ROM is priced at LKR 299,999 for customers in Sri Lanka.
In Sri Lanka, HUAWEI has succeeded in securing the number one position in smartphone sales according to recent GfK reports. In 2018, HUAWEI was ranked 48 on BrandZsTop 100 Most Valuable Global Brands, number 79 in Forbes Worlds Most Valuable Brands and number 25 on the Brand Finance Global 500 Most Valuable Brands lists. HUAWEI has also achieved the No. 68 status on Interbrands Best Global Brands list in 2018 and ranked No.72 on Fortune 500.

 
		
==============================
## Title: I was not invited to SLFP special convention: Chandrika
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 09:24 pm
I was not invited to SLFP special convention: Chandrika
	
Former President Chandrika Kumaratunga has claimed that she had not been invited for the special convention of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP), which was held at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium last Tuesday, December 4.
In a letter to SLFP General Secretary Prof. Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa, the former President had said that the Gampaha District Secretaries were informed and posters had been distributed among them.
All SLFP members have been invited except me and SLFP Kelaniya Organiser Thilak Waragoda. All of them were invited to be present on November 30 at 4.00 p.m., she said in the letter.
"I learn that MP Alagiyawanna had advised the organisers not to invite me and Kelaniya Organiser to the annual convention," she said.
Rathanasena Ketawalage, who was my adviser in my political activities, had received a poster last Friday (November 30) when he went to the SLFP Head Quarters for some other work. But no one had informed me about an SLFP annual convention until now, her letter said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Leo Burnett wins Campaign Agency of the Year South Asia accolade for 7th consecutive year
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 09:00 am
Leo Burnett wins Campaign Agency of the Year South Asia accolade for 7th consecutive year
	
Team Leo Burnett Sri Lanka celebrates its commendable victory of winning Campaign Agency of the Year South Asia awards for the seventh year in a row, every year consecutively since 2012, with a Silver for Creative Agency of the Year for 2018.
The Campaign Agency of the Year awards are held around the world and are open to all media, advertising, creative, digital, PR, independent and specialist agencies. Since the early 1990s, Campaigns Agency of the Year awards have existed to recognise inspiring leadership, management excellence, outstanding business performance, and overall achievements in advertising and brand communications.
Commenting on the win, Arosha Perera, CEO of Leo Burnett Sri Lanka said, First off, I would like to thank our valued clients and partners for their unwavering support of the agency over the years, which has strengthened our confidence in pushing the boundaries of creativity. The agency has done many things right in order to achieve the distinction of winning this prestigious award for seven years in a row. But most of all, I believe it is our close collaboration with clients and the dynamic client-agency relationships that continue to elicit winning campaigns. Our industry partnerships, leadership role, industry-best talent and willingness to adapt to change, have been key factors in our success.
Leo Burnett remains focused on developing the skill of its existing talent and infusing continuous value addition to their growth as professionals. It is one of the few Sri Lankan agencies with ready access to senior network resources.
Demonstrating its responsible approach to long-term environmental sustainability, Leo Burnett Sri Lanka, in association with Leo Burnett Toronto, created an innovative way of paying homage to Sri Lankas rich heritage of Temple Art. Partnering with JAT Holdings, the agency created natural dyes from the thousands of discarded flowers left at altars countrywide. The idea borrows from the Buddhist belief of life being impermanent and converted peoples precious offerings into something more lasting  namely Petal Paint. This range of emulsions was safe and long lasting enough to be used in the creation and restoration of temple art by specialized artists, thereby preserving the islands history and culture. Many temples  some hundreds of years old  got a new lease of life.
Making history for the country earlier this year, Leo Burnett Sri Lankas Petal Paint Campaign for JAT Holdings bagged 2 coveted metals at the celebrated Epica awards along with the distinction of winning a coveted wood pencil at the D&AD Impact awards in the Environmental Sustainability category and two 8 Balls at the Leo Burnett Worldwide Global Product Committee.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lost ring  finds love
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Lost ring  finds love
	

36 year old John Drennan one evening decided that a sidewalk on Times Square was the perfect place to propose to his girlfriend Daniella. Daniella said yes, but unfortunately had no ring to show for it. Through all the excitement, the ring slipped off Daniellas finger and bounced into the dirty old grate.
The couple soon flagged down officers in the area for help, Sgt. Lee Jones, a department spokeswoman said. A short surveillance video released by the New York Police Department even shows a flustered Drennan, with his hands thrust in desperation, trying to assess the fall.
However neither the couple nor the officers were able to retrieve the ring. Giving up, Daniella and Drennan left without filing a police report or providing their contact information. But the officers werent quite ready to give up. They returned to the scene the following morning, removed the grate and recovered the ring. Since they could not trace the couple, the department launched a social media campaign to find the owners of the ring. The department cleaned the ring and posted photos of it taped to a chair on social media, along with surveillance photos of the couple. Nearly 30,000 people retweeted the video since the release. NYPD News tweeted WANTED for dropping his fiances ring in @TimesSquareNYC! She said Yes - but he was so excited that he dropped the ring in a grate! Our NYPD Special ops officers rescued it and would like to return it to the happy couple. Help us find them.
The amusing tweet drew immediate response, with even funnier puns from the public. One amused journalist channeling Beyonc tweeted He should have put a string on it, while another said Grate proposal! Daniella was soon reunited with her engagement ring, with the help of social media. She thanked NYPD officers and social media users for sharing the story. Thought it was gone forever! Cant thank the officers enough! she said.
Source: Washington Post
 
		
==============================
## Title: MillionSpaces clocks in 1,000 spaces
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:44 pm
MillionSpaces clocks in 1,000 spaces
	
MillionSpaces, a novel platform that lets users discover and book hundreds of unique spaces online, recently listed a total of 1,000 spaces on its website, just under a year after its launch in December 2017. With 1,000 unique listings and counting, MillionSpaces is the islands first-ever online platform that enables users to book a variety of spaces that can accommodate parties, meetings, conferences, sports events, trainings, photoshoots, weddings, concerts, co-working spaces and more. With 1,000 listings on the site, MillionSpaces is now one of the largest marketplaces for event venues in Asia. Having commenced actively marketing the platform since last month, they are already clocking in 500+ bookings a month, putting MillionSpaceson a strong growth trajectory.They are well on their way to becoming one of the top booking platforms in the region.
Whether youre looking for the perfect workstation to set up an out-of-the-box business on a budget, or if youre seeking a hip and trendy rooftop location for your next cocktail party, or if youre looking for the hottest futsal venue in town  MillionSpaces will let you book it all at no extra charge. With a real-time availability function and the best price guaranteed, you can choose whatever venue that you need and book it on the spot. Ridding you of the hassle of making a multitude of phone calls and checking availability of different venues, MillionSpaces offers an element of convenience and ease to the otherwise tedious task of finding and booking the perfect space that fits your budget and requirement.
Attracting thousands of unique visitors and receiving numerous bookings from customers on a daily basis, the innovative concept of MillionSpaces has successfully disrupted and simplified the process of finding the ideal venue to match any occasion. Enabling you to book the ideal space with just three clicks on your mobile device, MillionSpaces is agreat platform for searching and booking venues for a wide variety of corporate and social events.
Disruptions driven by IT innovations are occurring at a rapid pace around the world. MillionSpaces is no exception and will enable you to find your ideal event venue in just a few clicks from your mobile device. We are excited about the regional and global growth prospects of MillionSpaces saidPrasath NanayakkaraCEO, Founder and Chairman  MillionSpaces.
MillionSpaces also allows venue owners to list their space by simply entering some basic information and photographs, without any upfront fees or payments. Easy to navigate and manage, the site enables venue owners to configure their own pricing as well as define the target audience and type of occasion that they would like to hire their space out for. Once a space is listed and running on the site, venue owners will be able to receive inquiries and manage leads from people and brands interested in hosting events in their spaces.
To find out more about MillionSpaces and either list or book your ideal venue, visit www.millionspaces.com. If you prefer to have a member of the MillionSpaces teamhelp you find the perfect venue,simply call the hotline 0117811811.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Minority parties are key players in the equation
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 6 December 2018 12:00 am
Minority parties are key players in the equation
	
TNA member M. A. Sumanthiran speaks to media outside the Sri Lankan Supreme Court in Colombo after the judiciary suspended Mahinda Rajapakses powers as prime minister and ruled that his cabinet could not function until its legitimacy was established. (Photo by LAKRUWAN WANNIARACHCHI / AFP)
We see the predominant Sinhala-Buddhist community agitate more these days because they no longer have the power to elect the country leader of their choice. Wanni Parliamentarian Shanthi Sriskandarajah making a comment recently saying that National parties must now kneel down before Tamil parties confirms this.
She had told the Daily Mirror that she was offered a sum between rupees 60-500 million to make a crossover to strengthen the Government that Sirisena and Rajapaksa had formed after October 26.
Reverse the clock back to 2009, the year when the Mahinda Rajapaksa backed security forces crushed the ruthless tiger rebels. Though constitutionally Rajapaksa was the president back then, people elevated him in their minds to the rank of king. But today, as Sriskandarajah points out Rajapaksa probably never dreamed of that the major Sinhalese political parties would have to depend so much on the Tamil minority parties if they are to assume or retain power.
The present political impasse has strengthened the resolve of the minorities. This is the opportunity for them to lay out their demands; to ensure that the days ahead for these minority communities are going to experience some sunshine.
The same must be said about the Muslim community. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress led by Rauff Hakeem and the All Ceylon Makkal Congress led by Rishad Bathiudeen have worked towards the interest of the Muslim community. Hakeem in particular has worked towards the interest of the Muslims in a dignified manner, as opposed Bathiudeen
The same must be said about the Muslim community. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress led by Rauff Hakeem and the All Ceylon Makkal Congress led by Rishad Bathiudeen have worked towards the interest of the Muslim community. Hakeem in particular has worked towards the interest of the Muslims in a dignified manner, as opposed to Bathiudeen. But there was a period during the Mahinda Rajapaksa rule when the safety of the Muslims was subject to threat. The Aluthgama incidents prove this. The Muslims have not erased this ordeal form their memories.
Severe criticism
Despite all this turmoil, the Elections Commissioner has announced that three elections-the Provincial Councils, Parliamentary and Presidential-would be held by October 30, 2020.
Tamil Progressive Party leader Mano Ganesan has affirmed that a future election should be held only under a legal Government and after the presidents order to dissolve parliament is clarified. TNA parliamentarian M.R. Sumanthiran has said that the status quo must be reverted back to that of October 26. He has also said that the alliance should not support the UNP.
In this present scenario one would be a little too optimistic to think that any minority party that opposes the Rajapaksa-Sirisena combine would automatically offer support to the UNP, led by Wikcremesinghe.
However, according to newspaper reports, the TNA has decided to support the UNP following a promise made by Wickremesinghe not to carry out any programme in the North and the East without the consent of the TNA.
Whatever negotiations that the Wickremesinghe led UNP has had with the Tamil minority parties have been met with severe criticism from the Sinhalese politicians. The vociferous Sri Lankan parliamentarians have accused the Wickremesinghe camp of creating the path for the Tamil minority parties for federal rule. One recent Facebook post summed up the Rajapaksa rhetoric beautifully. It went like this, The society is divided into two; the group that does everything to strengthen Rajapaksas resolve in politics and the other group which supports terrorist separatism.
When most things looked bleak due to the political impasse, the Appeal Court issued an interim order restraining the function of the Prime Minister, deputy, state ministers and Cabinet ministers.
Wickremesinghe has been quick to point out that now arrangements can be made to revert the status quo to that which existed on October 26. This he has said would help reinstall the Cabinet in which he was the premier.
But the TELO maintains that its not appropriate for the TNA to defeat Rajapaksa nor make Wickremesinghe the winner. They say that because they feel that the TNA failed to resolve the problems of the Tamils and that they cant trust a UNP led Government.
The vociferous Sri Lankan parliamentarians have accused the Wickremesinghe camp of creating the path for the Tamil minority parties for federal rule. One recent Facebook post summed up the Rajapaksa rhetoric beautifully
Now there is much talk about initiating moves to impeach the president. The manner which president Sirsena functioned and how he took decisions in the capacity of the head of state have come under severe criticism. However, TNA Leader R. Sampanthan has said that the alliance would not support moves to impeach the president. But he has also maintained that the TNA would not strengthen the hands of Rajapaksa, given the controversies associated with his wartime activities.
Great demand
Even if the interim order issued by the Appeal Court leads to a situation that reinstates the Cabinet that functioned before October 26, it wouldnt bring about a total solution to this impasse. Political analysts opine that the country must go for General Elections and have a stable government. In this context the minority Tamil and Muslim parties would be in great demand.
It is also important to take note that Hakeem has said that the minority parties must be consulted when making electoral reforms. We have moved into an era where the minority parties have begun to play a major role in Sri Lankan politics. The split in the Sinhalese vote base contributed much to the turmoil experienced in the country during the past three and a half years. But that storm has also given some value to the minorities. This is in the face of die-hard Sinhala voters blaming everything on the former Yahapalana regime during which the rupee devalued in scary proportions. But all what was lost has given us some hope that the judiciary would act independently and put everything in order.
Sirisena has vowed to settle the political impasse within a week. But its wise for us to keep our faith in the judiciary to sort this mess in Sri Lankan politics.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Motion for new PM postponed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 December 2018 06:37 am
Motion for new PM postponed
	
The motion calling President Maithripala Sirisena to appoint a new Prime Minister, which was to be taken up in Parliament was postponed yesterday because of legal issues and because of the opinion of the JVP, that such a motion was not a necessity.
UNP MP Mayantha Dissanayake announced during yesterdays sessions that his party had decided to postpone the motion.
MP Lakshman Kiriella said it might be taken up in the House on another day.
JVP MP Vijitha Herath, who referred to the motion later during the sessions, said it was brought by the UNP following a request made by President Maithripala Sirisena.
He said the first paragraph of the No Confidence Motion, which was presented and passed in the House on November 14, 2018, has been deleted in the motion, which was to be taken up yesterday.
The NCM which was presented and passed on November 14, 2018, stated that President had violated the Constitution. Therefore he requested the UNP to bring in a new motion deleting the paragraph, which said the President violated the Constitution.
President did this to create a loophole for him to get away in the event of an impeachment motion brought against him, Mr Herath said.
Now we can confront with the President and see its outcome, he added while highlighting that President was entangled in a web. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================