## Title: ACPBA wants to run buses on kerosene
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 04:45 pm
ACPBA wants to run buses on kerosene
	
The All Ceylon Private Bus Association (ACPBA) said yesterday they would request the government to use kerosene as fuel for buses instead of diesel.
ACPBA Secretary Anjana Priyanjith told Daily Mirror that about 30 per cent of private buses in the country were now using kerosene.
Using kerosene as a fuel for buses has now become a trend among private bus operators. Bus engines have been designed to use diesel, but the diesel engine mechanism could also modified to be operated with kerosene, he said.
We fill the tank with kerosene and add two litres of DS-40 oil into it. Kerosene can be used efficiently after adjusting the pressure of the diesel pump and results in the owner's income being increased by about 50 per cent. This method does not need any increase to the bus fare," Mr. Priyanjith said.
A litre of Lanka auto diesel is sold at Rs.95, while a litre of Lanka kerosene is sold at Rs.44.
However, the Inter Provincial Private Bus Association (IPPBA) President Sarath Vijitha Kumara denied this claim.
Bus engines are not designed to use kerosene and it is not safe, and these unscrupulous methods are resorted to by bankrupt bus owners, he said.
Mr. Kumara said Mr. Priyanjith should discuss these changes with other bus owners organisations before making such statements.
Lanka Private Bus Owners' Association (LPBOA) Chairman Gemunu Wijeratne said using kerosene in buses was illegal as it was sold in Sri Lanka to low income families.
Kerosene can be used with higher profits in view but when it causes mechanical faults, repairs will be costly, he said. Even engines would have to be replaced if this method is used and is dangerous as it is more inflammable than diesel with very high emissions. Insurance cannot be claimed. We should switch the bus service to an eco-friendly system and it is time to convert to electric buses.
Recently, the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CEYPETCO) banned the distribution of Lanka Kerosene Oil (Red) to vehicles, factories and other wholesale outlets after discovering that many dealers have been distributing Lanka Kerosene instead of Industrial Kerosene.
Lanka Kerosene is red in colour while industrial kerosene is colourless. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Court says Mahendran has till Mar. 8 to report to CID
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 08:15 am
Court says Mahendran has till Mar. 8 to report to CID
	
Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne yesterday observed that the issuance of a special Court order on Central Bank's former governor Arjuna Lakshman Mahendran was not required because he has till March 8 to report to the CID.
She said such move would be considered if he fails to report to the CID at least by that date.
Deputy Solicitor General Haripriya Jayasundara prosecuting, informed Court that the order issued on Mr. Mahendran was not carried out because the Singapore courier service was unable to locate him at his current address in that country.
He said however, the courier service had thereafter dialled Mr. Mahendran's mobile phone number and the person answering the phone identified himself as Lakshman said he was returning to Singapore on March 30.
The DSG sought a court order to permitting the CID to record more statements from Arjun Aloysius and Kasun Palisena because they had reported sick on the previous occasion.
He also requested Court to direct Perpetual Treasuries Ltd (PTL) to send a company representative to Court as it was liable for the offences committed under the Registered Stocks and Securities Ordinance and that under Section 261 of the Criminal Procedure Code the company should be represented during the inquiry.
President's Counsel Kalinga Indatissa who appeared for the defense undertook to have a company representative in Court at the next hearing.
Meanwhile Counsel Jeewantha Jayathilake appearing for Mr. Aloysius informed Court that his client was suffering from a bad skin condition and a urine infection and as such request Court to direct the prison authorities to produce Mr. Aloysius before a prison doctor or a suitable medical officer.
He said because of media pressure the prison authorities appear reluctant to allow his client medical attention.
However, the Magistrate said under a Judicial Services Commission circular, the Court could not issue such orders with reference to a suspect's medical condition and directed the prison authorities to consider Mr. Aloysius' request and produce him before a suitable medical officer.
She also permitted the CID to record further statements from the suspects who were in remand custody and re-remanded them till March 15. (Shehan Chamika Silva)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Japanese instructors here to teach ultimate life saving techniques
## Section: News Features
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:00 am
Japanese instructors here to teach ultimate life saving techniques
	

Sri Lanka Life Saving (SLLS) will host a Modern Water Survival and Floating Training campaign with the collaboration of the Japan Society of Water Rescue & Survival Research (UITEMATE). The programme is expected to benefit instructors currently attached to SLLS. Its main objective is to update, refresh and educate lifeguards on modern lifesaving methods and also share practical methods of water survival and floating in line with international life saving and water safety standards.

The first batch for the instructor course for 120 SLLS active instructors will be on March 4 from 9am-4pm at Mt Lavinia Beach

The training will be conducted by eight Japanese trainers sanctioned by the Nagaoka University of Technology. The first batch for the instructor course for 120 SLLS active instructors will be on March 4 from 9am-4pm at Mt Lavinia Beach. The second is scheduled for March 5 from 9am-11.30am and is a special programme for schoolchildren. This session will be held at the Sri Lanka Police Swimming Pool with support from the Sri Lanka Police Life Saving Team. The last, also a special programme for schoolchildren, is scheduled for March 6 from 2pm-6pm
at Bentota.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lalith Weeratunga's travel ban lifted
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:15 pm
Lalith Weeratunga's travel ban lifted
	
A Court of Appeal Bench comprising Justices P.Padman Surasena (President/CA and Shiran Gooneratne yesterday allowed former presidential secretary Lalith Weeratunga to travel overseas between March 20 and April 30.
This order was made pursuant to the submission by the Senior State Counsel that the Attorney General had no objection to Mr. Weeratunga's overseas travel ban being lifted.
The Court directed the Court of Appeal Registrar to convey the order to the Colombo High Court Judge so that he could release Mr. Weeratunga's passport.
In the revision application he had sought the Court of Appeal to set aside the Colombo High Court decision to reject his request to go abroad. Mr. Weeratunga and another officer of the TRC were found guilty of misappropriating Rs.600 million belonging to TRC to distribut
sil redi in support of former president Mahinda Rajapaksa's presidential election campaign.
Mr. Weeratunga had sought Colombo High Court permission to travel to Doha, Qatar and Australia in between the said dates.
High Court Judge Gihan Kulatunga rejected the application observing that there was no legal basis to consider it on the basis that he had been convicted of an offence. (S.S.Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Many picked up courage from this brilliant motivator
## Section: News Features
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:00 am
Many picked up courage from this brilliant motivator
	
Deshamanya Sivagamie Verina Dassanaike (Obeyesekere) entered Ladies College when Miss. G.F. Opie was Principal. She joined first as a boarder in Gaster House. Dassanaike, fondly known as Siva, was nurtured by Ladies College. The Matrons  Miss. Wilkie and Georgina Ponniah- made the Hostel a second home for their young charges. Siva enjoyed the boarding life. 
In 1940 Siva came first in the Standard 5 Government Examinations and Miss. Opie gifted her with a small gem of a dictionary and requested her to take great care of it.
Siva was born a leader. Whether it was in the school hall, helping with Kala Ulela plays, forging ahead with Loos House activities or winning the Westrop Shield at netball, Siva knew how to get the best out of a team. She was so focused on success that she always searched for excellence and found it.
Those who were at Uplands (The name given to the school when it was relocated in Kandy during the war) will remember how she made the netball team practise even in moonlight!

With the training we Ladies College girls received through the Annual CMS sales and the cooperation Siva was able to muster, she was able to collect funds for so many projects

The disciplined way of life in the Hostel helped Siva in later life. The Saturday morning mending hour taught the boarders to sew, darn and fix buttons  all which inspired her in later years to set up Sewing Classes in Attanagalla and Mirigama. These classes were set up for unemployed, educated girls to do the most exquisite embroidered articles under the Attanagalla label. Likewise, the Home Beautiful Week programmes taught boarders that nothing was menial  and they put heart and soul into the cleaning of kitchens, toilets and drains. These skills Siva later put to use when visiting hospitals as Minister of Health. 
Siva loved sports and she was Games Captain at Uplands for three years and in Colombo for three years. She won both netball and tennis colours. Together with the staff she took on the responsibility of organizing all sports activities including the annual Sports Meet until the arrival of Miss. Wyness from Australia, who took over as Games Mistress. One of the most vivid memories of our school days was the winning of the Westrop Shield  which was won by Ladies College two years in a row. We still remember Siva shooting those winning goals.
Her scholarship endeavours were cut short on the eve of her University Entrance exam when she married hi-flyer  J.P. Obeyesekere (Jr.). This wedding, which took place in 1948 in the Chapel of the Hope of the World, was an unforgettable event. The Chapel and garden overflowed with staff and schoolgirls. 
Tradition has always meant a lot to Siva, and through the PTA, OGA, the Board of Governors and the Standing Committee of the Church, she helped the school survive the winds of change. 
From the first little hostellers Oriental Night in 1946 (in aid of a Christmas Treat for the Deaf and Blind schoolchildren who were housed in a shed near Gaster House), when they made a collection of Rs. 16375, later through Festivals, dinner dances, Fairs, Talentasias, etc., Siva organized innumerable fundraisers. She collected funds for the school through the OGA, PTA and on her own, for school buildings, Scholarships, the Sports Complex and for the setting-up of the Vocational Training Institute. The collections from these activities were huge. With the training we Ladies College girls received through the Annual CMS sales and the cooperation Siva was able to muster, she was able to collect funds for so many projects. Siva became a high-achiever  not for herself, but for the school and the wider world around. Her concern for the underprivileged and financially deprived was very real. She, and her sister Srimani, will never forget the kindness shown to them by Miss. G.F. Opie and Miss. Stella Parker when they were kids in Gaster House. From 1981, through her contact with a womens organization in Stockholm  Fredrika Vremer Forbundet  Siva had obtained assistance for needy students following courses at the D.V.S. An annual grant is sent and Rs. 2.5 million has been received to date, which has helped nearly 4,000 students to secure education and gain employment. Here is an object lesson for those who follow these guidelines; aim high, work systematically and keep focused on a goal. 
She helped St. Thomas College and St. Thomas Prep too, and in appreciation of the millions she collected on their behalf, Rev. Cyril Abeynaike had her picture hung in the Hall of Fame among other eminent Thomians. 
On Prize Day 1984 Sirancee Gunawardana, Principal, presented Siva with a Gold Brooch bearing the College Crest  the only past pupil to receive such a prestigious award to date. 
In 1974, the International Year for Women, Siva was appointed Chair of the National Committee for Women  which proposed the establishment of a Womens Bureau. This led to the establishment of a Ministry for Womens Affairs. 
The other role in which Siva plays a major part is in the revival of crafts in Sri Lanka. At the bottom of the scale were the neglected craftspeople whose skills were dying out for lack of governmental support and national recognition. In 1964 Laksala was born, which institute is Siva Obeyesekeres brain-child. Her Guru in India was Kamaladevi Chattoadhaya whose guidance was followed in reviving the handicrafts and handloom industries of Sri Lanka.  Sivas work in the political arena cannot overshadow her work in the voluntary organizations.
Sivas interests cover a range of activities; the Scout movement, the Bible Society, Schools for the Deaf and Blind, the mentally disabled, Cancer Institutes and even the Kennel Association of Sri Lanka are among those that have benefited from her organizing and fundraising capabilities. Today she devotes much time in running with much joy a Home for the Aged and an Orphanage in rural Wathupitiwela. 
Being the first woman Deshamanya is a singular honour to Siva and to Ladies College.
Her association with the school family remained unbroken through a long line of Principals.
Going back in time, I asked Siva if she had any special memories and her reply was, Yes, winning a Courtesy Badge (a little red bow on a pin) along with Anoja Amarasinghe and some others in 1941.
Siva has proved that educational qualifications are not the important criterion, but rather sincerity of purpose, commitment, dedication and sacrifice are what brings fulfillment. 
Ranjini de Mel.
 
		
==============================
## Title: New luxury train between Kandy and Ella from today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 02:30 pm
New luxury train between Kandy and Ella from today
	
The Railways Department yesterday announced the operation of a luxury train between Ella and Kandy Railway Stations from today.
Railways Deputy Commercial Superintendent N.J. Indipola said it would operate on Saturdays and Sundays.
The train compartments have been fully air conditioned and will leave Kandy at 7.40 a.m. and will arrive in Ella at 1.28 p.m. The same train will depart from Ella at 2.45 p.m. and arrive in Kandy at 8.05 p.m, he said and added that the operation of trains Nos: 1033 and 1034 between Kandy and Colombo Fort on Saturdays and Sundays would be cancelled.
The tickets could be reserved via mobile broadband operators and from Kandy and Ella railway, he said.
Price of a Kandy-Ella ticket price will be Rs.1,250 and Kandy-Nanu Oya will be Rs.1,000. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Office of Missing Persons Provides Audacity Of Hope to Sri Lanka
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:02 am
Office of Missing Persons Provides Audacity Of Hope to Sri Lanka
	

By D.B.S.Jeyaraj
Let me begin on a very personal note. The first major emotional upheaval I underwent as a result of losing a very loved one, was when I lost my maternal grandfather in December 1968. I was 14 years old at that time. I was inordinately fond of him and he of me, his eldest grandchild.
My grandfather had been ailing for some time and his impending demise was expected. Both his children, their spouses and all his grandchildren were around his bed when my grandfather breathed his last.
We were living in Kollupitiya at that time and my grandfather passed away peacefully at our residence. The doctor came and certified his death there.
The undertakers took the body away, embalmed it and brought it back in a coffin for people to pay their respects. The funeral service was at our home. The burial was at Kanatte. A memorial service was held two months later in a Methodist Church in Colombo. A memorial monument was duly erected at Kanatte.
Why I relate all these details is to emphasise that I was witness to each and every aspect of my grandfathers final farewell to this world - from his deathbed to tombstone. I knew fully well that my grandfather had died and that he was not among the living yet I refused to accept that he was dead. Being quite young and having been so fond of him I could not cope with his loss. We were living at the bottom of the lane (Aloe Avenue) by the seaside then.

All such illusions were shattered when war came to Sri Lanka. War is nothing but nasty, brutal destruction. There is nothing laudable in it except perhaps the individual bravery of those courting death for what they thought was ajust cause.

I was learning Tennysons break, break, break in my GCE (OL) English Literature class. The poem written by Tennyson over the loss of his friend Arthur Hallam resonated very much with me then. I would sit on the rocks along the Colpetty beach just as Tennyson did at the foot of thy crags Osea and think of my Appa as I called my grandfather. (I called my father Papa & grandfather Appa).The lines But O for the touch of a vanishd hand, And the sound of a voice that is still! would strike responsive melancholy chords in my heart.
Still, the loss was too much to bear then. I just could not accept the fact that my grandfather was dead and gone. I started imagining that he was really alive and that he never died. Whenever I saw an elderly male who bore a resemblance to my grandfather, I would go up to him and stare intently at the point of embarrassment. Sometimes while travelling alone by bus, I would see someone who looked like him on the pavement, get down at the next halt and run back only to be disappointed. Far worse was the thought that like Jesus Christ, my grandfather too had risen from the dead. I would go to Borella, look at his grave and then wander around Kanatte hoping to catch a glimpse of him.

Burden Of Sorrowful Affection
Finally, I was liberated from this burden of sorrowful affection. Due to certain reasons, my family relocated from Colombo to Jaffna in December 1969 just one year after my grandfathers death. While my parents and siblings lived at Chavakachcheri, I was boarded at Jaffna College, Vaddukkoddai. The change of environment and the different experience of living in the North as opposed to that of living in Colombo brought about a change in me. I stopped imagining that my grandfather was alive and began adjusting to life after his death. With the passage of time the sorrow and grief lessened but never ever went away. And then, of course, there were other losses and deaths. (I lost my parents, sister and close relatives and friends over the years).
Then there was the escalation of the ethnic conflict and its consequences. I began losing track of the people whom I knew who died or disappeared or went missing or were injured or got displaced as a result of the ethnic conflict.
Why I recount my experience of almost half a century ago is to show how the loss of a loved one could have a traumatic effect on people. In my case, I had seen the death, funeral, burial and memorial service of my grandfather and even knew the grave in which he lay. There was full closure.
Yet I could not for many long months accept his death or come to terms with the fact that he was no more. This experience makes me ultra-sensitive to the agony and pain suffered by those who have undergone loss without proper closure particularly those who do not know what has happened to their loved ones.

Still, the loss was too much to bear then. I just could not accept the fact that my grandfather was dead and gone. I started imagining that he was really alive and that he never died

When a loved one disappears or is made to disappear and you have no news at all about the missing person how does one cope with that loss How can memory be consoled when there is no knowledge of what had happened to a loved one How can a troubled heart be pacified by the mind if no one knows the fate of what befell a loved one
For many decades I have been writing on politics of Sri Lanka. The islands politics has for long been overshadowed and even overwhelmed by an armed conflict. War has its own consequences and its distinct fall-out. Very often the original causes of war are forgotten and even replaced by new problems and grievances. When I was young and read about the war in newspapers and saw battle scenes on screen, I had a romanticised outlook on war. I regarded war as a noble adventure and fighting as heroic.
All such illusions were shattered when war came to Sri Lanka. War is nothing but nasty, brutal destruction. There is nothing laudable in it except perhaps the individual bravery of those courting death for what they thought was a just cause.
The war in Sri Lanka was a dirty war. It was not fought by soldiers carrying the UN Human Rights Charter in one hand and love in their hearts as former President Mahinda Rajapaksa once stated. The Tigers and other militant fighters were no saints either.
An inevitable consequence of the war was the phenomenon known as Enforced Disappearances. A very large number of people in Sri Lanka disappeared or were made to disappear or went missing as a result of the conflict regarded at one time as South Asias longest war.
The well-known Human Rights Organization, Human Rights Watch(HRW) observed thus in a statement: Tens of thousands of people were forcibly disappeared in Sri Lanka since the 1980s, including during the last months of the war between the government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 2009...... The UN Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances ranks Sri Lanka as the country with the second highest number of disappearances in the history of its tenure.
Most of those reported disappeared during the three-decade long conflict between government forces and the LTTE were ethnic Tamils. A short-lived but violent insurgency with a majority Sinhala militant group in the countrys South in the late 1980s also led to many enforced disappearances and other abuses by both sides. Various Commissions of Inquiry established by successive Sri Lankan Governments in response to pressure from victims groups and others have produced reports that have largely remained unpublished and have not resulted in criminal prosecutions of those responsible.

For people whose loved ones pass away tragically in an accident or are killed through violence the struggle to cope is more painful. The worst, however, is for those whose loved ones are made to disappear or have gone missing.

Enforced Disappearances Phenomenon
The HRW statement focuses on enforced disappearances during the war and its aftermath and also highlights the fact that most victims were Tamils. But disappearances did not occur only during the ethnic conflict and neither was the enforced disappearances phenomenon a Tamil monopoly.
People of all ethnicities were victimised but the bulk of war victims were certainly Tamils. A large number of Sinhala youths were made to disappear when the State ruthlessly suppressed the bloody insurgencies led by the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) in 1971 and 1988/89.
As a journalist writing about politics and war in Sri Lanka, I had to write about missing persons too. There were some disappearances like those of Fr. Thiruchelvam Nihal Jim Brown the Allaippiddy Parish Priest and Eastern University Vice-Chancellor Prof.S. Raveendranath about which I wrote extensively.
There were other disappearances about which I did not write in very great detail. Time, media space and scanty information being the reasons. Very few Sri Lankan journalists wrote about disappearances and irked the powers that be then. There were many disappearances about which nothing was written. They have become part of official and unofficial statistics.
Yet every single case of a missing person has a heart-rending story behind it. A missing person may be treated by officialdom as a mere statistic but he or she has a family and many loved ones who yearn for some reliable information about what has happened to him or her.
The disappearance of loved ones is not something restricted to one community or one ethnicity alone. It is correct that the Tamil people have suffered more than other ethnicities proportionately. Yet, the Sinhala people to have suffered immensely during the JVP insurgency of 1988-89. The State ruthlessly suppressed the JVP revolt then. Thousands were killed and thousands simply disappeared.
Many years ago before Chandrika Kumaratunga came to power, Dr Manoranee Saravanamuttu the mother of Richard de Zoysa was in Canada for an event organized by the University of Toronto.
Apart from meeting her at seminars and dinners, I also had a one to one conversation with Aunty Manoranee for about ten hours at the universitys Massey College where she was staying. During that very long conversation, she told me so many harrowing tales about the deaths and disappearances in the south during 1988-90.
She told me that the bulk of the victims were from socio-culturally underprivileged caste groups and that there was no strong voice raised, on their behalf. She told me about the activities of the Mothers Front and how the common experience of loss, deprivation, suffering and sorrow brought the Tamil speaking and Sinhala speaking mothers, daughters, wives and sisters together and how the state resented it. I have never and will never forget that conversation.
As I mentioned earlier I had found it very difficult to cope with the death of my grandfather who died peacefully of natural causes. I could not accept it for long although there was full closure.
For people whose loved ones pass away tragically in an accident or are killed through violence the struggle to cope is more painful. The worst, however, is for those whose loved ones are made to disappear or have gone missing.
For them, the lack of knowledge and uncertainty is sheer agony. There is no closure after death for them because they are not sure whether their loved ones are among the dead or the living. All that they need or want is some official pronouncement of what had really happened. Reason tells them that persons gone missing for so long cannot be among the living but their hearts full of love for the lost loved ones refuse to accept the loss as permanent. The heart has reasons which reason itself may not understand. Humans are not systems of intellect alone. They are bundles of emotion too. They mourn and they yearn. They grieve and they hope.

Audacity Of Hope Sustains Loved Ones
It is this audacity of hope (To borrow from Barack Obama) that sustains these loved ones of the missing persons to pursue with their quest of seeking the truth about their loved ones. It is this audacity of hope which compels someone like Sandya Priyangani Ekneligoda to prolong her search for the truth about what really happened to her husband Prageeth, the well-known cartoonist and journalist.
It is this audacious hope, which makes the mothers, spouses, sisters and daughters of the disappeared in the North and East to persist with their search for the truth about their loved ones. They demonstrate with placards, go on protest fasts, walk-in processions, sign numerous petitions and above all observe regular religious rites seeking the truth about their loved ones. In the process, they are very often exploited by crafty politicians, misguided priests, mercenary NGO operatives, so-called civil society activists and publicity seekers.
Regardless, they go on motivated only by their love and devotion to their loved ones.
I once asked an old mother why she continued in her quest to find out about her son who went missing over a decade ago. She answered me thus in Tamil Money (son) Nee Kaanaamap Ponaa, undai Komma (Mother) unnai ippadi Theda Maattavey (If you go missing wont your mother search for you like this).
She went on to say Avanukku Enna Nadanthathendu Theriyealleiye.Unmai theriya Vaenum Avan irukkiraanaa illaiyaaendu. Illaiyendu thelivaaichchonnal enakku kavalai endaalum nimmathi  (I dont know what has happened to him. I must know the truth about him, whether he is alive or dead If I am told clearly that he is no more then I will be sad but would be at peace). And then she said wistfully Aetho enakkoru nambikkai. Avan Engeyo Irukkiraan. Avanaik Kandupidichidalaam Endu( Somehow, I have a belief that he is there somewhere. I feel he can be found). This then is the audacity of hope.
Alexander Pope wrote Hope springs eternal in the human breast. Cicero stated, Dum Spiri Spero(While I breathe, I hope).
As a journalist, it has been my duty to interact with a cross-section of people from all walks of life. This has resulted in my keeping in touch with those in power and authority as well as being accessible to the powerless, ordinary people. It goes with the territory. The challenge is to know the truth through interacting with the common people and then speak that truth to power. There are many, many sad moments for journalists who feel and empathise. As a safety mechanism, you construct a cocoon around yourself because if you are what is termed as a bleeding heart liberal you may very well bleed to death.

There are mothers and sisters of soldiers who still shed tears urging us to at least find a bone fragment of their sons and brothers who went missing during the years of conflict if they are to come to terms with what they have been told  that these soldiers are no more

For me, some of the most poignant moments in my journalistic vocation have been when those dear and near to the missing persons seek my aid to help seek information about their loved ones. They approach me directly or someone approaches me on their behalf and seeks my help to find out about their missing loved ones. It is very painful and emotionally debilitating to reply that I wont be able to help because I am helpless in this. There is no one to ask or seek answers from in this regard. I have tried several times in the past to find out about people taken away without a trace or made to disappear but always came up against a stonewall of silence from those in power. As journalists we are supposed to seek the truth but what does one do in situations like this What is the definite reply one can give to these families about their missing loved ones More importantly what is the response of the State or those in power to these questions

Minister Mangala Samaraweera
Mangala Samaraweera in his previous avatar as Minister of Foreign Affairs aptly described the predicament of the people in this situation and the dilemma faced by those in authority in a statement tabled in Parliament on August 11, 2016.
Mangala in his statement said -
As you know, there is no corner of this blessed and beloved country of ours, that has not been drenched by the tears of mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers and children who have wept and continue to weep, not knowing where their loved ones are, or what happened to them. They only know that they are missing. They dont know whether they are dead or alive.
Tears and pain have no ethnicity, no religion, no race, no caste: All their tears are the same. The grief they feel, their anguish, their pain is personal, but the same. Their suffering cannot be explained in words. Every day, there are people in this country who go to sleep at night, praying that their loved ones will return. There are mothers who are paralyzed with grief; they are lost in time; unable to continue with their day-to-day lives, worrying whether their sons, wherever they may be, have enough food to eat, or whether they are being treated alright; wondering how much they may have grown, or how much they may have changed since they last saw them. These people are torn between hope and despair, and are unable to live meaningful lives.

The war in Sri Lanka was a dirty war. It was not fought by soldiers carrying the UN Human Rights Charter in one hand and love in their hearts as former President Mahinda Rajapaksa once stated. The Tigers and other militant fighters were no saints either.


When one sees a dead body, no matter how unbearable the pain of loss may be, there is closure, because there is a knowledge that ones loved one is no more. But how can one find closure, and how can one be expected to find closure when there is no knowledge of what has happened to someone
There is probably no district, and certainly no province in this country which has been untouched by the phenomena of someone going missing  either in the 1970s, the 80s, the 90s, or later. In my electorate in Matara, there are mothers who still go from astrologer to astrologer trying to find out what happened to their children who went missing in the 80s and 90s, and some even as far back as the 70s. They still live in hope.
There are mothers and sisters of soldiers who still shed tears urging us to at least find a bone fragment of their sons and brothers who went missing during the years of conflict if they are to come to terms with what they have been told  that these soldiers are no more. Without that, they say they cannot come to terms with the fact that their loved ones are no more. They have only heard, they say, that a camp was overrun but received no further details. They have received no evidence that their loved ones are dead. So they wait and they wait forever, without carrying out the last rites; without giving alms to confer merit on the departed. Is this what the families of our soldiers deserve
As a responsible State, can we continue to ignore their tears and their pleas Can we just say to them that we dont know what happened to their loved ones, and ask them to accept that they are dead Can we expect them to take whatever few thousand rupees that is given to them as compensation and lead normal lives
Can we, as a responsible State, just tell them that all the people who are missing  and this includes soldiers, policemen, and other security forces personnel  have all probably gone overseas and are now leading new lives under new identities, and so, they are best forgotten Can we, as a responsible State, say that no country in Asia or no country in NATO has established an Office to ascertain the fate of those who have gone missing and that therefore, we should also not make any attempt to find out what happened to the Missing in our country, to provide answers to families or loved ones


Those Who Went Missing Are Our Citizens
These are our citizens: those who went missing are our citizens; those who grieve are also our citizens. Dont we, as a responsible State, have a duty to try to alleviate their agony Try to at least help them find an answer; or try to help them find closure
If this is not the compassion that Gautama Buddha has taught us, then, what is It certainly cannot be the symbolic chanting of Gathas, or offering of flowers, or building new statues and temples. We have to be able to reach out to our fellow citizens who are suffering; who have been suffering for years and years, and alleviate their pain.
If the loved ones they seek are no more, we have to be able to help them find the truth. We have to help them to come to terms with the truth. We must assist them in their process of healing. We must help them to continue with their lives in a meaningful way, and be productive citizens of our country. How can we say that we are guardians of the noble teachings of the Buddha if we dont practise his Teachings Can we, as the compassionate nation we claim to be, shut out the grief of a large number of our mothers, our fathers, our brothers, our sisters, and our children, and be deaf and blind to their pain, their wailing, their silent agony, their psychological trauma and their tears
For some, this emotive and heart-wrenching issue is a mere numbers game. They try to justify the numbers by saying such and such a number is overseas and accuse countries for not sharing information. This is not the way to approach this issue. It is not a matter of numbers. It is a matter of individuals. It is a matter of human beings. It is a matter concerning our citizens, and it is a matter of creating mechanisms that are credible which enable people to share information, even entities in countries in which some who are reported as missing may be leading new lives under new identities. I am sure there is duplication and errors in the various records maintained by various different entities. With the setting up of this Office, by an Act of Parliament, we will finally have a credible mechanism that will be in a position to centralize data at national level, integrating all information with regard to missing persons currently being maintained by different agencies, as recommended by the LLRC, way back in 2011.
The regime change in Sri Lanka on January 8, 2015, saw a glimmer of light emerge at the end of the dark tunnel. The newly installed Sirisena - Wickremesinghe Govt. adopted a series of progressive measures. Among these was the attempt to institutionally tackle the missing persons issue.
On August 11, 2016, the Island nations Parliament passed legislation to set up an Office of Missing Persons (OMP) in the country. The then Foreign Affairs Minister Mangala Samaraweera hailed the passage of the OMP bill as historic. Addressing a news briefing soon after the Bill had been ratified, he said the new law would give relief to the loved ones of thousands from the North and South of the country whohad disappeared.
This is the first step towards rectifying the mistakes during the past 68 years, said the Minister who had a long history of championing the cause of persons made to go missing through enforced disappearances.

Four Main Functions Of OMP
In a public statement issued earlier in August, the Foreign Minister explained basic details about the envisaged Office of Missing Persons Bill. In that statement he said: The Bill outlines four main functions for the OMP -- (i) Searching and tracing of missing persons; (ii) Clarifying the circumstances in which such persons went missing and their fate; (iii) Making recommendations to relevant authorities to reduce such incidents of missing and disappeared persons and (iv) Identifying proper avenues of redress. As such, it is not a law-enforcement or judicial agency but a truth-seeking investigative agency.
Mangala Samaraweera went on to say: The Office on Missing Persons is a truth-seeking investigative agency. It does not make judgements on disputes. In fact, the legislation states that the findings of the OMP shall not give rise to any criminal or civil liability. Its primary function is to establish whether a missing person is dead or alive and, if he or she is dead, discover when, how and where they died.
Despite the aura of hope and optimism exuded by ex-Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera progress on the OMP front was very slow. The process was extremely slow but then this has been the tragedy of this blessed island since independence - Whatever that is bad is done very quickly while whatever that is good is done at a painstakingly slow pace. So the OMP process moved forward not by leaps and bounds but in fits and starts. Though the legislation was passed in August 2016 to set up the office of missing persons, it began assuming operational form only a year later.
President Maithripala Sirisena signed the gazette notification operationalising the OMP in September 2017. The Acting Secretary General of the Constitutional Council called for applications to appoint members to the OMP in October 2017. Applications were called from persons with previous experience in; fact-finding or investigation, human rights law, international humanitarian law, humanitarian response, or possessing other qualifications relevant to the carrying out the functions of the OMP.
There were over 300 applications and the selections were made through an open and competitive process conducted by the Constitutional Council. After intensive perusal and much deliberation, the Constitutional Council which includes political leaders with diverse viewpoints such as Ranil Wickremesinghe (UNP), Rajavarothayam Sampanthan (ITAK), John Seneviratne (SLFP), Champika Ranawaka (JHU) and Vijitha Herath (JVP) arrived at the unanimous decision.

UN Human Rights Council Sessions
Meanwhile, Mangala Samaraweera in his new avatar as Finance minister allocated 1.3 Billion rupees towards the office of missing persons in the 2018 budget presented in November 2017. The names of the OMP nominees were submitted to the President by December 2017.If the President did not approve or wanted changes he was required to send the nominee list back to the Constitutional Council(CC) within two weeks. Since he did not do so, it was obvious that the President was in agreement with the CC.
However, presumably because of the local Govt. poll on February 10, 2018, President Sirisena made no forward movement on the matter and virtually sat on the list. Finally, President Sirisena moved and on the last day of February formally appointed the chairman and other council members of the Office of Missing Persons (OMP) with effect from March 1st, 2018. Again, it may not be entirely a coincidence that the UN Human Rights Council sessions begin in Geneva during March.
The Chairman of the OMP is the reputed Human Rights and Constitutional Lawyer, Presidents Counsel Saliya Peiris.
The other members are academic- lawyer and well-known human rights activist - Dr Sriyani Nimalka Fernando, Retd Major - General Mohanti Antoinette Peiris, Womens Rights activist and lawyer - Ms Jayatheepa Punniyamoorthy, Lawyer cum Researcher -Mirak Rahim, Lawyer cum researcher T. Somasiri Liyanage and Human Rights worker Kanapathipillai Venthan.
They will serve initially for a term of three years. The OMP work will be coordinated by the Secretariat for Coordinating Reconciliation Mechanisms (DCRM) headed by Mano Tittawella of which former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga is in overall charge as head of the Office of National Unity and Reconciliation.
A certain amount of gender and ethnic balance has been achieved in the composition of the OMP body. Sufficient attention has also been given to real life experience as opposed to academic qualifications alone.
Ms Jayatheepa Punniyamoorthy is someone whose husband went missing while they were living in Mullaitheevu. She is now in Batticaloa and actively involved with an organization called Women in Need focusing on womens issues.
Lawyer Somasiri Liyanage is someone who worked comprehensively in compiling the report on the prison riots.
Mirak Raheem has been associated for many years with the Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA) as a researcher on human rights, reconciliation and minority rights issues.
Kanapathipillai Venthan is a human rights activist who has rendered yeoman service to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in helping to trace missing persons.
Nimalka Fernandos track record as a human rights activist is impeccable. She has courageously withstood charges of traitorous acts and death threats by regularly going to Geneva for the UNHRC sessions.
The inclusion of Maj-Gen (retd) Mohanti Peiris in the OMP is very interesting and most welcome.An old girl of Uduvil girls high school in Jaffna, Mohanti passed out as a lawyer and joined the Armys Legal Affairs Division and went right up the promotional ladder to end up and retire as Major - General. 
Mohanti herself hails from a family of distinguished lawyers in Jaffna. Her father Selvaratnam, as well as his brothers Thambiratnam and Sabaratnam, were a well-known trio of lawyer brothers.She is married to Brigadier (retd) Basil Peiris.
Given the current context where the armed forces are being blamed for many cases of disappearances and missing on the one hand while families of defence personnel reported missing in action blame the military top brass with disbelief on the other, Maj-Gen Mohanti Peiris will face an uphill task in discharging her duties in the OMP. Those who know her well opine that she will complete hermission successfully.
Transitional Justice Mechanisms
According to the Presidential Media Unit, the OMPs main mission will be to determine the status of all missing persons in Sri Lanka and will be the first pillar of the transitional justice mechanism through which the government hopes to bring about reconciliation and lasting peace. The OMP is the first pillar of Sri Lankas four transitional justice mechanisms under design and implementation. The others are Office to handle reparations, a truth and reconciliation commission and a judicial mechanism to address allegations of wartime abuses. The Presidential Media Unit also said that the OMP would be an independent body reporting to Parliament and was expected to bring a degree of closure to surviving family members of Sri Lankas internal conflicts. It would also set the stage for sustainable reparations for victims and their families.
So the long-awaited Office on Missing Persons (OMP) has become operational at last. It is too early to speculate on how the Office of Missing Persons would function in the future and how it would tackle the prickly issue of missing persons and disappearances. There are also perplexing doubts about the future when Mahinda Rajapaksa and his political minions orchestrate a pseudo-patriotic backlash against the OMP.
How will the Sirisena -Wickremesinghe Govt. that is united by name and divided in practice respond Will the predictably unpredictable President brandish his sword against those opposing the OMP or will he twirl his kaduwa inwards to cause self-inflicted injuries Will the functions of the OMP be restrained and be used merely as a showcase to appease international opinion
These are all valid questions and no answers can be forthcoming at this point in time. Nevertheless, the setting up of an office of missing persons is by itself an accomplishment. More importantly, it signifies that the Sri Lankan nation has shed its customary denial mode and realistically acknowledged the existence of the missing persons problem. May the setting up of the Office on Missing Persons symbolically determine that no Sri Lankan will ever go missing again and that no Sri Lankan family will languish in the future about their missing loved ones.

Magic of This Moment
For a nation long denied positive gains on the human rights front the setting up of the OMP and commencing operations is a significant milepost. These events are like silver linings in dark clouds. We need such happenings to feel good and to retain our sanity. This then is our day and let us seize that day. Whatever the future may be, this is our magical moment. Let us then capture the magic of this moment.
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: One killed as Kabul bomb explodes near Australian convoy: Embassy
## Section: International
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:07 am
One killed as Kabul bomb explodes near Australian convoy: Embassy
	

KABUL AFP March2, 2018-A car bomb detonated near a passing Australian embassy convoy in eastern Kabul Friday, an embassy statement said, killing at least one child and wounding several people just days after Afghanistan unveiled plans for Taliban peace talks. 
Extensive damage to the facades of nearby houses could be seen with debris scattered on pavements as witnesses reported a
strong explosion. 
Security forces rushed to the scene as passers-by helped move the wounded, with witnesses complaining to AFP that ambulances took around half an hour to arrive. 
The Australian embassy said on its website that the blast was near Australian Embassy vehicles while they were travelling in Kabul, adding that all staff were safe and extending its condolences to the victims of the attack. A security source confirmed the embassys account to AFP. 
No group has claimed the attack, which is the latest to hit Kabul.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Only segregated garbage at Kerawalapitiya: Champika
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 06:10 am
Only segregated garbage at Kerawalapitiya: Champika
	
Dumping unsegregated garbage at Kerawalapitiya garbage dumping site has been banned from February 28, Megapolis and Western Development Minister Champika Ranawaka said yesterday.
Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation (SLLRDC) had conveyed this decision to all local government bodies.
The minister said though the SLLRDC Chairman had conveyed this decision the relevant authorities in writing, some LG bodies are continuing to dump unsegregated garbage at Kerawalapitiya.
He said the entire administration of the Kerawalapitiya garbage dump had been handed over to SLLRDC from February 28 and under no circumstances would unsegregated garbage be accepted as of this date.
However, the minister said they would accept any amount of segregated and degradable garbage at this site.
He said President Maithripala Sirisena and the Cabinet had been informed of this decision. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Planetarium now open to public on Sundays
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 10:35 am
Planetarium now open to public on Sundays
	
The Ministry of Science, Technology and Research announced yesterday that the planetarium would be kept open on Sundays starting from tomorrow (4) in a move to popularize the subject of astronomy among the public and schoolchildren in particular.
The Ministrys Media Secretary Mahesh Samarasekara in a statement said the decision to extend the opening hours of this popular attraction could be considered as the initial step to popularize astronomyand increase its interest among the public.
Accordingly, he said a special public lecture on astronomy and the planetarium show would be held tomorrow at 10.00 am, where the lecture would be conducted by Prof. Chandana Jayaratne. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez inaugurates programme to renovate 2400 irrigation tanks
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 3 March 2018 04:33 am
Prez inaugurates programme to renovate 2400 irrigation tanks
	
The programme to renovate 2400 irrigation tanks commenced yesterday (2) under the patronage of President Maithripala Sirisena with the intention of resurrecting the ancient irrigation development in the country to emerge as a self-sufficient nation. Picx by Presdints Media
 
		
==============================
## Title: Provincial Councils delimitation report to Parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 02:04 pm
Provincial Councils delimitation report to Parliament
	
The Local Government and Provincial Councils Ministry has sent a copy of the provincial councils delimitation report to the Secretary General of Parliament.
Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Musthapha in a letter addressed to the Secretary General of Parliament through Leader of the House had said he had sent one copy of the report to the Parliament.
However he said in his letter that he would not be able to send 50 hard copies in all three languages and 350 soft copies as per section 3A (11) of Provincial Council Election Act No 2 of 1988 as the ministry was yet to receive the specified number of copies. He had assured that the rest of the copies would be sent as soon as they were ready.  (Yohan Perera)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Remembering a philanthropist on his birth anniversary
## Section: News Features
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:00 am
Remembering a philanthropist on his birth anniversary
	
Today is 3rd of March and memories of the late Sir Charles Henry linger on. His contributions to society came in the fields of heath, education and agriculture. We will pay homage to him at his statue at De Soysa Circus. We will be joined by past and present pupils of Prince and Princess of Wales Colleges, Moratuwa, the Principals and staff of the two schools and others from the hospitals, he built. 
Reading through the De Soysa Saga, a historical perspective of the family history, I found that my father, the late Prof. C.C. de Silva, Charles Henrys grandson, had written the foreword. He first describes Charles Henrys father, the late Jeronis as the Kohinoor diamond of his parents,whose example led Charles Henry to his achievements and success, and made him share what he had with the under privileged. Jeronis had begun life with a capital of Rs 800, but died a millionaire. He too had been most generous to the poor and needy and no-one who asked for his help was sent away empty handed. Charles Henry, was one of the first pupils at S. Thomas College, when it was started in Mutwal in 1851. Bishop Chapman who was the founder of S.Thomas (STC) was a great admirer of Jeronis and when the latter died, the Bishop spoke on the text Know ye not that a Prince has fallen this day in Israel. The first property Jeronis purchased was Hanguranketa Estate. After the auction, several English planters and businessmen offered to buy it from Jeronis at double the price. His answer was I did not buy this land to make you foreigners rich, but for me and my family to prosper, to enable us to help those who needed help. Charles was in his early twenties when his father died. The crown of Charles benefactions to the nation in the field of health was his donation of the land and the building for The De Soysa Hospital for women, which has helped millions of mothers for well over the last two centuries. That was a time when not many mothers went to hospitals for delivery. This donation displays his amazing foresight as a visionary far beyond his time. His other benefaction of paramount importance was the vast acreage for the erection of buildings, playing fields for Prince and Princess Colleges in Moratuwa. He wanted the people of his hometown to be inferior to none other in education. The alumni of these two colleges have adorned the corridors of power, in the Church, State and and University faculties, besides many learned professions.

It has been said that for every rupee, Charles gave the state he gave a hundred rupees in private unknown gifts to poor relatives, employees,the sick, the blind, the elderly in need, the mentally handicapped and to the socially underprivileged to provide dowries for their daughters, to churches, to temples of all creeds

It has been said that for every rupee, Charles gave the state he gave a hundred rupees in private unknown gifts to poor relatives, employees,the sick, the blind, the elderly in need, the mentally handicapped and to the socially underprivileged to provide dowries for their daughters, to churches, to temples of all creeds. Although a Christian, he was generous to all religions and saw far beyond the narrow peripheries that divide all faiths. 
Only a few are remembered, wept for, sung and honoured in memory for 100 years or more after their deaths. Its good to realize that we remain a cultured nation in which the name Charles Henry de Soysa is still honoured and cherished as one of the greatest philanthropists in this country.
I conclude with the same quotation my father used to describe his renowned ancestor, whose life reads like an incredibly fascinating fairy tale. They were these immortal words from Hamlet. What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how expert and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension how like a God! 
Ilica Malkanthi Karunaratne
 
		
==============================
## Title: The former planter was a man for all seasons
## Section: News Features
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:00 am
The former planter was a man for all seasons
	
It is one year since the friend and mentor of so many, Leslie Dharmaratne, departed this earth on that fateful day - 3rd March 2017.

Leslie after an illustrious career at his Alma Mater  Kingswood College Kandy joined that exclusive agency George Steuart & Company Limited and soon made his mark as a planter. After a spell in Uva, Leslie moved over to the Dimbula District where he spent the rest of his days as a planter. 
Leslies ability as a planter was recognized by the late Upali Wijewardena when he was handpicked to be the Superintendent of Derryclare Estate, Kotagala from where he moved on promotion as Manager to Drayton Estate, Kotagala. When he was on Drayton, estates were nationalized and Leslies employer thus became the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB). 
Soon after nationalization Wijewardena was able to succeed in litigation whereby all estates which were owned by him were re-vested with him. This resulted in Leslie being requested by Wijewardena to take over some estates on his behalf. The JEDB was not in favour of this request which resulted in it initiating disciplinary action against Leslie. The Government of the day also enacted legislation nullifying the ruling of court that Wijewardena should be handed back the estates previously owned by him, which left Leslie in a spot. 
Wijewardena immediately stepped in and employed Leslie, providing him with more that he was entitled to and received as a planter. Shortly thereafter Wijewardena launched Upali Newspapers Ltd and appointed Leslie as its founder Managing Director. 
As a Newspaper Baron, Leslie immediately became a VIP, but his simplicity never left him. Though there are many instances to justify my contention, one instance
stands out. The year was 1992 and Leslie was at the height of his power. I was then in-charge of some estates in Pundaluoya and was driving back there from Colombo when I noticed my Chairman, Stanley Unamboowe and G. C. Wickremesinghe, who was Chairman of Aitken Spence, on the road with their vehicle stopped due to a puncture in the tyre. I immediately stopped my vehicle and while assisting them, a BMW and a white Pajero, which were serving as back-up vehicles, whizzed past.
The BMW and the Pajero having passed us, and obviously having seen us, stopped, reversed up to where we were and lo and behold who alights from the BMW  none other than dear Leslie. He had seen me standing on the road and assumed that my vehicle had given trouble. Though Leslie learned that the problem was nothing, but a flat tyre, he however stayed behind till the tyre was replaced chatting amiably with Unaboowe, Wickremesinghe and myself.
After his tenure at the Upali Group ceased, Leslie ventured into the field of education and was the founder of the British School in Colombo.
Leslie and I were Freemasons and we both derived immense pleasure and joy in participating in the activities of Freemasonry.
Leslies generosity and his steadfast belief to help those in distress knew no limits.
Leslie was also instrumental in getting employment for over 450 persons as well getting over 50 children enrolled at reputed schools, all of which he was able to do with the influence he wielded. He also being a great believer in benevolence to the needy and supported many people in making their lives easier and more comfortable.
He was a very popular personality who enjoyed socializing and was a member of many clubs in Colombo  the Capri Club and the Colombo Swimming Club being his favourites.
Leslie was also elected as the President of the Association of Ex Planters  Sri Lanka in 2000 and he steered the affairs of the Association with his inherent efficiency for two years thereafter. He also the distinction of being invited to be Chairman  Pro Tem at the 53rd Annual General Meeting of the Ceylon Planters Society in 1989. In his address the message he conveyed to all planters was all of you who have chosen planting as a profession will accept that, this is the time for all in our profession to stand up and be counted, to set about a rehabilitation of the industry and its restoration to its past glory. Words of Wisdom indeed! 
When the post of Secretary of The Mascots (an Association of Ex Planters of the Maskeliya & Upcot Districts) fell vacant, the unanimous choice was Leslie. He was elected at the Annual General Meeting on 25th February 2017 and was brimming with ideas on future activities for the association. Sadly, this did not turn out to be a reality as he was cruelly taken away from us just 6 days later. 
Leslie also served as the Basnayake Nilame of the Kotte Raja Maha Viharaya, a post he held with much distinction and acceptance. 
No words on Leslie would be complete without mentioning his beloved wife Dhakshini and their two sons, Shanker and Dulan who were all a tower of strength to him through good times and bad. They were a complete family, complete in every way! Leslies greatest joy in his latter years was spending time with Dhakshini, Shanker, Dulan, his daughters-in-law Chandi and Sonela and his beloved grandchildren Anitra, Shayah and Aiden Leslie, enjoying every minute of their company. 
May his soul rest in eternal peace! 
Devaka Wickramasuriya
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trump threatens tariffs and reciprocal taxes on trade partners
## Section: International
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:07 am
Trump threatens tariffs and reciprocal taxes on trade partners
	

President Donald Trump said Friday he plans to impose reciprocal taxes on imports to reduce the US trade deficit -- a move sure to ratchet up tensions with Washingtons trading partners. 
When a country Taxes our products coming in at, say, 50%, and we Tax the same product coming into our country at ZERO, not fair or smart, Trump said on Twitter. 
We will soon be starting RECIPROCAL TAXES so that we will charge the same thing as they charge us. $800 Billion Trade Deficit-have no choice! The comments come one day after Trump announced he will impose steep tariffs on steel and aluminum next week, which already had prompted angry reaction at home and abroad -- and threats of retaliation. 
But taking the more drastic step of imposing reciprocal import tariffs on all goods and countries would eviscerate the rules-based global trading system. 
In a tweet earlier Friday, Trump said trade wars are good, and easy to win. Economists say such steps hurt American workers and industry including the important auto and defence sectors -- key planks in Trumps political base. 
Rising import prices also would stoke inflation and crimp economic growth. 
When former president George W. Bush imposed 30 percent tariffs on steel in 2002, one study estimates it cost 200,000 American jobs. Those tariffs were rescinded 18 months later when the US lost a dispute before the World Trade Organization. 
WASHINGTON AFP March2, 2018
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two SL Navy ships leave to attend MILAN-2018
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 07:33 pm
Two SL Navy ships leave to attend MILAN-2018
	
Two Sri Lanka Navy Ships, Samudura and Suranimila, left for India on Friday from the Port of Trincomalee to attend a congregation of littoral navies known as MILAN which is being conducted by Indian Navy.
The two ships set sail from the home port having performed formalities in accordance with naval traditions.
The Government Information Department said a host of senior naval officers including Deputy Area Commander Eastern Naval Area, Commodore Merril Sudarshana was also present on this occasion.
Deputy Area Commander extended best wishes to the Commanding Officers and crew members of the two ships on tour. The touring ships are scheduled to arrive at Visakhapatnam port, India on March 6.
The ships crew is comprised of 284 naval personnel including 27 officers and six Midshipmen.
MILAN 2018 is being held at Port Blair from March 6 to 13. With the underlying theme of 'Friendship across the Seas', MILAN 2018 will witness a diverse mix of professional exercises and seminars, social events and sporting fixtures.
The interactions during MILAN encompass sharing of views and ideas on maritime good - order and enhancing regional cooperation for combating unlawful activities at sea.
The two SLN ships are expected to return home on completion of tour events on March 14.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US accuses Putin of breaching Cold War-era treaties
## Section: International
## Date: 3 March 2018 12:06 am
US accuses Putin of breaching Cold War-era treaties
	

THE HINDU, 02nd MARCH, 2018- The U.S. on Friday accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of breaching Cold War-era treaties by developing a new generation of invincible weapons and said American military was fully prepared to defend the country.
President Putin has confirmed what the U.S. government has known for a long time but that Russia has denied prior to this, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said.
She said Russia has been developing destabilising weapons systems for over a decade in direct violations of its treaty obligations.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Ven Daranagama Kusaladhamma Thera passes away
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 March 2018 08:24 am
Ven Daranagama Kusaladhamma Thera passes away
	
Chief incumbent of Sri Sambodhi Viharaya, Colombo and founder of The Buddhist TV channel Venerable Daranagama Kusaladhamma Thera passed away at the age of 54.
Educated at Royal College, Colombo, the Most Ven. Thera, read for a Masters Degree at the University of Kelaniya in Sri Lanka; and proceeded to be of Dhamma Service, as the Chief Incumbent of the Vajirarama Dhamma School in Bambalapitiya. The Most Ven. Thera, received Dhamma instruction and guidance, to be of service to the Buddha Sasana and to be of service to the Nation, from the Most Ven. Mahanayake Thera of the Amarapura sector in Sri Lanka, Aggamaha Panditha Ven. Madihe Pannaseeha Nayake thera; an erudite prelate at the time.
Ven. Daranagama Kusaladhamma Nayake Thera assumed responsibilities, as the Chief Incumbent of the Sri Sambodhi Viharaya, Colombo, from the Most Ven. Piyadassi Nayake Thera, an erudite prelate at the time.
The Thera also the Chief Incumbent Sri Sambodhi Community Development Foundation in London. The funeral arrangements will be notified later.
 
		
==============================