## Title: Big gap between productivity levels of public, private sectors: Prez
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 11:45 am
Big gap between productivity levels of public, private sectors: Prez
	
President Maithripala Sirisena said that there was a definite gap in the levels of efficiency and productivity when one compares the public and private sectors and added if 15,50,000 public servants committed them selves to improve their productivity at least by 50% from the current 30%, it will not be a difficult task to meet Sri Lankas development goals in the future.
Addressing a ceremony yesterday (12) at Ape Gama in Battaramulla to mark the presentation of appointment letters to Regional Forest Officers and Productivity Awards of the Mahaweli Development and Environment Department, President Sirisena recalled a disappointing experience he had endured when he participated in the finale of the National Schools Games at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium in Colombo recently.
There was the march-past by the participating schools and in my mind the performance of the public schools on show was not satisfactory. The lack of training and discipline were visible among the public schools. But there was a band and troupe of 'school girls' that stood tall among all the bands. They marched like a military platoon and seemed well trained,
I asked Education Minister Akila which school that band represented and he replied that it was from Musaeus College, Colombo. Then right after Musaeus there was another band from a public school that went by whose performance was hopeless. I again asked Akila the name of the school the band was representing and he named the school and looked up dejectedly. I requested Akila to call the Principal of that school and ask him why he brought a band that performed badly at this function attended by the President, Sirisena said. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Can Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa Re-unite Politically
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:03 am
Can Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa Re-unite Politically
	

MS trying to mend fences with the Rajapaksa brothers in a bid to topple Ranil
Prez says Ranil working hard to undermine him despite adherence to basic principles of a coalition government

By
D.B.S. Jeyaraj
Ranil Wickremesinghe is Green!
Mahinda Rajapaksa is Blue!
President Maithripala Sirisena,
Which political colour are you
Former British Prime Minister and renowned statesman Sir Winston Churchill in a memorable radio speech over the BBC in 1939 referred to Russia in this way - It (Russia) is a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma. Keen observers of the current political scene in Sri Lanka may very well be excused if they veer around to the viewpoint that the islands current Executive President too fits Churchills description of being a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma.

ENIGMATIC MYSTERIOUS RIDDLE
The main reason for President Sirisena being perceived as an enigmatic mysterious riddle is due to the UNP redictable and somewhat unorthodox political conduct of the Polonnaruwa Potentate. It was only last week that this column described this peculiar political tendency in these words - The perplexing political conduct of Sri Lankan President Pallewatte Gamaralalage Maithripala Yapa Sirisena has in recent times defied many norms and values of conventional politics. The turns, twists and turnarounds of the President are unfathomable to many. So uncertain have Maithripalas political moves and manoeuvres been that the only certainty about Sirisena is his uncertainty. Many are his topsy-turvy inconsistencies. He has been consistent in his inconsistency.
Although the above stated words were written in a different context pertaining to President Sirisenas performance (or non-performance) at the United Nations General Assembly in New York, the words in essence are applicable to many other acts of omission and commission by him in diverse situations too. The latest being the initiative undertaken to mend fences with the Rajapaksa brothers in a bid to topple Ranil Wickremesinghe.
Last week on October 3, Maithripala Sirisena enacted an intriguing political drama that left political observers and onlookers baffled and perplexed. President Sirisena went alone to former Cabinet Minister S.B. Dissanayakes residence at Battaramulla where he met former President Mahinda Rajapaksa along with his brothers Basil and Gotabaya for a political tetea-tete. The discussion was about the prospects of Sirisena realigning politically with the Rajapaksas, removing of Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and the setting up of a new coalition government under a new premier. The conclave did not arrive at any definite conclusions but did end on an optimistic note for now.

JOURNEY TO MEDAMULANA
A meeting between the former and current Presidents was not a rarity. There have been many occasions in the past where both Mahinda and Maithripala have interacted with each other in public. On August 25 this year, President Sirisena journeyed to Medamulana in the Hambantota District to pay his respects at the funeral of the late ChandraTudor Rajapaksa. Maithripala Sirisena was received by the Rajapaksa brothers Chamal, Mahinda and Gotabaya. Basil, then in the USA, was not present. Sirisena engaged in an amiable conversation with Mahinda. An amusing incident occurred when an aide brought a cup of coffee and tried to give it to Mahinda instead of giving it first to the guest, Maithripala, as according to traditions of hospitality. An embarrassed Mahinda berated the helper and apologised to Maithri who smiled and said Thats alright. It transpired later that the aide had been instructed by the kitchen staff to serve the coffee to the Janadhipathithuma or President. Since Mahinda is fondly referred to by his supporters as President still, the aide too mistakenly thought the coffee was for Mahinda and not Maithripala.
Even two days before the dinner at the Dissanayake residence, Maithripala and Mahinda had met in Colombo at a wedding. President Sirisena signed as witness for the groom Dilrukshan Jayasinghe and ex-President Rajapaksa signed on behalf of the bride Reshani Dangalla. The groom incidentally was the son of Anuradhapura District UNP MP and Women and Child Affairs Minister Chandrani Bandara. Both Mahinda and Maithripala were seen engaging in a cordial conversation at the event where several ministers and MPs were present.

FACE-TO-FACE MEETING
A face-to-face meeting between Mahinda and Maithripala with the objective of ironing out differences and forging an alliance had been in the pipeline for quite a long time. It was President Sirisena rather than Mahinda Rajapaksa who seemed more interested in unifying the various elements of the UPFA, SLFP, joint opposition and SLPP together. Efforts in this direction by Maithripala Sirisenas confidantes intensified after the February 2018 local authority elections where the Mahinda-led SLPP scored a triumphant victory while the Maithri-led SLFP fared miserably. Overtures on behalf of Maithripala were initially made by the influential Buddhist monk Ven. Medagoda Abhayatissa Thera. Subsequently, the mantle fell upon veteran politician and national list MP Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Sumanaweera Banda Dissanayake known as S.B.
Dissanayake. After strenuous attempts, SB succeeded in bringing about a preliminary meeting at his Battaramulla residence on October 3, 2018.
Although overtures for a unity meeting with Maithripala were being made for a long time, Mahinda had been somewhat reluctant to move on the matter firmly -- a chief reason for this being the differences of opinion among Rajapaksa family members. Indeed, the main reason for relations between Mahinda and Maithripala souring had a Rajapaksa family dimension to it.

It was President Sirisena rather than Mahinda Rajapaksa who seemed more interested in unifying the various elements of the UPFA, SLFP, joint opposition and SLPP together

Maithripala Sirisena despite his affinity towards Chandrika Kumaratunga strongly backed Mahinda Rajapaksa for the Prime Ministerial post in 2004 and as Presidential candidate in 2005. In doing so, he incurred the displeasure of Chandrika. Sirisena who served as the General-Secretary of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) was a trusted deputy of Mahinda who made him Acting Defence Minister whenever the President had to leave the country. It may be recalled that President Sirisena recently in New Yorkmade reference to the fact that it was he who was in charge as the Acting Defence Minister during the final two weeks of war with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in May 2009.

ACTING DEFENCE MINISTER
During his stints as Acting Defence Minister, Maithripala Sirisena built up a healthy working relationship with the then Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa. The rapport established then exists even today despite the prevailing political differences. On the other hand, Maithris interpersonal relationship with another Rajapaksa sibling Basil has had its stresses and strains. This began from the time both Basil and Maithripala worked together as office bearers in the All-Island SLFP Youth Organisation. Basil was the General-Secretary and Maithripala the Treasurer. Later when Basil crossed over to the UNP at the time of the 1982 Presidential elections, Maithripala succeeded him as General-Secretary. Sirisenas relationship with elder brother Chamal has been somewhat steady being neither too close nor too far apart.
After the 2010 Presidential and Parliamentary polls, Maithripala Sirisena had hoped to become Prime Minister under President Mahinda Rajapaksa. Basil however staked his claim and it appeared that Mahinda was inclined to prefer Basil over Maithripala. It is believed that Maithripala appealed to Gota who put in a good word for Maithri and objected strongly to Basil being made premier. Mahinda was in a dilemma. Finally, he resolved it by choosing the veteran Kandydistrict MP D.M. Jayaratne as Prime Minister instead of both Basil and Maithripala. Sirisena however smarted from the slight and apparently nursed a grudge silently against Mahinda and Basil. Biding his time with quiet desperation, Sirisena waited for a suitable opportunity. It came years later in November 2014 when he was picked as the prospective common opposition candidate. Sirisena partook of an egg hopper dinner with Mahinda Rajapaksa and crossed over the following day. He challenged Mahinda at the hustings on January 8, 2015and emerged victorious. The rest is now history!
So when overtures were sent on behalf of Maithripala for rapprochement and possible political realignment, the Rajapaksas had mixed feelings. It is learnt that Mahinda played his cards close to his chest and solicited the views of family members without revealing his line of thought on the matter. Elder brother Chamal was somewhat indifferent. He did not object to some sort of reconciliation but was averse to any form of a tie-up with Maithripala. Eldest son Namal who had earlier collaborated with Maithripala in the ill-fated exercise to defeat Prime Minister Wickremesinghe through a No-Confidence motion was supportive of a working relationship with Maithripala. According to some sources, Shiranthi Rajapaksa too was amenable to the suggestion. Gotabaya who had continued to maintain a line of communication with Maithripala welcomed a tactical alliance with Sirisena. It was opined that the President could be a useful ally in dealing with the various investigations and legal action being mounted against the Rajapaksas. Basil however was unwilling.

SRI LANKA PODUJANA PERAMUNA
There was little love lost between Basil and Maithri even when they were together in the same political camp. Basils antipathy towards Maithripala had exacerbated after the latters crossover which the former viewed as a treacherous betrayal. Basils political stock however had risen considerably after the local authority polls victory. The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) with the Lotus bud symbol was Basils brainchild and baby. G.L. Peiris was the de jure chairman but the de facto leader was Mahinda Rajapaksa. Likewise Sagara Kariyawasam, the son of former Bentara-Elpitiya MP and Deputy Minister Albert Kariyawasam was the Secretary but the de facto controller of the SLPP was Basil Rajapaksa. Basil the shrewd political tactician was the mastermind and architect of the Pohottuwa party victory at the local polls. Basil had turned the newly-formed party into an election-winning juggernaut. This had enhanced his political clout and importance in recent times.

There was little love lost between Basil and Maithri even when they were together in the same political camp. Basils antipathy towards Maithripala had exacerbated after the latters crossover which the former viewed as a treacherous betrayal

Hence, it was of utmost importance that Mahinda had the concurrence of Basil in whatever major political endeavour he proposed to engage in. Both Basil and Gotabaya had left for the USA for three-month stays in July. They were due to return in October this year but Gota cut short his stay and returned in August due to the demise of brother Tudor. Basil however stayed in the USas he was under medical treatment then. Although Basil was scheduled to return only in October, Mahinda got Basil down to Lanka in late September. This was for the ostensible purpose of revamping the party in anticipation of an early poll. One move being contemplated is for Mahinda Rajapaksa to take over the SLPP leadership formally. Another purpose was to explain the ramifications of a potential understanding with President Sirisena and to explore resultant political avenues. Basil after discussions consented to preliminary meetings with Maithripala Sirisena but was adamant that there should be no political alliance with the President. It is presumed that while Basil and most of the SLPP stalwarts were opposed to any form of political union with Sirisena and the SLFP faction headed by him, many followers and fellow travellers of Gotabaya were of the view that a tactical alliance with Maithripala should be formed. Chamal agreed with Basil but Namal was supportive of Gotas stance.

WASANTHA ANDDILAN PERERA
It was against this backdrop that the meeting between the Rajapaksas and Maithripala took place at Battaramulla. Mahinda and Basil were the first to arrive at the Dissanayake residence. They were welcomed by SB and two other Parliamentarians. One was Matale district MP Wasantha Lakshman Perera and the other was national list MP Dilan Perera. President Sirisena arrived next. Gotabaya was the last to arrive. When talks among the Rajapaksas and Sirisena commenced, the two Pereras retired to another room and did not participate in the discussions. SB too left the Rajapaksas alone and spent time with Dilan and Wasantha Perera. However he kept popping in at times to see whether his distinguished guests needed any further refreshments.

Basil after discussions consented to preliminary meetings with Maithripala Sirisena but was adamant that there should be no political alliance with the President
Although SB had procured sumptuous food from a catering establishment, neither Sirisena nor the Rajapaksas sat together at the table and had dinner. It is reliably learnt that egg hoppers was not on the menu. Maithripala, Mahinda, Gotabaya and Basil sat in the main drawing room and conversed while munching short-eats. Again, it is authoritatively learnt that cashew nuts were not made available for crunching. When SB asked his guests whether they would like coffee, there was laughter all round as it revived memories of Maithris last supper with Mahinda in November 2014. Basil said lets drink green tea. It was accepted and so green tea was served. The discussion among the Rajapaksas and Sirisena went on for a little longer than an hour. Gota was the first to leave. He was followed a little later by Sirisena. Mahinda and Basil chatted for abut 15 minutes with SB, Dilan and Wasantha and left. Both brothers went to Mahindas residence and had further discussions. Wasantha and Dilan Perera left after having dinner with S.B. Dissanayake.

LITANY OF WOESAGAINST RANIL
Since the meeting had been convened in deference to Maithripalas request, the President initiated the serious discussion after pleasantries were exchanged politely. President Sirisena started the ball rolling by reciting a litany of woes against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and a few of his ministers including Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera. Seemingly forgetting the fact that it was Ranil Wickremesinghe and the UNP which ensured his win in the electoral tussle with Mahinda Rajapaksa in 2015, Maithripala Sirisena faulted Ranil and the UNP ministers for everything going wrong with the government. In typical Maithripala lingo, the President said Ranil was working hard to undermine him despite his (Sirisenas) adherence to the basic principles of a coalition government. Though he was the head of State and head of government, the non-SLFP ministers paid little heed to him complained Sirisena. Mangala Samaraweera had flagrantly flouted many of his requests and instructions. He said the bureaucracy was not cooperating with him.

Speaking further, President Sirisena said the country was being mortgaged to international capitalists and imperialists. The problems of the common man in Lanka were not being addressed by the economic policies of Ranil, Mangala and Malik. Instead of providing relief to the ordinary people, they were being hard-pressed. The rupee was sinking while the cost of living was rising. Something had to be done urgently to salvage the country and save the nation. President Sirisena said he was unable to exert his authority and remedy the situation because he did not command a majority within government ranks. It was time for all political strands with SLFP roots to sink differences and join forces in the interests of the people and country stated Sirisena. Even while making this entreaty, President Sirisena carefully avoided mentioning two things explicitly. He did not call for an overthrow of Ranil Wickremesinghe. He did not espouse the need for a united interim government with Mahinda or his nominee as premier. However, Sirisena did appeal in a vague manner for cooperation.
Mahinda Rajapaksa responded to Maithripala by relating his own list of complaints against Ranil and the coalition government conveniently glossing over the fact that Maithripala was the head of government. Mahinda pointed out that there was practically no governance in the country and that everything was going from bad to worse. He outlined a number of investigations and cases being conducted against members of the Rajapaksa family. Mahinda said this was being done so as to prevent the Rajapaksas from spearheading a popular political renaissance against the government. However, the people saw through all these antics. If elections were held, the people would show what they thought of the government through ballot boxes, reiterated Mahinda.

MAHINDA PRE-EMPTED MAITHRIPALA
Speaking further, Mahinda Rajapaksa broached the subject of cooperation. Anticipating what Sirisena may have proposed next, the Medamulana Machiavelli, pre-empted Maithripala by touching on the topic of cooperation himself. Mahinda said several SLFPers in the government had lamented about the government performance and had suggested a closing of ranks between both factions of the UPFA and SLFP to counter the UNP and Ranil. This however was not possible at this juncture, said Mahinda. We cannot support or cooperate with the SLFP led by you (Sirisena) as long as the party is part of a UNP-led government stressed Mahinda Rajapaksa. He also said a decision of this type could not be taken without consulting the party.
Taking his cue from Mahindas reference to consulting the party, Basil Rajapaksa chipped in. The dynamo behind the Pohottuwa told Maithripala Sirisena that the SLPP had demonstrated that it was more popular among the people than the UNP or the SLFP through the recent local authority elections. Such a victory was possible only because of party members and support from the people at large. As such, any major decision cannot be taken without consulting the rank and file of the party. Speaking further, Basil said he believed in defeating or transforming the government through the verdict of the people only. He preferred to defeat Ranil and the UNP electorally instead of relying on a political horse deal in Parliament to replace them. Basil also emphasised to Maithripala that they had agreed to meet with the President as a matter of courtesy only because they respected him and not because they wanted to engage in a political conspiracy.

MAHINDA FLINGS DOWN GAUNTLET
Continuing from where Basil left off, Mahinda told Maithripala that no decision could be made by them without consulting party members and key supporters. The ex-President told President Sirisena bluntly that his (Mahindas) loyalists needed to be assured of Maithripalas serious intentions in this regard before plunging into any action of their own. Elaborating further, Mahinda said Sirisena and the SLFP led by him must demonstrate genuinely that they were opposed to Ranil and the UNP before enlisting the support of the SLPP and joint opposition. It was not possible to align with the SLFP as long as that party was part and parcel of the present government. Mahinda then told Maithripala, The UPFA and SLFP which are under your formal leadership must first pull out of the present UNP-SLFP government. If that is done, then our people will be convinced that you really mean business this time and I will find it easier to get their full cooperation and support. Having said this clearly and unambiguously, Mahinda flung the gauntlet down at Maithripala, Prove your determination in this matter by urgently summoning a meeting of the UPFA and the SLFP and officially deciding to pull out of the government. Maithri was left speechless.
Apart from this key issue, some other topics were also discussed at the meeting. Chief among them was an issue raised by Gotabaya Rajapaksa. The ex-Defence Secretary reminded Maithripala that he had informed the President of a conspiracy to assassinate Sirisena and himself almost two months ago, but no constructive action was taken. The alleged conspiracy however received a blaze of publicity after the person known as Namal Kumara had publicised it in the newspapers. Gotabaya said a plot to assassinate the President was a very serious concern and it was UNP ardonable that a responsible government did nothing. Mahinda and Basil too endorsed Gotabayas viewpoint and told Sirisena, We may have our political differences but we treat any threat to your life as something despicable. Proper investigations must be done and action taken.
Sirisena responded by telling Gotabaya that he had informed the Defence Secretary Kapila Waidyaratne immediately after the ex-Defence Secretary had informed him but very little follow up action was done. The President hinted that a new Defence Secretary would have to be appointed soon. He also condemned IGP Pujith Jayasundara as a joker and blamed much of the alleged lethargy displayed by the police to the IGP. Sirisena said the IGP was being protected by the Prime Minister. However, President Sirisena said a new IGP would be appointed very soon. There were also discussions about the Chief Justice position, the Supreme Court, the Attorney-Generals Department and the Constitutional Commission.

BASIL RAJAPAKSAIN CHARGE
As stated earlier, Mahinda and Basil Rajapaksa had a separate discussion among themselves after the Maithripala meeting was over. In that fraternal dialogue, Basil once again emphasised that they need not try to topple the government through a realignment of political forces in Parliament and that it would be better to have the sanction of the people through elections. Mahinda agreed but said they could try and force the pace of polls if possible through a show of strength within Parliament. However, both agreed that given the No-Confidence motion fiasco the move may prove counter productive if it failed. Both Mahinda and Basil were firmly of the opinion that any forward movement in this matter should be predicated on Maithripala Sirisena pulling out the SLFP led by him out of the government headed by him. It was also decided that Basil Rajapaksa would be in charge of any future negotiations with President Sirisena or other SLFP stalwarts in this exercise.
Meanwhile, news of the Maithripala-Mahinda meeting began appearing in different forms in different sections of the media. Speculation about a Mahinda-Maithripala partnership and setting up of an interim or caretaker government caused convulsions in the Mahinda, Maithripala and Ranil camps. The reaction in the Mahinda camp was extremely hostile towards the notion of a realignment with Sirisena. To the average Rajapaksa loyalist, Maithripala is a traitor who backstabbed Mahinda and joined forces with the UNP to bring about a defeat of the SLFP. No re-union was possible with Sirisena. Besides, Mahinda should not accept Maithripalas leadership in any form. Mahinda Rajapaksa allayed these concerns at the meeting of 41 SLFP Parliamentarians and said nothing had been decided upon and that no decision would be taken without the consent of the party. It was resolved that Mahinda would be the sole authority to finalise any decision on this issue.
There was much consternation and indignation within UNP folds too. As in the case of Mahinda loyalists who perceive Maithripala as a treacherous backstabber, there are many in the Ranil-UNP camp who view Sirisena as an ungrateful upstart who has kicked the ladder on which he climbed to the top. Several UNPers began blasting Sirisena. In a bid to assuage hard feelings, Sajith Premadasa issued a statement expressing hope that President Sirisena would not betray the mandate he received from the people in January 2015. Premadasa in recent times has reportedly grown closer to Sirisena. Some UNP bigwigs however were not prepared to let Sirisena off the hook so easily. They have reportedly resorted to clandestine negotiations with some MPs in the Sirisena camp. It is being speculated that about 6 to 10 SLFP Parliamentarians would remain with the government if and when Sirisena decides to pull out the party from the coalition government.

RANIL WICKREMESINGHE CAPT COOL
Although the UNP in Sri Lankawas perturbed over these developments, its leader and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe kept his cool and was seemingly unfazed. Ranil had departed from Sri Lankan shores on the morning of October 3 on a visit to Norwayand Britain. Sirisenas meeting with the Rajapaksas was on the same evening. When an excited senior UNP minister telephoned Ranil to break the news about Sirisenas meeting with Mahinda, Ranil seemed disinterested and replied nonchalantly, Wena Monawada (what else). When the minister told Ranil that according to reports, Maithripala had said he would set up an interim government without him as Prime Minister, the UNP leaders response in captain cool style was Eya Kiyana Ewwa Koranna Nahe Ne (he does not do whatever he says).
All this makes the spotlight beam on Maithripala Sirisena. The onus is on him to demonstrate that he is genuinely determined to remove Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and set up a reconfigured government under the premiership of Mahinda Rajapaksa or his nominee. The Rajapaksas are subjecting their one-time nemesis to a trial by fire. Maithripala Sirisena must prove his bona fides to the Rajapaksas by formally pulling out the SLFP from the government. The bottom line in this sordid exercise is that Mahinda does not trust Maithripala and vice versa. D-day will be October 16 when SLFP parliamentarians and key office bearers are scheduled to meet. What will the SLFP decide and what will Maithripala Sirisena do thereafter Above all how will the western nations and Indiacountenance this envisaged Mahinda-Maithripala realignment Que Sera Sera!
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Counter terrorism law- Confessions no longer admissible at trial: Sampanthan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 02:22 pm
Counter terrorism law- Confessions no longer admissible at trial: Sampanthan
	
Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan said confessions would no longer be admissible at the trial of a person charged with an offence under the new Counter Terrorism law and the same position should be applied to those already charged based on confessions.
He said if the new counter terrorism Law accepts that position, then the Government is obviously accepting the position that there can be no conviction, not even a charge based upon the confession.
Mr. Sampanthan said this in Parliament on Thursday.
If that be so, the persons in custody, even persons who have been convicted, must be dealt with on the basis that they have been convicted on the confession which was the only available evidence, there being no other evidence against them, which the Government accepts now as a matter of policy is inadmissible, is invalid, is something that which Government policy would not permit to accept and is not in keeping with international norms. If that be the position Sir, I would appeal to the Government to take steps for the release of all these persons who are in custody based purely on their confession. Whether they have been convicted or charged and not convicted does not matter, but if the only evidence against them is a confession, then I would submit that they must be released and the Office for Reparations can play a role, in my view, should play a role, in ascertaining the truth in regard to this matter and taking steps with the Government to have these persons released, he said.
Mr. Sampanthan said the persons handling the Office of Missing Persons, were doing their very best to be as effective as they can and we are grateful for that.
I would like to make a few comments in regard to this matter because the ascertainment of truth, the delivery of justice, the issue of accountability, reparations and non-recurrence are all fundamental components of the transitional justice process; process to bring about reconciliation on the basis of truth, justice and accountability in the country which has gone through several decades of armed conflict. This Bill is a very welcome feature, Sir, but it must not be used to sideline truth and justice. Truth and justice must always prevail. Even the issue of missing persons or the issue of reparations must be dealt with on the basis of truth and justice. The Office on Reparations should be able to formulate policies based upon truth and to ensure justice to all victims. That is fundamental.
"I find certain provisions in the Bill which will enable the Government to play a role in regard to the implementation of whatever policies are formulated by the Office for Reparations. This must not be a matter that comes under the control of the Government, Sir. The Office for Reparations must have the freedom to act independently in this matter to formulate the required policies and be able to find avenues to offer reparation to persons who have been victimized. Youth have been victimized in a very large manner. What are the reparations that can be given They must be empowered to acquire skills that will enable them to carry on their life in the future independently and as best as they can. There will be reparation that must be given to youth. People need to be economically empowered. People have been impoverished as a result of the war. There needs to be economic empowerment to the people to enable them to lead their life without deprivation or denial, he said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fuel subsidy mooted in wake of recent price hike: State Min.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 05:01 pm
Fuel subsidy mooted in wake of recent price hike: State Min.
	
The Ministry of Transport has proposed the introduction of a fuel subsidy to the people in the wake of the recent fuel price hike, State Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation Ashok Abeysinghe informed Parliament last morning.
State Minister Abeysinghe gave this assurance in response to an oral question raised by Opposition MP Dayasiri Jayasekera where he inquired about the steps the government would take to give some redress to the people in the wake of the ever increasing cost of transportation. We have been informed that school van owners are also planning to increase their fees in the wake of the fuel price hike. Also I heard some people cursing all 225 of our MPs. They have said Parliament should cave in on top of us, thereby killing us. Can one blame all 225 MPs for the price hike he asked.
Mr. Abeysinghe in response said it is unlikely that school vans would increase their fees as the price of diesel had not increased. Anyway our ministry had proposed the payment of a subsidy to the people in the wake of the recent fuel price hike, he added. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Let us invest in Daddys Little Girl
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:00 am
Let us invest in Daddys Little Girl
	
In 1950, the Mills Brothers and in 1967, the famous American singer Al Martino sang a beautiful and heart-warming song about Daddys Little Girl. It goes like this: Youre the end of the rainbow, my pot of gold, Youre daddys little girl to have and hold, A precious gem is what you are, Youre mommys bright and shining star, Youre the spirit of Christmas, my star on the tree, Youre the Easter bunny to mommy and me, Youre sugar, youre spice, youre everything nice, And youre daddys little girl. 
Melodies and memories such as these came to mind when we celebrated on Thursday the United Nations International Day of the Girl Child. Since 2012, October 11 has been marked as the International Day of the Girl Child and it aims to highlight and address the needs and challenges girls face, while promoting girls empowerment and the fulfilment of their human rights.
According to the UN, the 2018 theme: With Her: A Skilled Girl Force. Todays generation of girls are preparing to enter a world of work that is being transformed by innovation and automation. Educated and skilled workers are in great demand, but roughly a quarter of young people  most of them female  are currently neither employed nor in education or training.
Of the 1 billion young people  including 600 million adolescent girls  who will enter the workforce in the next decade, more than 90% of those living in developing countries will work in the informal sector, where low or no pay, abuse and exploitation are common. The UN says it is working with girls to expand existing learning opportunities, chart new pathways and is calling on the global community to rethink how to prepare them for a successful transition into the world of work.
Adolescent girls have the right to a safe, educated and healthy life, not only during these critical formative years, but also as they mature into women. If effectively supported during the adolescent years, girls have the potential to change the world  both as the empowered girls of today and as tomorrows workers, mothers, entrepreneurs, mentors, household heads and political leaders. An investment in realising the power of adolescent girls upholds their rights today and promises a more equitable and prosperous future, one in which half of humanity is an equal partner in solving the problems of climate change, political conflict, economic growth, disease prevention and global sustainability.
Over the past 15 years, the global community has made significant progress in improving the lives of girls during early childhood. In 2015, girls in the first decade of life are more likely to enrol in primary school, receive key vaccinations, and are less likely to suffer from health and nutrition problems than were previous generations. However, there has been insufficient investment in addressing the challenges girls face when they enter the second decade of their lives. This includes obtaining quality secondary and higher education, avoiding child marriage, receiving information and services related to puberty and reproductive health, and protecting themselves against unwanted pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases and gender-based violence.
As the global community launches the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for implementation over the next 15 years, it is a good time to recognise the achievements made in supporting young girls, while at the same time aspiring to support the current and upcoming generation of adolescent girls, to truly fulfil their potential as key actors in achieving a sustainable and equitable world, the UN says. 
To mark this event, in Sri Lanka, the Women and Child Affairs Ministry along with the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) appointed about 150 district officers to protect and promote the rights of children, especially girls. But we have a long way to go in achieving the UNs vision and making a major investment for women to play a bigger role in politics, business and economics, religion and other fields. Let us make this pledge today, we uphold the rights of girls everywhere and commit to increase our focus and action to empower girls and increase the number of girls and young people who support the development of our country. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: LIOC-CPC to develop Trinco oil tank farm: Arjuna
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 07:20 am
LIOC-CPC to develop Trinco oil tank farm: Arjuna
	
The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) and the Lanka Indian Oil Company (LIOC) will jointly administer and develop the Trincomalee Oil Tank Farm, Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arujna Ranatuga told Parliament yesterday.
He said this in response to a question asked by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake who asked whether the CPC and LIOC will form a joint venture company for the purpose of administering and developing these oil tanks.
The minister said 16 tanks were leased out to the LIOC in 2002 while a fresh agreement would be signed for a new lease with it.
He said the remaining 69 tanks would be developed and maintained as a joint venture by the CPC and the LIOC.
I have heard some opposition MPs accusing me of selling the tanks in Trincomalee and I categorically state that they will not be sold to anyone with the land where the tank farm is located being under the CPC," the minister said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MARGARET KINGSLEY (10.10.1937 - 21.08.2015)  She was a source of pride for us
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:00 am
MARGARET KINGSLEY (10.10.1937 - 21.08.2015)  She was a source of pride for us
	
It is now three years since you left me lonely on August 21, 2015. I mark this third death anniversary with both the sorrow and the sweet memories of our 48 years of togetherness. Your birthday on October 10, Margaret, was a sad day without your presence.
You were a wonderful, devoted, loving, kind and affectionate person who endeared to keep everybody happy. You made all the three children professionals and made them grow up under a strict disciplinary Christian atmosphere, for which they are ever grateful. You were a great host who entertained our near and dear ones with her cooking skills. As much as I miss you, our children and grandchildren miss you a lot and speak of the stories related and the advise you gave them. You were the sixth gem in a family 6 brothers and one sister to the Rajamonies of Welihena, Kochchikade, Negombo. 
Life is miserable without you and I reminisce the 48 lovely years we spent as husband and wife. In life I loved you, in death I do love you more and miss you! 
You will live immortalized in my memories as a source of pride to the family. 
May Eternal Rest be granted to her. Oh Lord ! Let light shine on her and May She Rest In Peace. 
Kingsley Durairaj 
(Husband) 
(PANNIPITIYA) 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pakistani arrested with 30mn worth heroin at BIA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:57 pm
Pakistani arrested with 30mn worth heroin at BIA
	
A 39-year-old Pakistani national was arrested by the Police Narcotics Bureau officers on charges of possessing heroin worth around Rs.30 million at the BIA early this morning, PNB sources said.
The suspect had arrived in the country from Doha, Qatar.
PNB officers had found heroin weighing 2kg 426g concealed in a false bottom of his main luggage.
The investigations had revealed that its the suspects sixth visit to the country since 2014. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PC Elections- Political parties to disclose stance by Oct.31
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 October 2018 09:31 am
PC Elections- Political parties to disclose stance by Oct.31
	
Political parties have reportedly agreed to inform the Election Commission prior to October 31 about of their stance on the conduct of provincial council elections .
Party representatives met the Election Commission on Thursday and discussed ways and means breaking the current gridlock on the polls.
The enactment of a new law to change the electoral system involves the complicated work of delimitation and until that is done, the elections cannot be conducted under the new law. The Commission, at yesterday's meeting, said it could not call for elections because of the enactment of the new law.
Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam who represented the UNP said he would hold talks with the political parties in the government and notify their stance before October 31.
The Commission is also known to have said the deadline given to the Delimitation Review Committee headed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe could not be extended in terms of the law. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Report claims audio exists of journalists murder
## Section: International
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:04 am
Report claims audio exists of journalists murder
	

The government in Turkey claims to have evidence that US-based journalist Jamal Khashoggi was murdered at the Saudi Arabia embassy after the critic of the country went to get a visa for his upcoming wedding. 
He was captured on CCTV footage entering the building in Istanbul October 2 and a source has told The Washington Post he was killed and then dismembered by members of security. 
The voice recording from inside the embassy lays out what happened to Jamal after he entered, the insider told the newspaper that Khashoggi, 59, worked for. 
You can hear his voice and the voices of men speaking Arabic  You can hear how he was interrogated, tortured and then murdered. 
The audio reportedly hold the key to the gruesome goings on that day but the Post reports the Turkish officials have been reluctant to release the recording as it may give away how they spy on foreign entities that are based there.

Recordings allegedly are very persuasive in revealing the journalist was beaten before various other details that have been shared with American officials took place. Its not clear if the US side has listened directly to the alleged evidence however. 
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia denied the claims something happened to the man - who has been known to critique KSA - inside the consulate and state he left unharmed.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has recently been promoted as the member of the royal family that has pushed forward for one of the strictest Middle Eastern countries to take a more liberal approach to culture. Khashoggi wasnt necessarily supportive of his vision however. 
Daily Mail, 12
October 2018 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Search teams comb debris for victims of deadly Hurricane Michael
## Section: International
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:01 am
Search teams comb debris for victims of deadly Hurricane Michael
	

PANAMA CITY AFP Oct12, 2018-Search and rescue teams combed through shattered US communities on Thursday looking for victims of Hurricane Michael, a Category 4 monster storm which carved out a swathe of destruction in the Florida Panhandle, killing at least six in three states. 
In Mexico Beach, a seafront town where the hurricane made landfall, houses had been razed by storm surge, boats had been tossed into yards and the streets were littered with trees and power lines. 
Florida Governor Rick Scott said the storm had caused unbelievable devastation and the priority for the moment was looking for survivors among residents who failed to heed orders to evacuate. 
Im very concerned about our citizens that didnt evacuate and I just hope that, you know, we dont have much loss of life, Scott told ABC.  The US Army said more than 2,000 Florida National Guard soldiers were working on the recovery operations. 
There have been six confirmed storm-related deaths so far -- four in Floridas Gadsden County, one in Georgia, and one in North Carolina. 
President Donald Trump pledged to help storm victims.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sr. Bernadine Thambosamy SCC celebrates 100th Birthday  Dedicated to the Vow of Obedience
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:00 am
Sr. Bernadine Thambosamy SCC celebrates 100th Birthday  Dedicated to the Vow of Obedience
	

by Sr. Bernadette Fernando SCC
On October 6 (Saturday) Sr. Peuma Peiris, the Provincial Superior, and the Sisters of the Cross representing the ten communities of Sri Lanka, assembled in the Chapel at Claudine Niwasa Amandoluwa to celebrate the 100th birthday of Sr. Bernadine Thamboosamy SCC. His Lordship Bishop Maxwell Silva, Auxiliary Bishop of Colombo, was the Chief Celebrant at the Thanks giving Eucharistic Celebration together with Fr. Ignatius Thambosamy, Fr. Louis Adaikalam OCD, Fr. Lancy Naveen OFM cap, and Fr. Alex Arokiam OCD concelebrating.
Sr. Bernadine was happy to have the two younger members in the family Arokia Mary, and Fr. Ignatius joining in the celebration together with a very big group of nieces, nephews, grand nieces, grand nephews and members of their extended families from Sri Lanka, Australia, Norway, and Japan.
The Sisters of the Cross began their mission in Ceylon in the year 1951, the records in our archives show that ten years prior to that, in 1941 the First Sister of the Cross of Sri Lanka made her First Profession in 1941 in our Novitiate in Amaravati, Maharashtra. She is our Centenarian, Arul Mary Thambosamy who took the name as Sister Bernadine.

We see her always with the Rosary in her hand, pressing the beads all the time
Sister Bernadines parents Savarimuthu Thambosamy and Susaiammal were originally from India, but they were living in Talawakelle, Ceylon. They had eight children Sandanam, Jeya Mary, Asirvadan, Jeganathan, Patrick, Arokia Mary, and Ignatius. Savarimuthu Thambosamy was a frequent visitor to India to see to his properties in Kovandakuruchy, Tamil Nadu. He had a number of close relatives living in this vicinity. Sr. Bernadine was a boarder at St Josephs Convent Kegalle run by the Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary. At the age of twelve, during the school holidays, she had come home from the boarding and managed to persuade her father to take her to visit Kovandakuruchy. 
She was happy to be with her relatives at Kovandakuruchy and they persuaded her father to allow her to remain with them, so that she could be admitted to the boarding of Holy Cross High School Tiruchirapalli, run by the Sisters of the Cross of Chavanod.
The arrangement was to help her continue with her studies. Her father agreed and she completed her High School studies and then joined Holy Cross College  A Womens University College also run by the Sisters of the Cross. She studied up to Matriculation and then she felt the Lord calling her to Religious Life. She shared with Mother Sophie Descombes the Principal of Holy Cross College her desire to become a Sister of the Cross. Mother Sophie was happy to accept her and she guided and accompanied her.

Missions in India and Sri Lanka
She was sent to join the Novitiate of the Sisters of the Cross in Amravati. Mother Collette was her Mistress. She joined as a Postulant on 16th August1938 and made her first Profession on 4th January1941. Her mission in India began with a short time in the community of Holy Cross College Teppukulam Tiruchirapalli. Later in the communities of Siolim - Goa, Cantonment Tiruchirapalli, and Vadgugarpet, Tamil Nadu ministering as an English Teacher in the primary schools. Her last mission in India was at Golden Rock, Tiruchirapalli where she was attached to a Programme for young girls who had left school. Her speciality was to teach them Hand Embroidery. In 1951 Sisters of the Cross commenced their mission in Ceylon. The invitation was always to be engaged in Pastoral and Social Work. In 1960, we were having four Communities.

Peradeniya opened at the request of His Lordship Bishop Bernard Regno OSB; Peliyagoda-Kelaniya opened at the request of His Grace Archbishop Thomas Cooray OMI later Cardinal who went personally to Chavanod, France and requested for sisters; Hingurakgoda opened at the request of His Lordship Bishop Ignatius Glennie SJ, Bishop of Trincomalee - Batticaloa who invited us to take over St. Josephs Childrens Home and Padiwatte  Natharampotha at the invitation of Bishop Leo Nanayakkara OSB to take over the mission begun by the Maryknoll Sisters of USA, who were leaving the country. 
It was at this time that Mother Aurelia Maprany the Regional Superior for South India and Ceylon asked Sr. Bernadine if she was willing to be transferred to Sri Lanka. She obeyed and accepted tocome. When asked whether you were sad to leave India after so many years, or were you happy to come back to Ceylon, her answer was, It was not a question of being sad or happy. For me the Vow of Obedience was uppermost, so I said yes wholeheartedly to answer to a need of that time.

Her ministries
nHingurakgoda in charge of Boys at St. Josephs Childrens Home
	nPadiwatte helping in the Dispensary later in charge of a Knitting Centre
	nLocal Superior at Peradeniya and later at Havelock Road Colombo.
	nPeliyagoda in Charge of the Day Care Centre, for the children of working mothers in the factories.
Sister Bernadine has led a very daring outgoing life venturing into ministries which others do not dream of: Joining an Inter- Congregational Community at Alagollewa. 
Helping in the Archdiocesan Library, Assisting at Caritas Sri Lanka - SEDEC supervising the household work,
At present she is with our other retired sisters at Claudine Niwasa Amandoluwa, Seeduwa.
Sr. Bernadine is a very good conversationalist, has very witty answers for every question. She could put her hand to any work except cooking. She can adapt and adjust to any given situation. She loves gardening, both flowers and vegetables are her close companions. She enjoys speaking to the plants, touching and caring for them. She has been with her pots, hosepipe until the year 2014.
She always had a deep love for the Lord. She prayed to the Blessed Virgin Mary. We see her always with the Rosary in her hand, pressing the beads all the time. Sr. Bernadine is a blessing to each and every one whom she comes in contact with. God has showered on her health as a wealth to complete 100 long years. She lived Seventy Seven Years as a Sister of the Cross living our unique Mission Revealing to all the Merciful Love of the Father and the Liberating Power of the Paschal Mystery.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 'Techno 2018'
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 October 2018 11:58 am
'Techno 2018'
	
Techno 2018 exhibition was launched at the BMICH yesterday under the patronage of Megapolis and Western Development Minister Champika Ranawaka. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel







 
		
==============================
## Title: The two sides of President Trump
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:00 am
The two sides of President Trump
	

What do we have to truly fear about President Donald Trump Last week, he pulled off the successful re-negotiation of the North America Free Trade area. Pundits thought, with Canadarefusing to bend, it couldnt happen. Maybe the deal now leans more in Americas direction but Trump has also given something away: the right of Mexicoand Canadato sell their trucks and cars more easily in the US. He said hes a great deal-maker, and so this time he is.
His trade tussle with China, which looks to be a standoff at the moment, has not yet led to a breakdown in good relations. Trump has been more than careful to keep the direct channels open to President Xi Jinping, even if last week he became more openly critical and personal. He has treated Xi much better than he treated Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada. Nevertheless, the fact is the Chinese have taken advantage of the US, ignoring its copyrights, blatantly reverse engineering expensive US products and subsidizing exports. Trump goes too far with his demands, but he is on firm enough ground to force the Chinese to re-think some of their policies. Hes making progress.

His trade tussle with China, which looks to be a standoff at the moment, has not yet led to a breakdown ingood relations

Likewise, while being tough on Russia, ratcheting up sanctions, sending modern arms to Ukraine, increasing defence spending and standing back from the cuts in nuclear weapons that President Vladimir Putin has suggested, he keeps his personal channels open to Putin, unlike President Barack Obama. Later he may reap the harvest of this. Russian politics is very personalunder Putin.
With North Korea he appears to have flattered President Kim Jong Un to the point where Kim shows his constructive side to Trump. Progress is being made on nuclear disarmament even if its not at the rate the foreign policy establishment wants.
Nevertheless, for all this, the fact is that Trump is a man with an ugly personality, as ugly in its way as Kim. Sometimes one can imagine if he were not constrained by law he would execute some of his enemies as Kim has done.
His staff find hes impossible to deal with though he gets importantthings done.
After reading Bob Woodwards new book Fear, one realises that Woodward gives little space to Trumps achievements, and his interviews and re-creations of real life scenes are nearly all orientated in a critical direction.

After reading Bob Woodwards new book Fear, one realises that Woodward gives little space to Trumps achievements, and his interviews and re-creations of real life scenes are nearly all orientated in a critical direction

Woodward has painted a picture of a sordid man, full of quite disgusting profanities and untruths that he aims at his staff and many of those who do business with him with hourly regularity (If the women in his base could hear these many would be shocked.) Its a fine book, researched in the most intimate and thorough way. One doesnt doubt his veracity. Quite a bit of it we have read in the newspapers already over the last two years, but even then Woodward gets deeper inside the man, the policymaking, and how its implemented. Hes the best fly on the wall anyone could ask for.
There are, too, whole chapters where Woodward writes about startling things weve not known about. Again and again, in order to keep the US on a sensible course in its policies for trade, foreign relations and financial affairs, his staff have to secretly remove from his desk papers waiting to be signed. This choleric man is so seized up by the next crisis or what appears as an affront he forgets he asked for them.
Time and time again, his staff are courageous, offering the President clever analysis, despite his constant putdowns. He tells them its bullshit and that hes held his views on this or that for over 30 years and hes not going to change. Amazingly, they argue back, and he lets them  up to a point. In his way, he accepts a lot of talk-back and even verbal insubordination, but then gives the staffer hell.
There is insubordination behind his back, too. On one occasion, when discussing President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Trump said to General James Mattis, the Defence Secretary, Lets go in, lets kill him. Yes, Mattis said, I will get right on it. He hung up the phone. Were not going to do any of that, he told a senior aide. When the North Korea crisis first blew up, Mattis made it clear he didnt want war. His view was that North Korea couldbe contained.
Ironically, as with North Korea latterly, Trump in some areas of policy can have non-warlike instincts. He argued hard with the military, until they persuaded him otherwise, that the USshould totally withdraw from Afghanistan.
Where this story ends nobody knows. Woodward for one doesnt advocate impeachment but by the end of the book it hangs in the air. Who really wants such a volatile, unhinged and amoral man to have his finger on the nuclear button  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Weather situation in a nutshell Flooding minds with misery
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 October 2018 12:00 am
Weather situation in a nutshell Flooding minds with misery
	
By Saman Palitha Nanayakkara - Haldummulla, Rukmal Prasad - Ella, Tharangani Fonseka - Moratuwa, Sarath Siriwardhena - Aluthgama,
D.G. Sugathapala - Galle, Thusitha Kumara De Silva - Aluthgama, Sunil Thanthriarachchi - Kalutara

Torrential rains are still lashing Sri Lanka and thousands of people in the country are affected by the prevailing inclement weather. The South, including Kalutara and Galle, have been affected by floods while landslide warnings were issued for the up-country areas including Nuwara Eliya. Heavy rain, floods, lightning and high winds are reported from Northwestern, Eastern, Southern, Central, Sabaragamuwa, Uva, Western and North Central Provinces, according to the Disaster Management Centre.
Certain areas in Badulla District have been declared as being vulnerable to earth slips

Landslide warnings in Haldummulla area
With the prevailing weather conditions in the Badulla District, certain areas had been declared as being vulnerable to earth slips and landslides in and around Haldumulla as revealed by the Badulla Disaster Management Centre. Residents have been cautioned to adhere to the conditions as indicated by the equipment recording the rainfall patterns. This was stated in a message communicated by the Assistant Director of the Centre E.M.L. Udayakumara. It is further advised that if the rainfall exceeds 75 millimetres and the rains continue people must be extra cautious. It is also advised that if the rainfall exceeds 100 millimetres during a period of 24 hours and the rains continues it would give rise to a dangerous situation. In the event the rainfall figures increase, people are advised to move onto more secure places. By October 11 (Thursday), the rains were exceeding 100 Millimetres. Landslide prone areas had been demarcated in the Divisional Secretariats of Haldumulla, Soranathota, Badulla, Uva Paranagama, Bandarawela, Passara and Welimada areas by the National Building Research Institute. At present this centre has distributed more than 3000 rain gauges among the residents after conducting rehearsal programmes.
People have been instructed to follow the procedures stipulated, informed Udayakumara.
People have been instructed to follow the procedures stipulated
People have been advised to move onto more secure places


Landslide warnings to Meeriyabedda Watta residents
The prevailing heavy rain has affected 328 people of 79 families in the Badulla District. Following the landslide warnings, 27 persons of 06 families in Haldummulla - Meeriyabedda Watta have been located in Meeriyabedda camp. They are provided with food and other essential facilities. Meanwhile 21 houses in Bandarawela, Passara, Uwa - Paranagama, Soranathota and Haldummulla in the Badulla Divisional Secretariats have been damaged due to the heavy rains, no deaths have been reported.

Borupana affectedby floods
Borupana area in Moratuwa, which had not experienced any flood situation during the recent great deluge, is now facing a flood situation even after a minor shower.
The residents claim that this scenario is the result of the haphazard filling of the Weras Ganga near the Karadiyana garbage dump, causing their dwellings to be submerged by flood waters. With the incessant rains 12 Grama Seva divisions in Moratuwa had been affected by floods and 3782 residents have been displaced.
Floods in some places were caused by the illegal constructions in lowlands

Floods in Beruwala
A number of lowlands had been flooded in Beruwala and the Divisional Secretariat had identified that the floods were caused by the illegal constructions in lowlands. The secretariat has said that it initiated efforts to remove the unnecessary constructions in problematic areas.

Fourteen Divisional secretariats in Kalutara District affected
Fourteen Divisional Secretariats in the Kalutara District were affected by the floods and as at Tuesday by 04.00 pm 18344 individuals belonging to 4768 families had been affected. The deaths of six people were reported while five had been injured. 
Seventeen houses had been completely destroyed with 119 being partially destroyed. As many as 416 houses were affected with minor damages. These damages had been observed in 290 Grama Seva Niladhari Divisions as confirmed by the Kalutara District Disaster Management Centre assistant Director Lt Colonel Saliya Dias. 
Vegetation devastated by floods
The residents of Kalutara, Beruwala, Mathugama, Palinda Nuwara, Bulathsinhala, Wallalawita, Milleniya, Ingiriya, Madurawala, Panadura, Horana, Dodangoda, Agalawatte and Baduraliya, Divisional Secretariats had been severely affected by floods. 106 small and medium trade stalls too have been damaged due to the floods. 
The public was requested to guard against contagious diseases that could spread after the floods

Nearly 30,000 affected
The adverse weather condition in Kalutara District has affected 20,856 persons in 5361 families. Six deaths and five injuries were reported while 26 houses were destroyed. As many as 247 houses were partially damaged while 816 houses had minor damages. Kalutara District Secretary U.D.C Jayalal said that they had deployed 10 bowsers to Kalutara, Panadura, Beruwala, Dodamgoda, Mathugama, Palinda Nuwara, Bulathsinhala, Madurawala, Ingiriya and Horana to provide drinking water to the affected public since the ground wells have been polluted due to floods. Meanwhile the National Disaster Relief Centre had provided 11 million rupees for flood victims. Jayalal added that they are providing one hundred thousand rupees for each death. The public was requested to guard against contagious diseases spreading after the floods. 

Flood disaster in Galle District
The heavy rains during the past few days in Galle District had claimed two lives and left 12943 people belonging to 3426 families as flood victims, Disaster Management Centre said. 
A 61-year-old man in Urala Wanduramba and a 10-year-old student in Elpitiya lost their lives in this flood disaster. Meanwhile16 houses were completely destroyed while 648 other houses and 170 business places suffered partial damage. Meanwhile 4 houses in Wadiyakanda were destroyed due to earth slips. The fall of earth mounds was also reported from several places in the area. The Nagoda Divisional Secretary said that they had warned the people in the affected areas to leave their homes as these places are vulnerable to earth slips. 
However they were reluctant to live in Alutthwattha area, an area assigned for their houses. She also said that they had demanded lands at the close proximity to their present homes. However, lands were not available in the places where they desires to live. Huge heaps of bamboos and branches of trees floated as a result of surging water had remained entangled near bridges in Wakwella and Benthota. They were later removed with the assistance of the Navy. Funds have been allocated to the divisional secretariats in the affected areas for distribution of cooked foods and dried rations to the flood victims and also for the benefit of others affected by the disaster situation. 
Floods had been receded in several low-lying areas as transport services gradually improved along many roads that had been affected due to the continues rain that prevailed for 36 hours. However the Galle District Disaster Management Centre had arranged to place 23 boats and 9 canoes in vulnerable spots to be used during a possible heavy rainfall in the days ahead. In addition relief groups of the Sri Lanka Navy, Army and volunteer organizations have been placed on alert


 
		
==============================