## Title: Amid Russia hacks, US offers cyber expertise to allies
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
Amid Russia hacks, US offers cyber expertise to allies
	

WASHINGTON AFP Oct5, 2018-After years of ceaseless attacks from state-sponsored hackers, the US is taking toughening its stance in the cyber fight against Russia, China and other nations. 
Critics have long charged that Americas response has fallen woefully short as adversaries targeted US national security networks, government agencies and voting systems. 
But under a series of new measures, US officials are touting a more muscular approach -- including a greater willingness to launch offensive cyber operations. 
President Donald Trump recently revoked his predecessor Barack Obamas rules requiring high-level authority for big military cyber operations, and National Security Advisor John Bolton warned that any country conducting cyber attacks could face an offensive response. 
Then on Thursday, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said the US is making its cyber capabilities available to NATO, warning Moscow it must pay the piper after the Netherlands revealed an alleged plot by Russias GRU military intelligence agency to hack the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Britain not practising what it preaches
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
Britain not practising what it preaches
	
A response to British State Minister Mark Fields article, Why does reconciliation in Sri Lanka matter to Britain

Britain has stated, it would not agree to have a bilateral dispute submitted for judicial settlement and called for the draft resolution to be withdrawn

I have just completed reading your Op-ed article titled, Why does reconciliation in Sri Lanka matter to UK in the Daily Mirror edition today (04 October) and decided to respond due to some glaring contradictions between what Britain preaches to others and what it does in practice.
Some of the contents therein I wish to highlight are: 
a) The pace of progress on a number of key issues remains much slower than we hoped for
b) Finding the truth is fundamental
c) Prevention of Terrorism Act is something I am regularly asked by the diaspora and others in the UK
d) Some ask why any of this should matter to the UK. There are also those who like to represent the Geneva resolution in particular as interference by the international community in Sri Lankas domestic affairs. This is unfortunate and unfair. 
Despite the many issues such as Iraq and Libya that come to my mind, I shall limit my comments to three points.
British forces arrived in Northern Ireland on August 14, 1969, supposedly to maintain the peace. The government of Ted Heath agreed to the request of by Northern Irelands Unionist Prime Minister Brian Faulkner to introduce internment, in other words, the power to imprison indefinitely without charge or trial. Announcing the decree, Faulkner said, The main target of the present operation is the IRA. I ask those who will quite sincerely consider the use of internal powers as evil, to answer honestly, this question. Is it more of an evil than to allow the perpetrators of these outrages to remain at liberty. On August 9, 1971, Operation Demetrius was launched to arrest and intern suspected IRA terrorist. During its enforcement, an incident took place in the town of Bellymurphy, a poor housing estate in Belfast. 11 unarmed men and women were shot dead by Crown Forces between August 9 and 11, 1971. Unlike the massacre in Derry in February 1972, this incident was mostly suppressed, and little material is available in the public domain. General Sir Michael Jackson, a former Chief of General Staff, in his autobiography states those killed were Republican gunmen, strongly denied by Catholic families in the documentary The Bellamy Precedent produced by Channel 4. 45 years later in 2016, the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland recommended an inquest as one of a series of legacy inquests related to 56 incidents. The inquests have been delayed due to funding not approved by the Northern Ireland Executive. A former first minister deferred a bid for extra funding for inquests into historical killings in Northern Ireland. She subsequently confirmed she had used her influence in the devolved power-sharing executive to hold back finance for a backlog of inquests connected to the conflict. The High Court said, her decision to refuse to put a funding paper on the Executive basis was unlawful and procedurally flawed.

The Chagos Archipelago or Chagos Islands are a group of seven atolls comprising more than 60 individual tropical islands in the Indian Ocean

On January 30, 1972, members of the 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment shot 28 unarmed civilians. 14 died in the incident. The Widgery Tribunal report termed the soldiers shooting bordering on the reckless and was branded as a whitewash. The report of the subsequent Saville Commission constituted in 1998 was released 12 years later in 2010. The report further concluded that the killings were both unjustified and unjustifiable. It found that all those shot were unarmed, that none was posing a serious threat, that no bombs were thrown, and that soldiers knowingly put forward false accounts to justify their firing. Former Prime Minister David Cameron closed the entire Northern Ireland chapter with a we are deeply sorry apology in Parliament.
The Chagos Archipelago or Chagos Islands are a group of seven atolls comprising more than 60 individual tropical islands in the Indian Ocean. Before granting independence to Mauritius in 1968, Britain, in November 1965 excised the entire archipelago and created British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) after paying Mauritius a paltry sum of GBP 3 million. Between 1968 and 1973, over 1,500 islanders were forcibly removed and scattered over Mauritius, Seychelles and West Sussex in Britain. The largest of the islands, Diego Garcia, was leased to the USA to build a military base. In return, Britain received a GBP 7.6 million discount for the Polaris nuclear missiles it purchased from the USA in 1968. British citizenship was granted to those forcibly removed and their children but was not given to future generations making them second class citizens. They are also banned from returning to Diego Garcia, home to a top-secret US military base. According to a recent BBC report, Sir Anerood Jugnauth, 88, father of present Prime Minister and the only surviving participant of Mauritius Constitution Conference of 1965 has told BBC, It was real blackmail. He further claimed then British Prime Minister Harold Wilson had told: if you dont agree to what I am proposing (about Chagos Islands) then forget about independence. After years of bilateral negotiations, Mauritius finally escalated the issue to the UN General Assembly. By a recorded vote of 94 in favour, 15 against and 65 abstentions, UNGA voted to refer the matter ICJ to ascertain whether the decolonization of Mauritius had been carried out lawfully, given the Archipelagos subsequent separation. A verdict is expected next year. Meanwhile, Britain has stated, it would not agree to have a bilateral dispute submitted for judicial settlement and called for the draft resolution to be withdrawn. It also said it would not consider resettlement of displaced persons in the disputed islands.
The questions arising from your comments are;
a) What are the reasons and justifications for the implementation of Operation Demetrius (internment of suspected terrorists) jointly by Britain Northern Ireland
b) Finding the truth being fundamental, what is the reason for the slow pace in finding the truth of those guilty of shooting civilians in Ballymurphy in 1971 and in Derry in 1972 Would Britain also agree to a team of international investigators, lawyers, prosecutors and judges to expedite investigations

c) Was a We are deeply sorry apology a suitable closure to the atrocities and tragedies which took place in Northern Ireland
d) Notwithstanding Britains need to appease the diaspora, does a nation who implemented a draconian policy of interning suspected terrorists have the moral right to question terrorism prevention regulations of other countries
e) Why does Britain reject the involvement of ICJ in the dispute with Mauritius over Chagos islands Further, why are Chagos people desiring to return to their land of birth debarred from doing so Is this British sense of fairness 
To conclude, the Geneva Resolution may have been rammed through with the co-sponsorship of the Sri Lankan government. Nevertheless, the slow pace of progress is chiefly due to the governments inability to convince a majority of Sri Lankans on accepting the resolution. Whether it would work for or against reconciliation is yet to be seen. Many of my compatriots and I would be delighted if you would share your thoughts with us.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Constitutional Council- Vacancies likely be filled by Oct.10: Karu
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 10:40 am
Constitutional Council- Vacancies likely be filled by Oct.10: Karu
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said the five vacancies in the Constitutional Council (CC) would be filled by Wednesday from some 15 applications submitted by civil society groups.
Their term of office of six members of the ten-member CC expired on September 22.
Under the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, the Prime Minister, the Speaker and the Opposition Leader act as ex-officio members of the CC.
Five members are required to be appointed by the President from members of Parliament on the nomination of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. Another member must also be appointed from among MPs nominated on the consent of majority of parliamentarians who represent political parties or independent groups, other than the respective political parties or independent groups to which the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition belong.
Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe has been appointed by President Maithripala Sirisena as his representative in the CC.
The term of office of Minister Tilak Marapana, W.D.J. Seneviratne, Vijitha Herath, Dr. A.T. Ariyaratne, Shibly Aziz and Radhika Coomaraswamy expired on September 22.
The CC is a 10-member constitutional authority tasked with maintaining independent commissions and monitoring it affairs. It is aimed at depoliticizing the public service.
The Constitutional Council was first established in 2000 under the 17th Amendment to the Constitution. In 2010 President Mahinda Rajapaksa established the Parliamentary Council under the Eighteenth Amendment to replace the CC.
President Maithripala Sirisena following his election in 2015 introduced the 19th Amendment and re-established the CC.
The government thinks the constitution of the CC was vital as early as possible with prospect of senior and influential public offices such a Chief Justice, Attorney General and IGP due to fall vacant shortly and as such the CC will have a big job at hand in filling those top posts. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Demons in Paradise removal: Devapriya removes film in protest
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:59 pm
Demons in Paradise removal: Devapriya removes film in protest
	
Malaka Devapriya, a young, budding film producer, has taken a decision to withdraw his film 'Bahuchithawadiya' from the International Cinema Festival in Jaffna as a mark of protest against the recent removal of the film Demons in Paradise directed by Jude Ratnam from the festival.
Bahuchithawadiya is Devapriyas debut effort.
The film Demons in Paradise which was submitted for screening at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival in France and had received much acclaim, was to be screened at the International Jaffna Cinema Festival starting this weekend, but was subsequently removed.Though the screening of the film was scheduled for 6.45 pm at the Majestic Cineplex in Jaffna, the cinema pulled withdrew it before it could be shown.
Malaka Devapriya said in a statement that he had withdrawn Bahuchithawadiya (The Undecided), a film that he had produced, from the festival as a mark of protest against what happened to Jude's film.
Devapriya said during the past several weeks, religious fundamentalist, nationalistic and racist factions, latching on to the titles given to a few of my radio plays, built a strong discourse in favour of censorship of the arts.
"The pressure from these repressive forces continues unabated and at present, an investigation is being carried out by The Unit to Investigate Organized Crime because of four separate complaints lodged against my work by four groups. At a moment when I am facing the wrath of the machinery of repression, which calls creation an organized crime, I cannot maintain double standards when it comes to my position regarding censorship of the arts. An artists expression can be partial or have dual or multiple points of view. That is determined by the autonomy and practice of the respective artist. The narrow-minded accusations made in the past against Prasanna, Handagama, Vimukthi, Sudath Mahadiwulwewa and Sanjeewa were also based on claims that their films depicted a one-sided view of the military, race, religion and the State. This, however, doesnt provide grounds to censor these works. Once it is screened for the public, a critique can be developed. It is the same for Jude Ratnam's film. Once it is screened it can be criticized. Although, personally, I do not agree with the ideology of his film, I stand for the films right to be screened.
Furthermore, the official responses put forward to justify the rejection are also ineffectual. Taking this situation into consideration, I have decided to withdraw my film Bahuchithawadiya (The Undecided) from the festival. The basic reason for this is that I cannot maintain double standards with regards to censorship. It is true that its a difficult task to organize an annual film festival within an anarchist state and social system. I respect the fact that the festival has been able to continue for several consecutive years. My objection is not directed at the public nor at those representing Tamil political ideologies but at the festival organizers who removed the film", Devapriya said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Forty MoUs in Agriculture sector to be terminated
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 05:15 pm
Forty MoUs in Agriculture sector to be terminated
	
Around forty Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) concerning the agricultural sector will be terminated by the end of 2019 , a spokesperson to the Agriculture Ministry said.
He told Daily Mirror on Thursday that these MoUs would be terminated owing to several reasons which include failure to provide background information on the MoUs entered into with the Agriculture Department.
Those MoUs are mainly based on training, managing export trade, scientific aspects, development of infrastructure facilities, development of agricultural production, machinery training, product increment and developing agriculture-based knowledge, he said.
They were signed by former president Mahinda Rajapaksa, former premier D. M. Jayaratne, President Maithripala Sirisena and Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe respectively, he added.
He said MoUs were signed with Egypt, Vietnam, Indonesia, China, Thailand, India, Bangladesh, Philippines and South Korea. He also said some of these MoUs had already expired.
It was reported that the MoU signed with China on exporting Bananas will also be cancelled accordingly.
Meanwhile, when contacted Ministrys Deputy Director (Projects) P.N.N. Jayaneththi said there was no need to implement some MoUs and added that it was the ministrys responsibility to implement them in a fruitful manner, if signed.
However, several attempts made by the Daily Mirror to contact Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera and the Ministrys Secretary in this regard ended in failure. (Indika Sri Aravinda)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Htota could become a Chinese military base: Pence
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 09:42 pm
Htota could become a Chinese military base: Pence
	
China is using debt diplomacy to expand its global influence and Hambantota Port could soon become a forward military base for Beijings growing blue-water navy, US Vice President Mike Pence has said on Thursday.
According to PTI, Pence said China was offering hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure loans to governments from Asia to Africa to Europe to even Latin America.
Yet the terms of those loans are opaque at best, and the benefits flow overwhelmingly to Beijing, Pence said.
In a foreign policy speech at the Hudson Institute, a top American think-tank, Pence alleged China uses so-called debt diplomacy to expand its influence.
Just ask Sri Lanka, which took on massive debt to let Chinese state companies build a port with questionable commercial value. Two years ago, that country could no longer afford its payments  so Beijing pressured Sri Lanka to deliver the new port directly into Chinese hands. It may soon become a forward military base for Chinas growing blue-water navy, Pence said.
Beijing is also corrupting some nations politics by providing direct support to parties and candidates who promise to accommodate Chinas strategic objectives, he said.
Since last year, the Chinese Communist Party has convinced three Latin American nations to sever ties with Taipei and recognise Beijing. These actions threaten the stability of the Taiwan Strait  and the US condemns these actions, Pence said.
He said while the Trump administration will continue to respect One China Policy, as reflected in the three joint communiques and the Taiwan Relations Act, America will always believe Taiwans embrace of democracy shows a better path for all the Chinese people.
These are only a few of the ways that China has sought to advance its strategic interests across the world, with growing intensity and sophistication. Yet previous administrations all but ignored Chinas actions  and in many cases, they abetted them. But those days are over, Pence asserted.
Under President Trumps leadership, the US interests have been defended with renewed American strength, he claimed.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Image Expo-2018 at BMICH
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2018 01:01 am
Image Expo-2018 at BMICH
	
Image Expo 2018, the photography equipment festival organised by the CameraLK was launched at the BMICH yesterday. The exhibition, which would be held until tomorrow, brings all leading brands and companies in the industry under one roof. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel





 
		
==============================
## Title: It is better to fail than to cheat
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
It is better to fail than to cheat
	
Yesterday was World Teachers Day, with the theme being The right to education means the right to a qualified teacher. The United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in a statement says October 5 marks the anniversary of the adoption of the 1966 International Labour Organization-UNESCO recommendation concerning the status of teachers. 
According to UNESCO, this recommendation sets benchmarks regarding the rights and responsibilities of teachers. It also sets standards for their initial preparation and further education, recruitment, employment, teaching and learning conditions. The recommendation concerning the status of higher-education teaching personnel was adopted in 1997 to complement the 1966 recommendation by covering teaching and research personnel in higher education. 
With the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goal 4 on education, and the dedicated target (SDG 4.c) recognizing teachers as key to the achievement of the Education 2030 agenda, World Teachers Day has become the occasion to mark progress and reflect on ways to counter the remaining challenges for the promotion of the teaching profession. 
UNESCO says this years theme was chosen to mark the 70th anniversary of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where education is recognized as a key fundamental right. A right that cannot be fulfilled without qualified teachers. 
One of the main challenges is the continued shortage of teachers. There are an estimated 264 million children and youth still out of school globally, and according to the UNESCO Institute of Statistics, the world needs to recruit almost 69 million new teachers to reach the 2030 education goal of universal primary and secondary education. This teacher gap is more pronounced among vulnerable populations, girls, children with disabilities, refugee or migrant children and poor children living in rural or remote areas. 
Trained and qualified teachers are fundamental to the right to education. World Teachers Day is co-convened in partnership with the United Nations International Childrens Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the ILO and Education International. 
These UN organizations say as we celebrate, the teachers important contributions to improving the lives of children and youth around the world, they reaffirm their commitment to increasing the global supply of qualified teachers. They have urged all governments and the international community to join them in this endeavour, so that all children and young people, no matter their circumstances, can secure their right to quality education and a better future. 
In Sri Lanka, the coalition government has made a significant budgetary allocation for education but the lack of qualified teachers and principals in addition to the curse of excessive tuition are also a major problem. Party politics appears to be one of the main reasons for this. Recently, the Education Ministry appointed hundreds of new teachers and principals but the appointments were suspended by the President following protest that party politics was involved. The government is also working on the vision of making the nearest school the best school. While some progress has been made, reaching this ideal situation, may take years because it involves a changing parents mindset that the big national schools are the best schools. Sometimes parents cheat by changing addresses or by giving huge bribes or donations, perhaps not realizing they are teaching their children, that it is not wrong, to give bribes in the form of donations or to change addresses. The children are not taught the important lifes lesson that it is better to fail than to cheat. 
Another important step taken by the government is to ensure that all children have at least 13 years of education. Even if they fail at the general certificate of education (ordinary level examination) they could proceed to higher education by opting for one or more of about twenty vocational training subjects offered at the higher education level. High technology is one of the areas open to them. Thereby they could get productive jobs with high salaries. This is a part of the governments plan to build a just, peaceful and all inclusive society and we hope party politicians will not sabotage this mission to bring about multi-racial and multi-religious unity in diversity. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Late Major General Janaka Perera and Mrs. Wajira Perera Remembering Ammi and Thaththi
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
Late Major General Janaka Perera and Mrs. Wajira Perera Remembering Ammi and Thaththi
	
On this day ten years ago, our parents were taken from this world alongside thirty other innocent civilians in the city of Anuradhapura in a senseless violent suicide bombing. There were no warnings and no goodbyes. While it was the worst day for us in our lives, dwelling on that act does not take away the pain inflicted in the minds of the families of all those who are no longer here, including us.
As such, instead of giving that horrible act prominence, we choose to remember our parents, Maj. Gen. Janaka Perera and Mrs. Wajira Perera -- to us, Ammi and Thaththi -- who were larger than life itself. They were both such vibrant and positive contributors to the world in general and Sri Lanka in particular. The world is certainly a bleaker place for their loss.

Ammi was no less a patriot and had the same sense of strength of character and honour as Thaththi
Our parents were true patriots, dedicated to the betterment of Sri Lanka. Our father was not only held in high esteem publicly, he was adored by us at home. Most people only saw his public persona of duty, decency, reliability, honour, dignity and respect. They were not lucky enough to see the funny, relaxed and playful father and husband he was to us and to our mother. He never resisted the opportunity to have a laugh with friends and loved ones, given half the chance. His generosity was only second to our mothers. While we are proud of all his achievements in life, we truly miss this amazing man who taught us to stand up for what we believe in and always be proud of who you are.
He was a decorated military man, proud of his over 40 years of service to Sri Lanka, first in the military, then later in life, through his diplomatic and brief political career. Thaththi was considered one of the most distinguished army generals in Sri Lankan history. After retiring from the army, be served as the Sri Lankan High Commissioner to Australia and thereafter as Ambassador to Indonesia. He was later elected as the leader of the opposition of the North Central Provincial Council, during a brief political career, which was cut short by an act of terror. He received many commendations for his exemplary military career and his significant roles in suppressing the JVP insurrection in his early career, to the many roles he played in combating the LTTE terror during the most difficult periods of the Sri Lankan civil war. He had the unique distinction of being the Colonel Commandant of the then newly-established Commando Regiment, the Special Forces Regiment and the Corps of Sri Lanka Engineers.

Ammi was such a vibrant soul. One who literally lit up the room whenever she entered. She was so full of joy and love. She was as dedicated to Thaththi as hewas to her

Among his commendations were the awards for gallantry, Rana Wickrama Padakkama and Rana Sura Padakkama, distinguished service medals, the Vishista Seva Vibhushanaya, long service medals, Uttama Seva Padakkama, Sri Lanka Armed Services Long Service Medal, foreign service medal, Videsha Seva Padakkama. combat service medals Purna Bhumi Padakkama, North and East Operations Medal, the campaign medals, Vadamarachchi Operation Medal and the Riviresa Campaign Services Medal as also, the Republic of Sri Lanka Armed Services and the Presidents Inauguration Medal. Although he was appointed Chief of Staff of the Sri Lanka Army, same year, he was subsequently bypassed for promotion as Army Commander, prompting his resignation in 2001, which led to his diplomatic and political careers. Thaththis military and diplomatic achievements would not have been possible without the love and support he received from our mother. Ammi was no less a patriot and had the same sense of strength of character and honour as Thaththi. She was one of the first six women officers to join the Sri Lanka Army Womens Corps in 1982 and she trained at the Womens Royal Army Corps College in England. While her military career was not as extensive as Thaththis, she was still able to pave the way for other young women to follow and join the military during those difficult times.

Our father was not only held in high esteem publicly, he was adored by usat home

Ammi was such a vibrant soul. One who literally lit up the room whenever she entered. She was so full of joy and love. She was as dedicated to Thaththi as he was to her. Being the wife of Maj. Gen. Janaka Perera, a public figure, was probably not very easy, but Ammi handled it with grace. We believe Ammi was the most beautiful woman to ever live, not because of her physical appearance, though she was strikingly-beautiful. It was her heart and her mind that were truly remarkable. She was generous, warm and loving to everyone she met, and made every person feel so special. We have so many memories of loving moments, hugs, kisses and laughter with Ammi at the centre of it, that its hard to pick a favourite time or moment. Anyone lucky enough to meet our mother was instantly drawn to her.
Ammi taught us to always be strong and to love without condition. She was the true heart of our family, making sure everyone was taken care of and the house ran quite smoothly with her guidance and leadership. Thaththi progressed up the ranks throughout his career, but Ammi was the Queen and Commander in Chief from the day she married him. They were a great team, always together and supporting each other. In the end, that is how they left this earth. Even though it was a suicide bomber who took them away from us, they were together in death, just as much as they were in their lives.

He received many commendations for his exemplary military career and his significant roles in suppressing the JVP insurrection

As we remember and commemorate their lives, our Ammi and Thaththi, the two souls whose lives were brought to an end too soon, but whose lives brought joy and fulfilment to many, let us remember their legacy and remember to love without condition and live without regret. That is the motto which they lived with, throughout their lives times!
We love you and miss you both, Ammi and Thaththi. Your loss to us is irreparable!
Janukshi Shehara and Ashanka
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lion cub nursed by female Labrador
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2018 05:20 am
Lion cub nursed by female Labrador
	
An incident that had occurred for the first time in Sri Lanka in 2014 was revealed yesterday, where a Lion cub from the Dehiwela Zoological Gardens was taken care of at a private home in Moratuwa and fed by the owner's female Labrador after the lioness had disowned this cub. Pics courtesy: Heshan Mendis 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Maithri, MR meeting at SLFP MPs residence
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 09:58 pm
Maithri, MR meeting at SLFP MPs residence
	
A meeting between President Maithripala Sirisena and former president Mahinda Rajapaksa had reportedly taken place at a residence of one of the SLFP MPs in Colombo recently, political sources said.
They said the meeting could lead to a change in the political landscape of the country. However, what was discussed at the meeting is not known.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mitigating economic, political crises: UPFA committee to work out strategies
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 08:20 am
Mitigating economic, political crises: UPFA committee to work out strategies
	
The United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) led by President Maithripala Sirisena has appointed a committee to work out the steps to be taken to mitigate the current political and economic crises in Sri Lanka and submit a report in a week, a party official said yesterday.
The UPFA executive committee met on Thursday. Its main constituent party is the SLFP.
Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP) leader and MP Dinesh Gunawardane, who attended the meeting, told Daily Mirror that the committee comprised representatives from the UPFA allies.
He said the alleged plot to assassinate President Sirisena and former defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa was also discussed at the meeting.
The committee will study how to conduct the elections to the provincial councils as early as possible along with other issues such as the economic crisis and the political crisis. It will report to the executive committee in a week, the MP said.
Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera and Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva represent the SLFP. The others are, Ceylon Workers Congress leader Arumugam Thondaman, National Congress leader A.L.M. Athaullah, former Ministers S.B. Dissanayake and Susil Premajayantha.
Representatives from the two smaller parties -- Desa Vimukthi Janatha Party and the Sri Lanka Mahajana Party are also in the committee. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: No president for SLMC two months after post fell vacant: GMOA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 03:30 pm
No president for SLMC two months after post fell vacant: GMOA
	
The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) yesterday said the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) was without a president as one hadn't been appointed even though two months had lapsed since the post fell vacant.
Former SLMC president Prof. Colvin Gunarathne tendered his resignation to Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne on July 31, owing to several shortcomings attached to the healthcare system.
GMOA Assistant Secretary Dr. Naveen De Soyza told Daily Mirror that it was the responsibility of Minister Senaratne to appoint a new president to the SLMC following the resignation of Prof. Gunarathne. However, Minister Senaratne was attempting to go forward by making amendments to the Medical Ordinance. The delay in appointing a new president to the SLMC is yet another attempt by the minister to paralyze the SLMC, a move that puts the entire healthcare system in the country into jeopardy, he said.
The authorities should appoint a new president to the SLMC without further delay, he added. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Norway lauds SL's reconciliation efforts
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 6 October 2018 06:55 am
Norway lauds SL's reconciliation efforts
	
Norwegian Foreign Affairs Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide yesterday praised Sri Lanka's efforts in bringing about reconciliation and said the country had set an example to the whole world.
She said this when she met Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and the visiting delegation.
The Prime Ministers office said Ms. Soreide pledged Norways fullest support for Sri Lankas reconciliation efforts and that both parties had highlighted the need for improving economic, political and diplomatic ties between the two countries.
She pledged Norways support for the development of Sri Lanka's fisheries sector and the proposed University of Police and Crime.
Meanwhile, Ms. Soreide in a twitter message said that at the meeting with Premier Wickremesinghe, she discussed the importance of continuing political and economic reforms in Sri Lanka, bilateral ties between the two countries and Sri Lanka's engagements with the UN. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President Sirisena Pressured Into Backtracking At UN In New York
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:03 am
President Sirisena Pressured Into Backtracking At UN In New York
	

By
D.B.S. Jeyaraj
The perplexing political conduct of Sri Lankan President Pallewatte Gamaralalage Maithripala Yapa Sirisena has in recent times defied many norms and values of conventional politics.

The turns, twists and turnarounds of the President are unfathomable to many. So uncertain have been Maithripalas political moves and manoeuvres that the only certainty about Sirisena that anyone could be certain about is his uncertainty. He has been consistent in his inconsistency.
Many are his topsy-turvy contradictions and somersaults. A singular hallmark of his many pronouncements is the tendency to give warning in strong language of stern action being contemplated by him against those whom he perceives as evil-doers. He threatened to use his Sword
against corrupt elements. He wanted to re-introduce capital punishment against habitual sex offenders. After all the verbal fire and oral fury nothing ever happened. The people are kept in the dark about proposed presidential action. We do not know whether he drew blood or not. We dont know whether he twirled his sword or not. We dont know whether he has sheathed his sword or not. In fact we dont even know whether he ever drew his kaduwa as promised or not. The initial sounds of threatened action end in total silence. Not even the proverbial whimper after a bang. At the end of it all we are left wondering as to why he softened his earlier hard position or whether he ever did really have a hardened stance in the first place and whether all the heat he emitted was only make believe.
The latest in this long line of NATO (No Action Talk Only) examples is the Presidents declaration in Colombo of what he proposed to do at the 73rd United Nations General assembly meeting and what he actually delivered in New York. The hiatus between pledge and performance was vast indeed. President Sirisenas mighty roar in Colombo turned into a virtual pipsqueak in New York. How and why this transformation came about is an interestingly illuminating tale indeed.
President Sirisena publicly revealed the essence of what he proposed to do at the UN conclave at a meeting with Media heads and Editors at a meeting held in Colombo on September 14th 2018. Instead of relying on media reports about what transpired at the meeting I will quote from the official communique issued by the Presidential secretariat itself on what happened. Here are the relevant excerpts: 
At the 73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly on September 25, President Maithripala Sirisena will announce a set of new proposals for consideration at the March 2019 session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHCR). He will also submit these proposals to the United nations Secretary General Antnio Guterres as well as Un High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet. The President expects to meet both of them during his New York visit, in two weeks time.
Addressing the Media Heads, newspaper editors and Heads of audio visual media institutions at the Presidents House in Colombo today (Sept 14), the President said that the proposals aimed at solving issues and providing relief without causing harm to the pride of the security forces and safeguard independence, sovereignty and national security. Furthermore these proposals would facilitate harmonious solutions to remaining issues with regard to the alleged acts of both sides during the conflict.

United Nations General Assembly
The President said that he would present the proposals to the UN General Assembly on September 25 and also intended to hand it over in writing to the new UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, who he is expected to officially meet for the first time on the sidelines of the UNGA.
The above excerpts indicate clearly that President Sirisena was planning to unveil a set of new proposals for consideration at the United Nations General assembly in New York. He wanted the proposals to be discussed at the forthcoming March 2019 session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHCR). He also intended to submit those proposals to the United Nations Secretary - General Antnio Guterres as well as UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet while in New York.The President emphasized that the proposals would facilitate harmonious solutions to remaining issues with regard to the alleged acts of both sides during the conflict.

There have been some instances where President Sirisena has been accused by members of the opposition of directly intervening and preventing or delaying the arrests of certain suspects

It has been patently discernible for quite some time that President Sirisena has been extremely concerned and somewhat agitated over the arrests, detentions and ongoing legal action against members of the armed forces over criminal offences allegedly committed outside the arena of war. Most of the alleged offences related to matters like assassination, abduction for ransom, abduction and torture that had nothing to do with the war against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). In some cases the victims were journalists. 
There have been some instances where President Sirisena has been accused by members of the Opposition of directly intervening and preventing or delaying the arrests of certain suspects. In fairness to President Sirisena it must be said that he did not condone the alleged offenders. His objection apparently was to the manner adopted in arresting ,detaining and interrogating. Arresting and detaining security personnel for lengthy periods for the purpose of interrogation without filing indictments irked Maithripala. He was particularly annoyed over the anticipated arrest of former Navy chief and present Chief of Defence Staff , Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne,So perturbed has President Sirisena been of the wrongful manner in which members of the armed forces were being treated that he even held an emergency cabinet meeting on September 13th to discuss the issue. 

Sinhala and Tamil Schools of Thought
Apart from his discomfiture over the arrests of defence services personnel, President Sirisena also faces political pressure from two different quarters on related matters. One type of pressure is from the Sinhala school of thought opposing the notion of legal action being taken against serving or former members of the armed forces over alleged human rights violations,war crimes or crimes against humanity. This school of thought propagates the viewpoint that all service personnel or ex-service personnel who fought in the war against the LTTE are War Heroes above reproach possessing a special kind of immunity. Besides the policy adopted officially during the war was zero civilian casualties. Former president Mahinda Rajapaksa went on record saying our soldiers fought with a weapon as in one hand and the UN Human Rights charter in the other with hearts full of love and food on the backs for the people. In that context this school of thought opines that no violations or crimes took place and the Govt has betrayed the armed forces by co-sponsoring the UN resolution of October 3oth 2015.
The second form of pressure is from the Tamil school of thought which re-iterates the demand for accountability and the need to investigate allegations of human rights violations,war crimes and crimes against humanity. In order to have credibility of being just and fair, the judicial processes must have international participation. This school of thought feels true reconciliation is possible only if such alleged offences are genuinely probed and justice is done. At the same time in what appears to be an ironic contradiction , the Tamil school of thought wants all Tamils convicted or undergoing trial or being detained over violent acts or alleged offences to be released. The war ended nearly ten years ago and these incarcerated or detained persons should be released is their stance. The detenues themselves have been engaging in several protests for their release. Likewise family members and concerned citizens have also frequently demonstrated in support of their release.
In one more indication of the fractured state of the Sri Lankan nation this issue is viewed in opposite directions by significant sections on either side of the ethnic divide. To many Sinhalese the armed services are heroes and therefore must be treated as holy cows. But to many Tamils not all members of the armed services are war heroes. Some at least - if not all - have committed alleged war crimes and human rights violations. To many Tamils those convicted or being detained for allegedly committing acts of violence are all politicalprisoners who need to be released. But to many Sinhalese they are not political prisoners but terrorists who have committed or allegedly committed violent acts. There is significant backing for these viewpoints from the vociferous groups in both ethnicities. The rest of the people forming the Silent Majority within both the Sinhalese and Tamils remain silent but seem to sanction the respective viewpoints by their silence. Politicians on both sides assess the prevailing mood from different perspectives and exploit the issue to advance their different interests.
It is against this backdrop that President Sirisena in his wisdom had what he thought was a very good idea to satisfy both the Sinhala and Tamil schools of thought and also extricate the country from a tricky situation internationally. What he thought of was a grand amnesty to both sides that would absolve both the armed forces and LTTE from legal action or penalization in the future. He briefly referred to these ideas as a Mechanism he was envisaging at the emergency cabinet meeting on Sep 13th and instructed ministers to refrain from discussing it publicly. On the following days meeting with media heads and Editors the President revealed his plan to submit his new proposals to the UN during the course of his address to the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25th. He also said that he would incorporate these proposals in the form of a document and present them to both the UN Secretary -General and UN Human Rights Commissioner.

President Sirisena publicly revealed the essence of what he proposed to do at the UN conclave at a meeting with Media heads and Editors at a meeting held in Colombo on September 14th 2018

JHU Leader Champika Ranawaka
On the morning of September 16, Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA) leader and minister of National Integration, Reconciliation and Official Languages, Mano Ganesan issued a special announcement in Tamil. In that Mano Ganesan said that Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) leader and minister of Megapolis and Western Development, Champika Ranawaka had had discussions with him about declaring a general amnesty for those who were still under detention for alleged offences committed during the war. Minister Mano said that he and minister Champika were engaged in a series of discussions about how to progress forward instead of languishing in the past and that this round of talks was part of that process.
Ganesan said that Ranawaka would make a public announcement later in the day and expressed cautious optimism about waiting to see what he would say. Mano Ganesan further said that if a consensus could be built around a general amnesty concept a cabinet paper could be prepared and presented.
JHU leader and Cabinet minister Champika Ranawaka held a press conference later on September 16th and announced his plan of declaring a general amnesty to members and ex-members of the armed forces and ex-members of the LTTE. The JHU outlined a five point plan in this regard.
The five areas of the scheme were1.A classification/categorization of crimes by LTTE, military and para military groups currently in custody in terms of whether they were related to the conflict and whether they were in the pursuit of personal matters.
2. All military persons currently in custody in relation to war-related incidents should be give a general amnesty.
3.Similarly, the approximately 60 former LTTE cadres currently in custody should be released immediately on a general amnesty.
4. Charge immediately those who have been arrested on account of rape, abduction, murder etc.

5.Once all this is done, we should not return to this particular issue or aspect of the conflict.
It was proposed that the Government should appoint a committee comprising specialists under the aegis of the Attorney Generals Department, to identify differences between war crimes and the crimes committed for private motives, during the civil war. Ranawaka said the members of Tamil parties that helped the military should also be granted an amnesty under this.He further said that the consent of all the Tamil political parties should be secured in this regard.

In one more indication of the fractured state of the Sri Lankan nation this issue is viewed in opposite directions by significant sections on either side of the ethnic divide

When Champika Ranawaka came out with these suggestions regarding a general amnesty, there was much speculation in political circles that the JHU leader was being a mouthpiece of President Sirisena in this exercise. It was believed that a general amnesty to both sides was the basic framework of the mechanism President Sirisena was referring to in earlier meetings with ministers and media personnel. It was suspected that Champika Ranawaka was being used as a sounding board by Maithripala Sirisena to gauge the public mood and reception to this idea.

TNA Spokesman MA Sumanthiran
The JHU leader at the press conference had said that the consent of Tamil parties would be obtained for the 5 point plan but the response from the Tamil National Alliance(TNA) was negative. The premier political configuration of the Sri Lankan Tamils was opposed to the idea of equating the armed forces with ex-members of the LTTE. TNA spokesperson and Jaffna district parliamentarian M. A. Sumanthiran rejected the proposals outright. Sumanthiran pointed out in an interview with the Daily Mirror that Tamil political prisoners had been arrested and held up for long years as their cases were not over. They are being dragged on, he said. Sumanthiran said these prisoners had been arrested on forced confessions made by them and detained for a long time. He further stated the unidentified atrocities perpetrated by the military could not be equated with those of Tamil political prisoners. Sumanthiran suggested there should be a truth-seeking mechanism in place to trace the kind of crimes committed before considering any amnesty.
Meanwhile there was much concern and confusion in political and diplomatic circles about the what President Sirisena proposed to do at the UN in New York and how he would go about it. It was feared that the President would criticize the UN 30/1 resolution and call for it to be withdrawn or amended. Some were worried that he may announce Sri Lankas withdrawal from co-sponsorship unilaterally. Furthermore what President Sirisena envisaged seemed to be a complete U turn of what had been promised in his election manifesto as well as a partial reversal of what he had stated in his first address to the UN General Assembly in 2015. After all provision No 93 of President Sirisenas manifesto in the January 2015 election said that if elected, he would address issues of accountability through national independent judicial mechanisms. No Amnesty was proposed then
Moreover the proposal amounted to Sri Lanka backing out of what the country had committed itself to by co -sponsoring the US initiated resolution passed unanimously at the UNHRC in Geneva on October 30 2015. Any attempt to declare a general amnesty without adhering to the UN resolution amounted to Sri Lanka flouting its own co-sponsored resolution and not honouring its commitments. Besides the Sri Lankan Govt had committed itself fully to the UN resolution and co-sponsored it with the full knowledge and sanction of the head of Govt and state President Sirisena.

UN Resolution Key Provisions
Some of the key provisions (5 to 9) regarding Sri Lankas commitments are as follows - 
5. Recognizes the need for a process of accountability and reconciliation for the violations and abuses committed by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, as highlighted in the report of the Office of the High Commissioner on its investigation on Sri Lanka; 
6. Welcomes the recognition by the Government of Sri Lanka that accountability is essential to uphold the rule of law and to build confidence in the people of all communities of Sri Lanka in the justice system, notes with appreciation the proposal of the Government of Sri Lanka to establish a judicial mechanism with a special counsel to investigate allegations of violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law, as applicable; affirms that a credible justice process should include independent judicial and prosecutorial institutions led by individuals known for their integrity and impartiality; and also affirms in this regard the importance of participation in a Sri Lankan judicial mechanism, including the special counsels office, of Commonwealth and other foreign judges, defence lawyers and authorized prosecutors and investigators;
7. Encourages the Government of Sri Lanka to reform its domestic law to ensure that it can implement effectively its own commitments, the recommendations made in the report of the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, as well as the recommendations of the report of the Office of the High Commissioner,1 including by allowing for, in a manner consistent with its international obligations, the trial and punishment of those most responsible for the full range of crimes under the general principles of law recognized by the community of nations relevant to violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law, including during the period covered by the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission; 
8. Also encourages the Government of Sri Lanka to introduce effective security sector reforms as part of its transitional justice process, which will help to enhance the reputation and professionalism of the military and include ensuring that no scope exists for retention in or recruitment into the security forces of anyone credibly implicated through a fair administrative process in serious crimes involving human rights violations or abuses or violations of international humanitarian law, including members of the security and intelligence units; and also to increase training and incentives focused on the promotion and protection of human rights of all Sri Lankans;
9. Welcomes the recent passage by the Government of Sri Lanka of an updated witness and victim protection law and its commitment to review the law, and encourages the Government to strengthen these essential protections by making specific accommodations to protect effectively witnesses and victims, investigators, prosecutors and judges;

Procedural Difficulties at UN
President Sirisenas brainchild therefore was clearly going against the grain of the UN resolution co-sponsored by Sri Lanka regarding the need to probe alleged violations of International humanitarian law as well as alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity. Besides there were procedural difficulties in what President Sirisena proposed to do. Placing his own proposals before the UN by President Sirisena was easier said than done.Our sister paper the Sunday Times touched upon this aspect in an article. Here are relevant excerpts  The same sources said that besides incorporating his (Sirisena) proposals in his UNGA address due during the high level segment on Tuesday (September 25), the President was earlier expected to submit a document to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on the same matter. Yet, the question remained whether the UNHRC is bound to accept that document for discussion.For all purposes, it was to come from a country which is named in the US resolution  i.e. Sri Lanka. Hence, it is up to Sri Lankas representative, if indeed there were any proposals, to present the governments position for discussion at UNHRC session, said a Colombo-based diplomat who did not wish to be identified. There are no precedents in the Council for a head of state or government to present an overriding position before the Council on a resolution that has been adopted (unanimously) by member nations, the diplomat said.
Thus it could be seen that President Sirisenas well -intentioned plan to resolve a prickly issue was likely to create more problem rather than provide solutions. There was trepidation that the president would lash out at the UN openly and call for the removal of some provisions in the UN resolution. There was a fear that he would announce a unilateral withdrawal of co-sponsorship of the UN resolution by Sri Lanka. Events however began over taking.
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) instead of reacting passively to the presidents unorthodox moves adopted a proactive stance. The TNA faces political difficulties within its support base due to its perceived affinity towards the Sirisena--Wickremesinghe Goernment. The TNA lost more than 40% of the votes it garnered at the 2015 August Parliamentary elections at the recent Local Authority elections in February 2018. The TNA may face further problems if rival political parties form a common front with controversial Northern chief minister CV Wigneswaran spearheading it at a future poll. If President Sirisena went through with his U turn at the UN, that would be detrimental to the TNA. Wigneswaran and other hawkish cohorts could exploit it to their advantage if and when Provincial elections are held.

TNA Diplomatic Counter Offensive
Thus the TNA without any fanfare or fuss began interacting with diplomats from Western nations in Colombo and also with officials in charge of Sri Lankan affairs in their respective countries. The TNA also interacted with UN officials. In addition to this diplomatic counter offensive, the TNA also communicated with Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe on the issue and explained they would have to change their political stance if President Sirisena went ahead with his plans. The TNA would have no choice other than to adopt a confrontational course with the Govt. This would mean voting against the Govt on the Budget. It must be noted that the TNA has voted for the budget ever since the coalition Govt assumed office and has been criticized by many for it. Furthermore with rumours circulating about political moves being undertaken by the Mahinda Rajapaksa camp to defeat the Govt during budget vote this year, the role of the TNA could prove crucial if large -scale defections from Govt ranks are engineered.
Under these circumstances a high -powered diplomatic delegation comprising representatives from Europe and North America met with President Sirisena and briefed him in detail about the ramifications and implications of what he proposed to do. They impressed upon him that the salient provisions of the UN resolution initiated by the US and co-sponsored by Sri Lanka would be negated if the president went ahead with his plans. If that happened Sri Lanka would be viewed as having flouted the UN resolution co-sponsored by it. This could have many repercussions including a review of GSP plus concessions. Notwithstanding the Donald Trump presidency, the US may respond strongly. It may also result in very harsh measures being mooted against Lanka at the UNHRC next year.Therefore President Sirisena was respectfully urged to re-consider his position.

On another level Prime Minister Wickremesinghe had an unpublicized meeting with President Sirisena where this issue was discussed in full. Despite the prevailing differences of opinion between the President and Premier on many counts both Maithripala and Ranil held frank and cordial talks on the matter, President Sirisena listened attentively to what the Prime Minister said. Although he gave no word about what he proposed to do, it appeared that the president had now realized the potential fall-out of his contemplated action and was having second thoughts.

Cabinet Minister Mano Ganesan
Meanwhile TPA leader and cabinet minister Mano Ganesan also began having second thoughts about accompanying the Presdent to the UN in New York. Though Ganesan was receptive to the idea mooted by Ranawaka about an amnesty for Tamil political prisoners the shrewed Colombo district MP realized the negative consequences of the UN resolution being flouted by the President in New York. Ganesan was reluctant to be a part of the Govt delegation in that context. Minister Ganesan met with Prime Minister Wickremesinghe and discussed the situation. The PM however urged the minister to proceed to New York and expressed confidence that the President would not rock the boat as feared. Ranil also told Mano that he was representing the Tamil community within the delegation and stressed upon the importance of going to New York. The PM suggested to the minister that he could discuss the matter further with the President enroute to the US.
President Sirisena departed from Sri Lanka on Sep 22nd to attend the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York. The theme of the 73rd UNGA was Making the United Nations Relevant to All People: Global Leadership and Shared Responsibilities for Peaceful, Equitable and Sustainable Societies. President Sirisena who had attended the UNGAs of 2015, 2016 &2017 was going for the 4th consecutive time to the UN in New York. Among those who accompanied President Sirisena were Cabinet ministers Rajitha Senaratne, Tilak Marapane, Champika Ranawaka, Mano Ganesan, Central Province Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake, State Minister Palitha Range Bandara and UNP parliamentarian S.M. Marikkar. 
During the flight between Doha and NY, ministers Rajitha Senaratne and Mano Ganesan spent a lot of time talking with the President. One of the topics they delved into in detail was President Sirisenas plan to submit new proposals to the UN. Both ministers urged caution and restraint. Sirisena did not commit himself either way to both and kept playing his cards close to his chest. Although the president kept mum, saner counsel had prevailed even before he had embarked on the flight. After the talks with the diplomats and Prime Minister, the President had communicated with a few trusted, knowledgeable persons and discussed the issue further. Thereafter President Sirisena decided to abandon his objective of announcing an amnesty as a reconciliation mechanism at the UNGA in New York. The necessary changes were made in the text of his address. The documents prepared to be given to the UN Sec-Gen and UN Human Rights chief became redundant.

President Sirisena Issues Clarion Call
President Maithripala Sirisena addressed the UN General assembly on Sep 25th(Sep 26th morning Sri Lanka time). There was no mention of a new set of proposals for the consideration of the UN in his speech.There were no references to a general amnesty for members of the armed forces and Ex-LTTE members either. Expected crackers at the UN had become damp squibs. There was no bang. The anticipated roar had turned into a virtual bleat.
However President Sirisena did issue a clarion call to the International community in his speech. He called upon the international community to look at Sri Lanka with a fresh perspective and consider the tremendous progress made by the government towards reconciliation, restoration of democratic freedoms, human rights and the rule of law and extend the fullest support to the build a progressive, democratic, free and equal society. President Sirisena said, Sri Lanka is taking action to consolidate peace and forge ahead to develop the economy, and such a nation deserves the support and understanding of the international community. I urge the international community to allow Sri Lankan people to solve their problems on their own. As an independent country we do not want any foreign power to exert influence on us. We want to appeal to the international community to give us the room to resolve the problems that we are facing so that the right of the Sri Lankan people to find solutions to their problems is respected said President Sirisena.
After the UN speech was concluded, President Sirisena met with the cabinet ministers who went along with him to New York. He placed his arm around Mano Ganesans shoulder and asked him in Sinhala Minister Mano Ganesan, Nothing controversial in my speech no You are satisfied now. Mano Ganesan concurred with the president and then quipped in Sinhala  Mr. President, you wanted the international community to look upon Sri Lanka with a fresh perspective. But you did not say what the new perspective should be. Please explain about the new perspective after we return to Sri Lanka amidst laughter all round. When the news of President Sirisenas speech became known in Sri Lanka there was much relief in political and diplomatic circles.
Later Mano Ganesan was to post this exchange on his Facebook. More importantly he stated in Tamil Unmayil Janaadhipathy Aatra Vantha Urai Ithuvalla. Aanaal Iruthi Thinangalil Urai vadivam Maatrappattathu. Athu Eppadi, Aen endra vibarangalai pahirangamaaha Solla mudiyaathu. Sonnaalum Palarukkup Puriyaathu. (Actually this was not the speech that the President intended delivering first. The text of the speech was changed in the final days. I am unable to relate in public how or why this happened. Even if I do so many people wont be able to understand)

Leonine Roar Became Caprine Bleat
This then is the story of President Sirisenas plan for a general amnesty to the armed forces and LTTE as part of a mechanism to bring about reconciliation without foreign interference. Though he indicated in Sri Lanka that he would reveal details in his address to the UN General assembly that did not happen. The anticipated leonine roar became a caprine bleat. Whatever his intentions, it became clear through his actions, that it is not so easy to change positions on matters where solemn commitments have been made to the international community. Sri Lanka crossed the rubicon when it co-sponsored the US initiated US resolution in the UNHRC on October 30, 2015. This is the stark reality that cannot be lost sight of.
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Roads flooded in Colombo
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 6 October 2018 02:12 pm
Roads flooded in Colombo
	
Several roads in Colombo including Armour street and Gallface Green were flooded because of heavy rains experienced today. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: S. Korea ex-president Lee jailed for 15 years over corruption
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
S. Korea ex-president Lee jailed for 15 years over corruption
	

SEOUL AFP Oct5, 2018-Former South Korean president Lee Myung-bak was jailed for 15 years for corruption Friday, becoming the latest of the countrys ex-leaders to be sent to prison. 
The 76-year-old CEO-turned-president, who served from 2008 to 2013, was found guilty on charges including bribery and embezzlement and ordered to pay a fine of 13 billion won ($11.5 million) by the Seoul Central District Court. 
Bringing everything into consideration, heavy punishment for the accused is inevitable, said a judge during the trial that was live televised. 
Lee was not in attendance, citing ill-health. 
The former South Korean leader was indicted in April on 16 charges that included bribery, embezzlement and abuse of power. 
The court found that Lee was the de-facto owner of DAS -- a controversial auto parts company which he claimed was his brothers -- which he used to create slush funds of around 24 billion won. 
Lee was also found guilty of accepting nearly six billion won from Samsung Electronics in return for a presidential pardon for its chairman Lee Kun-hee, who was jailed for tax evasion.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two killed by gunmen in India
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:00 am
Two killed by gunmen in India
	

Hindustan Times (Srinagar), Oct 05, 2018-Unidentified gunmen killed two men in Kanikadal locality of Srinagars old city on Friday, three days before the first phase of local body elections in Kashmir, police said.

A senior police officer told the Hindustan Times two people were dead and that they are investigating the incident. The area has been cordoned off to track the attackers. 
Local residents said gunmen shot at two civilians in Kanikadal and injured three people, who were referred to a hospital where two succumbed to their injuries. 
The dead have been identified as Nazir Ahmad and Mushtaq Ahmad while Shakeel Ahmad has been injured. 
They said both the dead men were affiliated to the National Conference. So far, NC has not confirmed whether the dead people were associated with the party.  The Kashmir valley will go to polls on Monday in the first phase of the local body elections.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US Senate braces for key vote  on embattled court nominee
## Section: International
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:01 am
US Senate braces for key vote  on embattled court nominee
	

The US Senate girded Friday for a critical, too- close-to-call vote on moving ahead with the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, as Republicans brushed aside complaints by Democrats that a new FBI probe of sexual assault allegations against him was rushed and incomplete. 
A final vote could come Saturday on President Donald Trumps embattled candidate, who if approved would seal a conservative majority on the nine-seat court for decades.  It is not a done deal, however. Republicans hold a 51-49 majority in the chamber and three of their members are seen as undecided on Kavanaugh, as a confirmation process that has gripped the city and the nation and aggravated already deep political divisions reaches its climax with just weeks to go before mid-term elections.
Under new rules approved last year, 50 votes are needed for victory in Fridays procedural vote. It is on ending debate on the confirmation and moving to a formal and definitive confirmation vote.

The vote is expected around 10:30 am (1430 GMT). That same threshold of 50 also applies to the final confirmation vote. Thursday was a day of high drama and emotion in Washington:
protesters swamped Capitol Hill and roamed the corridors of the Senate to lobby lawmakers who took turns in a secure basement room reviewing a single copy of the new FBI report on Kavanaugh.
 WASHINGTON AFP
Oct5, 2018
 
		
==============================
## Title: Venerable Walmoruwe Piyarathana Thera An erudite and scholarly monk
## Section: News Features
## Date: 6 October 2018 12:07 am
Venerable Walmoruwe Piyarathana Thera An erudite and scholarly monk
	
Yo Hothi Viyaththocha Visaradhocha
Bahussutho Dhammarocha Hothi
Dhammassa Hothi Anudhammachari
Sa Thadhiso Vuchchathi Sangasobheno

The above quote reflects that any priest who is versatile, eminent and eloquent should adorn the Buddha Sasana and possess deep knowledge on Dhamma.
Being the first foreign Professor at the Chulalankoon Royal University in Thailand, Ven. Piyarathana Thera possesses the above virtues. Despite obstacles and hardships, the prelate has held many key positions in diverse fields. He is an erudite personality in the Theriya Bhikkhu Sasana.
The appointment of Ven. Walmoruwe Thera to the post of professor is a blessing for the advancement of the Sri Lankan Buddhist society. It also underpins the platform for the enhancement of theBuddha Sasana.

Appointment of Ven. Walmoruwe Thera to the post of professor is a blessing for the advancement ofthe Sri Lankan Buddhist society
Born in 1974, Priyantha Kumara was the youngest son of Muthubanda and Heen Amma Dissanayake of Walmoruwe in the Matale District. He had his primary education at Walmoruwa Primary School and St. Thomas College in Matale. He was ordained as a samanera (novice monk) in October 1987, under the tutelage of Ven. Malpitiya Somarathane Thera and Ven. Malpitiya Wimalaratne Thera. Following the demise of the then Chief Incumbent Ven. Malpitiya Somaratne Thera, Ven. Malpitiya Wimalaratne Thera succeeded and guided Ven. Piyarathana Thera to the Madanwala Pirivena, a well-known institution for oriental languages. In 1996, the prelate was granted the state of Upasampada from the Asgiri Vihara and subsequently entered the Peradeniya University. On the recommendations of Ven. Henepola Nandasiri Thera, Ven. Piyaratne Thera was appointed as a teacher to the Asgiriya ViharaPirivena in 2001. He obtained a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Sanskrit from the Buddhist and Pali University. The Thera was fortunate to serve as a probationary lecturer in Pali and Buddhism in the Peradeniya University. At the time, having won a scholarship to study for the Masters Degree in Pali and Buddhism, the prelate left for Thailand in 2003. Ven. Piyarathana Thera got this opportunity as a result of the introduction to the Vice Chancellor of Chulalankoon University by Ven. Udagama Buddharakkitha of the Asgiriya Chapter. Having obtained the Master of Arts Degree from the Chulalankoon Universityin Thailand in 2005, he also won a special scholarship in 2007 to read for the doctorate at the same university. In the meantime, Ven. Piyarathana Thera worked as a lecturer in the Chulalankoon University and on a request made by Professor Kabil Abhayawansa, he commenced work at the International Buddhist University. Having obtained the PhD, Ven. Piyarathana Thera became a permanent lecturer at the Maha Chulalankoon University in Thailand. On August 6 this year, the prelate was appointed as an assistant professor to the Maha Chulalankoon Royal University.

As a beautiful flower blooms from a heap of trash, the prelate shines with knowledge of virtues amongst the mean, blind, low and living being
As a beautiful flower blooms from a heap of trash, according to the words of Buddha, the prelate shines with knowledge of virtues amongst the mean, blind, low and living being. Professor Ven. Piyarathana Thera is a great monk who has imparted enormous knowledge and virtues for the enrichment of Buddhists. May he be blessed with good health and happiness to serve the Buddha Sasana!
Ven. Gawaragiriye Pemarathana Thera (M.Aa), Royal College, Colombo 7
 
		
==============================