## Title: A political fairy tale
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
A political fairy tale
	
Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte pictured at the Elysee Palace in Paris, France


We dont have a classic family, thats an undeniable reality. There is no less love in our family. Emmanuel Macron 


Emmanuel Macron, the former Economic Minster won the race for French presidency by a considerable margin, a groundbreaking triumph that launches the political beginners push to revamp Frances economy and reverse a wave of nationalism prevalent in the European Union. The term macron has a meaning Webster says; A mark - placed over a vowel to show that the vowel is long. 
Lets talk about Macron and his long vowel in real life and political drama. 
Macron, with his blue eyes and bright smile, hand in hand with his loving wife and close advisor, Brigitte Trogneux will walk into lyse Palace, the 18th century presidential residence in Paris in a few days. When Emmanuel met Brigitte at High school he was only 15, she was 24 years his senior and his teacher. Working together in producing dramas, two years later at 17 he vowed to marry the 41 year old teacher of speech and drama. Without her, I wouldnt be me, Macron now 39 affirmed after winning the first round of voting in April, 2017. Trogneux, 64 with seven grandchildren has become Frances first lady. Unlike in America, the spouses of French Presidents have customarily held no important roles in public affairs. 
He wants to give the idea that, if he was able to seduce a woman 24 years his senior and a mother-of-three children, in a small provincial town, without opprobrium and mockery, he can conquer France in the same way. --His biographer to BBC 

Brigitte Trogneux Macron, the Drama Teacher
The 39 year-old Emmanuel Macron who took over as the twenty-fifth President of the French Republic, is the youngest French President who is known to be a free-trade centrist defeated his rival far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen. Macron, who has been criticized as being technocratic, theoretical and sometimes lacking in sympathy baffled crowds at rallies with his lofty proposals. Macron has never contested an election before. He was trained in privileged French academies to become a top class civil administrator, but changed to a career in investment banking with Rothschild & Cie., at the peak of the financial catastrophe. 
Will the world wake up to welcome the sight of Macron, and the 64 year-old Brigitte Macron whos daughter from her first marriage was in the same class with her second husband at their school in Amiens in northern France. Certainly, the defeating of anti-immigrant, Putin-loving Marine Le Pen from the Presidential stakes for the control of the worlds third largest nuclear arsenal would be a welcome move. Brigitte Trogneux divorced the first husband to be with Macron, and they have ahead of them all the makings of a few classic real-life political drama. 
Gap of 24 years between the pair, the same as that between Donald and Melania Trump
Its because she is 24 years older than me that lots of people say, This cant be tenable, it cant be promising. If I had been 24 years older than my wife, nobody would have thought for a single second that I couldnt be an intimate partner, he said this in response to speculations about his sexuality and what he illustrated as parallel lives the media had attached to him. They stimulated the interest of the French print media. Giving an interview to a leading newspaper in Paris last year, she let some light on the early days of their courtship when she said, Emmanuel was only 17 when he said to me: Whatever happens, I will marry you!Trogneux left her husband and began a relationship with her former pupil, finally marrying him in 2007.
Unlike the 46-year-old Slovenia-born Americas first lady Melania Trump, who shun publicity or white house life with her husband Donald 71, the billionaire, who in a remarkable co-incidence is 24 years her senior, speculation rife that Brigitte Macron will go against tradition and accept an official position as First Lady, in government. When youre chosen president, you give your days and nights, you give your private life and your public life, Macron told media. In contrast with her precursors she will run an office. The person who lives with you must have a responsibility and be acknowledged in that role, with no emoluments he said. Being a former teacher, Brigittes main interests would be education and working for disadvantaged children. Macrons predecessor President Franois Hollande, whose term ended on May 14, 2017, assigned his wife/partner Valrie Trierweiler, a staff of five, at an annual cost of $265,000, whereas Nicolas Sarkozy, Former Presidents wife Carla Bruni had a team of advisers, costing taxpayers $ 489,000 a year. 
Brigittes eldest daughter, Laurence, is the same age as Macron. For years, they avoided the public eye, presumably aware that their unconventional marriage risked overshadowing Emmanuels lofty political plans. But since launching his presidential bid last year, having previously served for two years as economics minister in Francois Hollandes unpopular socialist government, something has shifted. She told the press, I have to pay attention to the whole thing, do the maximum to look after him. Every night we debrief jointly and we repeat what we have perceived about each other, Her three children, Sebastien, Laurence and Tiphaine, are having a close relationship with their stepfather and were seen campaigning for Macron bearing T-shirts; En Marche!
Mr. Macron, the 39-year-old former investment banker gained 65% of voters cast ballots. He has vowed to undertake controversial labour reforms as part of a push for larger economic convergence among the European Unions member states. 
Men want a woman who is grounded, confident and mature -- but they often cant find that in their own age bracket. On the flip side, women want a man who is ambitious, attentive and attractive. Given those variables, its only logical that the older woman-younger man relationship can actually work.-Anon
 
		
==============================
## Title: Final verdict looms for Concordia shipwreck captain
## Section: International
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
Final verdict looms for Concordia shipwreck captain
	
AFP, 12th MAY, 2017- The fate of the captain of the doomed Costa Concordia cruise liner hung in the balance Friday as his defence lawyers prepared to sum up and Italys highest court readied its ruling.
Schettino, dubbed Captain Coward by the press for abandoning the stricken ship during the 2012 nighttime disaster that killed 32 people, will be jailed if the court upholds his 16-year and one
month sentence.
His lawyers were set to open the hearing at the Court of Cassation in Rome, after which the judges will retire and consider whether to confirm the guilty verdict or order the case to be reviewed by a fresh appeals court.
Schettino, 56, was convicted in 2015 of multiple manslaughter, causing a maritime accident and abandoning ship before all passengers and crew had been evacuated.
He was not expected in court Friday. Lawyers said he would likely be at home in Meta di Sorrento near Naples, waiting for news.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Into the world of Black and White
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
Into the world of Black and White
	

Masterpieces in the most intricate and minutely detailed works covering a wide variety of topics, from the explicitly of nature to the most abstract of thoughts, sketches, patterns, designs and story-based theme art: this is the specialty of Ilham Sanoons niche talent. 
Within a short span of just three years, Ilham has accomplished a style uniquely his own, using dainty lines, the thinnest strokes and deep, detailed expressions which speak more than words could say. 
Join Ilham on his latest exhibition will be held on 19th May 2017 from 5.30 PM to 9.30 in association with Plt Loft Gallery and Ilhams own Blacklit Galleria.
The evenings Chief Guest will be the respected Rev. Marc Bil, the Warden of S. Thomas College, Mount Lavinia while the Guests of Honour would be Mrs. Ajantha Mendis and Ms. Shamalica Fonseka.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Journalist-Activist Poddala Jayanthas White-Van Ordeal
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:31 am
Journalist-Activist Poddala Jayanthas White-Van Ordeal
	
By D.B.S.Jeyaraj


The witch hunt against journalists depicted as enemies of the State continued unabated in Sri Lanka
	Poddala Jayantha was abducted by a gang in a white van on June 1, 2009 at about 4.30 pm in broad daylight near the Embuldeniya junction in Nugegoda

Well-known Sri Lankan Journalist-activist Poddala Jayantha was in the news last week when he sent a letter to the Director-General of Information, Dr. Ranga Kalansuriya, who is also the Secretary to the Cabinet Sub Committee on granting measures of relief to media persons who were subjected to various types of harassment and oppression during the period 2005 to 2015. Media reports said that copies of the letter had also been sent to the respective cabinet ministers serving in the cabinet sub-committee. 

Several people witnessed the shocking incident. Among them was someone who knew Jayantha personally. This person who also knew veteran journalist Bennet Rupasinghe, telephoned him and told him of the incident

Upon seeing the media reports, I contacted Poddala Jayantha now living in the USA to verify the contents of the media reports and ascertain whether they were accurate. Jayantha affirmed that they were correct and confirmed that he had indeed sent the letter to the cabinet subcommittee. He was not very hopeful whether his missive would produce the desired results but was of the opinion that an attempt has to be made anyway. 
Poddala Jayantha in his letter refers to the years 2005 to 2015 as a terrible period for journalists in Sri Lanka. Describing the nature of media suppression in the period between 2005 and 2015, the letter outlines a list of what happened then, journalist killings, abductions, infliction of torture, threats, attacks on media institutions, committing arson, filing cases on frame ups, bringing pressure to bear on businesses of the media Institutions, threatening to cancel the frequency of the electronic media, purchasing media Institutions by force through outsiders, providing various inducements to journalists and media Institutions and silencing them and other criminalities not mentioned herein shall be reckoned as part and parcel of this media suppression, the letter states. 
While welcoming the appointment of the sub-committee, Jayantha has raised the question, Will compensation payment alone to aggrieved journalists suffice to wash the hands off it What Poddala Jayantha fears (a view shared by this columnist also) is that the Government would not probe the period in question and mete out justice to victimised media personnel but wash its hands off the issue by paying adequate compensation to victims and their families. In the circumstances, just paying compensation to the victims of the crimes is not going to halt such crimes being committed in the future -- not by any means, emphasises Jayantha.What Poddala Jayantha requests from the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government is the appointment of a Special presidential commission vested with full powers to conduct an extensive and exhaustive investigation into the acts of commission and omission affecting journalists during those dark years. 
Poddala Jayanthas request or demand would no doubt strike a responsive chord in the hearts and minds of the scribe tribe in Sri Lanka. Besides, the request acquires much legitimacy and validity when a person of Poddala Jayanthas stature makes it. Jayantha is a living embodiment of all what went wrong for Sri Lankan journalists under the Rajapaksa regime. 

Poddala Jayantha was a home-grown journalist who stood up for freedom of expression and the rights of journalists as an active office-bearer of the Sri Lanka Working Journalists. Jayantha spoke the truth to those in power fearlessly and as a result he was horribly persecuted in the land of his birth. Poddala Jayantha was forced to flee Sri Lanka and seek refuge in the USA. I wrote about Jayanthas ordeal in 2009 when it happened but would like to re-visit the chain of incidents concerning him in a bid to focus on the plight of journalists in Sri Lanka in the not so distant past.


Enemies Of The State
It was June 2009. The war against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) had ended in a military victory for the armed forces of Sri Lanka. Several journalists on either side of the ethnic divide had been victimised by the powers-that-be in Sri Lanka while the war was on. Now with an uneasy peace prevailing many thought that the pressures on members of the fourth estate would gradually diminish in Lanka. Alas! That was not to be. The witch hunt against journalists depicted as enemies of the State continued unabated in Sri Lanka. 

There were six strong men like those who were in the military. Then they had cut my hair and beard and stuffed them into my mouth



The first post-war victim among Sri Lankan journalists was senior journalist and prominent media rights activist Poddala Jayantha. Poddala Jayantha as his name indicates hails from Poddala in the southern province. Poddala is a village about 119 km away from Colombo and about nine km from Galle. Jayantha was a sturdy son of the Ruhunu soil from a very poor family. His father was a tapper in a rubber estate while his mother was a tea plucker. Jayantha studied in the Sinhala medium and passed his A levels but failed to gain Varsity admission. Since his knowledge of English was very poor at that time, Jayantha could not get a good private sector job in Colombo. He started working as a security guard at Wijeya newspapers. While working as a security guard Jayantha began writing for the Ravaya. This was his entry into journalism. Later he became a full time journalist and joined the Dinamina at Lake House. He also became an ardent media rights activist and became an office-bearer in journalist associations and media movements. 
Poddala Jayantha was abducted by a gang in a white van on June 1, 2009 at about 4.30 pm in broad daylight near the Embuldeniya junction in Nugegoda. At the time of his white-vanning Jayantha was a senior journalist at Dinamina the Sinhala daily run by Lake House. He was also the General Secretary of Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association (SLWJA) and a key activist of the Free Media Movement (FMM) in Sri Lanka. On the day in question Jayantha telephoned his wife Kalyanie at about 4.15 pm and said he was on his way home. Jayantha was walking out of a pharmacy when a group of six men manhandled him and swiftly bundled him into a white Toyota Ace van. 
Several people witnessed the shocking incident. Among them was someone who knew Jayantha personally. This person who also knew veteran journalist Bennet Rupasinghe, telephoned him and told him of the incident. Bennet Rupasinghe had worked for many years at the Communist party newspaper Athha. He was later working as news editor of the Lanka e-news web portal. Rupasinghe then told his editor in chief and publisher Sanduruwan Senadheera about the incident. Senadheera and Rupasinghe then began telephoning people to alert them of the abduction. Since they feared for Jayanthas life both telephoned as many people as they could about the incident including different media personnel. The intention was to mount pressure on those responsible for ordering the abduction and make them release Poddala Jayantha safely. 
Bennet Rupasinghe at first telephoned the then Inspector-General of Police, Jayantha Wickremaratne and told him of the incident. Bennet also informed Jayanthas wife Kalyanie and advised her to rush to the Police station and make a formal complaint. She went with a lawyer cum journalist KW Janaranjana and another journalist Jayasiri Jayasekera to the Mirihana Police station and lodged a complaint. In her complaint she stated that Bennet Rupasinghe had informed her of the abduction. 
Meanwhile, a badly battered Poddala Jayantha was dumped into a muddy pit by the roadside near the IDH hospital. An injured Jayantha kept shouting for help saying he was a married man with a child. But the culture of fear that prevailed in Sri Lanka prevented anyone from coming to his help. A bleeding Jayantha with blood and mud on his rumpled and torn clothes hobbled on the road for a while and finally hailed a three-wheeler to go to hospital.


Intensive Care Unit
He was warded at the Intensive care unit at the Colombo National Hospital. After surgery he was transferred to a paying ward at the hospital. The abductors had blindfolded and beaten Jayantha with iron rods and wooden poles accusing him of being a traitor to the country. At one point the abductors had crushed three of his fingers with a wooden block saying he would not be allowed to write with his hand again. Jayantha had fainted at one stage. His leg and ankle were broken. In addition he suffered many injuries on the face, head, arms, legs and chest. 
In a further bid to humiliate Jayantha the cowardly abductors had shaved off parts of his beard and some of the hair on his head. The white van cowards had forced the hair down Jayanthas throat making him swallow it. Years later Poddala Jayantha was to describe his ordeal in an interview to our sister paper the Daily Financial Times thus: 

They dropped me on the floor and started assaulting me while the van was moving fast. They took a wooden log and kept it under my left leg and hit it with another wooden log to break the ankle

It was a narrow road and a white van was parked there. I never thought it was waiting for me. When I was passing the van, two men jumped from the van and dragged me in while another three who followed me pushed me into the van, which only had a backseat. They dropped me on the floor and started assaulting me while the van was moving fast. They took a wooden log and kept it under my left leg and hit it with another wooden log to break the ankle. 
With severe pain, I fell unconscious. After assaulting my unconscious body for some time, they had burnt my other leg with a cigarette lighter so I would regain consciousness to give me their last warning. While my body was in pain and burning I heard them threatening me not to appear on television channels against the Government and if I did so in future they would kill me like a dog next time. 
There were six strong men like those who were in the military. Then they had cut my hair and beard and stuffed them into my mouth. When I gained consciousness after I was dropped on the roadside, I couldnt shout for help as hair was clogged in my throat. I had a struggle to take the hair out as my hands were tied. I couldnt stand up because both my legs were damaged. Somehow I managed to pull some of the hair out of my mouth and shouted for help. 
At about the same time that Poddala Jayantha was being abducted and assaulted on June 1, 2009 , a delegation of journalist association representatives was having discussions with the then President Mahinda Rajapakse on problems faced by the media.The meeting had been arranged by the then FMM convener Chulwansa Sri Lal. Poddala Jayantha had refused to meet the President as part of the delegation saying it was pointless. Prasanna Fonseka of the SLWJA had attended the meeting instead of Jayantha. Among others present at the discussion were the Ravaya editor Victor Ivan and senior journalist Waruna Karunatilleke.The meeting was held to discuss the safety of journalists in Sri Lanka. There was concern about the campaign to malign some journalists on state media as being paid agents of the LTTE. 

Media Institution Friction
While discussions were on, news of Poddala Jayanthas abduction was conveyed to the then Transport minister Dullas Alahapperuma .When Alahapperuma informed Mahinda Rajapaksa of the incident a nonchalant Rajapaksa responded that he did not want to get involved in friction among media institutions. The cryptic comment about alleged media institution friction by Mahinda assumed greater significance due to subsequent developments. 
What happened then was that in a bizarre twist the Mirihana Police had gone in search of veteran journalist Bennet Rupasinghe instead of searching for the White van abductors. Rupasinghe was arrested at 8.00 pm on June 1 night and detained at the Police station for 18 hours till 2.00 pm on June 2. He was interrogated for hours about alleged discrepancies between his version of the abduction and the complaint made by Mr. Jayanthas spouse. 
Bennet Rupasinghe said during interrogation that he had been informing people of the incident with the approval of Mr. Senadheera. The Police then telephoned Sandaruwan Senadheera the editor-in-chief and publisher of Lanka e-news and asked him to come to the Police station. When Senadheera arrived there on June 2, his statement was also recorded. Both journalists were produced before the Nugegoda Chief Magistrate Vasantha Jinadasa by the Police special investigation unit. 
Police informed the magistrate that both journalists were key suspects in the case as they had been the first to inform Poddala Jayanthas wife of the incident. Lawyers Vidura P. Manchanayake and Manjula Pathiraja who appeared for the two journalists submitted that the journalists had had nothing to do with the incident but upon hearing of the abduction of Poddala Jayantha, informed his wife and advised her to lodge a complaint with the Police. 
Police also said that Rupasinghe and Senadheera had informed IGP Jayantha Wickremaratne, Media minister Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, the Director of Information Anusha Pelpita and Presidential adviser on Public Affairs, Kumarasiri Hettige about the incident. As such the Police wanted both Journalists to be remanded pending further investigations. But the chief magistrate who put off the case for August 3 declined to remand them. They were released on personal bail of Rs.500,000 each and ordered to report to the Police every Sunday. 

Background To Abduction
Several media rights organizations and human rights institutions condemned the abduction and attack.In order to understand the background to the abduction and attack on Poddala Jayantha a brief excursion into some of the related events of the past is necessary. 
The bearded Poddala Jayantha was a popular figure among journalists as an ardent campaigner for media rights.He was at the forefront of media demonstrations and also issued several statements critical of the Government despite being a Lake House employee.According to journalists at Lake House both Jayantha and Sanath Balasuriya the then president of Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association (SLWJA) were journalists holding left of centre views.Both had supported Mahinda Rajapakse during Presidential elections of Nov 2005. However as office-bearers of SLWJA both had been later critical of the government for trying to curb and suppress the media. 
Despite working at the Government controlled Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd (Lake House) both had courageously stood up for the rights of media personnel regardless of irritation caused to the Rajapaksa regime. In association with other media rights organizations, the SLWJA had been staging demonstrations and building up public awareness of media suppression. They had issued statements critical of the govt whenever the situation warranted it. When journalists were abducted, arrested or attacked. Sanath and Jayantha had rushed to their defence in whatever capacity possible.They attended courts when journalists were charged. 
When the thuggish Parliamentarian Mervyn Silva and heroin dealer Kudu Lal had invaded Rupavahini premises the employees there had erupted and held both as captives. Both Sanath and Jayantha had rushed to the State TV premises and persuaded employees to release Mervyn and Kudu. Thereafter a number of Rupavahini employees were attacked with knives and razor blades on different occasions by Mervyns goondas. No one was arrested. 
In early January 2008, a gang of thugs in a white van went to the Boralesgamuwa area where Jayantha was living then with the intention of abducting him. But alert residents had protested vehemently compelling the white van cowards to retreat ignominiously. Later villagers held a Bodhi pooja to invoke blessings and protection for Poddala Jayantha. Thereafter safe houses for both Sanath and Jayantha were set up. 

Keith Noyahr Incident
On May 22, 2008 Keith Noyahr, Associate Editor and defence columnist of The Nation newspaper was abducted by men in civilian clothing. He was assaulted and tortured at a secret location. Prompt action spearheaded by Krishantha Cooray the former Chief Executive Officer of Rivira media corp compelled the abductors to release a severely injured Noyahr with a warning that he should stop writing for ever. Cooray who used his wide-ranging contacts to launch a world-wide agitation for the release of Noyahr was himself under threat later and was forced to relocate to a foreign country. 

Gotabaya Rajapaksa went on a tirade against Sanath and Jayantha saying that as Lake House employees they could not go against the Government. He charged that they were working against Army commander Sarath Fonseka

In the aftermath of the Keith Noyahr incident five media rights organizations held a public demonstration on May 23, 2008 condemning it and demanding government action to bring the abductors to justice. They were Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association (SLWJA), Federation of media employees trade union (FMETU) Sri Lanka Muslim Media Forum (SLMMF),Sri Lanka Tamil Journalists Alliance (SLTJA) and the Free Media Movement (FMM). It was well known then that the then FMM convener Sunanda Deshapriya, and SLWJA stalwarts Sanath Balasuriya and Poddala Jayantha were the livewires behind the protest demonstration. 
Shortly after this demonstration the then defence secretary and Presidential sibling Gotabaya Rajapaksa summoned Balasuriya and Jayantha to his office. Also present was ex-chairman of Lake House, Bandula Padmakumara and former Media center for National security director Lakshman Hulugalle. Gotabaya Rajapaksa went on a tirade against Sanath and Jayantha saying that as Lake House employees they could not go against the Government. Gota also charged that they were working against Army commander Sarath Fonseka and the Army. There was a heated exchange of views. 

At one point the Journalists said, Just because a war is being waged, if some wrongs are being committed by the military under that guise, it has to be exposed. There is no need to hide behind the guise of war. The Defence Secretary retorted, Dont you understand what I am trying to say If you dont agree and continue with what you are doing, what has to happen to you will happen. Laws will be introduced to restrict reporting on the conduct of military or on Commanders of the Armed Forces. The military will campaign for such laws. We can see whether the voice of the military is stronger than the campaign of the journalists. 
The Journalists then said, You are making a serious threat on our lives. Gotabaya Rajapaksa replied, No, No. I am not doing it. I am definitely not threatening your lives. I am not. It will happen from where it happens. Our services are appreciated by 99 per cent of the people. They love the Army Commander (Sarath Fonseka) and the Army. Those who love us do what is required. We cannot help that. 

Letter To Gotabaya Rajapaksa
Angered by the then Defence Secretarys attempt to intimidate the Lake House Journalists in the presence of their boss Padmakumara, the five media organizations that organized the Noyahr incident demonstration sent a joint protest letter to Lt. Col (Retired). Gotabhaya Rajapakse.The letter stated: 
We are extremely disappointed and very concerned to discover that you summoned and reprimanded Sanath Balasooriya and Poddala Jayantha, President and General Secretary of Sri Lanka Working Journalists Association ( SLWJA), over the protest campaign organized by our five media organizations against the abduction and inhuman assault on The Nation journalist Keith Noyahr. 
We held this protest campaign peacefully and under the freedom of expression enshrined in our Constitution. The aim of our protest was to demand that the government initiated an open and impartial investigation into the abduction and assault of Keith Noyahr and brought the culprits to book. We openly stated that if the government did not apprehend the culprits and attempted to impair and impede the investigation, we hold it responsible for this heinous crime. 
The Letter went on to say:We are outraged by your thinly veiled repeatedly expressed threat that the lives of Sanath Balasooriya and Poddala Jayantha would be in grave danger should they continue to defend the right to independent reportage critical of the military and the regime. Clearly, it is a problem that you see no problem in such odious expression. At a time when the President and his government seek to assure us that all is well with the protection and fullest enjoyment of fundamental rights in Sri Lanka, your behaviour-and not for the first time-is a significant marker of the ground reality and the challenges facing free media and human rights. 
Subsequently the issue was raised by journalists at the defence matters press briefing held by the then Cabinet spokesman and minister Keheliya Rambukwella. Former MCNS director Hulugalle also present was asked specifically about the incident.He denied that Gotabhaya Rajapakse had threatened the journalists and had only sought a clarification. Hulugalle maintained that as Lake House employees both had no right to engage in anti-govt activity. 
When asked whether journalists had no rights to engage in politics if they wanted to, Rambukwella replied as employees of Lake house they had no right. Asked as to why this was not emphasized when Sanath and Jayantha campaigned for Mahinda during Presidential polls, Keheliya came out with a characteristic vihiluwa They were summoned to be thanked for that. 

Slaying Of Lasantha Wickrematunge
The next major development in this saga of journalists being targeted was the cowardly assassination of Sunday Leader editor Lasantha Wickrematunge on Jan 8th 2009. The journalist fraternity protested vehemently against the killing. This resulted in a spate of death threats against journalist activists. When threats against journalists increased in the aftermath of the brutal slaying of Lasantha Wickrematunge, a large number of journalists left the Country. 
Poddala Jayantha had also been one of the scribes who fled abroad for safety. They first went to India. While several journalists went to the west from India, Poddala opted to return to Lanka. He returned to Sri Lanka after some weeks and was living in Nugegoda temporarily. The main reason for Jayantha to return despite the danger was to give leadership to the SLWJA and to ensure that the project to construct an office building for the SLWJA proceeded smoothly. 
Poddala Jayantha was the first of those who fled abroad in January 2009 to return to Sri Lanka. This return was seen as an act of defiance. The cowardly bullies are happy when people flee for safety. Events that preceded the abduction clearly indicated that Poddala Jayantha was singled out to be the victim of a state sponsored witch hunt to target independent journalists refusing to bow down before the ruling regime . 
Poddala Jayantha and others of his ilk were accused of being agents of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Initially the then Army commander Sarath Fonseka alleged that evidence had been unearthed against Sinhala journalists helping the LTTE. He even said that media rights demonstrations at Liptons circus roundabout were bankrolled by the tigers.This was followed by a media interview of the then IGP Jayantha Wickremaratne who reiterated the Army commanders accusation. 

Image Flashed Across TV Screens
The Inspector General of police accused unnamed journalists of obtaining money from the LTTE under the guise of campaigning for media freedom in Sri Lanka.State controlled TV net work ITN showed visuals of Poddala Jayantha on its segment called After News while the accusation was being aired.The bearded Poddala Jayanthas image flashed across TV screens as references to treacherous journalists getting money from the LTTE were made. 
On 22nd May an editorial of the state controlled Sinhala language daily Dinamina called for stoning and expulsion of so called professional journalists who grew beards and took money from tigers.Since Poddala Jayantha was well-known for his beard, there was no doubt about the intended target. It was indeed sadly illustrative of the prevailing media situation that the paper for which Poddala Jayantha worked for more than 15 years should denigrate him this way.As a result of this vilification campaign , Poddala Jayanthas only daughter was humiliated at school. She refused to attend school . 
The weeks preceding the white -vanning of Jayantha saw continued attacks on unnamed journalists who had campaigned for media freedom and justice for abducted and killed journalists in Sri Lanka. They were called traitors by various politicians and pro - state and state controlled media. One newspaper wrote an editorial calling for the death penalty to be imposed on Sinhala journalists who betrayed the Country by taking money from the LTTE.The then Media ministers Anura Priyadarshana Yapa and Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena added to the confusion by stating different points of view at press conferences about the so called list of media practitioners who got hand-outs from the LTTE.The scene therefore was being set for the abduction and assault of Poddala Jayantha. 
When Jayantha was in hospital the former US envoy Robert OBlake visited him and offered asylum in the US. Jayantha thanked him but declined the offer saying he did not want to leave Lanka. After 29 days of hospitalization, Jayantha returned home but had to take medical treatment continually. One of the first things he did was to participate at the ceremonial opening of the SLWJA building. It was a happy day for Jayantha. 
However Poddala Jayanthas persecution continued. There were telephone calls threatening him with death.Finally there came a stage where he felt that he and his family had to leave Sri Lanka. Poddala Jayantha in the Daily FT interview stated as follows - With the SLWJA opening, I got more threats asking whether we opened the office to do more work against the Government. They had once come in search of my family. I felt that I should go hiding as they would destroy my family and me. I knew that there wouldnt be a chance for me. I was afraid to go to the clinic to get medicine for my fractured and tortured legs and wounds. 

Rajapaksa Rottweiler
It was in this situation therefore that Poddala Jayantha sought refuge in the USA with his family in December 2009. In 2012 a demonstration was held at Kiribathgoda against the UN Human Rights Council. Speaking at the meeting was the then Minister of Public Relations Mervyn Silva . The Rajapaksa Rottweiler warned that he will break the limbs of some journalists, who have gone abroad and made various statements against the country, if they dare to set foot in the country.Im the one who chased one of those journalists PoddalaJayantha out of this country.
I will break the limbs of all these journalists, in public if they dare to set foot in the country Mervyn Silva warned. 
Life has not been a bed of roses for Poddala Jayantha in the US. He could not practise his beloved journalism due to linguistic difficulties. Jayantha did many different jobs to make ends meet. However his interest and concern for Sri Lanka and his fellow journalists in the Island has not ceased. The letter sent to the cabinet sub- committee illustrates this clearly.
When a person like Poddala Jayantha who has undergone harrowing experiences including a white van abduction calls for a Presidential commission to probe the attacks on journalists in Sri Lanka, the request has a genuineness about it which a responsible Govt cannot ignore. 
One certainly hopes that the Sirisena - Wickremesinghe Govt which takes pride in calling itself a Good Governance Govt would appoint a specific commission of inquiry to probe all the anti - journalist acts that took place between 2005 and 2015. However the widening hiatus between pledge and performance of the current regime makes one doubt whether Poddala Jayanta and other Journalist victims would ever get the justice they yearn for. 
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com

 
		
==============================
## Title: M'mulla residents at risk as rains could cause flooding
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:49 pm
M'mulla residents at risk as rains could cause flooding
	
There was an imminent risk of another landslide taking place as a result of flooding that could take place in the vicinity of the Meethotamulla garbage dump site due to the monsoon rains that were expected to begin soon, the Movement Against the Meethotamulla Garbage Dump warned yesterday.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, President of the Movement, Nuwan Bopage said the area was yet to see any form of restoration after the tragedy which occurred during the Sinhala and Hindu New Year.
The main canal is still blocked by garbage and mud and the drainage system has not been restored as yet. The area is not stable yet and therefore there is a chance of another landslide or flooding in the area, he said.
Soon after the tragedy the National Building Research Organization (NBRO) had warned residents and the public against visiting the dump site. Residents in several pockets close to the mountain had also been asked to relocate as they were living in a high risk zone.
However, Bopage said the authorities were trying to relocate residents unnecessarily. Measures have not been taken to clear out the canal or restore the drainage system in the area. They want people to relocate instead, he said.
NBRO officials had warned that heavy rains would lead to the garbage mountain absorbing the water making the mountain dangerous again. If the drainage system is not looked at and the canal is not cleared it will only lead to a flood situation, Bopage stressed.
Confirming the possibility of a tragedy taking place, the NBRO stated that heavy rains expected would increase the risk of another landslide in the area.
The change in the weight of the mountain could lead to another landslide. We have removed residents in the immediate vicinity who would otherwise have been living in the high risk zones, NBRO Director R. M. S Bandara said.
Steps to deal with the garbage dump site would be formulated after local and foreign agencies complete their studies at the site. However, Bandara warned that there was a probability of another landslide occurring soon and requested residents to be vigilant.
The tragedy last month killed 32 individuals and affected 1,703 more. (Yoshitha Perera & Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR not for destabilizing PCs: Isura
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 05:55 pm
MR not for destabilizing PCs: Isura
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa does not want to destabilize the Provincial Councils (PCs) administered by the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA), Western Province Chief Minister Isura Devapriya said today.
He said it was those in the lower rungs of the joint opposition that were seeking to cause trouble not Mr. Rajapaksa or representatives at the higher levels of the party.
We understand the pulse of the former president. He is always with the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP), the main constituent partner of the UPFA, he told Daily Mirror.
Commenting on the current state of affairs of the North Central Provincial Council (NCPC), the Chief Minister said any councillor could act independently but they cannot change the Chief Minister.
It was reported that a group consisting of 18 UPFA councillors of the NCPC would act independently in protest over the SLFP decision to replace the Councils health minister.
According to the Provincial Council Act, only the UPFA General Secretary has the authority to change the Chief Minister, the WP Chief Minister said. Just because a group of councillors decide to act independently, they cannot change the CM. The law prevails above all. Its the party general secretary who names the group leader and the CM, he said.
Chief Minister Devapriya said an independent group could change the administration by defeating the budget but added that there is no budget impending for the NCPC. The term of the council will expire in 4 months anyway, he said.(Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: NCPC : JO to collect affidavits to push for post of CM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 07:02 am
NCPC : JO to collect affidavits to push for post of CM
	
In efforts to capture power in the North-Central Provincial Council, the joint opposition is reportedly planning to obtain affidavits from the 18 members supporting it before requesting the provincial governor to appoint one of its members as the NCPC Chief Minister.
The JO leaders were expected to meet these members last evening to discuss the modalities for capturing power.
These members, elected on the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) ticket switched allegiance to the JO led by former president Mahinda Rajapaksa and decided to function as an independent group in the council.
The crisis was triggered when UPFA leadership removed H.K. Nandasena from his portfolios.
Provincial council law states that if a political party holds more than half the number of seats in a council, then a member of that party should be appointed chief minister. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nepal President here
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 May 2017 03:51 pm
Nepal President here
	
Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandar arrived in Sri Lanka this morning to attend the 14th UN Vesak closing Day ceremony, to be held in Kandy. She was welcomed by Minister of Justice and Buddhasasana Wijeyadasa Rajapakse, at the Bandaranaike International Airport, Katunayake.  Pix by Pradeep Pathirana

 
		
==============================
## Title: New Bill will allow displaced people living abroad to vote
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 10:47 am
New Bill will allow displaced people living abroad to vote
	
The Government is reported to be preparing legislation, which if enacted, will enable persons displaced prior to 2009 and living elsewhere can vote at elections despite their names not being included in the electoral registers.
The Registration of Electors (Special Provisions) Bill will exempt internally displaced persons from the requirements of the Registrations of the Electors Act.
The bill has been placed on the Order Paper of Parliament at the moment. The constitutionality of the bill has now been challenged in the Supreme Court. The petition says the Bill appears to be drafted and presented to Parliament with ulterior motives, including permitting the registration of persons living overseas.
It can be done by producing a certificate from the Grama Niladhari.
The provisions of the Bill will enable them to come to Sri Lanka purely for the purpose of getting their names entered in the Electoral Registers of the Northern and Eastern Provinces, without having any permanent residency in Sri Lanka, although Registration of Electors Act No.44 of 1980 requires for the purpose of registration such persons to be ordinarily resident in any electoral district on the first day of June in any year, unless absent for reason of employment. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pak terror groups planning to attack India, Afghanistan: US spymaster
## Section: International
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
Pak terror groups planning to attack India, Afghanistan: US spymaster
	

THE HINDU, 12th mAY, 2017- Pakistan-based terrorist groups are planning to attack both India and Afghanistan, a top US spymaster has said.
Islamabad has failed to curb militants and terrorists in Pakistan, Daniel Coats, Director of National Intelligence told members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence during a Congressional hearing on Worldwide threats.
These groups will present a sustained threat to the United Statess interest in the region and continue to plan and conduct attacks in India and Afghanistan, Mr. Coats said.
Pakistan, he has rued, is expanding its nuclear arsenal in pursuing tactical nuclear weapons, potentially lowering the threshold for their use.
In South Asia, the intelligence community has assessed that the political and security situation in Afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through 2018 even with a modest increase in military assistance by the United States and its partners, he told the lawmakers.
 
		
==============================
## Title: QUENCHING THE THIRST
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
QUENCHING THE THIRST
	

Since the beginning of the 21st century there have been many developments, both positive and negative, for human well-being. The many advances in science and technology have opened many portals of knowledge that seemingly should bring about a safe world that could enable the highest potential of a human being to blossom. However, the opposite seems to be happening. 

There is much tension even in those countries that enjoy high human development indices. Humans are killing humans, poor nations are being plundered of their natural resources to satisfy the insatiable thirst for power both economically and politically, human trafficking has reached inconceivable proportions to satisfy human lust, narcotic drugs and alcohol are ruining human dignity and disrupting the social fabric and family life. Disparities between rich and poor nations and within a nation, the gap between the rich and the poor, are widening, which portend dire consequences. Globally, too, climatic changes, mainly due to greenhouse effects of human development, are creating havoc because of unpredictability of climatic changes impacting on agriculture and life in general. The UN as a world body is trying its best to grapple with these issues. The Environmental Summits, Millennium Development Goals followed by Sustainable Development Goals, WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control followed by a UN Summit on Non-Communicable Diseases are major steps forward. However, it is becoming increasingly clear, that there has to be a paradigm shift in thinking for the very survival of humankind and that the possible answer could be found in Buddhist thought and practice. 
A study conducted recently in England and Wales by St. Marys Catholic University in Twickenham has concluded that people with no religion exceed Christians.[i] The report states In 2014, 48.5 per cent of people said that they had no religion  or were nones  compared to 43.5 per cent of people who identified as Christians  Anglicans, Catholics and other denominations. The percentage of nones has almost doubled from 2011, when 25 per cent of people referred to themselves as having no religion.[ii] This is a trend in the Western world and also emerging in countries like Japan and China. Recently the first chair of atheism studies was established at the University of Miami.[iii] These are clear indications that the peoples in the world are becoming rudderless and that there is a large spiritual vacuum to be filled for the welfare and happiness of humankind. 
Although the world climate is extremely promising for the spread of the teachings of the Buddha for human happiness and the time is ripe, there are many trends, some of which are disturbing, that need to be watched. A question that needs to be raised is as to whether Buddhist communities throughout the world are getting ready to benefit from the opportunities arisen to spread the word of the Buddha for the welfare and happiness of many. In the Buddha Dhamma, the Buddhist world has a Product (apologies for using a modern marketing term) which is excellent in the middle, and excellent in the end with an assurance of peace, social justice and non-harm to others. It is nothing but human that no organisation will like to lose its hold and will use every overt and covert means to destabilise a contending force. The Buddhists have to accept this reality and learn from the life of the Buddha and the way he faced the opposition there was from the established order during his time. 
Buddhism is not a militant religion. Conversions by coercion or by use of force or by taking advantage of a crisis situation of a person or family are against Buddhist norms. This is amply testified in studying the spread of the Buddhas teaching throughout history. Open are the doors to the Deathless; let those who have ears repose trust.[iv] This was the clarion call of the Buddha, who we should remember gained enlightenment on the full-moon day of Vesak two thousand six hundred and six years ago by his own effort. His was the highest achievable mental development any human being could reach. During his dispensation of 45 years, the Buddha, whilst leading an exemplary life himself, went on foot throughout the length and breadth of Northern India with his disciples, who too led exemplary lives, explaining his new found knowledge out of compassion, for the welfare and happiness of humankind (bahujana hitaya bahujana sukhaya[v]). 
The Buddha was confident of himself, his teachings, and his disciples. He was a peerless trainer of persons and during the first rain retreat at Isipatana in Benarese, he thoroughly coached his first 60 disciples so that he could say with confidence that when setting forth to make known the new teaching, no two of his disciples should go the same way[vi]. He was keen to make known his new knowledge not to increase numbers but out of compassion to show a way to happiness in this and the other world and to end sansaric woes. 
As a vehicle of imparting his noble teaching he used the language of the common man. Sanskrit was the language of the Vedas, of the elite, and the learned. He eschewed using that language because he wanted his message to reach out to everyone. There are six languages currently recognized by the United Nations  English, French, Russian, Chinese, Spanish and Arabic. There are plenty of books on Buddhism in the English language; but how few are the books in other languages. Coming closer, India and China have over a third of the worlds population. Is the Buddhist world adequately geared to reach out to the people even in these two countries In the Western world the number of nones or atheists, as mentioned earlier, are on the increase. What plans does the Buddhist world have to help them Could the social media be used more effectively to reach them 
Although the Buddhists seem to be slumbering and even working defensively, the Church is preparing itself for the changes of the 21st century by a two-pronged strategy. Firstly, by unifying the Church with the lead role taken by Pope Francis, the head of the Roman Catholic fraternity, and secondly, by harvesting new souls by a long term vision of making Asia Christian or believers of God by the end of the third Millennium. This is what Paul Hattaway, the International Director of Asia Harvest has to say. In the past 20 years, Christians around the world have launched initiatives to reach Muslims, Communists, Hindus and other major unreached people groups but the Buddhist world has largely been overlooked. Hundreds of millions of Buddhists continue to live and die without any exposure to the Gospel.[vii] 
Conversions to Christianity in the traditional Buddhist countries is a challenge that Buddhists cannot ignore anymore when considering the happenings in South Korea, Mongolia, China, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Vietnam and other countries with a majority or significant Buddhist population. What strategies have the Buddhist world developed to counteract these insidious intrusions without dissipating its energy only on this and failing to see the bigger landscape and the vast opportunities out there Also, learning from each other, what actions need to be taken to empower the Buddhists in the traditional Buddhist countries so that they could politely say NO to the evangelists History has shown that aggressive methods are not long lasting. 
The Buddhist World should ask why in Human Rights issues there are double standards by the Western World, for example, in respect of Rosangya Muslims in Myanmar and the Chakma Buddhists in Bangladesh. Whilst the former is considered a hot spot, the latter has not received adequate attention and was hardly reported in the Media. Buddhists have not fought wars to propagate their faith and in a Buddhist regime non Buddhists have no restrictions to observe their religions unhindered. However, why is the Western World interested in forcing secularism into the constitutions of Buddhist countries 
Sri Lanka has an experience of 450 years of Christian rule and the Buddhists had to face torture under the Portuguese, and much discrimination in education, employment, land ownership etc. under the Dutch and the British. However, it is a credit to the stamina of the Sri Lankan Buddhists that only 6-7% have changed their faith. Now more subtle methods are used to disintegrate the Buddhists and divide the clergy. There are many internal challenges that the Buddhists in Sri Lanka are facing. These have been identified in Commission reports and remedial actions recommended. However, these reports are gathering dust with no or little action taken. Why Similarly, the Buddhists of every country may be facing internal hardships or challenges and there could be many commonalities for collective action by the Buddhist world. The Buddhists should feel empowered to serve humanity out of compassion and love (sabba pana bhuta hitanukampi). 
This year (2017) the UN Vesak day is celebrated in Sri Lanka. Recognition of Vesak day by the UN, in this manner, was largely due to the efforts of Sri Lanka based on a resolution passed at the World Buddhist Conference held in Sri Lanka in 1998. In the message of the former UN Secretary General Ban-ki-Moon to the 2016 Vesak Day celebrations he has stated, As the United Nations works for the adaption this year of a set of new sustainable development goals and a meaningful new agreement on climate change, we would do well to heed the Buddhist teaching that life and the environment are essentially one.[viii]If that be so, due recognition has to be given to Buddhism by elevating the status of recognition of the day of Vesak. It is timely that a resolution be passed to make the day of Vesak an official holiday by the United Nations.[ix] This could be the first step. The Buddhist world should plan and implement programmes keeping in mind the words of the Buddha that the Dhamma and Discipline proclaimed by the Buddha shine when exposed, not when concealed. 


 
		
==============================
## Title: Rs.1,500 mn allocated for reconciliation project
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 01:29 pm
Rs.1,500 mn allocated for reconciliation project
	
The National Integration and Reconciliation Ministry has made special budgetary allocation of Rs.1,500 million for an innovative programme on Reconciliation-Focused Economic Empowerment Project which aims at strengthening North-South economic and business links.
The ministry said in a statement that the main objective of this project was to improve the production capacity of entrepreneurs in the North and East and border districts to establish links with buyers and exporters from rest of the country through which inter-ethnic, inter-religious and inter-regional ties will be strengthened to ensure healthy integration.
National Integration and Reconciliation Ministry Secretary V. Sivagnanasothy said the project would also provide livelihood support to conflict-affected vulnerable families specially the refugee returnees, internally displaced persons (IDPs) and war victims. He said assistance would be prioritized to families headed by women, families with disabilities, disabled ex-combatants, families with missing persons and those living under extreme poverty.
Mr. Sivagnanasothy said the project would support the micro enterprises in the conflict-affected areas to enhance value chain and facilitate linkages between North and South. It will cover sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, livestock, self-employment, micro/small industries, handicrafts and services. The project will support training, technology transfer, machinery, working capital, market facilitation and credit facilitation said Mr. V. Sivagnanasothy Secretary Ministry of National Integration and Reconciliation
The project aims to strengthen reconciliation efforts, reduce poverty in the North and East and border districts through livelihood support and economic empowerment of communities.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tribute to our grandfather,  Professor Valentine Joseph
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:00 am
Tribute to our grandfather,  Professor Valentine Joseph
	
These are a few words about our grandfather on behalf of my elder sister, Sashi, and my younger sister Ishani, as well as myself. 
When our grandfather was honoured at the University before the funeral, one student had summed him up perfectly when he said: it is rare to find wisdom and humility together.Pata was one such rare individual. Yes, he was a mathematician, but he was so much more than that. He delighted in poetry and was a linguist too  he was fond of quoting the German philosopher Goethe to my older sister, Sashi, saying He who does not know another language does not know his own.He was always keenly aware of the gaps in his own knowledge, but unlike so many, he was eager to fill them. And it is this attitude that we, his grandchildren, will forever admire and aspire to. 
Above all, our grandfather was open minded, fair and balanced. He was a philosopher who was able to treasure both the words of Einstein and those of the cartoon strip Calvin and Hobbes. People often described him as a simple man  in his eyes, everyone was truly equal. Children would instinctively warm up to him, and when Sashi, was pondering why, she realised perhaps it was simply because he was one of those rare adults  perhaps the only one she had ever met  who genuinely respected children, who believed wholeheartedly that he, with all his knowledge and understanding, could learn from a child. 
It is the greatest privilege to have known and loved Pata. He may have been an expert on relativity, whom the science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke rang up to consult, but for us, his grandchildren, he was more than that. He was the person who would patiently try and explain basic addition to my two older sisters when they were young, whilst they pranced around in fairy wings. He would play endless board games and act out scenes from the Jungle Book with them, standing on a sofa to entertain them. 
My younger sister, Ishani and I, also enjoyed playing scrabble and monopoly with him. A memory that I will always recall with great affection, is whenever my sisters or I scored highly, he would count it, then re-count it, then count it again, and, finally look very surprised before grudgingly writing it down. Another amusing memory of Pata was when we recorded him talking about his life and habits. We then found out the reason why biscuits and choc ices were going missing. At about three in the morning, Pata used to wake up and be unable to fall asleep again. To pass the time, he would read a book. What we didnt realize, is that he also undertook a night time walk to the fridge, where he would take some of his favourite delicacies and make his way back to his room, where he would proceed to leisurely eat them with a book. 
One of our favourite memories is of him always feeding some of his tea time cake to the small lizards that sometimes come into the house. He told us that without his butter cake, they would be hungry and the lizards relied upon him to feed them. We asked him how he knew the lizards came and ate the cake crumbs underneath his table. He would laugh and smile and say that he saw them come out at night and eat the cake. 
Last July, after returning from a trip to Pasikudah, we were all exhausted on the seven hour journey back to Colombo; but my Grandfather, who had been mulling over a mathematical problem, immediately on his return wrote down the solution before even taking off his shoes. 
Pata had always been there as a major influence all of our lives. A couple of years ago, Sashi told Pata that she couldnt really understand how Christianity helped us to show love. He referred her to the example of St Francis of Assisi. He would be furious to be compared to a saint, but he did show the same kind of gentle universal love. 
Everyone likes to think they have principles, but how many of us can say we truly live by them every day How many of us are actually willing to change our opinions in the face of facts How many of us will learn simply for the love of the truth Our grandfather was someone who was able to do all three. 
Pata had told Sashi that if one truly understood Einsteins theory of general relativity, you would be compelled to become a pacifist and learn respect for all. Not everyone will be able to understand Relativity, but for us, his grandchildren, we have his example before us and we could not ask for a better moral guide. 
A while back, we asked Pata what he would say the best thing in his life was. His answer came without hesitation: Meeting your grandmother. Our grandmother has been with him, supporting him through thick and thin, in a way that inspired awe in us all and for which we know he was profoundly grateful. 
We remember him today and we have sorrow in our hearts because we have lost a wonderful person. But he has moved on and we believe, as he did, that we will be reunited with him and our eldest sister, Anjani, on another shore. Until then, he lives on in this world in our hearts and in our memories. 
Anish Mariathasan 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trump considered this Russia thing before firing Comey
## Section: International
## Date: 13 May 2017 12:01 am
Trump considered this Russia thing before firing Comey
	
President Trump on Thursday said he was thinking of this Russia thing with Trump when he decided to fire FBI Director James B. Comey, who had been leading the counterintelligence investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election. 
Recounting his decision to dismiss Comey, Trump told NBC News, In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story, its an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should
have won. 
Trumps account flatly contradicts the White Houses initial account of how the president arrived at his decision, undercutting public denials by his aides that the move was influenced in any way by his growing fury with the ongoing Russia probe. 
Later in the same interview, Trump said he had no intention of trying to stop or hinder the FBIs Russia probe, which is examining whether any Trump associates coordinated with Russians to influence the election. Trump also said he wants the probe to be absolutely done properly.

I want that to be so strong and so good, Trump told NBC anchor Lester Holt. He added, I want to get to the bottom. If Russia hacked, if Russia did anything having to do with our election, I want to know about it. 
-WASHINGTON POST, 12th
MAY, 2017
 
		
==============================
## Title: We will campaign to take over CPC: Pramitha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 May 2017 03:12 pm
We will campaign to take over CPC: Pramitha
	
Central Provincial Council's UPFA member Pramitha Bandara Tennakoone, who relinquished his portfolio recently, said steps were being taken to change the power equation in the council.
He told journalists after the council's monthly meeting that if the ruling party members were unable to voice the concerns of the people, they would hold a protest campaign.
Mr. Tennakone is known to have often criticised the activities of the council. (J.A.L. Jayasinghe)
 
		
==============================