## Title: A new dimension of Black is the concept for Fouzul Hameeds new formal menswear
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:56 pm
A new dimension of Black is the concept for Fouzul Hameeds new formal menswear
	
A colour as deep as Black, can be re-interpreted with a deep creative thinking and that is the basis of the new season collection by Fouzul Hameed. This collection captures a new dimension of black and interpreted into a look that will not only be on trend, but wearable for discerning men as the season approaches.
This season Fouzul Hameeds annual show takes a new direction to bring to Colombo looks which will also form the basis formal menswear in 2019. This high-profile show is being conceptualised to showcase the collections that will have the overriding theme of BLACK and will feature top fashion models taking to the ramp to display Sri Lankas leading designers fashion trend forecasts for 2019. Fouzul Hameed continues to uplift menswear fashion in Sri Lanka, by presenting the sixth edition of the annual trend show that will reveal latest fashion collections that will cover occasion-wear and formal wear to look their sharpest on any special day. The run-up to the fashion show has witnessed an interesting engagement with customers on social media.
The Concept 2019 collection features black and bold colours with sharp silhouettes for formal and occasion wear. Fouzul Hameed is putting the spotlight on Ceremonial, formal and occasion-wear looks which are trendy and fashionable.
Expressing his enthusiasm, Fouzul Hameed said, I am very excited to launch the formal and occasion wear collection that also has something special for the groom. The concept of Black brings an exciting twist and a depth to how formal wear is evolved and how black while being a natural choice also shows versatility. This year, one of my aims was also to develop a wedding collection for men with fresh ideas, colours and concepts for a distinctive look that makes a fashion statement on their special day. The new collection will display a sharper fit as we have upgraded our manufacturing process and products to reflect world-class cuts. Today, our selection will encompass a variety of fits and styles for the discerning gentleman. We raise the bar with each Concept fashion show and this year too we have leveraged on a dynamic social media campaign to generate interest amongst young men, especially prospective grooms, who can win a suit or an insightful grooming session personally with me to look and dress their best. Colombos fashion elite, VIPs and prominent personalities from the business and fashion communities are expected to attend Concept 2019.
Fouzul Hameed, has over the years consistently grown into one of foremost menswear fashion designers in Sri Lanka. His vast knowledge and experience in menswear has raised the bar of mens fashion in Sri Lanka. His keen eye for detail has made him a mogul in the local fashion outlook and is in essence, the man behind the brand, embodying the quality and superiority of Hameedia products. With over two decades experience in the mens clothing industry, FH, as he is known in the local fashion sphere, is a US certified menswear image consultant and is currently the Managing Director of Hameedia, the company behind Sri Lankas most respected and preferred menswear brand.
Fouzul Hameed on the occasion of his annual show, is opening its doors to two lucky prospective grooms. One of whom can win a suit and the other wins a free consultation with Fouzul Hameed. Participating couples will have to produce proof of their imminent wedding. The social media campaign has struck a chord amongst couples who are excited about having the groom wear an exquisitely tailored Fouzul Hameed suit or even to meet the designer for a grooming session and valuable tips. Visit the Facebook for more details.
Hameedia was established in 1949 and has grown to become a household brand in Sri Lanka. Renowned for high quality custom tailoring and ready-made clothes for gentlemen, the Hameedia multi-brand retail stores house a collection of quality menswear brands including Le Bond, Envoy, Signature, Raymond, Lee and Adidas to name a few. Hameedia also prides itself on offering exceptional standards of service to ensure that clients enjoy a positive and personalized experience at each store.
 
		
==============================
## Title: A New Parliament  the only way out
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:13 am
A New Parliament  the only way out
	
But the process must be legitimate
Why the best option for the country now is to go for a Parliamentary Election

his is a golden opportunity for the ordinary people of Sri Lanka to learn about the Constitution of the country. However, they have to learn the law with the highly prejudiced arguments of extremely opportunistic politicians and the lawyers who argue for their political clientele, and not with the objective analysis of academics or the experts.
Interestingly, the Articles 33 and 70 of the Constitution are fast becoming two household clauses, with even the children mentioning them in their conversations with each other.
President Maithripala Sirisena has put the Constitution to debate among the people twice within two weeks.
On October 26, he, in a surprising turn of events unseated Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and replaced him with former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Sirisenas archrival and whom he defeated at the last Presidential Election with the help of the vote bank of the Wickremesinghes party, the United National
Party (UNP).
And while the whole country was arguing over the legality of that regime change, the President on November 9, which was also incidentally a Friday, dumbfounded the country again by dissolving the Parliament while scheduling Parliamentary Elections on January 5.
The irony is that the supporters of Rajapaksa, who were highly elated when he was appointed Prime Minister, were similarly happy when the President prorogued the Parliament on the next day.
And interestingly, they were even more overjoyed when their heros Government was dissolved by the President in two weeks, even before he occupied the Prime Ministers seat in the House.
President Sirisena justified his decision to dissolve Parliamentsaying that there was a possibility of a bloodbath when the Parliament met on November 14 and that prices were placed on the heads ofParliament members.

"Hence, the best option the country has now is to go for a Parliamentary election. If the Supreme Court ruled on December 7 that the four-and-half-year Constitutional restriction on the President to dissolve the Parliament applied to the present circumstances, the only way out is to dissolve the Parliament through a resolution by the Parliament itself"
However, there wouldnt be any clash; leave alone a bloodbath had Rajapaksa commanded the confidence of the Parliament, as required by the Constitution when he was appointed Prime Minister. It was the President who created that danger.
On the other hand, it was no secret that the President prorogued Parliament in order that Rajapaksa was able to buy over MPs or in the Presidents words to place a
price on MPs.
Also, it was a well-known fact that he dissolved Parliament when it was apparent that Rajapaksa would not be able to buy over or attract through some other means a sufficient number of MPs, before Parliament met of November 14.
It was well evident by the jubilation of the Rajapaksa loyalists when their own Government was dissolved.
The UNP and others who did not challenge the sacking of Wickremesinghe before the court went to the Supreme Court on Monday, the first weekday after the dissolution of Parliament, challenging that dissolution.
12 petitions, including those of the UNP, Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), challenging the dissolution of the Parliament were taken up by the three-member bench including the Chief Justice Nalin Perera on Monday and Tuesday, which culminated in staying the Presidents Gazette Notice on the dissolution and holding of the next General Elections.
This ruling allowed the Parliament to function as scheduled before the dissolution. But National Freedom Front (NFF) leader Wimal Weerawansa at a media conference convened by the Rajapaksas lieutenants argued that Parliament couldnt meet since the Supreme Courts Stay Order was not the final verdict.
It was clear that the reason behind his argument was nothing but the fear on the part of the Rajapaksa loyalists to face a possible unpleasant challenge thrown at their boss, by the UNP and its allies to show his majority in the House.
Yet, it was a strong argument, since everything done by Parliament after that would be null and void, if the Supreme Court finally endorsed the dissolution of the Parliament, on December 7.
However, when the Parliament met on Wednesday, as scheduled by the Presidents Gazette on the prorogation of the House, almost all Rajapaksa loyalists including
Weerawansa attended.
The agenda for the first meeting, according to the newly appointed transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva included only the Presidents traditional policy statement and adjournment of the House.
However, the UNP argued that the party leaders meeting had decided to prepare an agenda for the day during the proceedings of the House. That means House will adopt an agenda as a whole or item by item by majority vote.
President did not attend the Parliament. Mahinda Rajapaksa had occupied the Prime Ministers seat, with his supporters sitting on the Government side, while Ranil Wickremesinghe was sitting in a backbench on the Opposition side, among his supporters, despite the UNP claiming that Wickremesinghe was still the Prime Minister.

"No party has the capacity to form a Government on its own or in coalition"
Before the adjournment, JVP Propaganda Secretary Vijitha Herath handed over to the Secretary General of the Parliament a No-Confidence motion against Prime MinisterMahinda Rajapaksa and his Cabinet.
The words eeniya (so-called) written before the words Prime Minister and the Cabinet in the motion had been tipexed, when the motion reached the media. The motion carried 122 signatures in it.
Despite the motion stating that the Gazettes issued by the President removing Wickremesinghe from the post of Prime Minister and appointing Rajapaksa as the Prime Minister had no effect, Rajapaksa opponents agreement to sit on the Opposition side and presenting and voting in favour of the NCM against the Prime Minister was technically an acceptance of those Gazettes by them.
It seems to be a compromise on their part to show that Rajapaksa has no majority in the House and thereby the President had appointed him illegally, which was well achieved.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya announced that the motion was carried by a voice vote which was not illegal. But the ethicality of passing a motion on a matter of numbers by a voice vote is highly questionable. However, in fairness to the Speaker, he gave an opportunity to the members to vote by their names, but Rajapaksa loyalists did not agree which again shows that they were a minority in the House. Also, Rajapaksa loyalists opposition to such a motion points to the fact that they did not have the necessary numbers.
The crisis has worsened by the Presidents rejection of the communication of the Speaker that the motion was passed.
Accordingly, the President still recognizes Rajapaksa as the legitimate Prime Minister of the country whereas the Speaker recognises none.
Wickremesinghe contends that the motion takes the country to the status- quo that prevailed On October 26, meaning that he is still the Prime Minister. But that also does not seem to hold water, as the motion suggests only removing Rajapaksa from the post of Prime Minister who was appointed after removing Wickremesinghe from the PM post. And the movers of the motion, the JVP say that they do not accept Wickremesinghe either.
The whole crisis stems from the withdrawal of the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) from the UNP-led Government on
October 26.

"The crisis stems from the withdrawal of the UPFA from the UNP-led Government onOctober 26"
It created a situation where no party has the capacity to form a Government, on its own or in coalition with another party.
The TNA might support the UNP on a case by case basis but would not form a coalition with the latter.
Hence, the best option the country has now is to go for a Parliamentary election. If the Supreme Court ruled on December 7 that the four-and-half-year Constitutional restriction on the President to dissolve the Parliament applied to the present circumstances, the only way out is to dissolve the Parliament through a resolution by the
Parliament itself.
Only the UNP is unlikely to support such a resolution as the party does not seem to be confident of its victory at the forthcoming elections. Yet, leaders must take decisions in the interest of the country and not the party.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Amended no-faith motion against PM and Govt. passed: Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 07:10 pm
Amended no-faith motion against PM and Govt. passed: Speaker
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has informed President Maithripala Sirisena in writing today that the no-confidence, moved by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake, was duly passed in line with the Standing Orders that govern parliamentary business.
He had also sent the list of 122 MPs who supported the motion.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Astrology and the operation of Law of Karma
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 16 November 2018 12:17 pm
Astrology and the operation of Law of Karma
	
 Part 2

By A. S. Fernando
In the previous article carried in the Jyotisha page under the above title we said that the Vedic Astrology rests on the Law of Karma and explained the five laws of nature that make up the Law of Karma as enunciated in Vedic philosophy.

Three categories of Karma
Karma which means action in a wider sense is the sum total of deeds good or bad done by an individual during his life-time. It is the totality of a mans actions that becomes the cause for the circle of birth and death. It is our past Karma that determines our present existence and both our past Karma and the Karma we accumulate now determine our future existence. In Vedic philosophy Karma is classified under three categories as follows:
Sanchita or accumulated Karma
	Prarabdha or fructiferous Karma and
	Kriyamana or Agami Karma

natal Chart, the imprint of Prarabdha
Sanchita Karma is the sum total of our actions good or bad in our past births. Sanchita Karma determines our future births and part of it our present birth. It is that part of Sanchita Karma called Prarabdha which we are reaping in this birth or responsible for what we are in this birth. It is Prarabdha we are experiencing in this birth as sorrow and happiness, misery and comfort, gain and loss etc. The Natal Chart or the birth horoscope is the imprint of Prarabdha which we have brought forward to this birth or we have inherited in this birth.
Our actions continue giving rise to more Karma while we are experiencing our past Karma or Prarabdha. This Karma in the making continuously is described as Kriyamana Karma. This means Sanchita Karma at any point of time is the sum total of Kriyamana Karma of our many past births.

The soul  the storehouse of Karma
How does the Law of Karma operate It presupposes the existence of a bank where the accumulated result of our thoughts and deeds are stored with cloak-wise accuracy and precision and it should be something non-destructible, a force or energy capable of surviving the death of an individual for moving into his next birth. According to Vedic philosophy, this non-destructible force that carries our Karmic program or Prarabdha from one birth to another is the soul of the individual.
How could one unravel the Karmic program that an individuals soul carries from one existence to another

Mechanism for unravelling Karmic program
The ancient Indian sages through insight developed through meditation had been able to perceive some intelligent design in operation throughout the universe and a positive correlation between cosmic phenomena and the terrestrial life and events.
They had also discerned a relationship between a destiny pattern or a karmic life-plan programmed in the soul of an individual and the celestial configuration at the time of his birth.
This appears to have led them to evolve a formula or a mechanism based on the dynamics of planets in the Solar system and the light years-distant stars ever in motion to unravel and unfold the karmic life-plan called Prarabdha embedded in the soul of the individual.

Dasa systems
If the accumulated results of the deeds and thoughts of our previous births are to manifest in a pre-determined sequence by way of events good or bad in the lifetime of the individual, it is of vital importance to know as to when such events are to occur. The ancient seers have evolved the Dasa systems to provide this time factor  to determine as to when a certain event in the life of an individual would take place.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Be active to defeat diabetes
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:39 am
Be active to defeat diabetes
	

World Diabetes day falls on November 14 and this year Diabetes and family has been chosen as the theme. Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is the major non communicable disease in Sri Lanka and worldwide. According to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) currently 415 million adults have Diabetes and it is estimated that it will increase up to 642 million by 2040. To enlighten our readers on this topic we decided to speak to Dr Heshani Karunathilake, Medical officer in charge of Healthy Life style and Diabetic Clinic at Base Hospital, Panadura.

What is Diabetes Mellitus
There are two types of DM namely Type 1 and Type 2. Type 2 DM is mainly seen in adults and it is due to the low levels of Insulin secreted by the pancreas leading to elevated glucose level in blood. Insulin is needed for the uptake of glucose from the blood into the cells to synthesize energy. If Insulin is low, tissue cells cant take glucose from the blood and thus, blood glucose level rises. This distorted mechanism is called Diabetes Mellitus.

Diabetes level
Normal fasting blood sugar level should be less than 100 mg/dl. If it is more than 126 mg/dl, it is considered as having Diabetes. Between the levels of 100 mg /dl to 126 mg/dl is pre Diabetes and they are at risk of developing DM. Long-term blood sugar control (for 3 months) could be assessed by HbAIC. If the level is below 5.7% it is normal and more than 6.5% is considered as having a poor control. The prediabetics will have values in between. Risk factors for Diabetes could be categorised into 3 groups namely non modifiable, modifiable and behavioral risk factors. Non modifiable risk factors are age, gender and hereditary factors with modifiable risk factors being overweight which raises blood pressure and cholesterol. Unhealthy eating, physical inactivity, tobacco use and alcohol consumption are the behavioural risk factors. By Lifestyle modification one can minimise these risk factors.

Everyone can get a check-up
Today every hospital has established a healthy life style clinic. Anybody can walk into these clinics and get screened for non-communicable diseases. At these clinics Body Mass Index (BMI), blood pressure, breast, eye, heart, lungs, thyroid, examinations are done. Blood sugar and cholesterol levels are also measured. The cardiovascular risk is assessed and those who are at high risk are referred to specialised medical clinics. Medical management and long-term follow-ups are carried out at the medical and Diabetic clinics.
Following are commonly asked questions.

What are the complications of blood sugar damage
Raised blood sugar damages many organs of the body leading to complications such as Retinopathy, Diabetic kidney disease and neuropathy. To detect these complications at an early stage, every diabetic patient should be screened annually, and it is done at diabetic clinics. Yearly screening of diabetic patients include eye examination by an Ophthalmologist, investigations such as HbAIc, lipid profile, urine for microalbumin, serum creatinine. These blood investigations will help to detect whether diabetes is causing ill effects on the eyes and the kidneys. Monofilament examination of foot could detect the involvement of nerves due to poor control of blood sugar.

What are the observations
Diabetic patients are educated and motivated on a diabetic diet, the importance of exercises and stress relieving methods. They are also made aware of complications, importance of regular medications and features of low and high glucose levels called hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia respectively.
Diabetic patients should make every effort to drop calories and should consume 3 main meals and 3 snacks in-between.It is advised to take the last snack for the day at 10 pm or otherwise with medications. Taking the last meal or snack of the day very early could lead to low blood sugar levels during sleep.

Physical exercise
They should engage in physical exercises for at least 30 minutes per day for 5 days of the week. Walking, swimming, riding bicycles are recommended exercises for these patients. They also should be in a good mental state and engage in recreational and spiritual activities which are beneficial.
Every diabetic patient should make follow-ups at a clinic once a month and their fasting blood sugar and post parandial blood sugar (2 hours after meal) need to be assessed monthly. It can be assured that if a diabetic patient maintains his/her blood sugar level within a normal range there is potential to lead a normal life sans complications. Leading a normal life is possible if you can discipline yourselves and follow the instructions of the doctor. Usually it is not the drugs that cause complications, but the uncontrolled sugar levels due to a irregular haphazard way of taking drugs coupled with the poor diet control.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Brief delay sent him home for a long stretch!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 16 November 2018 09:57 am
Brief delay sent him home for a long stretch!
	

A purohita on a mission of providing shelter to the poor had ordered the interdiction of a housing authoritys district manager in a gem-rich area for a very minor failing.

This white collar one had been entrusted with the responsibility of providing ata-pirikara to be offered to the members of Maha Sangha who were expected to be present at a ceremony held to mark the opening of a housing scheme.
As there was hardly any place on the stage to keep the ata-pirikara bundles, he had placed them in a box under the stage.
When the time came for offering ata-pirikara the white collar one had come down from the stage to fetch the bundles and taken a few minutes to come up with the burden. The politico who got angry about this brief delay had taken steps to get the poor fellow interdicted, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Chilli powder attack in Parliament
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:17 pm
Chilli powder attack in Parliament
	
UNP MP Gamini Jayawickrama and JVP MP Vijitha Herath were attacked with Chilli powder mixed water during the tense situation in parliament today. Vijitha Herath has minor injuries after attacked by a copy of a Constitution book, several police officers also injured.

Video by Damith, Susantha


 
		
==============================
## Title: Cyclone; Govt schools in Northern Province closed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 09:08 am
Cyclone; Govt schools in Northern Province closed
	
All government schools in the Northern Province will be closed today due to the adverse weather condition encountered by the Cyclonic storm Gaja, the Secretariat of the Northern Province Governor office announced. (Wanni Romesh)
Pix by Romesh Madushanka
 
		
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank partners Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019 as Official Banking Partner
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 16 November 2018 09:31 am
DFCC Bank partners Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019 as Official Banking Partner
	
Left Right: Ms. Nilmini Gunaratne-Vice President Marketing, DFCC Bank, Ms. Jill Macdonald, Curator - Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019, Ms. Sunela Samaranayake, Festival Director - Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019, Mr. Thimal Perera-DCEO,DFCC Bank, Sapumal Perera  Cards Marketing Manager, DFCC Bank.
DFCC Bank will partner the Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019 as the Official Banking Partner for the second consecutive year. Officials from DFCC Bank and the festival committee gathered at a press conference on 25th October 2018, where the Deputy CEO of DFCC Bank, Thimal Perera, handed over the sponsorship formally to Sunela Samaranayake, Festival Director of Fairway Galle Literary Festival 2019, as the official banking partner for the event. Fairway Galle Literary Festival, since its launch in 2007, has become one of the most anticipated literary events in South East Asia for both authors and literary enthusiasts around the world.
The festival is celebrated annually, in and around the historic Dutch Galle Fort, an UNESCO World Heritage Site. By sustaining its commitment to the culturally significant event, DFCC Bank has proved its credentials as a true and committed patron of arts and culture in the country, helping put Sri Lanka on the global literary map.
To be held from 16th to 20th January 2019, the festival will attract renowned writers such as Sir David Hare  one of the best known contemporary playwrights; Kamila Shamsie, a respected voice in literature who has just had her latest book, Home Fire, long-listed for the Man Booker Prize; celebrated photojournalist Sir Don MuCullin; poet Vahni Capildeo; Canadian writer Madeleine Thien; detective writer Anthony Horowitz; famed Sri Lankan writer Romesh Gunasekera; and noted historian and author Sir William Dalrymple. Furthermore, childrens book author Nandana Das will contribute to the childrens programme at the festival while celebrity chef Peter Kuruwita is expected to launch his latest cookbook at the venue.
Commenting on the sponsorship, Deputy CEO of DFCC Bank, Thimal Perera said: DFCC Bank is pleased to continue its commitment to one of the premier literary events in the world, the Fairway Galle Literary Festival, once again in 2019. This event not only attracts renowned literary and arts and culture personalities to Sri Lanka, but it has also raised Sri Lankas profile as a country that values knowledge and learning. DFCC Bank will ensure that our customers get the best out of the festival by accessing our services at the venue while also enjoying some of the exciting events we have planned throughout the festival.
DFCC Bank is a fully-fledged commercial bank and prides itself on delivering tailor-made products that are designed to meet the specific financial needs of both retail and business customers, attractive interest rates, structured repayment plans, easy access to all funds and fast and prompt customer service. The Bank has been rapidly growing its footprint across the country with a network of 138 branches and service points. Furthermore, the southern region remains one of the banks key areas for expansion and growth, attracting an increasing number of customers seeking reliable financial services that support their personal and business needs and specific lending requirements.
DFCC Bank was recently recognised as one of the Top 10 Most Admired Companies in Sri Lanka by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the International Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka (ICCSL). It is rated AA-(lka) by Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Geopolitics of resolving conflict with a redundant Constitution
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:22 am
Geopolitics of resolving conflict with a redundant Constitution
	
Is it the outdated, warped Constitution that these vested power blocs and a few Western diplomats want to be honoured and abide by

he SC decision has pushed Rajapaksa into back foot defence on a daily basis, reacting to the Wickremesinghe strategy of taking decisions in a Parliament that remains prorogued but accepted by Western interests as Constitutional.
The Supreme Court (SC) decision to issue a stay order on the Gazette notification dissolving Parliament is given a completely distorted interpretation by Yahapalana Experts, to be in line with the Western power bloc.
Their accredited envoys in Colombo act firmly in legitimising the Government of their choice. On that strength, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya convened the prorogued Parliament, though constitutionally the Speaker has no such power.
The US AmbassadorMs Teplitz, who went to the Parliamentary complex with a few other diplomatic colleagues to watch over the proceedings on 14 November, later told media, she was glad the institution was once again fulfilling its constitutional role.
That said much about Wickremesinghe believing he could assert himself as the PM and muster a majority, with some MPs bought over, and some MPs crossing over for the second time in two weeks.
Geopolitics and the Constitution
For the Western diplomats that included the US, Germany, Canada, who on October 27, went to Temple Trees and then made their way to Parliament last Wednesday (India that sent its Deputy HC in Colombo to TTs on Oct 27. was a conspicuous absentee among diplomats in Parliament), act on their own geopolitical agenda.
But that does not allow the stay order decided by the Supreme Court on the Gazette notification dissolving Parliament to convene Parliament.
The SC did not rescind or squash the Gazette notification dissolving Parliament as illegal and unconstitutional. All that remains to be decided upon, after the SC accepts objections and deliberates on them before finally deciding on the legality of that Gazette.
Therefore, the previous Gazette convening Parliament on November 14 cannot be operational as argued by the Colombo interests.
This Parliament sitting is another illegal act, as prorogation was NOT challenged as unconstitutional, but was only appealed to be immediately convened by the President.
A prorogued Parliament can only be convened by the President after which a new date has to be fixed for Parliamentary business proper to begin. The Speaker becomes the authority in Parliament, thereafter.
The Constitution is being used by both sides in usurping power, leaving out the People.
The SC is called upon to decide the legality of constitutional jugglery. It leaves aside intrusions of the Western power bloc on their geopolitical interests, that create the tug-O-war between Wickremesinghe backed by them, and Rajapaksa with Sirisena counted as anti-West, pro-China agents.
This type of political coups with external factors involved in internal politics can only be engineered in a society where the citizenry is very much distanced from democratic participation, where democratic traditions have faded off through two or three generations.
Democracy as an empty shell
They raise major issues on democracy and Sovereignty of the People, here in Sri Lanka. Ever since the 1978 Constitution that was amended 19 times, Sovereignty of the People became a mere Article in
the Constitution.
Democracy came to be promoted as unrestricted consumer freedom in a free market. Freedom of choice and the individual right to compete in this free market evolved as a democracy.
The sovereignty of the people and democracy is thus reduced to holding elections. These elections are also held as procedural events in a calendar, dates for which Parliament keeps altering, with the Opposition including JVP and TNA compromising.
Truly immersed in a consumer market struggling to improve on their incomes, people show no decisive opposition and interest in these elections. Apathy with which even procedural democracy is treated was in public display when the National Elections Commission (NEC) member Dr Hoole, went to SC with an FR petition against the dissolution of Parliament with elections fixed for January 5, 2019.
He did not go to the SC pleading for LG elections that were postponed for over two and a half years and PC elections postponed even without a date announced.
Electoral democracy is being ridiculed and degraded with politicians, the urban middle-class including professionals, academics and at times the Judiciary, focussed on procedure and not functionality. Democracy is not elections only. Democracy includes all fundamental rights enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution.
They are nevertheless left to remain as statements with no independent mechanisms to challenge violations, other than within the higher judiciary. A means, too costly and far outside, the reach of ordinary citizens.
Though Article 11 in Chapter III guarantees No person shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment that often times is blatantly violated with impunity.
Freedom from torture thus
remains irrelevant.

"No citizen shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, religion, language, caste, sex,. also remains on hold with Tamils, Muslims and even Sinhala Christians being heavily discriminated against "
Article 12 (2) No citizen shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, religion, language, caste, sex,. also remains on hold with Tamil, Muslim and even Sinhala Christians being heavily discriminated against with Sinhala Buddhist extremism oppressively dominating social space and often selectively treated by law-enforcement agencies themselves trapped within Sinhala
Buddhist dominance.
For the war-affected, deprived and suppressed people in the North and the East, Article 14(1)(f) the freedom by himself or in association with others to enjoy and promote his own culture and to use his own language is irrelevant with regular complaints on Sinhala colonisation of their areas.
Sinhala colonisation brings with it forced cultural interventions, the Tamil people are unable to resist with ITAK leadership in the TNA playing Colombo Politics with the UNP and with Western diplomatic interests.
Almost all employees in the export manufacture sector from among over 2.4 million workers in the private sector are denied their Fundamental Rights as guaranteed in Article 14(1)(c) and (d) of the Constitution that says:
Every Citizen is entitled to (c) the freedom of association and (d) the freedom to form and join a trade union. BOI of Sri Lanka Act has allowed the BOI to restrict organised labour through administrative guidelines and the vision and mission of the 95-year-old Labour Department have over the past few decades changed to decide in favour of the employer instead of safeguarding the rights of the employee.
In this unfettered free market, with foreign direct investments intensely promoted as the only way Sri Lanka could develop within this global economy, even the Judiciary tends to give the employer the benefit of exploiting labour.
Sri Lanka has thus drifted into a pathetically agonising situation where the Constitution is flouted for vested interests by rich and powerful political blocs in the city.
Fundamental Rights have little meaning if any in functional terms. Workers are left non-unionised for the benefit of the filthy rich in an unrestricted free market.
Privately owned media are used for political bargaining by big-time funders of immensely corrupt political parties. State media are controlled by those same corrupt political parties in Government. In a heavily atomised high-frequency urban consumer society, the middle-class professionals, the English speaking elite, NGOs and the anti-Rajapaksa social activists who by default present themselves as saviours of democracy live out of this free market economy.
They dominate social opinion through Colombo based mainstream media.
Democracy, therefore, remains the property of the powerful with a Constitution that is overridden with ambiguity and contradictions.
Geopolitics of democracy
This outdated and warped Constitution is what these vested power blocs in the city and few Western diplomats claim should be honoured and abided by.
The term constitutionality is thus given more importance than democracy.
Functional democracy would not allow their involvements in the internal life of the country. Functional democracy in the first place, would not have allowed this Yahapalana insanity in power politics.
Yet, for the Western powers deeply involved in the internal conflict, it is about keeping Rajapaksa-Sirisena combine out of power at whatever cost.
They perhaps regret they were not rich enough to fund the Wickremesinghe Government all through these years, other than through the IMF that comes with conditions attached.
That pushed the Wickremesinghe Government to compromise with China on a weak wicket. They fear China would come back stronger, building on what Wickremesinghe compromised on if Rajapaksa was allowed a comeback.
Thus, it is now a serious geopolitical issue for the US-led Western diplomacy to keep Rajapaksa out, and strengthen a Wickremesinghe Government politically and economically, to gradually wean out Chinese influence.
It is geopolitical supremacy played out in the Indian Ocean. With pro-Chinese strongman Yameenin Male ousted and Mohamad Nasheed going back home, Western geopolitics have regained space they now need to consolidate. That is about saving Sri Lanka from pro-Chinese dominance.
This Western involvement in Colombo is about taking advantage gained in the Maldives, a project India does not want to burn its fingers with but welcomes as big brother in the sub-continent. Thus, it is not about an election for people to elect a government of their choice, but about installing a government the Western power bloc is comfortable with.
The danger lies in this Colombo alliance being projected in the majority Sinhala South as anti-Sinhala Buddhist; Western interests with the Colombo political lobby and the ITAK leadership that campaigned for war crimes investigations, back again in full throttle, working together.
Unfortunately for the people, this provides Rajapaksa with the most comfortable platform for his comeback.
What is being fought for by both sides is not going to resolve with a Supreme Court Ruling. This now needs a peoples movement for constitutional reforms, in drafting a constitution the people could own as their supreme law.


 
		
==============================
## Title: Helping the preemies blossom
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:50 am
Helping the preemies blossom
	
    World Prematurity Day    


Children are the most precious commodity of humankind. This makes health issues of children a major focus of interest in this era. One of the biggest health crises that affect newborns is Prematurity, with nearly 15 million newborns dying annually due to its complications. In addition, a considerable fraction of the surviving preterm babies have long-term health complications that persist throughout their lives. Therefore, in order to raise awareness regarding this health issue, November 17 has been declared as the World Prematurity Day. In this weeks Health Capsule, we have spoken to Dr. Deepal Perera, Consultant Paediatrician, Apeksha hospital, Maharagama, in order to increase awareness about the issues related to prematurity among our readers.

Defining prematurity
A normal human baby spends approximately nine months in his mothers womb before seeing this world. A baby usually reaches full maturity around 37 weeks after conception. Each day that he spends inside the mothers uterus until he is fully matured supports the growth and development of his body and organs.
Basically, until he reaches full maturity, each day that he spends inside the uterus prepares him better for the life outside it. If he is delivered prematurely, he is ill prepared to face the challenges of the outside world when compared with the babies born after completing the term, and are therefore likely to experience more short and long-term problems.
A baby is called premature when he is born after a pregnancy lasting less than 37 weeks, explains Dr. Perera. Even though an early birth is associated with poor survival, thanks to the development of healthcare facilities, babies born as early as 25 weeks of gestation now have a chance to live, he adds.

Risk factors
Many have the question as to what causes a baby to be delivered early, without completing the usual term inside the mother. The causes for preterm delivery can be categorised into maternal factors, fetal factors and uterine factors, explains the doctor. Maternal factors like diabetes in pregnancy, hypertension and smoking during pregnancy increase the risk of preterm delivery, while abnormalities in the uterus and the fetus will also have an effect. These factors alone or in combination can cause a baby to be born prematurely.

Dangers of preterm birth
Complications of preterm birth can also be divided into short-term and long -term complications, according to Dr. Perera. Having a low birth weight at the time of delivery is one important consequence of preterm birth. This condition is associated with other major implications connected with the babys health. A baby is categorised as having a low birth weight when he weighs less than 2.5 kg at birth. Some babies weigh as low as 1 kg or less and are called extremely low birth weight, and have poorer chance of survival when compared to other babies.
Since the lungs of these babies may not be mature enough, they may have difficulty in expanding, causing respiratory difficulty. This is a condition called surfactant deficient lung disorder. Such babies may need artificial ventilation of a preemie until their lungs mature and function on their own.
One of the most common and immediate problems that preemies have is hypothermia after birth, according to Dr. Perera. Due to the lower body fat content of their bodies, they have difficulty maintaining their body temperature. Similarly, lower blood glucose levels after birth can also occur and cause long-term damage to other organs if not treated timely.
Preterm babies also have a higher risk of bleeding inside the brain soon after birth. Jaundice, or yellowing of the baby can also occur due to the increased levels of a substance called bilirubin in the blood. In the absence of timely treatment, these particles of bilirubin can enter the brain and deposit in brain tissue, causing brain damage.
Have you seen how newborn babies make sucking motions when touched near the corner of their mouth This automatic action is called the suckling reflex and aids newborns in initiating breastfeeding. But this reflex may not be well developed in preemies and therefore it may be difficult to initiate breastfeeding in them. Therefore they may need feeding through a tube or through an intravenous line, until breastfeeding is established.
Preemies are also more prone to have anaemia and other vitamin and nutritional deficiencies after birth and therefore need careful assessment and follow-up. They also have a higher risk of developing rickets due to the deficiency of calcium in their bodies.

Long-term effects
Long-term consequences that these premature babies face include neuro-developmental disorders like cerebral palsy, learning difficulties, mental retardation, low IQ and epilepsy. In addition, they have an increased risk of having hearing and vision problems. Therefore premature babies need careful follow up after birth which should include eye and hearing checkups.

Prevention and treatment
Even though technology is much advanced, still there is not much that can be done to prevent premature births. Avoiding smoking, controlling diabetes and hypertension during pregnancy will reduce the risk of preterm birth.
Mothers at risk of delivering babies prematurely should be managed at hospitals that offer specialist care and facilities for preemies, giving them an optimum chance of survival. Special medication that helps the childs lung mature has to be administered to the mother when possible. Starting breastfeeding soon after birth, keeping the baby warm and following up the babys health condition, is important in giving the maximum care to the baby, concludes Dr. Perera.
They say that it takes a village to raise a child. So, lets all get together and increase the focus on the issue of prematurity, so that these babies who arrived prematurely can still grow up to take their rightful place in the world.
 
		
==============================
## Title: High Commissioner of India  inaugurates Intex South Asia at BMICH
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:06 am
High Commissioner of India  inaugurates Intex South Asia at BMICH
	
The 4th edition of Intex South Asia, the largest international textile sourcing show in South Asia, was inaugurated yesterday at BMICH by Mr. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka.
Ms. Indira Malwatte, Chairperson, Sri Lanka Export Development Board, Mr. Sharad Amalean, Chairman, Joint Apparel Association Forum of Sri Lanka (JAAF), heads of several trade bodies, industry leaders and delegates from several countries were also present. The event has been organized by Worldex India Exhibition and Promotion Pvt. Ltd. The event partners include the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (TEXPROCIL), Retailers Association of India, Clothing Manufacturers Association of India, Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) etc.
High Commissioner Mr. Taranjit Singh Sandhu and Chairperson, Export Development Board of Sri Lanka Mrs. Indira Malwatte also jointly inaugurated the India Pavilion organized by Federation of Indian Export Organistion (FIEO). 
The High Commissioner noted that Intex South Asia has become an annual event in Sri Lanka in the calendar of textile industry, which is a reflection of efforts of all stakeholders to turn a huge potential into reality. He also recalled Prime Minister of India Mr. Narendra Modis vision for textiles: From Farm to Fibre, Fibre to Factory, Factory to Fashion, Fashion to Foreign.
Underlining that India is the largest cotton and jute producer in the world and second largest textiles producer, as well as the second largest producer of silk in the world, the High Commissioner added that there exists significant complementarity wherein Sri Lanka can source textile material from India and transform it into apparel and garments for the rest of the world. He encouraged Sri Lankan companies to be part of the supply and value chains of large Indian companies. He praised the contribution of Sri Lankan companies, that have made substantial investments in India in the textile sector. He noted that events such as Intex South Asia, would go a long way in promoting the existing synergy between India and Sri Lanka.
The High Commissioner touched upon Khadi, a hand spun fabric, which Mahatma Gandhi had popularized, as a symbol of freedom and self-respect. India is currently paying tribute to Gandhiji as part of his 150th birth anniversary celebrations. 
The HC underscored that Indias rapid growth can bring dividends for the entire region, especially Sri Lanka. He added that there is a lot India and Sri Lanka can do together rather than at individual levels. He called upon the business community and industry leaders to innovate and grow together. 
The 4th edition of Intex South Asia has participation of over 200 suppliers from around 15 countries showcasing a wide variety of innovative textile products such as yarns, apparels, denim clothing, accessories etc. Alongside the exhibition, there are also Interactive Business Forums, Fashion Fiesta, Networking Reception, Fashion Show, B2B meetings, etc. The event concludes on 16 November 2018.
 
		
==============================
## Title: How the illness affects the family
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:33 am
How the illness affects the family
	
World Diabetes Day 2018

Diabetes has become a household name in recent times and is now a global pandemic. Ironically, the more familiar it has become, that the attitude towards it remains passive. The impact of diabetes is vastly underestimated among the common people. In fact, diabetes is being accepted as an inevitable condition that has to be faced as one ages. On the contrary, under the benign cloak of typical old age illness hides a chronic debilitating illness that cripples ones physical, mental, and social wellbeing. It also places a long term financial burden on the patient and his or her immediate family. Diabetes is largely preventable by adhering to a certain lifestyle and prevention. This process is better than cure especially in the absence of cure.
November 14 marks World Diabetes Day. It is also the birthday of Sir Fredrick Banting, who co-discovered Insulin along with Charles Best in 1922. The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) commemorate this day annually in response to growing concerns about the escalating health threat posed by diabetes. The campaign draws attention to issues of paramount importance to the diabetes world and keeps diabetes firmly in the public and political spotlight. Each year, the World Diabetes Day focuses on a particular cause, and for the year 2018-2019, the theme family and diabetes has been announced.

Diabetes is largely preventable by adhering to a certain lifestyle and prevention. This process is better than cure especially in the absence of cure
According to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), a two-year timeframe has been chosen to best facilitate planning, development, promotion and participation. Materials and actions that IDF will develop over the two years of the campaign will aim at raising awareness of the impact that diabetes has on the family and support the network of those affected. They will also help to promote the role of the family in the management, care, prevention and education of diabetes.
Diabetes is a disease, or rather, a group of metabolic diseases characterised by high levels of blood glucose. Understanding the underlying pathophysiology of diabetes is vital. The food we eat consist of carbohydrates and in order for the body to utilise the consumed carbohydrates, it first has to be broken down to Glucose, a simplified form. Glucose is an important source of energy for body tissues, and it is the main source of fuel to the brain. Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas. The role of this hormone is vital in carbohydrate metabolism, as it circulates in the blood stream, enabling the glucose to be utilised by the body cells. Once absorbed and used, excess glucose would be stored in the liver, for future use, as a back-up fuel source. In instances where the blood glucose is low, the liver contributes to maintain the blood glucose within the normal range. In diabetic patients, the insulin production is inadequate, hence, unable to be utilised by the body cells, glucose accumulates in the bloodstream. This results in high blood sugar. In some instances, insulin production is adequate yet the body cells fail to recognise and respond to the hormone. Consistently high levels of blood sugar, gradually begins to take a toll and damages tissues and causes failure of various organs.
Type 1 Diabetes also known as juvenile onset diabetes, type 2 diabetes which is also known as adult onset diabetes and gestational diabetes that occurs during the pregnancy period are the three main types of diabetes. Type 1 or juvenile onset diabetes cannot be prevented and occurs due to an autoimmune reaction where ones own immune system destroys the insulin producing cells, due to reasons yet unknown. This type manifests in children and young adults, requiring them to be dependent on insulin injections throughout their lives. The second type amounts to 90% of the diabetes cases in the world. Type 2 diabetes may manifest at any stage of adulthood and develops due to insulin deficiency or resistance to insulin. It may remain undetected in many, and almost always presents in obese or overweight individuals. This type can be managed in the early stages through lifestyle modification, however oral drugs and insulin would be required, depending on the extent and progression of the disease. Gestational diabetes occurs during pregnancy and is associated with complications to both the mother and the child. The condition resolves spontaneously after pregnancy. The mother and child are at a risk for acquiring type 2 diabetes later in life and must manage their lifestyle accordingly.
Approximately 425 million known cases of diabetes prevail as of 2018 and this number is expected to increase radically by 2030. In addition to the adverse health outcomes, diabetes places an emotional and financial burden on the family members of patients. Family members of the patient have often been noted to alter their lifestyles and food habits to accommodate the patient. Being a chronic disease that requires medications, regular checkups and specific food habits over prolonged periods of time have made diabetes an expensive disease that needs to be prevented to avoid the loss of quality in life.
Realising that diabetes just doesnt affect an individual alone, but affects everybody associated with his/her family, can be the first step to prompt people to be more aware and cautious. Families are the building blocks of the society. Families being burdened with chronic illnesses and having to battle the cascade of emotional and economic consequences cripples the society as a whole. Every little effort to alter lifestyles and raise awareness taken by a proactive individual to combat diabetes will in the long-run eradicate this pandemic.
Credits: International Diabetes Federation, worlddiabetesday.org
 
		
==============================
## Title: I am ready to fight for democracy: Sajith
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 06:17 am
I am ready to fight for democracy: Sajith
	
UNP Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa yesterday said he is ready to play a leading role in ensuring democracy for the country.
Mr. Premadasa, speaking during a protest rally organized by the UNP in Colombo last evening, said he was ready to sacrifice his life for democracy. We are ready to play a leading role in ensuring democracy and rule of law in this country. We will do that with the blessing of our party and the working committee of UNP, he said.
Some ask me as to whom I am. I would like to state here that I am a person who stands for democracy and decency, he said and added, There is a smear campaign brought against me where false stories about me are sent to the media. Please dont get misled. Dont believe every story circulated through media about me. Only believe the statements I issue with my signature and picture, he said.
Mr. Premadasa also challenged the newly appointed government to allow a vote to take place in Parliament to determine whether it has the majority or not.
UNP General Secretary Akila Viraj Kariyawasam requested the peoples support to take over and safeguard important state institutions if the need arises.
UNP Spokesman and MP Harin Fernando again tendered an apology to those present for asking to them to vote for the incumbent President at the last presidential election. (Yohan Perera)

Video by Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Identifying limits in antibiotics usage
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 16 November 2018 11:00 am
Identifying limits in antibiotics usage
	
              World Antibiotic Awareness Week            


It is quite normal to gulp down an Amoxicillin tablet when one has a runny nose or a sore throat. But antibiotics - medicines that destroy or slow down the growth of bacteria- cannot treat viral infections. Antibiotics cannot kill viruses since they have different mechanisms to survive and replicate. However, antibiotics have become one of the commonly overused drugs to the point that antibiotic resistance has become a global concern. Hence each November, the World Antibiotic Awareness Week (WAAW) aims to increase global awareness on antibiotic resistance and to encourage the best practices among the general public, health workers and policy makers to avoid the further emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance.
In order to shed light on this topic, the Health Capsule spoke to Dr. Deepal Perera, Consultant Paediatrician, Apeksha Hospital, Maharagama.
Threats indentified with antibiotic overuse
Over the past few years, countries such as UK and USA havent done research on new antibiotics, said Dr. Perera in his opening remarks. So we are not getting new antibiotics and therefore have been using the same antibiotics unnecessarily. But we shouldnt be using antibiotics for a few reasons. We have trillion of organs in our body and in organs such as the gastrointestinal tract there are over 1014 microorganisms. Most of these healthy bacteria will die as a result of antibiotic overuse. Hence there will be an unbalance of microorganisms in the body leading to unnecessary diseases such as diarrhoea. If we have good bacteria they will fight with new bacteria, said the doctor.

Loose stools are a side effect of antibiotic resistance. Other side effects include nausea and vomiting. In the case of diarrohea we dont have to prescribe antibiotics


Developing resistance
By overusing antibiotics we develop antibiotic resistance, he continued. Take a look at Amoxicillin. It has been one of the antibiotics that has been widely overused. After a period of time our bodies become sensitive to this drug. Once the bacteria develop resistance, it doesnt cure the condition, but will lead to several other complications. If we take children, most of their infections are viral. But they take Amoxicillin and parents complain that their children have diarrhoea. But sometimes it is parents who asks us to give antibiotics. Loose stools are a side effect of antibiotic resistance. Other side effects include nausea and vomiting. In the case of diarrhoea we dont have to prescribe antibiotics. If necessary we could prescribe probiotics  microorganisms such as lactobacillus that when consumed as in a food or a dietary supplement maintain or restore beneficial bacteria to the digestive tract. The overuse of antibiotics will cause hypersensitive reactions such as urticarial rashes and fungal infections especially in the mouth and intestines. Therefore its better not to use antibiotics exceeding the recommended dosage, said Dr. Perera.

Keeping infections at bay
As antibiotic resistance has become quite an uncontrollable condition to follow, this years WAAW focuses on presenting people with a choice. Therefore with an objective to include WAAW in the Global Action Plan on Antibiotic Resistance, it will include five focus days of tailored social media messaging around each of the objectives. One of these objectives is to carry out a campaign for all hospitals and healthcare centres to do their utmost to keep infections at bay with the best possible sanitation and hygiene measures available.
In Sri Lanka, most hospitals especially in the rural areas have lower levels of sanitation and maintenance of hygiene. This also comes with the issue of disposing clinical waste as well. Since many people would use one bathroom, maintenance isnt regularly. It is important to prevent infections by washing hands, drinking boiled water and cooking food using boiled water, eating cooked fish or meat etc, Dr. Deepal added. Since prevention is better, we need to find out where these infections originated and prevent further infections from occurring. This is a task vested upon the entire hospital staff, but in most instances it goes neglected, he said.


Infants should be given breast milk up to six months because it contains the necessary antibiotic properties. They in turn immunise the infants system. In addition to that giving nutritious food and leading a healthy life can keep a person away from bacterial infections
WAAW 2018
In addition to keeping infections at bay, the other focus messages include :
Help people understand why microbial resistance is happening and that it poses a genuine risk to the future health and that collectively people can make a change ;
	Mobilise laboratories in every country to look for evidence of resistance in the bacteria they see and to help build a global picture of how it is spreading and where it poses the genuine risk ;
	Use the antibiotics that are still effective as wisely as possible, regulating how they are distributed, ensuring they are only given to patients and animals who really need them and generally handling them with care ;
	Urge governments, funding agencies and the private sector to invest in new tools, skills and technologies, we urgently need to build a smarter world in which our medicines are secured forgenerations to come.

Preventing antibiotic resistance
Since antibiotics like Amoxicillin have cured conditions such as the common cold, people assume that it could be used at their own will. If the prescription given by the doctor states that you have to take it for four to five days then you need to take it during that period and stop. But what people do is they self-medicate until all the symptoms have disappeared. With the issuance of antibiotics over the counter, incidence of antibiotic resistance is common.
Preventing antibiotic resistance should start at infancy, Dr. Perera continued. Infants should be given breast milk up to six months because it contains the necessary antibiotic properties. They in turn immunise the infants system. In addition to that giving nutritious food and leading a healthy life can keep a person away from bacterial infections, he said.
In order to reduce antibiotic resistance, the following steps could be followed:

Use antibiotics only if indicated; avoid self-medication.
	Use the correct dose for the appropriate duration. Follow the doctors advice regarding the correct dosage regimen.
	Do not stop antibiotics early when you feel better; take the full course recommended
	Do not keep any remaining antibiotics at home and such antibiotics should not be given to any person.
	Check the expiry date when purchasing.
	Do not use antibiotics to prevent bacterial infection except in specific instances where a decision will be taken by your doctor.
 
		
==============================
## Title: International Legal Research Conference Former CJ  of India  to deliver keynote address
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 November 2018 03:04 am
International Legal Research Conference Former CJ  of India  to deliver keynote address
	
The Faculty of Law, University of Colombo has organized an International Legal Research Conference to mark its 70th anniversary. It is scheduled to be held today and tomorrow at Hotel Mirage, Colombo.
The keynote address will be delivered by the former Chief Justice of India, Justice Deepak Misra, while the Attorney General, Jayantha Jayasuriya, PC is expected to grace the occasion as the Chief Guest. The conference is comprised of separate sessions on topics related to Public law, Private law and Commercial law.
Being the first of its kind in the history of the Faculty, the two day conference would attract many legal scholars from around the world. Legal academics, judges, practitioners from the official and private bar, and law students are expected to participate. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Intervenient petitioners seek full SC bench to hear FR petitions on dissolution
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 11:27 pm
Intervenient petitioners seek full SC bench to hear FR petitions on dissolution
	
Five persons who filed intervenient petitions against the 13 fundamental rights petitions challenging the dissolution of Parliament by President Maithriapala Sirisena on November 9, requested the Supreme Court today through a motion to appoint a full bench to hear the said Fundamental Rights (FR) Petitions.
The intervenient petitioners had submitted in their motion that they requested under Article 132 of the Constitution a bench comprising five judges or seven judges or a full bench to hear the FR petitions against the Attorney General challenging the dissolution of the Parliament.
The intervenient petitioners who had made this request through Attorneys Nilantha Wijesinghe and Atula de Silva were Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) Chairman Prof. G.L. Peiris, Minister Udaya Gammanpila, Wellawatte Jagath, Professor Channa Jayasumana and Attorney Premnath C. Dolawatte.
They have submitted that the gazette issued by the President dissolving the Parliament has made a tremendous impact on the society and what is before the court is a nationally important Constitutional matter and as such it is appropriate to appoint a bench comprising more than five judges.
The three member bench of the Supreme Court that heard the fundamental rights petitions filed by the UNP, TNA, JVP, ACMC, former Parliamentarian Mano Ganeshan, Centre for Policy Alternatives, Attorney Aruna Laksiri and the member of the National Election Commission Professor Samuel Ratnajeevan Hoole, issued an order on Tuesday staying the President's gazette on the dissolution of Parliament and holding the general election under that gazette till December 7. (Thilani de Silva and Ranjan Katugampola)
 
		
==============================
## Title: It was just an accident
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:09 am
It was just an accident
	
After the hideous brawl at the Diyawanna House yesterday, one of the partisans of the recently appointed Second-in-Command had got himself admitted to the nearby general hospital with a bleeding wound in his palm and fingers.

Upon his admission to the hospital the doctor on duty had asked him whether it was due to an accident, to which he had replied that a rival Purohitha of the House had come behind him and cut his arm. But he has not mentioned a name. 
So the doctor had told him that if so he has to give a statement to the police for a JMO inquiry. Then the wounded partisan has told the former that there was no need to go for any inquiry and to record it as a mere accident. 
In the meantime, while the hospital staff was getting ready to take the partisan to the operating theatre a fellow Purohitha had asked the doctor not to take him away, as the new Second-in-Command was on his way to the hospital to visit his fellow wounded partisan. 
The doctor had then told them that the wounded Purohithas life is more important than the Second-in-Command of the House and had taken him away to the operating theatre. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: JVP stands for non-discrimination of LGBTIQ persons
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:26 am
JVP stands for non-discrimination of LGBTIQ persons
	

yself and few representatives of the community of diverse Sexual Orientation, Gender Identities and Sex Characteristics (SOGISEC) (or else LGBTIQ+ Community) of Sri Lanka were invited by JVP (Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna-Peoples Liberation Front) to participate at a public dialogue on the struggle for democracy and the role of intellectuals in Sri Lanka on November 12. JVP, with six MPs in the Parliament, has been subject two insurrections. A party that is largely based on a rural, educated Sinhalese votes base, is in the move to include larger issues that are not championed by major parties such as UNP and SLFP.

"The major call which echoed through all the speeches was to stand and join hands for a broader democratic coalition against authoritarian moves of President Sirisena. Such a broader platform entails representation of different progressive rights and interests of thelarger society"
Recognising SOGIESC Community
This was the first such invitation that representatives of SOGIESC communities in Sri Lanka has received from a political party to join a high level public political dialogue. This invitation has come at a time when the SOGIESC community has been continuously demonised and deliberately ignored by the major political parties like UNP. Our request to meet the then Minister of Justice Thalatha Athukorala and the Chairwoman of the Parliamentary Sectoral Oversight Committee on Women and Gender Dr. Thusitha Wijemanna in September 2018, with regard to their statement made to the Ceylon Today newspaper, claiming that they are yet to receive a formal request to decriminalize LGBTIQ, were fallen into the ears of deaf. (https://www.lankanewspapers.com/2018/09/10/india-lifting-gay-sex-ban-gosl-wants-formal-request-consider-legal-reform/fbclid=IwAR1xii9E3nirVJSb1elrxtRMMJPP7KxeiOEq_xR4gGQc1Oda1cKcUFsGvOo). Particularly this invitation holds value as it came during a situation where the Sri Lankan SOGIESC community is being demonised by President Maithripaala Sirisena, who represents the SLFP, during his speech at a mega rally on November 5. The presidents homophobic remarks were met with fierce criticism from diverse segments of the society (http://www.dailymirror.lk/article/Prez-should-apologize-says-LGBTQ-community-158026.html). With the JVPs progressive stance against the discrimination of SOGIESC community in contrast to the homophobic SLFP and UNP, this is a solid start to the LGBTIQ which has been historically oppressed.
Call for broader democraticprogressive alliance
The event was organised by the JVP under the theme Intellectuals for Democracy. The event was well-attended by many of my colleagues from the universities, professionals such as doctors, lawyers, activists, public servants and the clergy. The entire hall at Sri Lanka Foundation Institute was full, which made some stand. The major call which echoed through all the speeches was to stand and join hands for a broader democratic coalition against authoritarian moves of President Sirisena. Such a broader platform entails representation of different progressive rights and interests of the larger society. However, it has also been highlighted that producing a counter hegemony against dominant Sinhala Buddhist nationalism is a major challenge for mainstreaming and the eventual victory of a political strategy based on democracy. Despite that, party Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake invited all interested parties to join hands for democracy and highlighted the role of intellectuals in fulfilling that mandate.
JVPs Position onSOGIESC Community
At the discussion session of the event, a person raised the question as to the official position of the JVP regarding the discrimination against SOGIESC community in Sri Lanka. In his reply to the question, the JVP Leader Dissanayake explicitly stated that the JVP stands for equal rights while adding that all individuals are equal human beings. His statement says, sexual orientation is a private matter of an individual. We may have different divisions in our society, based on language, religion, culture. But as the JVP we believe that all of these communities including SOGIESC communities have equal rights and equal recognition. Our position on SOGIESC community is that. We are human beings before any divisions are done based on our sexual orientation, sexual preferences, language, culture and religion. We approach all issues based on the idea that we are all human beings. Therefore, we are a movement for equal rights.
This speech is remarkable in the struggle against discrimination of the SOGEISC community in Sri Lanka. It was the first time in the political history of Sri Lanka that a party leader publicly expressed his partys support for equal rights which would eliminate the discrimination against sexual minorities. The leaders remarks were welcomed with a huge applause from the audience. I was stunned to hear and feel the momentum in our struggle to eliminate discrimination against SOGIESC community in Sri Lanka.

"In his reply to the question, the JVP Leader Dissanayake explicitly stated that the JVP stands for equal rights while adding that all individuals are equal human beings. His statement says, sexual orientation is a private matter of an individual"
A beginning for a Sri Lankan approach
A party that was subject to heavy criticism by the civil society for homophobic remarks made by one of its few MPs Dr. Nalinda Jayatissa(http://www.dailynews.lk/2015/12/10/features/extreme-no-extremism), has now become the only party in Sri Lanka that has openly come out with a position for eliminating discrimination against SOGIESC community. This is a sign that a locally grounded path for SOGIESC rights has been created. A party that is largely based on rural educated and urban civil society votes with centre-left political orientation indicates left political approach as the only viable path for Sri Lankas SOGEISC community to win their rights. It is an approach not backed by foreign money, but by the commitment and passion of people at the grassroots, engaged in progressive politics. It is an approach where class, language, caste, cultures and ethnicity intersect with SOGIESC identities. Finally I left with the hope that the democratic forum that took shape under the leadership of JVP could be a viable way forward for winning the SOGIESC rights, because no major political parties throw their weight behind it.
(Thiyagaraja Waradas is a SOGIESC rights activist and a lecturer at the Department of International Relations of the University of Colombo. He is also a Commonwealth Scholar at the University of Bath, U.K. thiyagarajawaradas@gmail.com )
 
		
==============================
## Title: Knife brandishing: Complaint lodged against Ranjan, Palitha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 12:21 am
Knife brandishing: Complaint lodged against Ranjan, Palitha
	
The government yesterday said it had lodged a complaint with the police over UNP MPs Ranjan Ramanayake and Palitha Thewarapperuma who had allegedly threatened government MPs in Parliament with a knife.
Govt. MP Indika Anuruddha said a complaint has been lodged with the police post at the Parliamentary complex.
Both Ranjan Ramanayake and Palitha Thewarapperuma threatened me with a knife inside the chamber. When I brought Speakers attention to this, he said not knives but swords should be brought in because of the current state of affairs.
"This is unacceptable. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksas seat was a few rows away from these unruly MPs. This was a threat to all MPs. Therefore, we lodged the complaint with the police, he told a news briefing held at the Prime Ministers Office.
MP Johnston Fernando said the MPs who allegedly threatened others with a knife should be arrested. We have to find out how a knife was brought into parliament. We will bring this issue to the attention of both the President and IGP as well, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: LINCOLN IN THE BARDO : A Buddhists view of a tragic event in American history
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:34 am
LINCOLN IN THE BARDO : A Buddhists view of a tragic event in American history
	

he 2017 Man Booker Prize winning novel Lincoln in the Bardo by American fiction writer George Saunders is almost entirely peopled by corpses lying in coffins in the Oak Hill Cemetery in Georgetown, Washington DC on a February night in 1862. The text reads like a film or drama script that comprises an assortment of conversations among the shades of some recently dead and a biographical scrap book about Abraham Lincoln, the 16th president of America, containing diary entries, and extracts from actual and invented historical accounts of the American Civil War period (1861-65), which are carefully attributed to sources.
The action centres round the crypt of William Wallace Lincoln (Willie), the latest arrival in the graveyard, the recently dead eleven-year-old third son of the president. An interesting fact is that all these ghosts are unaware that they are dead, and behave as if they are alive. Lincoln in the Bardo records a mighty struggle between a group of wrangling ghosts over the soul of Willie. The only two living characters who appear in this ghostly drama are the gravedigger (or the night watchman) and Abraham Lincoln, the bereaved father. The struggle among the ghosts may be seen as a reflection of the agitated state of grief-stricken Abraham Lincolns own mind. In my opinion as a common reader, the novels most striking feature is this unconventional device for communicating the central experience of the novel, the most dominant aspect of which is the spiritual enlightenment that the senior Lincoln achieved in coming to terms with the loss of his beloved son. The mixture of bawdy humour and philosophical reflection makes the narrative a realistic and unsentimental comment on the human condition.
The most loquacious among the wraiths are the three known by the names of Hans Vollman, Roger Bevins III, and Reverend Everly Thomas, who also feature most prominently in the narrative. The shade of Hans Vollman, who was a printer, a middle-aged man married to an eighteen year old bride, goes about naked with a dent on his forehead caused by a falling roof beam that killed him, and a distended male organ that resulted from his death occurring just before he was able to consummate his marriage; he is bearing his tremendous member in his hands, so as not to trip himself on it, as fellow ghost Roger Bevins III comments. The ghostly body of Roger Bevins III, a gay young man who killed himself, is covered with multiple sets of eyes and hands that perhaps indicate posthumous frustration caused by lusts unsatisfied in life; the spirit of Reverend Everly Thomas is in dread of his impending judgement. The ghosts dont admit to themselves that they are dead. They are adamant that they are only sick and are lying in what they insist are their sick-beds (coffins) in a hospital yard (cemetery) awaiting imminent recovery. They tarry in this situation out of their attachment to their previous lives. Freshly arrived Willie wants to stay here eager for visits from his father. The ghosts must encounter a mysterious matterlightblooming phenomenon that escorts them to a terrible judgement. They are in the bardo, a transit station during their passage to their next life. What is this Bardo that appears in the title
George Saunders

Tibetan influence
The word Bardo is taken from Tibetan Buddhism, where it refers to an intermediate plane between the death and the reincarnation of an individual. The name of the Tibetan language book composed by Guru Padmasambhava of the 8th century which used to be known to the West as the Tibetan Book of the Dead is Bardo Thodal. Bardo Thodal means The Great Liberation upon Hearing on the Intermediate State. Actually, the book contains elaborate instructions for a dying person to follow in order to be reborn on a wholesome plane of existence. Something similar to the concept of bardo is known to the Theravada Buddhists of Sri Lanka. It is the metempsychotic state known as the gandhabba or transmigration state of consciousness (passing on at death to be reincarnated elsewhere). Saunders is not strictly adopting the authentic bardo or gandhabba idea; he is only adapting it for his fictional purpose.
The folk wisdom expressed in the English ballad The Unquiet Grave seems to be present at the back of Saunderss mind. The Lincoln in the title is more Abraham Lincoln than his young son Willie, who is actually in the grave, and has a better claim to be imagined to be in the bardo state. The implication is that Abraham Lincon, the private individual as a distraught parent and the public man shouldering grave responsibilities, particularly at the time of a fratricidal civil war, as president of America, finds himself in his own bardo, too. This is not surprising when we realise that, through his novel, Saunders temporarily consigns not only himself, but also the reader, to the same state of positive inner transformation (equivalent to the Buddhist concept of transmigration of personality or consciousness at the time of death).

"The book contains elaborate instructions for a dying person to follow in order to be reborn on a wholesome plane of existence. Something similar to the concept of bardo is known to the Theravada Buddhists of Sri Lanka"
Lincoln in the Bardo is the efflorescence of an idea conceived in Saunderss creative imagination on hearing in the 1990s a touching detail in the story of how president Lincoln absorbed the shock of his son Willies unexpected death of typhoid. What Saunders heard was that Lincoln visited Willies crypt alone in the night to hold his sons lifeless body in his arms. The writer was deeply touched by this piece of information. The circumstances of Willies death made his parents grief additionally poignant. The Lincolns were in the midst of a customary state dinner in the White House while the boy was dying in a room upstairs. They had wanted to stop the dinner because of their sons illness, but the doctor assured them that he would soon recover and asked them to go ahead with the party as planned. Lincoln was president; the civil war, still in its first year, was intensifying. Hundreds of young soldiers were dying. People immediately started criticizing the Lincolns for holding parties while their son was mortally ill. The implicit criticism of the president was in fact on a national scale: What was this unfeeling man doing about stopping the civil war that was claiming so many young lives On the other hand, Lincoln himself realized that thousands of other American parents were experiencing the same agonizing grief that he was feeling over his sons demise. 
love and Affection
Saunders hints at the obviously Buddhistic theme of his novel in a pre-publication telephone conversation (the interview mentioned above) with the Arts and Entertainment magazine on February 8, 2017. The book was published six days later on February 14 by Random House, USA. During the phone exchange, Saunders claimed that he wanted to make the novel emotionally compelling, while avoiding the approach of other novelists who produce successful big novels with multi-generational narratives, by which, he confesses, he cant pull his work off; his own way he describes as making verbal overflow (as readers can see demonstrated in Lincoln in the Bardo), walling himself off within a narrow restricted area. To the interviewers suggestion that, if he set out to convey the sadness of losing someone dear, his strategy was successful, he responds:
. For me it was also about that, and you know how a book just writes its way into some other thing than you planned. It was that conundrum that... if I look at my intuitions about things, the one thing that I know is that affection and love comes naturally. In difficult times, Im sustained by that, I look to that as kind of a bedrock. That seems to be true for most of us. And then, the conditionality of everything. Its so harsh, the juxtaposition of those two truths: that you love, and that everything is gonna...... [change].
Saunders says that he, in reaction to this tragic existential contradiction, makes up a kind of New Age reassurance (New Age refers to a broad movement characterized by alternative approaches to traditional Western culture): Yeah, but thats why life is beautiful. However, he immediately qualifies this, referring to his real life experience of about fifteen minutes of scary uncertainty when one of the engines of a plane he was travelling in stopped working. It was then that he realized to his amazement how ill-prepared he was for such a situation. He adds: Im Buddhist and I meditate and everything, but when that happened, it was almost like if you think youre in really good shape, and you talk yourself into that, and then somebody suddenly leads you on a leash on a 20 mile run. I didnt realize how off my perception was from reality. In that moment, I saw how ill-prepared I was for death. So Im trying to figure out a way to engage that stuff without being so depressing that it cant be taken, but in the thought that, if you could walk right up to that truth, and figure out a way to live joyfully and live safely with it that would be a real spiritual accomplishment. Here, Saunders is touching on the general thematic preoccupation that characterizes his short fiction. This applies to his first novel Lincoln in the Bardo as well.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Malwathu Mahanayake urges President to convene Parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 12:30 pm
Malwathu Mahanayake urges President to convene Parliament
	
The Mahanayake of the Malwathu Chapter, Venerable Thibbotuwawe Sri Sumangala Thera today requested President Maithripala Sirisena to convene Parliament and find a solution to end the current political instability in the country.
In a letter, the Thera said he hoped that the President and the Parliament would be able to come up with solutions which are constitutional and ethical.
Immediate measures need to be taken to prevent the further collapse of the country, the prelate said in the letter. (Nadeeka Daya Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MPs subjected to body search on their way in
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 01:31 pm
MPs subjected to body search on their way in
	
All MPs who are entering the Parliament Chamber were subjected to a body search by security officers today.
The security measures were taken after MP Palitha Thewarapperuma had allegedly brought a knife to the Chamber yesterday.
 
		
==============================
## Title: No-faith motion passed in House for 2nd time: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 09:25 pm
No-faith motion passed in House for 2nd time: JVP
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) said yesterday the no-confidence motion brought by them against Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and the government was passed with 122 MPs voting in favour.
It said that this was the second day on which the no-confidence motion was put to the vote and passed and as such the responsibility of the President to act according to the Constitution.
JVP leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake told a news conference held at the parliamentary complex that Standing Orders were suspended following a motion submitted by TNA MP M.A. Sumanthiran and the no-confidence motion was thereafter presented by him.
"The motion was passed in a proper manner according to Standing Orders. There is no way that the President can reject it or ignore it," he said and added that a small group of frustrated MPs without the majority in parliament were disrupting the activities of Parliament.
"Maithripala Sirisena's and Mahinda Rajapaksa's mobs prevented the Speaker from conducting the parliamentary session. He should come to the House at least to adjourn the House," Mr. Dissanayake said.
He said the Rajapaksa faction resorted to creating chaos in the House to prevent the no-confidence motion against them being passed in the House.
"The police should take action against the MPs who had allegedly brought knives into the Chamber. The Speaker cannot do that. He told us at the party leaders meeting that he had complained to the police. These MPs should not protest in the House urging the arrest of the MPs but they should do it opposite the President's House because the Police Department is under him," Mr. Dissanayake said. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)

Video by Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Only 8 currencies less valuable than LKR: Customs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 08:02 am
Only 8 currencies less valuable than LKR: Customs
	
According to the Sri Lanka Customs, the currencies of only eight out of 52 countries have a lower value than the Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR).
In an extraordinary gazette notification issued yesterday by Sri Lanka Customs Director-General P.S.M.Charles -- displaying the exchange rates of 52 countries in comparison to the Sri Lankan Rupee -- the currencies of Hungary (Forint), Indonesia (Rupiah), Iran (Riyal), Korea (Korean Won), Myanmar (Kyat), Nigeria (Naira), Zambia (Kwacha) and Zimbabwe (Dollar), which are in circulation domestically, have a lower value than the Sri Lankan Rupee.
Accordingly, the value of one Forint in Hungary is 63 cents, Rupiah a little over one cent, Riyal nearly one cent, Won 16 cents, Kyat one cent, Naira six cents, Kwacha less than a cent and Zimbabwean dollar about five cents.
Currencies of highest value against the Sri Lankan Rupee are Kuwait Dinnar - Rs.582, Omans Riyal  Rs. 459, Jordans Dinnar  Rs. 250, UKs Sterling Pound  Rs. 231, US Dollar  Rs. 177 and Switzerlands Franc  Rs. 176.
All duties of customs, as well as other charges, penalties and forfeitures incurred under the Customs Ordinance, shall be paid and received at the rates of exchange set out in the schedule, MrsCharles instructed officials in her gazette notification. (Sandun A. Jayasekera)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament adjourned till Nov. 19
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:45 pm
Parliament adjourned till Nov. 19
	
The parliament session was adjourned till 1 pm on November 19 (Monday) after the Speaker was thrown at objects and disruptions caused by the government MPs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders meeting at 11.30 a.m
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 11:27 am
Party leaders meeting at 11.30 a.m
	
A party leaders' meeting chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya is scheduled to be held at 11.30 am today at the Parliament complex to discuss the agenda for todays sessions, Speakers office said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders meeting ends, no agreement reached
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 01:57 pm
Party leaders meeting ends, no agreement reached
	
The party Leaders meeting which was held at the Parliamentary complex came to an end without reaching an agreement, Minister Dinesh Gunawardane said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: PickMe moves to a new Advanced Technology Centre to further fortify IT Stronghold
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 16 November 2018 09:12 am
PickMe moves to a new Advanced Technology Centre to further fortify IT Stronghold
	
In a bid to fortify its technological capacity and to offer enhanced services to customers, PickMe Sri Lankas largest ride hailing and logistics service provider moved its entire IT force in to a well-equipped, modern IT centre at 14th Floor, Maga Tower, 200, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05. The new, PickMe Advanced Technology Centre will house over hundred Software Engineers as well as Data Scientists and Quality Assurance officers.
Within just three short years since we started the Company, weve been able to turn around the way that Sri Lankans hire vehicles. The secret being that we proved security, reliability and efficiency through a user friendly app and a strong support team. As we move forward we need to maintain our inventive spirit and keep on turning around challenges as and when they arise. The new IT building will help our team to do so without hassle. Let us keep innovating and providing an optimal service to our passengers and driver partners, commented Ajit Gunawardena  Chairman  PickMe.
With over a million Sri Lankans on the platform, PickMe ensures accountability from the part of the drivers through the use of a live taximeter. Pickmes game changing attributes include a fair and transparent pricing method, passenger and driver safety as well as faster and accurate ETA (estimated time of arrival).
Within a short span of three years, PickMe has been able to use technology to change the way people access vehicles in Sri Lanka successfully. Our technological capacity is the linchpin of our success. Hence we decided to make a strategic move forward by allowing our IT department the freedom and the comfort of a separate location. This move will help us improve the effectiveness of our services and create the next generation of artificial intelligence algorithms, to help improve safe and efficient transportation, commented Jiffry Zulfer  CEO  PickMe.
The PickMe Advance Technology Centre is well equipped in terms of professionals and facilities to allow the Company to explore various avenues to adapt and improve its platform and services in line with the constantly changing environment of technology and cyber security.
PickMe will continue to innovate in order to understand, predict, and to improve efficiency of the experience of both passengers and driver partners.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Postmortem conducted on German ladys remains: Selfies that bring death
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:39 am
Postmortem conducted on German ladys remains: Selfies that bring death
	
ouring aroundSri Lanka has become an option for many tourists who experience climatic changes in their Western countries. Sri Lanka has seen an influx of tourists all year round and many of them often fall in love with the country. Just weeks after Lonely Planet listed Sri Lanka as the number one tourist destination in the world, a tragic story was reported from Horton Plains National Park. With the introduction of selfies in smart phones, mobile phone users are compelled to take any risk to click that perfect photograph. This has become a habit among the young and the old alike. Just a few days ago, an attempt to click a perfect photo took Julia Helgas life away as she fell off a cliff at Horton Plains National Park. She was here on vacation. The operations to rescue her body took days due to the prevailing adverse weather conditions in the area. This fatal incident contributed to the many selfie-related deaths around the world.
Julia Helga
The incident
35-year-old Julia Helga, a nurse by profession of German origin, had visited the Horton Plains national park with another German friend during her stay in Sri Lanka. The two women had arrived in the country on November 3 and had arrived at Nuwara Eliya on Saturday after visiting several areas down South. They had visited Worlds End on November 11 accompanied by a tourist guide. But Julia wouldnt have expected a deadly fall when she was going to click a selfie while atop a cliff which had a 4000-foot drop. The fall in fact was fatal that her body was found a few kilometres away from the Nonpareil Estate located in the Samanalawewa Police area in the Ratnapura District. The victims friend had informed of the incident to the Horton Plains National Park office with the help of the other tourists who had visited the place.

"The fall in fact was fatal that her body was found a few kilometres away from the Nonpareil Estate located in the Samanalawewa Police area in the Ratnapura District The victims friend had informed of the incident to the Horton Plains National Park office with the help of the other tourists"
Accordingly, the National Park officials together with the 3rd Sinha Regiment of the Army launched a search operation in search of the woman. Amidstchallenging weather conditions the Army recovered her body but it took them two days to take the body to Balangoda to conduct the post mortem.
The Daily Mirror learned that the body was sent to A.F Raymond Parlour to carry out the postmortem. The postmortem revealed that her death was caused due to numerous fractures and internal haemorrhage due to the impact of the fall. Discussions are underway to release the body to the German Embassy to be sent to the victims home.
Constantly informing public about safety precautions
- DWC
This wasnt the first instance when a tourist had fallen off Worlds End, but this in fact is the first time a tourist has fallen to her death while clicking a selfie at Worlds End. When inquired from the Department of Wildlife Conservation, Hasini Sarathchandra, Media Officer at DWC said that it is difficult to draw up barriers in this area since it has natural formations. Theres an observation deck where people can go to and observe the surroundings. This is the first time that such an incident has taken place. But we are constantly informing the public about taking safety precautions inside the Park. said Sarathchandra.
Selfie-related deaths
Researchers at the US National Library of Medicine recommend that no selfie zones should be introduced at dangerous spots in order to reduce deaths. A global study conducted this year revealed that the quest for extreme selfies has killed 259 people between 2011 and 2017. These dangerous spots include mountain tops, tall buildings and lakes. Drowning, transport accidents and falling were found to be the most common causes of death. The study found that selfie-related deaths were most common in India, Russia, the United Sates and Pakistan and 72.5% of cases reported are mean.

The Daily Mirror also contacted the German Embassy to inquire about the proceedings of releasing her body, but the Embassy refused to divulge any information with regard to this matter.


 
		
==============================
## Title: President failed to keep his promise: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 04:32 pm
President failed to keep his promise: JVP
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) today said President Maithripala Sirisena had failed to keep his promise to control his MPs.
JVP MP Vijitha Herath, who came under a chilli powder attack, told the Hindu that the President yesterday promised to control his group.
He violated that promised today. He asked us to amend the motion which we did but his group behaved like beasts, he said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: President reiterates won't appoint Ranil as PM again
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:29 pm
President reiterates won't appoint Ranil as PM again
	
President Maithripala Sirisena is reported to have told political party representatives that he would not re-appoint UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister.
He said this to the UNF representatives who met him, at his request, on Thursday evening to discuss the current political impasse.
The President indicated to them that another person should be nominated to the post instead of Mr. Wickremesinghe in the event Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa was unseated through a properly passed no-confidence motion against him. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President should recognize Ranil as PM: Kiriella
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 06:21 pm
President should recognize Ranil as PM: Kiriella
	
United National Party (UNP) MP Lakshman Kiriella said today President Maithripala Sirisena should recognize UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister because the no-confidence motion against the fake government was once again passed in Parliament today.
He told Daily Mirror that the motion was declared passed on a voice vote and as such the government had ceased to function.
Mr. Kiriella said Mr. Wickremesinghe commands sufficient support in the House. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Shop catches fire in Pettah
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:40 pm
Shop catches fire in Pettah
	
A fire broke out in a shop located at the First Cross Street in Pettah a short while ago, the Fire-Brigade said.
The fire brigade said six fire trucks with 30 personnel had been deployed to douse the fire and that they were yet to receive more information.

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL again saw deplorable behaviour of some MPs: UK
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 05:14 pm
SL again saw deplorable behaviour of some MPs: UK
	
British High Commissioner James Dauris today said Sri Lankans have again seen deplorable behaviour by some MPs, unbecoming of them and of the Parliament.
Voters across Sri Lanka elected Members of Parliament to do an important job. But Sri Lankans have again seen deplorable behaviour by some MPs, unbecoming of them and of their noble institution. No parliament can perform its role when its own members stop it from doing so, he said in a tweet.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker leaves chamber
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:25 pm
Speaker leaves chamber
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya left the parliament chamber after Government MPs threw objects at Speaker and police personnel.





Video by Damith, Susantha, Amantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Taking oaths in a borrowed garb!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:01 am
Taking oaths in a borrowed garb!
	

A Diyawanna politico who had received summons to call at a main office in the city quite recently had to borrow a white tunic from a colleague when he was asked to present himself to be sworn in as a purohita in the caretaker Government.
When this senior politico from the South received a message from the main office in the city asking him to call over with the least delay, he had presumed that his presence had been required for some urgent political discussion.
So, the politico had rushed to Colombo dressed in a short-sleeved shirt anda sarong.
On arrival at the main office, a colleague already present there had looked at him wide-eyed and asked: Why are you in a short-sleeved shirt Dont you know that you are due to take oaths today
The politico reminded of the dress code to be observed had got a sudden brainwave on seeing a close friend there. He had approached him and whispering into his ear Machang, something urgent! had led to a nearby common bathroom.
Addressing the friend who was looking perplexed had said:
Machang, I am in a hell of a fix! I have to present myself at the swearing-in- ceremony. I have to get there immediately properly dressed Lend me your white tunic and put on my shirt. Its a great favour! 
The friend had readily obliged and the politico now in the typical national dress had rushed to the hall where swearing-in- was proceeding.
 
		
==============================
## Title: TBs worth Rs.14.2 bn issued to SriLankan in 2012
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 08:20 pm
TBs worth Rs.14.2 bn issued to SriLankan in 2012
	
Rs.14.2 billion worth of Treasury Bonds (TBs) were issued to SriLankan airlines by the Central Bank (CB) in 2012 without a Gazette notification as required by the Registered Stock and Security Ordinance (RSSO), CB Governor Indrajit Coomaraswamy today told the Commission of Inquiry into financial irregularities in SriLankan airlines.
He said this when Additional Solicitor General Neil Unamboowe PC asked about the particular clause in the Ordinance which directs that a gazette be issued for such a purpose.
Dr. Coomaraswamy said according to Article 4 (1) the Finance Minister should issue a gazette notification in respect of each loan issued under the RSSO.
He said the Ordinance specifies the mode of issuing a gazette notification when issuing registered stock, securities in the form of government promissory notes, the issue of securities in the form of bearer bonds and the issue of securities in the form of treasury bonds.
When ASG Unamboowe asked him how the then Finance Minister and the then Civil Aviation Minister had said about issuing Treasury Bonds to SriLankan airlines, Dr. Coomaraswamy said the two ministers had not mentioned anything about Treasury Bonds either in a Cabinet Paper or in the 2012 budget speech.
He said the RSSO is now outdated and the CB is in the process of amending the Ordinance. Dr. Coomaraswamy said that the findings of the Commission would be beneficial to the CB since the amendment of the RSSO had been already started.
ASG Neil Unamboowe together with State Counsel Sajith Bandara led the evidence.(Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thank god for our now Independent Judiciary  And patriotic civil society
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:46 am
Thank god for our now Independent Judiciary  And patriotic civil society
	

hose of us who were on our knees praying fervently ever since the 26th of October for justice, democracy and the constitution to be adhered to, the events of the last two days have been a welcome relief. But it is important that our prayers continue for it is only God who can work miracles. This is not an issue between three individuals, it is an issue that concerns our country, our constitution, freedom and democracy. The nation is grateful to the judges for acting independently, something which has been sadly missing all these years, all those who prayed through day and night and civil society who came out fearlessly and courageously to protest in their thousands. 
I know now that I was right in always being against the executive Presidency. Power of governance has to be with Parliament and not with one individual who can act on personal vendettas,whims and fancies which are not in the interests of the country as a whole. This perhaps was why, my favourite politician the late Dudley Senanayake was always against the executive presidency. I have always been an UNPer born and bred, supported every Leader as it must be when one supports a party, whether I liked them personally or not. I have never been an MR supporter, but I certainly expected better of him than his involvement in the political scenario of the last few weeks Surely, as one who had been President twice over, he should have from his wide political experience known better, than to agree to come in as PM from the back door without the sufficient numbers to back him Former Presidents such as the late President Jayewardene, the late President Wijetunge and Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunge exited with dignity when they had served their terms. That is what greatness is all about.

Politics and statesmanship should be all about principles, although some have with some cunning and a dollop of luck, navigated successfully through some stormy waters. Power must be used wisely and well; not to feather ones own nest and bask in the grandeur it brings in its wake. Justice and freedom for the individual must be the priority.When the government changed in 2015, people saw it as the dawn of a new era of freedom, a return to fairness, equality, truth,transparency, the embodiment of their dreams and hopes for a new country, recovering slowly but surely from the rampant corruption, extravagance, dictatorship and white vans which were trademarks of the former regime. Politics we know, often has strange bedfellows, no permanent friends or enemies. But when one who accused another of sending him several feet underground if he lost and the other whose accusations of betrayal continued unabated, get together in an act against the constitution and the country, I find that this kind of behavior is far beyond my comprehension and the principles I was brought up on. As for those disgraceful political jumpers, I think they should be nominated to represent Sri Lanka in jumping at the Olympics! This may even bring back the recognition we have lost internationally since the 26th October. 

"I have never been an MR supporter, but I certainly expected better of him than his involvement in the political scenario of the last few weeks Surely, as one who had been President twice over, he should have from his wide political experience known better, than to agree to come in as PM from the back door without the sufficient numbers to back him
Some media moghuls are behind these moves. They want to be kingmakers and know they cannot get him to grant them favours "
In all this, one man has stood tall, his calm demeanour through it all speaks volumes for his inbred qualities of self control and self discipline which money or fame cannot buy but which Leaders must have. No other politician in this country could have handled this situation as he has, having to tackle both MR and MS.While they and others in their rat pack ranted and raved, he remained a gentleman through all the abuse thrown at him. Let it not be forgotten that he did the same after President Premadasas assassination, saw the transition through peacefully, again when MR was defeated, he personally went to Temple Trees, saw that he left safely. I was present at his first Press conference after the Presidential election. I heard him say that he didnt want anyone to harass or attack MR or his family, that all should remember MRs leadership through the war and victory against the LTTE. This is the hallmark of statesmanship. Again, no other Sri Lankan politician could have spoken as eloquently as he did recently to The Oxford Union, or dealt with the questions so cleverly, many of which were about the atrocities committed during the previous regime. He got the GSP back for the country, regained friendship we had lost internationally with all democracies in the world and other countries too. All this was due to him and him alone. Prime Minister Modi and The Congress party in India respect him greatly as was shown by Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul calling on him on all his visits there. All those stabbers in the back from outside and within the party must not forget all this. Some media moghuls are behind these moves. They want to be kingmakers and know they cannot get him to grant them favours. He still lives in the house his father built for him, has no property abroad, his family was never allowed to throw their weight about at Temple Trees, or other offices or official residences. Recently a fellow columnist, who is not an UNPer or a Ranil fan told me that all these qualities he possesses would be appreciated one day, perhaps only after his retirement. 

"He still lives in the house his father built for him, has no property abroad, his family was never allowed to throw their weight about at Temple Trees, or other offices or official residences. As for those disgraceful political jumpers, I think they should be nominated to represent Sri Lanka in jumping at the Olympics! This may even bring back the recognition we have lost internationally since the 26th October
Recently a fellow columnist, who is not an UNPer or a Ranil fan told me that all these qualities he possesses would be appreciated one day, perhaps only after his retirement"

I would like to end by quoting from a message I received on my phone about him just today. This is the Man of the Hour in my opinion! He stood firm,cool,calm and confident throughout this shocking crisis which had the entire country in a tizzy. He didnt resort to thuggery, violence, slander or anything unlawful,but sat his ground and waited for the law to take its course. A kudos to you, Honourable Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. 
As one who has known him since his childhood, I fully endorse these words. As a Christian, I say as Christ said on the cross Father forgive them they know not what they do, but I will also add another quote from the bible, Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord , I will repay. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: The tussle continues - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:32 am
The tussle continues - EDITORIAL
	

he tense situation within Parliament continued for a second day yesterday (November 15) due to disagreements between members of parliament loyal to ousted premier Ranil Wickremesinghe and those loyal to the new Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, leaving the nations citizens scratching their heads being unable to fathom what is going on.
The whole country watching the drama, unfold within the parliament premises, from their homes and work places have little knowledge of the constitutional procedure regarding the removal of a prime minister, appointing another and how the Cabinet can be dissolved. However, many interpretations are being made by legal experts leaving room for speculation and confusion to arise. Interestingly there are reports in the print media which state that all copies of the Constitution at the Souvenir Shop in Parliament have been sold out! It seems that there is more confusion now despite these vociferous lawmakers reading up on the Constitution. All this reminds us of an old saying, comment is free, but facts are sacred.
It seems the imbroglio is continuing with neither party giving in. Adding to it the Presidential proclamation dissolving Parliament is
before court.
During the days that passed following the dissolving of parliament on November 9, the people of this country have leaned on their conscience rather than depend on how people quote the Constitution. This is solely to understand the big picture associated with this impasse.
For the record, no party has sought the help of the law challenging the removal of the Prime Minister of the Yahapalana regime. With MPs changing sides and some claiming they were offered huge amounts of money theinstability continued.
As the situation dragged on President Sirisena issued a proclamation dissolving Parliament. The President claimed that he was compelled to do so due to the behaviour of the Speaker, Karu Jayasuriya. On the other hand there are others who hail the Speaker for standing staunchly to
his stance.
As several parties went before courts challenging the dissolution of Parliament, the Supreme Court issued an interim order suspending the proclamation on dissolution until the final determination of the case.
Thereafter, two chaotic days were seen in parliament. How they have behaved shows that they have forgotten for a moment they are representatives of the people and enjoy all perks andprivileges because of the peoples vote.
 
		
==============================
## Title: They are the people hit hard most!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:08 am
They are the people hit hard most!
	

The Diyawanna politicos, who forfeited their right to a monthly pension due to the mid-term dissolution of the council are a very unhappy set these days, they say.

This group sympathizing with one another about their ill-luck is said to be sharing the opinion that they are the people most adversely affected by the dissolution.
However, a well-heeled politico from an area of an ancient kingdom fame had remarked:
Machang, this monthly pension of Rs. 18,000 is a mere pittance for me This money is hardly sufficient to keep me going even for one day when I am in Colombo!
 
		
==============================
## Title: To quit in disgust
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:07 am
To quit in disgust
	

A prominent political authority from the central province has come under pressure from his father not to contest any polls round the corner.

Son and father, both belonging to the black-coated gentry, are disillusioned with the current political situation.
The politico has been unhappy for some time as he is being always compelled to carry out orders from above and is never allowed to take independent decisions, they say.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Two suspects nabbed with heroin valued at Rs. 23 mn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 12:02 pm
Two suspects nabbed with heroin valued at Rs. 23 mn
	
Two suspects were arrestedwith heroin valued at Rs.23.3 million by the Police Narcotics Bureau (PNB) today at Mulleriyawa.
Police said the suspects were arrested while they were transporting the drug in a three-wheeler at the Galewela junction following a tip-off.
During the raid, officers found heroin weighing 1.947 kg in the three-wheeler. The suspects, 61 and 51 years old, are residents of Wellapitiya area.
The three-wheeler and two scales used for weighting the drug were taken into custody.
The suspects are to be produced before the Colombo Magistrate today and the PNB is seeking a detention order for seven days for further inquiries, officials said. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Under-siege British PM prepares for Tory party no-confidence vote
## Section: International
## Date: 16 November 2018 10:23 am
Under-siege British PM prepares for Tory party no-confidence vote
	
A defiant Mrs May told MPs today that she would carry on in the national interest


Theresa May is fighting for her political life today after Dominic Raab and Esther McVey dramatically quit accusing her of bowing to EU blackmail over the Brexit deal.The Prime Minister is braced for a Tory no-confidence vote to be triggered potentially within hours after she vowed to push on with her controversial plan despite the departures of the Brexit Secretary and Work and Pensions Secretary throwing her into chaos.
Other junior ministers have also quit as the situation threatens to spiral out of control, with the Pound plunging as markets take fright at the chances of a Brexit deal receding.
In devastating exchanges in the Commons minutes after the bombshells dropped, the premier was mauled by MPs from all sides over her dogs dinner package..
Tory Eurosceptic Jacob Rees-Mogg signalled an all-out assault by demanding she tell him why he should not write to the powerful Tory 1922 committee urging a no-confidence vote. Another Conservative, Mark Francois urged her to recognise the reality that her plan is dead on arrival.
Meanwhile CNN reported another MP Ranil Jayawardena, Parliamentary Private Secretary Ministry of Justice had just resigned.
Despite Brexiteer and Remainer MPs from across parties lining up to condemn her plans, the PM defiantly pledged she would carry on in the national interest even if the compromises involved were not comfortable.
I will bring it to Parliament and ask MPs to consider it in the national interest, she said.
I choose to deliver for the British people. I choose to do what is in the national interest. 
But barely any MPs spoke up for Mrs Mays position - further fuelling fears of a fatal threat to her leadership. 
UK, Daily Mail), 15 November 2018 -
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP collects signatures for new NCM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:03 pm
UNP collects signatures for new NCM
	
United National Party (UNP) MPs are currently collecting signatures for a new no-confidence motion (NCM) against Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and the government.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Upheaval !
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 16 November 2018 05:37 pm
Upheaval !
	
Parliament session today was adjourned amidst upheaval for the third day. The government MPs prevented the Speaker who was surrounded by the police personnel, from sitting in his chair in Chamber. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana











 
		
==============================
## Title: What the signs and lines on Mounts say
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 16 November 2018 12:09 pm
What the signs and lines on Mounts say
	
Astropalm 75
Human Hand  trailblazer of Human Civilization
Signs and lines on the Mount of Saturn  Part 2

By A. S. FernandoFigure:1Description: Vertical line crossing the Fate line on the Mount of Saturn.Result: An unavoidable misfortune
Figure:2Description: Many lines ladderlike on the Mount of Saturn proceeding to Mount of Jupiter.Result: The subject to have a gradual rise in life leading to honours from society. 
Figure:3Description: A spot on the Mount of Saturn.Result: Certain evil possibilities to be judged from the Head and Heart lines. Success late in life after much hard effort.
Figure:4Description: Sign of a cross on the Mount of SaturnResult: Following are the possibilities:
Childlessness
Tendency to use Occult sciences for evil purposes
Extreme proneness to accidents
Figure:5Description: A star on the Mount of Saturn.
Result: The subject may suffer from paralysis or an incurable disease. If distinctly marked in both hands with other signs  Death on the gallows.
If the star is faint and is poorly formed: ill-health during the last days in life.
Figure:6 Description: A star on the Mount of Saturn while the Mount of Moon is crossed by many lines or a zig-zag line and the Life line begins from the Head and Heart lines.Result: An early death due to leading a depraved life i.e. overindulging in sex.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Why the  young cannot be absolved 
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:56 am
Why the  young cannot be absolved 
	

or obvious reasons, the world doesnt revolve the way most of us would want it. The rise of fringe movements that have taken on the Establishment, the apathy of Third Way centrism that was a cover for neo-conservatism and neo-liberalism, the rejection of conventional politics by the young, and the embracement of bigotry, sexism, and populism by the old (in the West) are all signs of an impending tragedy. Whats worse is that the narratives being spun to the people, for the most, are failing. Perhaps thats why the US midterm elections didnt play up to the hype that political pundits played along to. There was no blue wave, and even though the Democrats won several key governorships and control of the House of Representatives, the Republicans swept into the Senate with a clear majority, winning key swing states. 
It would be rash to blame one party, or ideology, for the imbroglio this has resulted in. You can add, multiply, subtract, and divide, but whichever way you look, the truth is painfully obvious: its not the world we once knew. Whats true for the world is true for this country too. Its not the country I used to know. 

"Part of the reason for that, I think, is the way the young react to political parties and political infighting in general. It doesnt take a theorist to figure out that, no matter what the party, no one has really stood for the interests of the teenage, adolescent, and early adult demographic (between 18 and 24)"

Part of the reason for that, I think, is the way the young react to political parties and political infighting in general. It doesnt take a theorist to figure out that, no matter what the party, no one has really stood for the interests of the teenage, adolescent, and early adult demographic (between 18 and 24). Their indifference towards political movements stems, not from anger, but from disappointment: it cost the Democrats in 2016, when, shocked at the defeat of Bernie Sanders and upset at Hillary Clintons at times self-contradictory stances, they came down: 60 percent of the 18-24 year old segment had voted for Obama in 2008; for Clinton the turnout was, by contrast, 55 percent. Resentment can be tough. 
As a former member of this segment (I turned 25 the day the US midterm elections were held), I can attest and even relate to the contempt with which those who belong to it treat conventional politicians. There was a glimmer of hope in 2015 when Ranil Wickremesinghe and his cohorts took over the parliament. For the first time in many years, a woman took over the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs; for the first time ever, a woman took oaths as Mayor of Colombo; for the first time also, many of the members of the Cabinet actively struck a chord with the young. 

And it wasnt just those promises of free Wi-Fi and free laptops and free tabs that endeared these politicos to them (in any case, we dont have the statistics relating to how many of them voted for Maithripala Sirisena and the UNP). It was the idea of legislators actively taking into account their views, opinions, even prejudices. When a young man I know well, who supports Mahinda Rajapaksa, told me that he had no respect for Anagarika Dharmapala because of his chauvinism, I realised that these were views, opinions, and prejudices that transcended simplistic political dichotomies. These youngsters were hard to understand. 
I know there are those who supported Ranil Wickremesinghe because of his school tie and elitist credentials (the school clique he institutionalised was one of many reasons why his campaign failed), but even those from this segment who were batting for him were focusing on younger blood: on Harsha de Silva, Eran Wickramaratne, Harshana Rajakaruna, and more than anyone else, Buddika Pathirana. If Mahinda Rajapaksa managed to conjure an image of himself as a baby-carrying populist who was in touch with the people, these parliamentarians conjured an opposite image: those who made it evident for us that politicians need not always carry those babies. 

"There was a glimmer of hope in 2015 when Ranil Wickremesinghe and his cohorts took over the parliament. For the first time in many years, a woman took over the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs; for the first time ever, a woman took oaths as Mayor of Colombo; for the first time also, many of the members of the Cabinet actively struck a chord with the young"
The need of the hour, in 2015, was a set of parliamentarians who could convince us that there needed to be a shift in the polity from the Executive to the Legislature. A crucial part of the campaign for this shift stemmed from the belief that the country needed meritocrats like Harsha and Eran. They were the face of the UNP. 
For a while, this worked. From the UPFA I could think of only one politician constantly in touch with the young, and that was Ramesh Pathirana. But when Pathirana posted on Facebook the figures for AIDS patients in India and Sri Lanka and how the situation here would worsen if the ETCA deal was struck, he raised flak from the medical community for his serophobia. It was difficult to imagine Harsha and Eran indulging in that kind of below-the-belt mudslinging. It still is, because they are from a different calibre: while their cosmopolitanism can be squared with the UNP, if tomorrow a campaign for democracy is launched against the party leadership, for legitimate reasons, they would join in, just as Athulathmudali and Dissanayake joined in the movement against Ranasinghe Premadasa. 
Tragically, however, and despite this, the kind of meritocracy they envisioned for the country failed, not because they had ulterior motives, but because, as Muralitharan aptly put it, people want three meals a day more than anything else. This is not to say that democracy, freedom, and liberalism are values that must be sacrificed at the altar of economics. Far from it. But the meritocracy that Harsha and Eran tried to usher in, with their very personalities, was one rooted in a cosmopolitan, class-based society, English speaking and wielding. It was as rooted, less so, though still rooted, in the elitist credentials and the school affiliations Ranil Wickremesinghes clique stood for. After all, both of them hailed from that same clique. 
The young hence feel betrayed because the glimmer of hope they saw in 2015 faded away. Political partisanship has never been a strong point with them; they are moved more by ideas than by personalities and parties. But a country like Sri Lanka cannot move ahead with only ideas. It needs personalities and parties, because (and I cant put this more clearly) its prone to instability in a way that the developed world is not. Emotions run high: the reality is that people would vote for anyone who sides with their preferred politicians. How else did the Podu Jana Peramuna garner more than 40 percent of the vote, outstripping the UNP and the UPFA, at the Local Government election They werent voting for ideas; they were voting for those who sided with the former president. 
The young didnt think this way, and they went ahead and voted for ideas. When those ideas came crumbling down and not even Harsha and Eran could stop them from crumbling down, they grew tired. That bred resentment. 

"Sri Lanka cannot move ahead with only ideas. It needs personalities and parties, because (and I cant put this more clearly) its prone to instability in a way that the developed world is not. Emotions run high: the reality is that people would vote for anyone who sides with their preferred politicians"
In this, I think they are correct and wrong. Correct, because neither party (not the UNP of Ranil Wickremesinghe, Malik Samarawickreme, and Ravi Karunanayake, and not the SLPP of Mahinda Rajapaksa, Keheliya Rambukwella, and Bandula Gunawardena) stood for their interests. Wrong, because this assumes that it is their interests alone, and their behaviour, that bode well for this countrys future. 
Dr. W.A Wijewardena, in an article about the illusory appeal of the goodies package that the new government dished out to the public in the form of price cuts and salary increments, relates an interesting encounter he had with a group of MBA students at a State University. He had asked them as to what they would do if they were each given 10 million rupees, and he had got the following answers: they would buy a car, travel abroad, or spend the money on various electronic equipment that have become the fashion of the day. With that mentality, Wijewardana surmises, the increased income through expanded government expenditure programmes would end up as incomes of people in other countries. 
I am not one to blame the young only for the mess we are in. The Rajapaksas, despite their merits, ushered in a period of economic prosperity that was rooted in garnering debt. Where politicians go, people follow, so the people yielded to the temptation of building up their personal fortunes through more debt. As of now, the per capita debt of this country is close to 500,000 rupees (according to the former government). Every child born to the country is burdened with that debt. 
But then the young continue to live beyond their means. In a society where social position is determined by your wealth, its tempting to accumulate much more than what you can afford. The typical youngsters response to my questions regarding frugality is that they want to have a good time, an attitude hardened by impossible school curricula, gruelling exams, and a hypocritical puritanism fostered on them, against their will, by an archaic education system. And yet, whatever the reasons for that, the consequence, which is a bunch of youngsters who while away time buying luxuries or aspiring for social positions beyond their status, is deplorable. Do they then have the moral right to point fingers at politicians I dont think so. 
Perhaps Im wrong there. Perhaps its not the politicians only. Perhaps its not the youngsters only. Perhaps its also the teachers, parents, guardians, and other officials supposed to be in charge of those youngsters who have, inadvertently or otherwise, contributed to our national imbroglio. Either way, they cant be absolved. 

UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will not prorogue Parliament: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 November 2018 02:23 pm
Will not prorogue Parliament: President
	
President Maithripala Sirisena said he would not prorogue Parliament under any circumstances.
He urged all Parliamentarians to uphold principles of democracy parliamentary traditions at all times.
 
		
==============================