## Title: Aekiya Raajya - Orumiththa Nadu: For an undivided indivisible Sri Lanka
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:02 am
Aekiya Raajya - Orumiththa Nadu: For an undivided indivisible Sri Lanka
	


By D.B.S.Jeyaraj

The Constitutional Assembly Steering Committee chaired by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has laboured mightily and brought forth the Interim Report of proposals for an envisaged new Constitution. It would be premature to prognosticate on the reports potential future or delve deeply into its contents at this point of time.
Nevertheless it must be stated that the release of the report in the current political landscape was like a welcome shower on parched earth.
The Constitutional Assembly Steering Committees Interim Report was presented to Parliament in its Constitutional Assembly Avatar by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, who is also the committee Chairman. The Parliamentary debate on the interim report will be held for three days on October 9th, 10th and 11th respectively.
Thereafter if everything goes well as planned the final report would be compiled and completed by the end of the year and placed before the Constitutional Assembly/Parliament in January 2018
The Good Governance Govt. of President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe formulated a different approach towards Constitution making as opposed to similar exercises in 1972 and 1978.
Initially a framework resolution was passed on March 9th 2016, by which all 225 Members of Parliament converted themselves into a Constitutional Assembly.
The Constitutional Assembly is chaired by the Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. A constitutional assembly secretariat was also established.

Steering Committee
On April 5th 2016 the Constitutional Assembly set up a 21 member Steering Committee comprising Parliamentarians of different hues. The composition of the steering committee reflected the configuration of different political parties as represented in Parliament.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe became the Steering committees chairman. Other members of the Steering Committee are Lakshman Kiriella, Nimal Siripala de Silva, Rauff Hakeem, Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, A. D. Susil Premajayantha, Rishad Bathiudeen, Patali Champika Ranawaka, D. M. Swaminathan, Mano Ganesan, Malik Samarawickrama, Rajavarothyam Sampanthan, Anura Dissanayake, Dilan Perera, Dinesh Gunawardena, Jayampathy Wickramaratne, M. A. Sumanthiran, Ms. Thusitha Wijemanne, Bimal Rathnayake, Prasanna Ranatunga and Douglas Devananda.
The Steering Committee identified 12 main subject areas. It was decided by the Steering Committee that certain subjects would be dealt with directly by the Committee itself. Those were Matters covered by Chapter 1 and 2 of the present Constitution, Nature of the State, Sovereignty, Religion, Form of Government, Electoral Reforms, Principles of Devolution and Land. The other six subjects were assigned to specially set up sub-committees.

Taken at face value this would indeed be a matter of great satisfaction but for the fact that in this instance there is more to it than which meets the eye. There are two good reasons for not viewing the interim report and its potential progress with rosy tinted spectacles.


The Constitutional Assembly at a sitting held on May 5th 2016, appointed six thematic Sub-Committees to assist the Steering Committee in drafting a constitutional proposal.
The six sub-committees and their themes are Fundamental Rights, The Judiciary, Law and Order, Public Finance, Public Services and Centre-Periphery Relations. Each Sub-committee consists of 11 members, including the Chairman. The six Chairmen were appointed from among the members selected to the Sub-Committees based on considerations of seniority.

Management Committee
The Steering Committee on April 28th 2016 resolved that a Management Committee should be appointed to make arrangements and facilitate the work of the Steering Committee, Sub-Committees, and all secretarial work including staff requirements. Accordingly, the following persons were appointed as members of the Management Committee: Jayampathy Wickramaratne, MP  Co-chairman, M. A. Sumanthiran, MP  Co-Chairman, Neil Iddawala, Chief of Staff, Deputy Secretary General of Parliament, and Secretary to the Steering Committee, Naufel Abdul-Rahman, Secretary to the Leader of the House of Parliament, Ms. Bimba Jayasinghe Tillekeratne PC, Additional Secretary (Legal Affairs) to the Hon. Prime Minister.
As stated earlier the Steering Committees task was to prepare the Draft Constitutional Proposal for consideration of the Constitutional Assembly. Once the Constitutional draft proposals were accepted and approved by the Constitutional Assembly with a two-thirds majority, it would be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers.
Thereafter the cabinet will approve it with or without changes and present the Constitutional provisions to Parliament as a bill to get passed by a two-thirds majority. Following which, the approval and sanction of the people would be obtained by way of an Island-wide referendum. With that Sri Lanka hopefully would once again have a new Constitution.
The steering committee was required to present both an interim report and a final report. The Reports of the six Sub Committees and another report by an ad-hoc Committee appointed by the Steering Committee were tabled before the Constitutional Assembly on 19th November and 10th December 2016 respectively.

Some of the viewpoints expressed are diametrically opposed to each others viewpoints. This makes one wonder as to how these contrasting standpoints could ever be bridged.


The Interim Report of the Steering Committee dealt with the remaining subjects that were not assigned to any Sub-Committee and also contained principles and formulations that reflected the deliberations of the Steering Committee. The Constitutional assembly Steering Committee met 73 times between April 2016 and September 2017.
The committee has finally accomplished the first part of its mandate through the presentation of its interim report on Sept 21st.

Ranil Wickremesinghe
There was no mistaking the visible sense of satisfaction exuded by Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe on the occasion of the interim reports release. It is indeed an indisputable fact that the driving force behind the new Constitution project is the prime minister himself. Learning perhaps from the mistakes made during previous Constitution drafting processes by the Constituent Assembly and the Parliamentary Select Committee respectively in 1972 and 1978, the prime minister, adopted an inclusive, consensual approach towards Constitution making this time. In evolving such an approach, Ranil Wickremesinghe seemed to have been influenced by the principles of inclusive, consultative governance adopted by the Lichchavi rulers of Maghada Kingdom in ancient India.
While the inclusive, consensual approach adopted by the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Govt. in formulating a new constitution deserves much kudos, it could also be argued that it was a case of making a virtue out of necessity. The United Front Govt of Mrs. Sirima Bandaranaike in 1972 had 116 MPs (SLFP-91,LSSP-19, CP -06) in a Parliament of 157 when it passed the Republican Constitution. The government of J.R. Jayewardene in 1978 had 142 (UNP-141,CWC-01) in a Parliament of 168 when it passed the Democratic Socialist Republic Constitution. Since they had a two-thirds majority both Govts could act unilaterally without adopting a consensual, multi-lateral approach in Constitution making. Both Govts did act unilaterally then in 1972 and 1978.
The situation now is different. This Parliament is a hung Parliament. The UNP does not have even a simple majority in Parliament. The Good Governance Govt. consists of the UNP, SLFP (Maithri Faction), Jathika Hela Urumaya, Tamil Progressive Alliance, SLMC and ACPC. In order to garner a two-thirds majority in the current Parliament of 225, it is necessary to gain the support of the opposition Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna(JVP).
Thus the device of adopting a broad consensual inclusive approach is very necessary to gain a two-thirds majority.

Two Noteworthy Aspects
However the current Constitution making process does have two noteworthy aspects. Firstly it is politically bi-partisan and secondly it is multi -ethnic. There may be doubts about the political legitimacy of Maithripala Sirisena leading the SLFP but in legal terms it is above board.
Thus for the first time the UNP and the SLFP are jointly involved in making a new Constitution together. Likewise the Tamil people of Sri Lanka represented by the TNA and TPA along with the Muslim parties led by Rauff Hakeem and Rishad Bathiudeen are also participating with the UNP and SLFP in the Constitutional process. This was not the case earlier when the Sri Lankan Tamils represented by the Tamil United Front (TUF) in 1972 and the Tamil United Liberation Front(TULF) in 1978 kept away from Constitution making respectively.
The culmination of the preliminary phase of the current Constitutional process is the recently released Steering Committee Interim report. An important feature of the Interim report is that it has been approved by every single member of the Steering committee consisting of 21 MPs. This in effect means that the interim report is a consensus document as far as the steering committee was concerned.
Taken at face value this would indeed be a matter of great satisfaction but for the fact that in this instance there is more to it than which meets the eye. There are two good reasons for not viewing the interim report and its potential progress with rosy tinted spectacles.

Drafters of the Report
Firstly, some of the political parties represented by the signatories have expressed contradictory positions in their observations annexed to the interim report.
Some of these are directly contrary to the perceived consensus in the report.
Apparently the parties concerned have revised their previous positions.
A few have even distanced themselves from the report by using the term drafters of the report.
This implies that though they had approved the interim report they had had nothing to do with the contents drafted by some other persons and so were not in agreement with some provisions.

Some of the political parties represented by the signatories have expressed contradictory positions in their observations annexed to the interim report.


Some of the viewpoints expressed are diametrically opposed to each others viewpoints. This makes one wonder as to how these contrasting standpoints could ever be bridged.
Secondly there has been an inordinate delay in presenting the report. Although the report had been finalised for presentation much earlier, it did not happen as planned.
Instead matters dragged on because of political filibustering by some political parties. This demonstrates a lack of commitment and sincerity among political parties involved that does not seem to augur well for the future.
Initially the new Constitution project began on a positive note. The inclusive, consensual approach adopted by the Prime minister in steering the Constitutional process was most refreshing. Ranil Wickremesinghe was praised by members of the SLFP, JVP, TNA, TPA and SLMC for his all embracing , cooperative , political conduct in the Constitutional exercise. The process gathered momentum steadily even though there was pessimism expressed in certain quarters.
There was however no overwhelming opposition to the Constitution making exercise in the early stages.

Firstly it is politically bi-partisan and secondly it is multi -ethnic. There may be doubts about the political legitimacy of Maithripala Sirisena leading the SLFP but in legal terms it is above board.


Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa went on record that a new Constitution was unnecessary and that crucial issues like the abolition of the executive presidency and electoral reform etc could be resolved by individual Constitutional amendments. Despite this public stance Mahinda did not declare war on the constitution making exercise. The Pro-Mahinda Joint opposition represented by Dinesh Gunawardena and Prasanna Ranatunga continued to be in the steering committee and did not attempt to rock the boat.

Sub-Committee Reports
Everything seemed hunky-dory in the preliminary stages and the process continued perfectly at remarkable speed. The sub-committee reports and even the first draft of the Steering committee interim report proposals were ready by November last year. The proposals had the approval of all 21 Steering committee members.
However, at crunch time only the sub - committee reports were presented to Parliament. The steering committee proposals were circulated among political parties. At that point most political parties requested time to study them and make pertinent observations. Chief among these was the Maithripala Sirisena led Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP).
As stated earlier the six Sub-Committees had been mandated to develop constitutional principles for consideration of the Steering Committee in respect of the designated subject areas. The recommendations contained in the reports of the Sub-Committees were to be considered by the Steering Committee at the final stages of drafting constitutional proposals on the respective subject areas for the consideration of the Constitutional Assembly.
However the release of the reports and ensuing publicity caused much confusion. It was erroneously believed that the sub - committee reports were final and going to be part of the proposed constitution.
Thereafter the constitutional process began slowing down. The anti-government forces began criticising the constitutional process openly and belligerently.
There were accusations that Federalism was being introduced covertly through Constitutional proposals. Allegations were made that sinister international elements, NGOs with a hidden agenda and tigerish elements of the Tamil Diaspora were heavily influencing the Constitution making process. Sections of the Buddhist clergy too began expressing opposition.

Developing Cold Feet
This made several political parties involved in the constitutional process jittery. There began a trend of political parties seeking more time to make their observations known.
Although their representatives had participated in the Steering Committee and knew very well that there was nothing untoward taking place, these parties began developing cold feet.
They began taking up stances contrary to the general thrust of the embryonic draft proposals of the Steering Committee.
The familiar F word in Sri Lankan politics was also raised. It was alleged that the new constitution was going to turn Sri Lanka into a federal state. Although many ideas and concepts were being discussed within the steering committee, no final conclusion had been reached at that time. There was no final document or report. Still the counter propaganda went on. Sadly there was no effective rebuttal from the Govt. The Buddhist Mahanayakes after interacting with the Mahinda led opposition stated that a new Constitution was unnecessary.

The familiar F word in Sri Lankan politics was also raised. It was alleged that the new constitution was going to turn Sri Lanka into a federal state.

This caused some political parties to re-think their position. Wimal Weerawansa was the first to opt out of the Constitution making exercise. He and four other MPs belonging to the National Freedom Front (NFF) handed over letters announcing their resignation from the Constitutional Assembly to the Speaker Karu Jayasuriya in Julythis year.
The letters mentioned ten reasons for quitting. The speaker Karu Jayasuriya tried in vain to make the NFF re-consider their stance by emphasising that nothing had been finalised yet. Weerawansa adamantly refused and quit. However, the rest of the Joint opposition in Parliament did not follow suit. Despite expressing criticism they remained in the Constitution making process.

Mahinda Rajapaksa
On another level the inner party crisis within the Sirisena led SLFP also got aggravated further. Some in the SLFP wanted to drop out of the Constitution making process. Some wanted to re-join Mahinda Rajapaksa. Some wanted a political re-union between Mahinda and Maithripala. Significantly enough a backtracking of position on the Executive Presidency being abolished could be seen.
The SLFP now wanted to retain the executive presidency. Most political observers opined that such a policy shift could not have been made without the sanction of President Sirisena. This in turn suggested a serious political split between the chief government partners the UNP and SLFP.
With many political parties having second thoughts about their viewpoints on the new Constitution there arose a situation where some of the originally agreed upon principles had to be amended or diluted.
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe however was not in favour of that. He wanted the interim proposals to retain as much of the consensus reached earlier as possible. Ranil was also not in favour of a main report along with other dissenting reports being presented. While taking note of diverse or dissenting views the Steering Committee chairman wanted the interim report to be a single, comprehensive one.
As such the steering committee took note of differing viewpoints by different parties and specifically incorporated them into the report as related observations
More importantly the Steering Committee adopted a somewhat open-ended approach in drafting the final proposals.
Instead of being firm and definite the terminology was more flexible with the key words The following formulation may be considered. This meant all points suggested were negotiable and not going to be rigidly imposed. It was also agreed - as stated earlier - to let the parties concerned express their different views in separate documents. These were to be attached to the interim report as annexures.
However the nomenclature used was observations as the premier did not want them to be termed annexures. The exact words used in the report are -Included in this Interim Report are observations and comments by Members of the Steering Committee on the principles and formulations contained in the Report.
Although the Constitution making exercise had been proceeding at a reasonable pace for many months, the progress underwent a lull in recent times. The Govt. itself appeared to be wary and somewhat lethargic in maintaining momentum. The main reasons for this were the growth of anti- Constitution propaganda in the country and the divergence between the UNP and SLFP on Constitutional issues particularly the future of the executive presidency. This caused much anxiety within the TNA as the alliance hierarchy has hitched its wagon firmly to the new Constitution star. The TNA feels the new Constitution is of utmost importance to achieve equality and reconciliation. The TNA started a campaign urging the international community to pressure the Govt. into moving forward with the Constitution making process.

High Profile Visits
Though the TNA was not directly responsible for them, two high profile visits to Sri Lanka in August by foreign dignitaries provided a fillip to the Constitution making process. One was by the US Acting assistant secretary of state for South Asia , Ms. Alice Wells.
The other was by Indian External Affairs Minister Ms. Sushma Swaraj. Both addressed the Indian Ocean conference in Colombo. Both utilised the visit to inquire into the progress of the new Constitution and urged the Govt. to finalise the Constitution project as early as possible.
Both Washington and New Delhi perceive the Constitutional process as being conducive to achieving inter -racial justice and ethnic reconciliation in Sri Lanka.
Apart from these visits there was some pressure in Geneva too when UN Human Rights Chief Zeid Al -Hussein was critical of Sri Lankas slow progress in his address to the UNHRC.
Thus the cumulative effect of international pressure from different quarters increased the impetus for the Govt. to move ahead. It was felt that the best way to reduce the foreign heat was to deliver on the Constitutional front. The Constitutional process got re-activated. While the international dimension did play a part, domestic political compulsions, in the final analysis, forced the Govt. to get its act together and expedite the Constitution making process.
The UNP-SLFP Govt. is not keen to face domestic polls at the present time. Elections to local authorities or Provincial Councils would force the Govt. partners UNP and SLFP to confront each other at the hustings.
Minor parties in the Govt. would also contest each other and also against the UNP and SLFP. More importantly in a major three-way electoral tussle among the Wickremesinghe led UNP, Sirisena -led SLFP and Rajapaksa -led Joint Opposition, the chief casualty was very likely to be Maithripalas grouping.
This in turn would affect party positions as many SLFPers may have returned to Mahindas feet. This could have resulted in the current political balance being upset.
Furthermore a new Constitution or major Constitutional amendment requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament and yes vote in a referendum. To succeed at a referendum the Govt. and its allies must present a united front confidently.
All its energies and resources must be harnessed collectively towards winning the referendum. A local or provincial poll before the Constitutional referendum could threaten Govt. unity and also hamper the Constitution making effort.
As such the Govt. needs to avoid an election before the Constitution referendum is held. The Govt. feels that success in the Constitutional exercise would help consolidate itself and also undermine the Rajapaksas and their political cohorts.

The Larger Picture
This then was the underlying motive in the Govt. hastily amending laws regarding Local Authorities and Provincial Council elections.
The methods adopted by the Govt., particularly in introducing changes during the Committee Stages have come in for considerable flak.
Much of this criticism is valid and the Govt. deserves such condemnation. However, from the Govt. perspective such steps were needed to postpone polls. The Govt. would seek to justify its actions as the lesser of two evils and emphasise what it would term as the larger picture. In the eyes of the Govt. preserving coalition unity and passing a progressive constitution is more important than violating democratic norms in holding Local and Provincial polls.
The Govt. realises that the time available is limited. It cannot keep postponing elections indefinitely. Even if demarcation of constituencies for Provincial councils may take many more months, there is no valid justification for putting off local polls indefinitely. But the Govt. would not like to face such polls before the inevitable Constitutional referendum.

All its energies and resources must be harnessed collectively towards winning the referendum.

Winning that referendum and passing the new Constitution would bolster the Govt. and may help it to do well at provincial or local polls. Winning the referendum could also help politically diminish Mahinda and the opposition. For all this to happen the referendum must be held soon. To conduct the referendum the Constitution draft must be finalised soon. For the Constitution to be ready soon, the constitution making process must move speedily. Hence the Govt. got its act together and released the long awaited Steering Committee interim report.
In the days and weeks preceding the interim report release a not -so- subtle campaign has been underway to denigrate and undermine some provisions of the proposed Constitution as a sell- out of the Sinhalese in general and Buddhists in particular. It was propagated that Buddhism was to be dislodged from its present position in the Constitution.
It was also said that Sri Lanka was going to be turned into a Federal State.

Gotabhaya Rajapaksa
The most significant milepost in the campaign against the new Constitution was the Launching of Eliya (Light) by former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa. The Eliya movement appears to have a single issue agenda namely to oppose and prevent the enactment of new Constitution.
Gotabhaya Rajapaksa in his keynote speech made on Sept 6th at the Golden Rose in Borelesgamuwa stated as follows -
After defeating 30 years of terrorism that was in this country, after we united this country as one, we cannot allow that victory to be betrayed through the constitution or through the parliament. Today, we have a great fear that through a new constitution our great victory would be nullified.
For that reason, academics and professionals representing various fields proposed that the need to oppose a new constitution in whatever form must be taken to the people. It is the mission of Eliya to do everything necessary to create that awareness and opposition among the people for a new constitution.
It is not that the current constitution is without fault. Yet, we oppose a new constitution because we feel a deep insecurity when we see who is drafting the new constitution, for whom and for what reason. We know where this is heading.
It is against this backdrop of a growing campaign opposing the proposed Constitution that the Constitutional Assembly Steering Committee Interim Report has been released. The interim report release has proved much of the propaganda against the envisaged Constitution to be wrong. Buddhism continued to retain its position while a creative compromise was achieved as far as the nature of the state was concerned. Instead of explicitly describing the state as unitary or federal, a middle way was found.Sri Lanka should remain one undivided and indivisible country the report emphasises.

Unitary and Federal
The Interim report goes on to explain this point and elaborate further. The report observes The President whilst speaking on the Resolution to set up the Constitutional Assembly, stated that whilst people in the south were fearful of the word federal, people in the north were fearful of the word unitary. A constitution is not a document that people should fear. The classical definition of the English term unitary state has undergone change. In the United Kingdom, it is now possible for Northern Ireland and Scotland to move away from the union. Therefore, the English term Unitary State will not be appropriate for Sri Lanka.
The Sinhala term aekiya raajya best describes an undivided and indivisible country. The Tamil language equivalent of this is orumiththa nadu.
The report goes on to say In these circumstances, the following formulation may be considered: Sri Lanka (Ceylon) is a free, sovereign and independent Republic which is an aekiya raajya / orumiththa nadu, consisting of the institutions of the Centre and of the Provinces which shall exercise power as laid down in the Constitution. In this Article aekiya raajya / orumiththa nadu means a State which is undivided and indivisible, and in which the power to amend the Constitution, or to repeal and replace the Constitution, shall remain with the Parliament and the People of Sri Lanka as provided in this Constitution.
As stated earlier it would be premature to prognosticate on the reports potential future or delve deeply into its contents at this point of time.
However, there has not been a big backlash so far against the report as anticipated in some circles. The perceived lull is very much akin to the proverbial calm before the storm. Much heat is likely to be generated as the Parliamentary debate in October draws near. The battle lines will be drawn clearly before, during and after the debate.

Crossroads of History
The proponents of a new Constitution are in for the long haul. Many twists and turns are likely to occur in the bitter political struggle that lies ahead. It remains to be seen as to whether the Govt and its allies have the courage and strength to stay the course and follow through with the process they have commenced until their mission is fulfilled.The people of Sri Lanka are at the crossroads of history. Will the people of this aekiya raajyaya/ orumiththa nadu march resolutely in their united journey towards the inevitable tryst with destiny.
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com

 
		
==============================
## Title: Baghdadi urges Islamic State militants to keep fighting
## Section: International
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:00 am
Baghdadi urges Islamic State militants to keep fighting
	

CAIRO,   September 28, 2017 -
Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi exhorted followers on September 29 to stand fast and keep fighting in his first purported audio communication in almost a year during which his jihadist group lost much of its self-proclaimed caliphate.

The audio, partly dedicated to religious scriptures, came after several reports Baghdadi had been killed. His last recording was in November 2016, two weeks after the start of the battle to recapture the city of Mosul from Islamic State (IS).

The date of the 46-minute recording, released via the al-Furqan news organisation, was not clear. But in it, Baghdadi makes an apparent reference to recent events including North Korean threats against Japan and United States and the recapture two months ago of Mosul by U.S.-backed Iraqi forces.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 15 crushed to death at Mumbai railway station stampede
## Section: International
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:00 am
15 crushed to death at Mumbai railway station stampede
	

MUMBAI Daily Mail, Sept 29, 2017 - At least 21 people have been crushed to death and 30 more are injured after a stampede at a packed railway station in Mumbai.
Panicked commuters surged forward over a foot bridge at the Indian citys Elphinstone Road station at about 10.45am amid rumours the structure was collapsing. 
Horrific footage shows chaotic scenes as people tried desperately to flee. Victims of the crush could be seen lying motionless on the steps leading up to the overpass.
Earlier, railway spokesman Anil Saxena had revealed that huge crowds sheltering from heavy rain had tried to leave the station at the same time.The station is normally packed during rush hour periods with large numbers of commuters making their way to offices in the area.
Tanaji Kamble, a spokesman for Mumbais disaster management cell, warned that the death toll is likely to go up. It was the peak hour rush but the stampede has been brought under control, Kamble told AFP.
Television footage showed commuters trying to revive the injured by pumping their chests and also carrying some down stairs to street level. Local trains are the lifeline for the 20 million people of Mumbai.
Deadly stampedes are fairly common during Indian religious festivals, where large crowds gather in small areas with few safety or crowd control measures.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Don't diversify state resources: DEW tells Govt.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 10:31 am
Don't diversify state resources: DEW tells Govt.
	
The top priority for socialist parties should be to harness their strength to fight government plans to diversify the ownership of the Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank and the National Savings Bank, the EPF and the ETF, Sri Lanka Communist Party General Secretary D.E.W. Gunasekara said.
He said if the shares of those vital state assets were sold the entire state sector would be in jeopardy because they were the government's main sources of revenue.
Addressing the opening session of yesterday's 21st Congress of the CPSL Mr. Gunasekara said he could not understand why certain political parties including the socialist parties are campaign against the government's tax reform to increase direct tax and reduce indirect tax.
"Since the 20th National Congress in 2014, we have observed a new trend of increasing internal contradictions in the Imperialist camp. In our view, this new trend is attributable to the change in the economic balance of power and the new world order of multi polarity," he said.
Mr. Gunasekera highlighted the emergence of new hot-spots in the Korean Peninsula, South China Sea and Ukrainian border, the rise of the Asian economy with China being the worlds second economic power and the US entering a phase of uncertainty and unpredictability in its foreign and defence policies with Donald Trump as President. "As pledged to the people both a the presidential election and the general election, the Government is called upon to speed up the Constitutional Reforms. However, new contradictions between the UNP and the SLFP have emerged particularly with regard to question of the abolition of the executive presidency," he said. "Unresolved national question, electoral reforms and the question of economic policy remains high priority areas that need immediate government attention."
Delegates from the Communist Parties of China, Vietnam and Cuba also participated in the Congress. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Draft report does not project a concept of Federal State-MS
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 07:13 pm
Draft report does not project a concept of Federal State-MS
	
President Maithripala Sirisena emphasized that the draft report for a new constitutional proposals in any way does not project a concept of a Federal State.
The President also emphasized that he will not allow anyone to draft a constitution which will harm the unitary status of the country, and further said that he will not leave any room to change the given foremost place for Buddhism in the existing constitution.
He made these remarks addressing a religious ceremony held at the Gamunupura Buddhist Center in Ampara on September 29, to present the Scroll to the newly elected Mahanayaka of the Udarata Amarapura Samagri Sangha Sabhawa,Most Ven.Girabe Mangala Nayaka Thero.
President Sirisena stressed before the Mahanayaka Theros that there is no clause in the new constitutional proposals to separate or divide the country, and said that still there is no draft proposal for a new constitution, and the report which presented to the Parliament merely taking into the consideration of ideas and suggestions of all the parties, leaving room for the alterations, discussions as well as for negotiation.  
The Government is paying its prime attention to provide solutions for the problems faced by the people in the North and East, ensuring sustainable peace in the country, building reconciliation among all the communities in a way which will prevent the recurrence of war, he added.
The President pointed out that if people in the country entertain ideas of recurrence of the war, the country will again move forward to a dark era, and said that the government is committed to build reconciliation and trust among all the communities without leaving any room to feel such idea among the public. President Sirisena also said that he request Manayaka Theros and all the religious leaders including Hindu, Islamic and Christians to discuss in this regard sitting at the same table. 
The President appreciated the religious and social service rendered by the newly elected Mahanayaka Thero, Most.Ven. Girabe Mangala Mahanayaka thero and further commended the service rendered by the Thero to build a better disciplined society.
 
		
==============================
## Title: End human rights nightmare, UN chief tells Myanmar
## Section: International
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:01 am
End human rights nightmare, UN chief tells Myanmar
	

More than half a million Rohingya Muslims have poured into Bangladesh in the last month, fleeing a vicious Myanmar military crackdown on Rohingya rebels that has gutted villages across northern Rakhine state. 
Scores have drowned while trying to cross waters separating the two countries, while those who survive face new dangers as they cram into squalid refugee settlements where food and clean water are in short supply. The billowing humanitarian crisis prompted the UN Security Council to hold its first meeting on Myanmar in eight years. 
UN chief Antonio Guterres exhorted Myanmars leaders to end the nightmare faced by Rohingya refugees fleeing an army campaign, after at least 19 people drowned with scores more feared dead when a boat carrying Rohingya families capsized off Bangladesh. 
The bodies of 16 people -- mostly children -- were found Thursday and brought to a local school, said coastguard commander Nasir Uddin. 
Two more bodies of young boys were retrieved Friday morning, he added, while another woman was washed ashore in a separate location.Speaking to the 15-member council, Guterres urged Myanmar to halt military operations and open humanitarian access to the conflict-wracked western region.

The situation has spiralled into the worlds fastest developing refugee emergency, a humanitarian and human rights nightmare, he said, while calling for those displaced from the conflict to be allowed to return home. 
UN, (Daily Mail), 29 September 2017
 
		
==============================
## Title: Is Bali volcano about to blow
## Section: International
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:00 am
Is Bali volcano about to blow
	

Bali, (Daily Mail), 28 September 2017 - More than 120,000 people have fled their homes on the Indonesian island of Bali, fearful that a rumbling volcano could erupt at any time, disaster officials said.

Mount Agung, located 75 kilometres (47 miles) from the resort hub of Kuta, has been shaking since August and threatening to erupt for the first time since 1963 - a potential blow to the countrys lucrative tourism industry.
The volcanos alert status was raised to the highest level last week after it spewed white smoke and sent tremors through the area.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Japan Parliament dissolved, snap election on Oct. 22 expected
## Section: International
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:00 am
Japan Parliament dissolved, snap election on Oct. 22 expected
	

TOKYO,   September 28, 2017 - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday called a snap election, as fresh opinion polls showed a fledgling conservative party led by popular Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike was gaining momentum ahead of the expected October 22 vote.

Mr. Abe, a conservative who returned to power in 2012, is hoping a boost in his voter support in recent months will help his Liberal Democratic Party-led (LDP) coalition maintain a simple majority. It currently holds a two-thirds super majority. Koikes new Party of Hope  only formally launched on Wednesday  has upended the election outlook after the former LDP member announced she would lead the group herself.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lanka IOC to increase fuel prices
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 07:21 pm
Lanka IOC to increase fuel prices
	
Lanka IOC today said that they are planning to increase the prices of petrol and diesel next month.
Lanka IOC Managing Director Shyam Bohra said that the final decision in this regard would be taken soon.
It said that the prices further gone up significantly in the international market in the recent month.

 
		
==============================
## Title: NOT A CENT FROM MURDERERS A mothers cry
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:25 am
NOT A CENT FROM MURDERERS A mothers cry
	


Vidhya wanted to be a journalist, she planned to study massmedia in India
	Despite being displaced, several schools refused her admission because Vidhya did not have a piece of paper -Leaving Certificate.
	When we tried to admit her to Punkuduthivu school, the authorities refused to admit her because she was not there for four years.
	Several days prior to this incident, she went to bring a white frock that was given for tailoring and Swiss Kumar and the group had waited for her in a van
	According to her, several suspects had turned up to their home before bringing her daughters body. One suspect had gone close to the goat that was looked after by Vidhya and it had gored him. When he had tried to hit it with a stick, she had scolded him not to do so


In the aftermath of death sentence to convicts a meeting with the mother of the 18-year-old girl, who was gang-raped and murdered brings out the apathy that exists among school system and some Police officers.
The most gruesome and tragic murder that took place in Punkuduthivu in Jaffna sent shock waves across the country in 2015.
Seven of the nine accused in Sivaloganathan Vidhyas abduction, rape and murder, were sentenced to death by a three-judge bench of Jaffna High Court on Wednesday, September 27.
Jaffna High Court Judge M. Ilanchezhiyan, while sentencing them said the first and the seventh accused should be released due to lack of evidence against them.
The seven men found guilty were also sentenced to 30 years rigorous imprisonment and ordered to pay Rs. seven million as compensation to Vidhyas family and in the event they failed to pay, the Jaffna High Court ruled their term of imprisonment should be extended.
  
18-year-old Sivaloganathan Vidhya of Punkuduthivu in Jaffna was abducted, gang-raped and murdered on May 13, 2015.
After two years of hearing this murder case, the bench of three judges passed death sentence to seven accused who were found guilty of the charges of abduction, gang-rape and the murder of the Shivaloganathan Vidhya.

Following the landmark judgment, Vidhyas mother, Shivaloganathan Saraswathy spoke to the media.
My daughter Vidhya kept a dog called Kutti. On the day of this tragedy, that dog had come and searched the daughter. Later it brought one of her shoes and kept it near her brother and had run. Then, my son also ran after it and screamed having seen the daughter
Shivaloganathan Saraswathy, the mother of the victim offered thanks to all, irrespective of Sinhala, Tamils or Muslims, who made efforts to mete out justice to her daughter. She said that Vidhyas father became so ill due to the murder of Vidhya that he was not in a position to speak.
When journalists went to her house in Punkuduthivu, she was preparing meals for Vidhyas father who is seriously ill.
This is how Vidhyas mother Saraswathy started the story of her daughters tragic incident.
We resided in Punkuduthivu. Many villagers were displaced to Jaffna and other places due to the war in the 90s. We went and lived in Mankulam. Vidhya was born in November 1996 in Mankulam. Her elder sister and brother were born in 1991 and 1993 respectively. Vidhya attended the Tamil Mixed School in Thunukkai and she got high marks at the scholarship examination and passed. Following the announcement of results another student had hit her with a chalk duster. This is because she had got better results.
As a result of the chalk dust that spread in her eyes, she had got eye-sore and was unable to go to school for about two days.
Since the infection became complicated we took Vidya to Colombo for treatment, she said.
She added that it was with great difficulty that she took her to Colombo and treated the daughter at a private hospital. During this period the mother and the daughter had to put up in a relatives house in Colombo.
An eye- surgery had been performed in Colombo and she had to return to Jaffna. However Vidhya was kept in the relatives house for follow up treatments.


In the meantime, they returned to Punkuduthivu due to fierce war in Vanni and her husband was injured due to shrapnel of a mortar shell. He was working as a labourer for daily wages although he worked earlier as a cashier in a boutique.
Although we tried to admit her to a school in Colombo when she was there, we failed in our attempt to do so. This is because we couldnt get her school leaving certificate.
She came back to Punkuduthivu after four years. When we tried to admit her to Punkuduthivu School, the authorities refused to admit her because she was not there for four years.
However, after a test, the Principal concerned admitted her to grade nine because she got high marks. Later, she got through GCE (O/L). After O/Ls, she selected Arts subjects for the Advanced Level because she was toying with the idea to become a journalist. She was planning to go to India to study mass media.
That is why she learned Hindi as well. They committed this heinous crime when she was in first year of A/L, Saraswathy said.
Several days prior to this incident, she went to bring a white frock that was given for tailoring and Swiss Kumar and the group had waited for her in a van.
On the day of the incident I gave the tea in a hurry because she had got late and we made a complaint to the Kurikattuwan Police Post due to her inordinate delay after school. But they refused to accept it. Then I went to Kayts Police, they also ignored. They said that my daughter is young and that she must have eloped with a boy and that she would come back after two or three days. Then we went in search of her everywhere on our own.
I went home and my son also went in search of her the following day. The people in the boutique in the nearby junction said that they did not see Vidya that day. She said that her son who continued the search received threats.
According to her, several suspects had turned up to their home before bringing her daughters body. One suspect had gone close to the goat that was looked after by Vidhya and it had gored him. When he had tried to hit it with a stick, she had scolded him not to do so.
After her death, her father was unable to talk and he did not talk after that.
After this incident, the Kayts Police did not investigate the incident properly. It had been transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). People in the area had to protest demanding a proper investigation. The CID came to the village in search of evidence and they did a good job.
Officers Nishantha Silva, Raheem and Kumar Ratnam of Attorney Generals Department took great pains to investigate this case. Im indebted to them for helping to get justice done.
They were not influenced by the monetary gains. We accept the verdict given by the judges. They have carried out the justice.
We thank them. We thank all those who protested for justice. We thank the President for intervening in this case. I say again that there were about 15 Police Officers, who took great pain to bring justice to Vidhya, when the Police in the area fail to do so. The CID played a prominent role in this regard. What I am going to say at last is that I do not want a single cent from the criminals because it will not bring back my daughter. I wish no mother should undergo the pain and the suffering I underwent, she said.
Courtesy Lankadeepa
 
		
==============================
## Title: 65 police officers transferred
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:03 pm
65 police officers transferred
	
A group of 65 police officers attached to the Katugastota Police station have been transferred to the Kandy Police station with immediate effect, police said.
Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said that these transfers were made based on service requirements.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Posters in Jaffna call for Hartal: Condemn those who protected Vidya's murderers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 08:07 am
Posters in Jaffna call for Hartal: Condemn those who protected Vidya's murderers
	
Posters appeared in the Jaffna town yesterday calling for a Hartal today demanding legal action against all those who attempted to protect the murderers of schoolgirl Sivaloganathan Vidya.
The posters carried pictures of State Minister Vijayakala Maheswaran and Attorney Thamil Maran who appeared for Swiss Kumar.
The posters claimed that when the first accused Swiss Kumar was in custody, it was the state minister and the attorney who assisted in getting him released.
The posters had been put up by a group calling itself the, People of Jaffna and several womens organizations.
Meanwhile, the traders organizations and civil society groups said they did not want a Hartal because justice had been meted out. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Republishing Gita in Tamil
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:24 am
Republishing Gita in Tamil
	
The original Sanskrit text Bhagavad Gita translated into Tamil by Sir Ponnampalam Ramanathan, Bhagavad Gita Tamil Translation and Commentary, was first published in 1914. This was published in order that the Tamil speaking community will have access to this sacred text.
This book containing 532 pages is republished today after 103 years on the last day of Vijayathasami (Sarawathi Pooja) the day dedicated to commencement of learning, symbolising the victory in life through learning.
The re-publication coincides with the 18 months remembrance of my mother Mangaiarkarasi Arunasalam, and the book is surrendered in dedication at the holy feet of my mother. The Bhagavad Gita often referred to as the Gita, is a 700 verse Hindu scripture in Sanskrit that is part of the Hindu epic Mahabharata. The Bhagavad Gita literally means Song of the Lord is divided into 18 Chapters. The Gita combines many elements of Samkhya and Vedanta philosophy.
Gita is a narrative dialogue between Padava prince Arjuna and his charioteer Lord Krsna. Arjuna facing the duty of a warrior to fight the righteous war between the Pandavas, the good, and Kauravas, the evil, is counselled by Lord Krsna to fulfil his duty as a warrior and establish Dharma. The text begins with the word Dharma and ends with the word Mama. Mama means my and Dharma, Essential Being. Together they mean my essential Being. It signifies the theme of the Gita, righteousness. The purpose of life is to realize ones essential Being, discover the supreme Self within and attain spiritual Enlightenment.
The good follow the path of devotion, Bhakthi Yoga, as described in the Gita, and when Lord Krsna asked Arjuna do you want all these crores of warriors including your relatives, friends and revered teachers or ME, Arjuna immediately prostrated and said, you the Lord.
Arjuna who is filled with doubt as to what he should be doing is molded to overcome sorrow and fear and is thought to perform his duty, yoga of action, Karma Yoga and live as a Karma Yogi. Gita then describes the path to attainment of liberation, moksha through knowledge, Jnana Yoga.
The setting of the Gita in a battlefield has been interpreted as an allegory for the ethical and moral struggles of human life. The chariot, the highest form of vehicle is comparable to the human body, the vehicle used by human to live in this world. The four horses depict the four organs of action tongue, hands, legs and reproductive organ that must be controlled. Arjuna, the human being, Jeevathma, is getting the guidance of Lord Krsna to manage and direct his mind and reign the horses, action organs of the human body to perform his duty righteously.
The Gita deals essentially with the spiritual foundation of human existence. It is a call of action to meet the obligations and duties of life, yet keeping in view the spiritual nature and grander purpose of the universe.  Former Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Spotlight on foreign funding of candidates
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 September 2017 06:20 am
Spotlight on foreign funding of candidates
	
Peoples Action for Free and Fair Elections (PAFFREL) has stressed the need to include provisions in the proposed campaign finance law to monitor transnational funding to political parties during elections.
It has submitted proposals to be included in the campaign finance law which would govern the finances of candidates during election campaigning. PAFFREL Executive Director Rohana Hettiarachchi told Daily Mirror the enacting of the proposed legislation would make it necessary for each candidate to maintain separate accounts for campaign financing.
All donations from well-wishers or any other source should be channelled through this account, he said. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Unique, unforgettable personality
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 September 2017 12:23 am
Unique, unforgettable personality
	
I first met Mano during my last year at school at Bishops College, when she and her brother Dinkar taught us shorthand and typing.
As the daughter of Lawrie Muthukrishna, who began The Polytechnic, the first ever school of this kind in Colombo, it was inevitable that Mano should follow in her eminent fathers footsteps, first work with him and then run the school with her two brothers, who were devoted to her, Prabhaker and Dinkar.
Later on in the swinging sixties, we got very close to each other through The National Council for Child and Youth Welfare and organised many fundraising projects together working well together as a team. Our projects included the Miss Sri Lanka contests for the Council. It was through her that I started writing.
She had noticed through reports and other documents I wrote, that I had a talent for writing and loved the English language. Mano had a regular column in The Sun, owned by the Dawasa Group headed by the late Sepala Gunasena. She was planning a trip abroad , which was to be fairly long stay overseas and introduced me to the late Mr. Sepala Gunasena and Mr D.B. Dhanapala the owner and editor of this group and suggested that I take over the column while she was away. Both of them readily agreed and I will never forget that they gave me my first break as a writer. I had never written here, although I had studied journalism in London. I wrote the column, while Mano was away, and to my surprise, both of them insisted that I do another, my own column after she returned. Mano and I continued our friendship; our two late husbands, George and Chandra knew each other and got on well with each other and we enjoyed many enjoyable evenings and outings together. Her two daughters, Romola and Sharadha would sometimes be dropped at my home before I married for me to teach them cooking. She was one of the first to visit and support me when my children were born and even designed the dcor of the room for my first-born.
Mano was a pioneer in more avenues than one. In spite of continuing as Hands on Head of the Polytechnic, after the deaths of her two brothers, her great social conscience made her begin the first Zonta Club here and later on the SAARC Womens Association. It was her brainchild to introduce the Women of Achievement awards. Im glad that her gestures are much appreciated and that there was two minutes silence for her at the last Zonta awards ceremony at which I was present. She was a devout Christian and attended Sunday service at The Cathedral of Christ the Living Saviour, where I worship too, and helped the Church in innumerable ways. Her daughter Romola follows her footsteps both at the Polytechnic, as the representative of the Trinity College of Music and in her Christian duty to the Anglican Church. Mano loved all her grandchildren and was proud of them all, but perhaps Sujith her first grandson was her particular favourite and they certainly shared a very special bond which was obvious to all who had the privilege of seeing them together. Friends that she was very close to through several decades were the late Janet Balasuriya, Mallika Hemachandra and Joan Forbes.
It can be a tough and lonely business being a courageous pioneer and being a single mother for many years. She did an admirable job with her children, educated them and brought them up with the right values and principles to face challenges, and overcome theme with courage. Ever since I first met her, Mano always impressed me as a warm, outgoing endearing personality, affable, inordinately friendly and blessed with beguiling natural charm.
There was nothing artificial or hypocritical about her. She has left her children and grandchildren a legacy to be proud of and will Im sure continue to guide and inspire them from above. Her gracious and graceful presence will be missed in all gatherings at which we met so often, for such a long period of time.
Im glad that I had the privilege of such a long acquaintance with such an unique, unforgettable personality. 
 
		
==============================