## Title: Ali Roshan arrested by CID
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 12:25 pm
Ali Roshan arrested by CID
	
Nirad Roshan alias Ali Roshan had been arrested yesterday by the CID on the charges of keeping elephants after obtaining fake licenses, Police Spokesman Ruwan Gunasekara said today.
Colombo Chief Magistrate Gihan Pilapitiya today ordered the police to detain the suspect for questioning till the next day when he was produced in court.
The suspect was a resident of Pannipitiya and was alleged to be keeping three wild elephants in his possession, illegally. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ex-brigadier sentenced to death
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 08:31 am
Ex-brigadier sentenced to death
	
Former brigadier Chandana Priyantha was today sentenced to death by Gampaha High Court Judge Piyaseeli Mathurata after he was found guilty of having killed his wife Thejangani Rupasinghe, a mother of two children, in 2007 at Makola North in Sapugaskanda.
He was earlier attached to the Puttalam Army Camp. (Tony Karunanayake) 
		
==============================
## Title: Going beyond 13-A will expedite reconciliation: Modi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 09:56 am
Going beyond 13-A will expedite reconciliation: Modi
	
Visiting Indian prime Minister Narendra Modi today pledged his support for Sri Lanka`s reconciliation process and said it could be expedited by implementing 13th Amendment and going beyond.
He said India stood side by side with Sri Lanka in efforts to build a future that accommodated the aspirations of all sections of society, including the Sri Lankan Tamil community, for a life of equality, justice, peace and dignity in a united Sri Lanka
I conveyed our sincere support and good wishes to Sri Lanka`s new journey of peace, reconciliation and progress. We believe that early and full implementation of the 13th Amendment and going beyond it would contribute to this process, he said.Full Speech
Your Excellency,
Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of Sri Lanka,
Members of the media,
I am delighted to be in Sri Lanka, in this beautiful city of Colombo.
I have eagerly looked forward to visiting one of our closest neighbours and a nation with which we share so much.
I am truly honoured by your warm welcome and friendship.
I am conscious of the significance of this visit. It is the first standalone bilateral visit to Sri Lanka by an Indian Prime Minister since 1987.
Last month, President Sirisena honoured us by making India his first foreign visit as President. I am glad to be here so soon.
This is how it should be between neighbours. We should meet regularly.
It helps us understand each other better; find solutions to mutual concerns; and, move our relationship forward.
That is what we achieved in my meetings with President Sirisena today.
Economic ties are a key pillar of our relationship.
The progress we have made reflects our shared commitment to stronger economic cooperation.
Our trade has seen impressive growth over the past decade. I am aware of your concerns about trade with India. As I said in Delhi, we will try and address them.
The agreement today on cooperation between our customs authorities is a step in that direction. It will simplify trade and reduce non-tariff barriers on both sides.
We are not just looking at addressing problems. We are also focusing on new opportunities.
Today, Lanka IOC and Ceylon Petroleum Corporation have agreed to jointly develop the Upper Tank Farm of the China Bay Installation in Trincomalee on mutually agreed terms.
A Joint Task Force will be constituted soon to work out the modalities. India stands ready to help Trincomalee become a regional petroleum hub.
I also look forward to early commencement of work on the ground in the Sampur Coal Power Project. This landmark project would meet Sri Lanka`s energy needs.
The ocean economy is a new frontier that holds enormous promise for both of us. It is a priority for our two countries. Our decision to set up a Joint Task Force on Ocean Economy is a significant step, especially because of our proximity.
People are at the heart of our relations. We have taken a number of decisions to encourage people to people contacts, improve connectivity, and increase tourism.
We will extend the facility of Tourist Visa on Arrival  Electronic Travel Authorization Scheme to Sri Lankan citizens from the Sinhala and Tamil New Year on 14 April 2015.
Air India will soon start direct flights between New Delhi and Colombo.
We will cooperate in developing a Ramayana Trail in Sri Lanka and a Buddhist Circuit in India.
We will organize a Festival of India in Sri Lanka later this year. Sri Lanka is where Buddhism has truly flourished. We will be organizing an exhibition showcasing our Buddhist heritage as part of this festival.
The Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in youth affairs is an important long term investment in our relationship.
India is privileged to be a development partner for Sri Lanka.
We will provide a fresh Line of Credit of up to US$ 318 million for the railways sector. This will be used to procure rolling stock, and to restore and upgrade existing railway track.
We are pleased to provide assistance for the construction of the Rabindranath Tagore auditorium at Ruhuna University in Matara.
Tomorrow, I will visit, some of the projects, being financed by India, including the housing project. I am pleased that more than 27,000 houses have already been built.
The Reserve Bank of India and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka have agreed to enter into a Currency Swap Agreement of US$ 1.5 billion. This will help keep the Sri Lankan rupee stable.
We discussed the fishermens issue. This complex issue involves livelihood and humanitarian concerns on both sides. We should handle it from this perspective. At the same time, we need to find a long term solution to this issue.
It is also important that fishermen`s associations of India and Sri Lanka meet at the earliest to find a mutually acceptable arrangement. It can then be taken forward by both governments.
I also took this opportunity to convey our admiration for President Srinisena`s efforts to build an inclusive future for Sri Lanka.
I conveyed our sincere support and good wishes for Sri Lanka`s new journey of peace, reconciliation and progress.
We stand with you in your efforts to build a future that accommodates the aspirations of all sections of society, including the Sri Lankan Tamil community, for a life of equality, justice, peace and dignity in a united Sri Lanka.
We believe that early and full implementation of the 13th Amendment and going beyond it would contribute to this process.
I also conveyed India`s commitment to further strengthening our partnership in advancing peace and prosperity in our region, including our common maritime neighbourhood.
I would like to once again thank President Sirisena for the warm welcome and hospitality.
The meeting today has been very productive. It gives me great confidence and optimism about the future of our relations.
Thank you. 
		
==============================
## Title: Bird-flu like ailment spreading in South
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 01:46 pm
Bird-flu like ailment spreading in South
	
Health authorities in the south are perturbed that an unidentified ailment similar to Bird Flu (Avian influenza ) is spreading in the Hambantota and Tissamaharama areas.
They said four patients suffering from this ailment in Tissamaharama were receiving treatment at the Hambantota General Hospital. The staff of the hospital has also taken precautionary measures prevent the disease from spreading.
A spokesman for the Hambantota Medical Superintendents Office said the ailment was yet to be identified and it had already been reported to the Ministry of Health. (Sanath Gamage) 
		
==============================
## Title: HR situ in SL continued to be of concern in 2014-UK
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 05:57 am
HR situ in SL continued to be of concern in 2014-UK
	
While claiming that the human rights situation in Sri Lanka continued to be of concern in 2014, with little overall improvement, the UK said that it remained concerned over a number of issues, including restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, restrictions faced by minority Tamils in formerly conflict-affected areas in the north and east.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) in its report "Human Rights and Democracy Report 2014" issued Thursday stated, the UK remained concerned over a number of issues: restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly; increases in attacks on Muslim and Evangelical Christian minorities; reports of torture and allegations of extrajudicial killings; and restrictions faced by minority Tamils in formerly conflict-affected areas in the north and east.
 
It also said that the UK encouraged by the statements and actions of the new government of Sri Lanka, expects the country's human rights situation to improve this year with the implementation of the government's promised reforms.
Sri Lankas poor human rights situation was exacerbated by the weakness of state institutions and the judicial system. The Sri Lankan government expanded the mandate of the Presidential Commission to Inquire into Complaints Regarding Missing Persons to investigate and report on matters during the final stages of Sri Lankas conflict. However, they refused to cooperate meaningfully with a number of key international human rights mechanisms on the issue of war crimes and accountability, including the UN Human Rights Council (HRC) and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), it stated.
The UK used its position in the HRC to urge the international community to establish an independent international investigation into alleged serious violations and abuses of human rights in Sri Lanka during the recent conflict, due to the absence of a credible Sri Lankan domestic process.
FCO Minister for Asia, Hugo Swire, had visited Geneva to speak out about the importance of the resolution, which also established an independent international investigation into the most serious violations and abuses of human rights during the Sri Lankan conflict.
Since then, President Maithripala Sirisena has been elected with a mandate to lead a more accountable government, including restoring the independence of the police and judiciary and media freedoms, and ensuring the protection of religious minorities.The full Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) report on Sri LankaCorporate reportSri Lanka - Country of Concern
The human rights situation in Sri Lanka continued to be of concern in 2014, with little overall improvement. The UK remained concerned over a number of issues: restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly; increases in attacks on Muslim and Evangelical Christian minorities; reports of torture and allegations of extrajudicial killings; and restrictions faced by minority Tamils in formerly conflict-affected areas in the north and east. Human rights defenders (HRDs) and those with dissenting voices were intimidated and subjected to harassment.
Sri Lankas poor human rights situation was exacerbated by the weakness of state institutions and the judicial system. The Sri Lankan government expanded the mandate of the Presidential Commission to Inquire into Complaints Regarding Missing Persons to investigate and report on matters during the final stages of Sri Lankas conflict. However, they refused to cooperate meaningfully with a number of key international human rights mechanisms on the issue of war crimes and accountability, including the UN Human Rights Council (HRC) and the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
The UK used its position in the HRC to urge the international community to establish an independent international investigation into alleged serious violations and abuses of human rights in Sri Lanka during the recent conflict, due to the absence of a credible Sri Lankan domestic process. On 27 March 2014, the HRC adopted a resolution which established the OHCHR Investigation in Sri Lanka (OISL). The resolution, cosponsored by the UK, also called on the Sri Lankan government to make progress on addressing ongoing human rights and reconciliation issues, including establishing a credible domestic accountability process.
The UK consistently urged the Sri Lankan government to fulfil their international obligations on human rights. We made clear that the activities of HRDs were legitimate and that they should not be subject to harassment and intimidation. Our High Commission in Colombo actively monitored the human rights situation around the country through meetings with a variety of organisations, and actively promoted human rights across various media. The UK also funded projects and programmes specifically designed to improve the human rights situation, including on police reform and womens rights.
Presidential elections were called for January 2015. The UK was concerned at the conduct of the election campaigning in late 2014, including abuses of state resources and incidents of violence. We continued to see respect for human rights, a sustainable political settlement and accountability for alleged war crimes as priorities for any future government.Elections
Provincial elections held in the Western and Southern Provinces in March were generally peaceful, despite one fatality following an inter-party confrontation. In contrast, Provincial Council elections held in Uva in September saw violence and the largescale abuse of state resources. Over 300 reports of campaign violence, including three serious incidents on election day, were reported by election monitors. The Mayor of Bandarawela and an Eastern Provincial Council member were hospitalised following separate assaults. Local election monitor, Peoples Action for Free and Fair Elections, did not consider the election free and fair, pointing to violence, widespread abuse of state property, and the use of public servants in election propaganda activities.
Following the November announcement of Presidential elections for January 2015, related violent incidents began to be reported. Up to the end of December 2014, local election monitors recorded 293 incidents of election-related violence. 168 of these were major incidents, including 21 instances of firearms being used, two attempted murders, 40 assaults, five incidents of arson, and one attempted abduction. The vast majority of attacks were allegedly by pro-government groups targeting the opposition.
On 29 December, Commonwealth Secretary, General Kamalesh Sharma, stated that the people of Sri Lanka must be able to freely exercise their franchise, in an enabling environment marked by transparency, a level playing field, and adherence to the laws and norms that govern a credible and peaceful election. The UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon conveyed his strong expectation that the government of Sri Lanka would ensure the peaceful and credible conduct of elections.Freedom of Expression and Assembly
Restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly were reported throughout 2014, with continued intimidation, harassment, and a number of attacks on journalists, civil society, artists and opposition politicians. Sri Lanka dropped three places, to 165 out of 180, in the 2014 World Press Freedom Index.
There were many reported incidents of intimidation of journalists. In April, in an incident condemned by Reporters Without Borders, a journalist was attacked with iron rods in the northern province of Jaffna. Also in April, law enforcement representatives extensively questioned the editor of a leading Colombo-based newspaper following the publication of a photograph of a senior government officials wife with a controversial caption. A Tamil monthly newspaper faced harassment, and a distributor of the paper was assaulted and his newspapers dumped in a nearby reservoir by an armed gang.
In separate incidents in July, a leading political analyst and a film maker were subject to threats and harassment. A journalist was interrogated by law enforcement over his reporting of the Aluthgama riots and his work with Aljazeera. The President of the Bar Association faced intimidation following a number of outspoken comments.
NGOs involved in journalism training were targeted on several occasions, and hotels hosting investigative journalism workshops were subject to threats and intimidation. For example, individuals and journalists involved in organising a training course for Transparency International were subject to death threats, and those who travelled for the training were allegedly obstructed by Sri Lankan security forces. In July, a mob stormed the Sri Lanka Press Institute, disrupting a journalism training programme. On 1 July, the Ministry of Defence and Urban Development instructed NGOs not to train journalists, hold press conferences, or issue press releases unless specifically agreed, noting that such activities exceeded their mandate.
The Committee to Protect Journalists, Front Line Defenders, the International Press Institute, Reporters Without Borders, and Transparency International all expressed concern about escalating intimidation. They called on the Sri Lankan authorities to take action to protect the safety of civil society. The British High Commissioner to Sri Lanka issued a statement on World Press Freedom Day noting that Sri Lankan journalists worked against a difficult backdrop of harassment and intimidation. He encouraged the government to renew its commitment to free expression by protecting journalists and ensuring investigations into past crimes.
Opposition MPs also faced violence, including a group of United National Party MPs and accompanying media personnel. They were attacked by a mob when touring the international airport and a port, Hambantota, in May. There were a number of attacks on street drama teams and artists. Incidents related to freedom of assembly were reported throughout the year. In March, a local activist Jeyakumari Balendran and her 13-year-old daughter, who were leading protests on the disappeared, were detained under the Prevention of Terrorists Act for allegedly harbouring a terror suspect. The local magistrate ordered Jeyakumari to be detained for 16 days under anti-terrorism laws, and her daughter was placed in social care. Local and international activists condemned the arrests. Jeyakumari remains in detention and her case is not scheduled to be heard until 13 March 2015, which would mark one year since her arrest.
A group of monks disrupted a meeting between civil society and representatives of families of the disappeared. Posters organising an event to commemorate the disappeared, which vilified leading civil society figures, were discovered on 25 October. Stones were thrown at the residence of the chief organiser of this event.
In May, 18 students leading protests in Colombo were arrested; four were later admitted to hospital with injuries. The main university students union, the Inter University Student Federation, alleged that the students injuries were a result of police torture, and had resulted in the blinding of one victim. Civil society organisations condemned the assault, arrest and alleged torture of the students. In December, students protesting over education rights were dispersed with water cannons and tear gas, and then allegedly further attacked by police, resulting in 28 students being hospitalised.
In other incidents, protesting fishermen were pelted with stones, and three were subsequently hospitalised. Two union leaders were allegedly subject to assault by unidentified groups on 25 October. The Free Trade Zone and General Employees Services Union, in a letter to the Inspector General of Police, said that it is clear that our Trade Union leaders are being suppressed systematically.Human Rights Defenders
HRDs working in Sri Lanka continued to report harassment, intimidation, and increasing restrictions on their work. Several HRDs were labelled as Tamil Tiger supporters by a progovernment paper. Investigations into past incidents, from 2008 to the present, also failed to make any progress.
There was a domestic and international outcry after the Terrorist Investigations Department arrested two well-known Sri Lankan HRDs in March. The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) Minister for South Asia, Hugo Swire, was among those who raised concerns over the arrests and detention. Although released two days later, they remained under court order and investigation. A community leader, critical of the states urban land acquisition policy, was abducted by unidentified persons but similarly released after public protest.
In November, Mayuri Inoka, the wife of a man allegedly abducted by members of the local police in 2013, was also abducted, but managed to escape. She told the media that she was threatened with the same fate as her husband if she did not stop her campaign to find him. In the north, a Citizens Committee Chairman, at the forefront of a campaign to release a HRD detained for over 200 days without charge, was attacked with iron rods, and threatened with death if he continued his campaign.
Throughout 2014, the UK consistently urged the Sri Lankan government to fulfill their international obligations on human rights, and to act to stop the harassment and intimidation of HRDs.
Access to Justice and the Rule of Law
In February, the Sri Lankan Supreme Court overturned a 2013 Court of Appeal ruling that had found the report of a Parliamentary Select Committee on the impeachment of the Chief Justice null and void. The impeachment had drawn considerable national and international criticism, including from the International Commission of Jurists, the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, and the Bar Council of England and Wales.
The Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Bill was presented to Parliament on 10 September. The UK welcomed the move and hopes to see the bill passed in 2015. However, concerns over detention issues remain, with reports of suspicious deaths in custody, and deaths of suspects shot by police while allegedly attempting to flee. The Friday Forum, a local civil society organisation, also raised concerns about the deaths of alleged criminals under arrest in very suspicious circumstances.
In July, the Sri Lankan government appointed an international Advisory Council to advise the Presidential Commission to Inquire into Complaints Regarding Missing Persons, established to investigate disappearances in the north and east from 1990- 2009. Concerns remain over the effectiveness, capacity and independence of the inquiry.Death Penalty
Sri Lanka has maintained a de facto moratorium on the death penalty since 1976, but again abstained on the UN General Assembly Third Committee Moratorium on the use of the Death Penalty resolution in December.Torture and Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment
There were continued allegations of police involvement in torture and custodial deaths, as well as in extrajudicial killings throughout 2014. The Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) reported that a 17-year old in police custody was severely tortured along with his brother and another family member, denied medical treatment, and died in the remand prison while his brother held him in his arms.Freedom of Religion or Belief
There were a high number of incidents targeting minority Christian and Muslim communities. On 15 June, violence erupted between Muslims and Sinhala Buddhists in Aluthgama and neighbouring Dharga Town in the south west, with the majority of the attacks against Muslims. These clashes and the subsequent rioting, which continued until 17 June, left at least three Muslims and one Tamil dead, scores injured, and dozens of homes and businesses destroyed. Inflammatory statements made by extremist Buddhist organisations, such as the Bodu Bala Sena, were blamed by many for rising tensions. The international community, including the UK and many international organisations, such as Amnesty International and the Organisation of Islamic Countries, expressed their concerns, and urged a thorough investigation into the attacks. They urged the Sri Lankan government to ensure that the rule of law was upheld, and welcomed assurance to investigate and take action against those responsible for the incidents. President Rajapaksa pledged to investigate the June violence, but no prosecutions had taken place by the end of 2014.
A local NGO noted attacks and intimidation against evangelical churches by mobs that included Buddhist monks. Evangelical Christian churches continued to report attacks on individuals, churches and prayer meetings, threats and harassment, restrictions on their right to assembly, and unfair administrative burdens. In March, two bombs were thrown at a mosque that had been repeatedly targeted by extremist groups for two years.
The HRC resolution of 27 March expressed alarm at the significant surge in attacks against members of religious minorities in Sri Lanka. It called upon the Sri Lankan government to end continuing incidents of human rights violations, and to investigate all alleged attacks on members of religious minority groups and places of worship.
Although communal violence between Buddhists and Muslims decreased towards the end of 2014, tensions remained, and sporadic attacks on Muslim and Christian places of worship and businesses continued to take place.Minority Rights
There was no progress on seeking or achieving a political settlement with the minority Tamil community. There remained concerns over the situation in the predominantly Tamil and Muslim areas in the north and east. The UK continued to urge the government to work with the Tamil National Alliance to find a political solution.
In April, three Tamil Tiger operatives were killed by security forces near Vavuniya in the north during a reported confrontation. Subsequent security operations in the north and east saw scores detained and questioned, house-to-house searches, over 60 arrests under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, and restrictions on movement in some areas.
Although military drawback was evident in some areas, there was still a high level of military involvement in commercial and other civil activities, and the occupation of land in high security zones or military cantonments. The security forces have been accused of human rights violations, including rape, in these areas. Land rights continued to be an issue, with claims that Tamil land was being appropriated by the military and government for reallocation to the Sinhala majority.
On 10 October, the Ministry of Defence announced that all foreign passport holders would require prior permission to travel to the north.Other IssuesWorking with the UN
International focus on Sri Lanka intensified during 2014. On 24 February, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) published a report on reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka. The report recommended that the HRC establish an international inquiry mechanism to further investigate alleged violations of international human rights and humanitarian law during the Sri Lankan conflict, due to the lack of political will of the Sri Lankan government to make progress. The UK strongly supported the assessment of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
On 27 March, the HRC adopted a resolution which established an international investigation into allegations of serious violations and abuses of human rights on both sides of the conflict, and called on the Sri Lankan government to make progress on accountability, reconciliation and human rights. The UK was a main co-sponsor of the resolution, which built on the texts of resolutions in 2012 and 2013. Following the vote, Prime Minister David Cameron said that the resolution was triggered by the failure of the Sri Lankan government to stand by its promises to credibly and independently investigate alleged violations on both sides during the war.
On 19 August, President Rajapaksa announced that HRC mandated investigators would not be allowed to visit Sri Lanka. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights presented an oral update to the HRC on 22 September. He regretted the Sri Lankan governments rejection of the HRC resolution and decision not to cooperate with the investigation. He also raised concerns over threats currently being leveled against the human rights community in Sri Lanka, as well as prospective victims and witnesses, and deplored recent incitement and violence against the countrys Muslim and Christian minorities. The UK has consistently called on Sri Lanka to engage with the investigation and expressed concern about threats and intimidation against those wanting to give evidence to the investigation. 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan jailed for molesting girl on flight to Dubai
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 03:18 am
Lankan jailed for molesting girl on flight to Dubai
	
A drunken Sri Lankan passenger has been jailed for one year for molesting a sleeping female teenager on a Dubai-bound flight.
He will be deported after serving his jail term. On November 5 last year, 13-year old victim was travelling alone from Sri Lanka to Dubai.
When the flight crew turned off the lights, the girl bent on the front table and asleep on her seat. The 45-year-old salesman sitting next to her was consuming alcohol and sexually assaulted her.
The girl was taken aback and shouted at him, pushing him away several times. He stopped harassing when the lights were turned on. However, when it was dark he resumed to abuse her sexually and groped her private parts.
The girl in her statement told the investigators, "He insisted on groping me although I pushed his hand and shouted at him. When the lights were switched on, he tried to convince me, but I did not talk to him. As the lights were switched off, he groped me again and went on harassing me. I got very scared and did not know what to do as I was travelling alone."
The accused followed the victim at Dubai Airport after landing. She rushed to a washroom to avoid him. A concerned woman noticed the girl and enquired why she was distressed. The girl narrated everything that happened in the plane and that her assaulter was following her in the airport.
The woman accompanied the girl to a security officer to report the incident. The officer told the girl's father who was waiting for her at the arrival hall. 
Police arrested the passenger and found out that he was drunk. Drugs for personal use were confiscated from him, a charge that he is being prosecuted for in a separate case. (Emirates24/7) 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahela joins Sussex for T20 Blast
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 09:00 am
Mahela joins Sussex for T20 Blast
	
Sussex have signed veteran Sri Lanka batsman Mahela Jayawardene for the first half of their T20 Blast campaign.
The 37-year-old, who has played 149 Tests, will be available for Sussex's first seven matches of the tournament.
Jayawardene has scored 4,051 runs at an average of 28.73 in 170 Twenty20 games, including 55 at international level.
"His record and his reputation is second to none. He will also bring his leadership and experience," Sussex manager Mark Robinson said.
"I'm sure he will be a huge asset to Luke Wright as the new captain, and the whole squad and coaching staff."
Jayawardene is currently playing for Sri Lanka at the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.
The Colombo-born right-hander has scored more than 11,000 runs in both Test matches and one-day internationals. (BBC) 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahinda to meet Modi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 02:17 pm
Mahinda to meet Modi
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa is due to meet visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tomorrow.
Mr. Rajapaksa confirmed the meet up last evening when he attended the opening ceremony of a photo-exhibition in Colombo.
I am due to meet the Indian Prime Minister tomorrow. I will speak of our discussion following the meeting tomorrow, he said.
He seemed to evade questions that were posed by the journalists, when one reporter asked whether he could respond to the rumours circulating of his possible entry to politics. The only answer he gave to that query was, I am and have always have been an SLFP-er...
Meanwhile, when inquired by the journalists of his opinions of the proposed national government concept due to be established, he said he did not have any comments and reverted the question to SLFP General Secretary and former Minister Anura Priyadharshana Yapa who also attended the event. (Lakna Paranamanna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: MiG airplane purchases to be probed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 04:53 pm
MiG airplane purchases to be probed
	
Financial misappropriations that had allegedly been committed during the purchase of four MiG airplanes from Ukraine in 2006, is being probed by the newly established Police Financial Fraud Investigation Division, Police said.
In a statement today, the Police said a complaint had been lodged, which alleged that a financial misappropriation worth over 14.5 million USD had been committed through this deal. Therefore, those involved in this deal will be probed, Police said.
Meanwhile, an investigation is also due to be launched into a financial irregularity that had been committed during the construction of the Kerawalapitiya power plant. According to information received by the Police so far, although the Ceylon Electricity Board was well capable of completing the constructions for a sum of 210 million USD, a total of 332 million USD had been spent on the constructions and Police said investigations were being conducted to ascertain who was responsible for the decision and the execution of the project that cost an additional of 122 million USD.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Modi arrives
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 01:07 am
Modi arrives
	
	Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Sri Lanka early this morning and he was welcomed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at the Bandaranaike International Airport.
	Modi, who is the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Lanka in 28 years, will held summit talks with Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena, who was in India last month on his first foreign trip after assuming office in January.
	He will also hold talks with his Sri Lankan counterpart Ranil Wickremesinghe.
	Modi will also address the Sri Lankan Parliament during his visit. He will be the first Indian Prime Minister and only the second foreign leader after British Premier David Cameron to visit Jaffna in the war-ravaged Northern province, where he will hand over homes built with the help of Indian assistance.
	
	
	
(function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/all.js#xfbml=1";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
	
		Post by Daily Mirror.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Modi assures on-arrival visas to Lankans
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 06:54 am
Modi assures on-arrival visas to Lankans
	
The visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi today announced that beginning from the National New Year on April 14, India would grant visas to Sri Lankan tourists on arrival.
According to The Hindu, he also said that the complex fishing crisis between India and Sri Lanka involved livelihood and humanitarian concerns and both sides would need to find a long-term solution to this festering matter.
This morning, Prime Minister Modi and Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena inked four agreements including agreements on currency swap arrangements and on customs cooperation.
Meanwhile, the New Indian Express said PM Modi had also pledged to help Trincomalee become a regional energy hub.
I see this visit as an opportunity to further strengthen our relationship in all its dimensions  political, strategic, economic, cultural, and above all, people to people contacts, he had said in his pre-departure statement.
Modi will also address the Sri Lankan Parliament during his visit. He will be the first Indian Prime Minister and only the second foreign leader after British Premier David Cameron to visit Jaffna in the once war-ravaged Northern Province, where he will hand over homes built with Indian assistance.
Some 20,000 such homes were built in Jaffna described by India as a flagship cooperation project currently in Sri Lanka. He is also expected to meet leaders of the Tamil National Alliance and other political parties. 
		
==============================
## Title: Modi in Parliament
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 March 2015 03:50 pm
Modi in Parliament
	
The visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seen acknowledging the members of the Parliament after addressing them this evening. PM Modi was the second head of state and the first Indian Leader to address Sri Lankan parliament. Pix by Samantha Perera
==============================
## Title: Video: Modi in SL
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 March 2015 02:32 am
Video: Modi in SL
	
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi being received at the airport by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe, this morning. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
==============================
## Title: Nandana Gunatilaka to contest on UNP ticket
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 03:11 pm
Nandana Gunatilaka to contest on UNP ticket
	
Former Panadura Mayor Nandana Gunatilaka said today he would contest the upcoming general election on the UNP ticket.
He contested for the presidency in 1994 on the JVP ticket but later quit the JVP together with Wimal Weerawansa to form the NFF.
In 2010, Mr. Gunatilaka quit the NFF and joined the SLFP and in 2011 contested the elections to the Panadura Urban Council as the mayoral candidate. (Piyumi Fonseka and Siri Mahabellana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: No NEC decision to arrest Gota: Anura
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 03:44 pm
No NEC decision to arrest Gota: Anura
	
Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) Leader and National Executive Council (NEC) member Anura Kumara Dissanayake today said the Council had not taken any decision in his presence to arrest former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa.
He said he arrived at the Council meeting held on Wednesday late but assured there was no decision taken on the arrest of Mr. Rajapaksa.
Though I was late, I was briefed by others who were already there on the discussions which were held. They did not mention anything related to the arrest of Mr. Rajapaksa. After all, the NEC has no legal authority to take such a decision to arrest anyone, he said.
 
He said they held discussions on Constitutional reforms during the meeting.
It was earlier reported that the NEC had unanimously decided to arrest former Defence Secretary quoting Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne.
Mr. Dissanayake said the reports of NEC deciding to arrest Mr. Rajapaksa were baseless. (Lahiru Pothmulla) 
		
==============================
## Title: Recurring Phenomenon of Traitorization in Tamil Nationalist Politics
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 13 March 2015 07:15 pm
Recurring Phenomenon of Traitorization in Tamil Nationalist Politics
	
By D.B.S. Jeyaraj
The phenomenon of Traitorization in Tamil Nationalist Politics has raised its ugly head again. I use the word traitorization instead of treachery or treason in order to differentiate between those who are actually treacherous or really committing treason as opposed to those being accused or labelled as traitorous or traitors. The reality is that most persons dubbed as traitors or thurogigal by their political opponents are not guiltyas charged and do not deserve such a description. Traitorization is a terrible Goebbelsian process by which political rivals are falsely portrayed or depicted as traitors.
 The Traitor label in contemporary Tamil political discourse refers generally to Tamils accused of working against the Tamil cause and/or collaborating with the enemy. Concrete proof of such conduct is not necessary. What is required is a massive propaganda effort by which the cry, traitor, is repeated incessantly at multiple levels as advocated by Herr Goebbels in Nazi Germany. It was Adolf Hitlers propaganda minister Paul Joseph Goebbels who stated If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it. Repeating the charge traitor continuously is the modus operandi of traitorization in Tamil National politics. Cry Traitor and let slip the dogs of propaganda war! 
Tamil Nationalist Politics made use of the Goebbels technique liberally in dubbing those perceived political rivals as traitors. Merely holding a different political view was sufficient to be called traitors to the cause or collaborators with the enemy. The problematic was that both the cause and enemy were difficult to define clearly. Moreover, the nature of the cause as well as the identity of enemy underwent changes periodically. Despite these fluctuations, what remained constant was the practice of traitorization. Success in the traitorization process was not determined by the substance of truth but by the ability to propagate what was supposed to be the truth. It was not the absolute truth or superior idea that prevailed in the hurly - burly of Tamil Nationalist politics. What succeeded ultimately was the powerful propaganda of one side to paint the other as traitor.
Golden Brain, an interesting example would be the fate of former Kayts MP V. Navaratnam described at one time as the Golden Brain of the Federal Party. MP Navaratnam, a founder member of the party broke ranks in 1968 and formed the Thamizhar Suyaatchik Kazhagham or Tamil Self rule party. He adopted a more extreme line and proposed a Tamil State/Self Rule instead of Federalism being espoused by the FP known in Tamil as the Ilankai Thamil Arasu Katchi(ITAK). Navaratnams party contested the 1970 polls on a platform of Tamil self-rule while the ITAK/FP continued to advocate a Federal solution. The ITAK condemned Navaratnams separatist policies as harmful to the Tamils and faulted him for exposing the community to great danger. There was a famous verbal duel in 1970 at Puliyankoodal, where Appapillai Amirthalingam and V. Navaratnam engaged in open debate. Amirthalingam argued eloquently that separatism was suicidal for the Tamils. Forming a new party amounted to fragmenting Tamil unity it was said. Navaratnam and fellow candidates were denigrated as traitors to the cause in the election campaign. All of them lost and the ITAK once again became the single largest Tamil party with 13 seats in the 1970 election.
Navaratnam, the man praised as the golden brain was now in political oblivion his reputation tarnished as traitor. Things changed. The ITAK and All-Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) came together and formed the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) in 1976. The TULF now advocated a separate state for Tamils. The same set of ITAK politicians who said separatism was suicidal now became ardent proponents of Tamil Eelam.
In such, a changed environment one would have expected Navaratnam to be vindicated. That was not to be so.The man called Traitor for proposing selfrule continued to be in the cold despite the main Tamil parties supporting separatism. The TULF swept the polls in 1977, but Navaratnam lost again. Instead of being honoured as a prophet, Navaratnam languished as traitor still. Such was the power of propaganda in Tamil nationalist politics. The prophet could be portrayed as traitor and condemned eternally. Thiruvilaiaadal; The Thiruvilaiaadal Puraanam relates the Sixty-four thiruvilaiaadalgal or divine antics of Lord Siva. Among these is the story of how Lord Siva helped his devotee Maanikkavaasagar who composed the verses of Thiruvaasagam. The tale is about how Lord Siva did a transforming act - Nariyaip Pariyaakki, Pariyai Nariyaakki (changing jackals into horses and horses into jackals) - to save Maanikkavaasagar from the Kings wrath. Just as Lord Siva turned the nari or jackal into parior horse and vice versa , Tamil nationalist propaganda too is capable of transforming a hero into traitor and vice versa.

	"Navaratnam, the man praised as the golden brain was now in political oblivion his reputation tarnished as traitor. Things changed. The ITAK and All-Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) came together and formed the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) in 1976. "
	
The absurd logic followed in this traitorization exercise could be viewed as farcical but for the fact that it gradually assumed a drastic form . When people got killed as traitors it was no longer a comical exercise. It became tragic. The tragedy in Tamil politics is that this process of traitorization has led to large scale killings of politicians, govt. officials, Police and defence personnel, media personalities etc, as traitors by contending political groups.
Also countless persons, though not killed physically have been killed without killing(Nomaraa maru/Kollaamal Kondru)by character assassination as traitors. Almost all Tamil political groups and organizations have engaged in traitorization but the lions share in physically exterminating people as traitors goes to the tigers. It is a sad fact that the cream of Tamil society was destroyed extensively as traitors by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam(LTTE).
Members of the Tamil political elite killed by the Tigers outnumber those killed by the Sri Lankan or Indian armed forces. Another aspect of this traitorization phenomenon was that nothing was constant. Everything was variable. When Tamil political parties and groups opposed the LTTE or were independent of the Tigers they were all branded as traitors. However, when these nonLTTE elements formed the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) and became subservient to the tigers the traitorstigma withered away. The traitors were purified as patriots. Thus Kandiah Premachandran alias Suresh, who was at one time called the traitorouschief of the EPRLF is nowadays the spokesperson of the TNA and talked of as a Tamil patriot.
Mahathaya On the other hand Goplasamy Mahendrarajah alias Mahathaya and Vinayagamoorthy Muralitharan alias Karunaunderwent a different experience. When Mahathaya was the LTTEs deputy leader and Karuna the Eastern commander of the LTTE, they both were able to condemn others as traitors and order their executions. Many were killed as traitors on their orders. However, when both senior Tiger leaders at different times fell foul of LTTE supremo Veluppillai Prabhakaran, they were transfiguredinto traitors. Their loyalists were killed as traitors too. Mahathaya himself was executed but Karuna jumped the ship in time and saved himself. 
Apart from the moral question as to what right anyone has to dub someone a traitor and kill him or her, there is also the terrible fact that most of those killed as traitors did not fit that description at all. They were mostly people holding different political views from those opposing them. In many instances those projected as traitors were seen as impediments to the progress of others in political terms. Politicians would promise the moon and get votes. They would then give excuses for their inability to deliver by blaming opponents as traitors. It is because of these traitors that we are unable to reach the promised land was the lament.
Another aspect of traitorization was the emphasis on Tamil unity. It was argued that Tamils should unite and rally around a single political formation or party. In short, everyone should vote for THEparty. Other parties cutting into these Tamil votes were engaging in traitorous activity it was alleged. Only candidates from THEparty should be supported and elected. If not traitors from other parties would be elected was the rationale.
When democratic politics gave way to armed militancy, this emphasis on Tamil unity continued. katchi(party)gave way to Iyakkam(movement). Only THEmovement should be supported to demonstrate Tamil unity. Other movements were traitorous.This attitude soon led to skirmishes and then to fratricidal warfare. Youths who thought they were sacrificing their lives at the altar of Tamil Eelam found themselves being butchered as alleged traitors. The same Tamil society which exalted one group of militants as great heroes allowed other groups of militants to be massacred as traitors.

	Solitary Gain
What is of importance here is to note that Tamil nationalist politics has not succeeded so far in achieving any of their objectives independently. Be it the Tamil Congress, the ITAK, the TULF or the TNA, on the one hand and the Tamil militant groups including the LTTE on the other; they have all failed so far. The solitary gain has been the 13th Constitutional amendment brought about by the Indo-Lanka agreement. Despite this failure on the political front, Tamil nationalist parties and organizations have continued to reign supreme. A key device in this near monopolistic control of the Tamil polity by Tamil nationalist politics has been the usage of the traitorization practice. The failure to deliver has been explained away by the excuse of traitorization. The political stupidity of setting unrealistic unachievable goals is not accepted, instead, the fault is attributed to traitors in our midst. Tamils are told that the fault lies not in ourselves but in our traitors!
As stated earlier when the phenomenon of traitorization began people were not assassinated. They were only character assassinated as traitors. But the rise of armed Tamil militancy in the 70s of the last century brought about a sea of changes where politicians, officials, civilians and militants got killed as traitors. Mercifully this practice of killing traitors came to an end after the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was militarily defeated and destroyed in the Island in May 2009. The traitorization process, however, remained but lost much of its potency without the LTTE.
In recent times, the traitorization spectre seems to be rising up again with the burning of effigies and portraits of some TNA politicians by others. If unchecked at this juncture, the phenomenon could develop into a great danger as it was in the past. It is possible with the wisdom of hindsight to conjecture a dire situation emerging once again. It is against this backdrop that this writer focuses again on this phenomenon of traitorization in Tamil nationalist politics. Even though I have written about this on earlier occasions , I shall once again try to delve into this malady threatening to afflict Tamils again.
As noted earlier, the political violence that destroyed hundreds of alleged traitors in the past was explicitly and implicitly justified by the perpetrators as being necessary to ensure Tamil unity and take forward the struggle for Tamil equality. The tendency was to view all those holding or perceived to be holding different political opinions to that of the dominant one in vogue as being traitors. Dissidence was equated with treachery.

	Ravana/Vibheeshana
There was a tendency to view mythology and history in a convoluted form. Signs of real or imaginary betrayals were portrayed as the causes for the downfall of those depicted as heroes in mythology and history. Ravana the demon king of Lanka who abducted Sita was defeated by her husband Rama, an avatar of Lord Vishnu. The Dravidian ideologues however attribute treachery as the cause because Ravanas brother Vibheeshana crossed over to Ramas side.
The feudal Paanchaalankurichi chieftain (Polygar) Veera Paandiya Kattabomman defied the British and was vanquished by superior firepower. In popular parlance Kattabomman lost only because another Polygar Ettappa Nayakkar of Ettayapuram joined forces with the British. Betrayals by traitors is assumed as cause of defeat. Thus Ravanan had his Vibeeshanan and Kattabomman his Ettappan in mythology and history.
A brief re-run of the recent past will help to place in perspective the recurring phenomenon of traitorization in the Tamil nationalist political sphere. In contemporary times, the evolution and growth of representative democracy in Sri Lanka saw the term throgi or traitor being bandied about liberally and rather loosely . Politicians of all communities have at times accused their rivals of being traitors to the people or to their just causes.
This tendency however has been more pronounced and deeply embedded amidst the Sri Lankan Tamil polity. Ever since universal franchise and territorial representation shattered the Tamil self-perception of being equal to the Sinhala numerical majority, the nature of Tamil politics underwent transformation.
The underlying thread of Tamil politics became political emancipation. Be it balanced representation, responsive co-operation, federalism, regional autonomy or separatism - it was the discourse of Tamil liberation that dominated the polity.

	"he fact that it gradually assumed a drastic form . When people got killed as traitors it was no longer a comical exercise. It became tragic. The tragedy in Tamil politics is that this process of traitorization has led to large scale killings of politicians, govt. officials, Police and defence personnel, media personalities etc, as traitors by contending political groups."

	Ottrumaior Unity.
The growing community consciousness and the high premium placed on ethnic solidarity created a situation where the people at large were expected to strike common course on political issues. Ottrumai or unity became the dominant cry.
It was seen as the most convenient mode of mobilizing votes for a particular party on an ethnic basis. It was also easy to label any Tamil involved with Sinhala dominated parties - be they nationalist or leftist - as being collaborationist with negative connotations.
Thus, anyone differing or seen as deviating from whatever dominant political opinion within the Tamils was depicted as betraying the cause and community. They were described as weeds that had to be weeded out (kalaieduppu).
In the early days, this weeding-out of political rivals depicted as traitors was strictly electoral. They had to be defeated at the polls and nothing more. It was also easier to undermine those in power through this type of propaganda.

	"By the mid seventies of the last century, the dominant mood in Tamil politics was separatism. This led to armed struggle as the only way to achieve Tamil Eelam. As the years progressed the scenes and actors changed from time to time but the drama of traitorization went on."
At the tail end of British rule G.G. Ponnambalam and his party the All-Ceylon Tamil Congress demanded a scheme of balanced representation popularly known as fifty-fifty. This was unacceptable to the Soulbury commission which granted a dominion constitution. When elections were held, G.G. Ponnambalam and the Tamil Congress got the better of Sir. Arunachalam Mahadeva and the UNP Tamil candidates by calling those who supported the Soulbury Constitution traitors.
After Independence dawned the pragmatic Ponnambalam changed his stance to responsive cooperation. He joined the Government and became Industries and Fisheries minister. Then it became Ponnambalams turn to be called traitor by S.J.V. Chelvanayagam and the federalists after GG became a Minister in D.S. Senanayakes Cabinet.
The FP used the traitor label liberally to undermine their rivals. However, when Chelvanayagam and the FP became ensconced in Dudley Senanayakes national government in 1965, former Kayts MP V. Navaratnam broke ranks and formed the Tamil Self-rule Party. His criticism of the FP as traitors did not carry much conviction at that time because of the high esteem in which Chelva was held. But Navaratnam was called traitor for breaking Tamil unity and forming his own party and suffered the consequences.

	Masala Vadai line
Earlier it was difficult to brand the Samasamajists and Communists as traitors by the Tamil nationalist parties because of the very progressive stance taken by the left on the national and language question. After the left changed course and joined forces with the SLFP and adopted the Dudleyge Bade Masala Vadai line, it became easier to traitorise them too.
The practise of demonizing political adversaries as traitors took a qualitative turn in the 1970-77 period. The fiery Tamil poet Kasi Anandan thundered in 1972 that none of the traitorous six Tamil MPs who supported the Republican Constitution of 1972 should die of natural causes.
It also became clear that some Tamil politicians like the popular Jaffna Mayor Alfred Durayappah would be difficult to defeat politically because of widespread people support. Durayappah was continuously described as traitor in the TULF organ Suthanthiran. He was portrayed as the cause for all problems affecting Tamils and it was argued that his elimination would usher in a new dawn for the Tamils.
Impressionable young Tamil minds got the message. Durayappah was gunned down in July 1975. Later Prabhakaran was to call it his first military operation. None of the TULF leaders condemned Durayappahs killing then.
By the mid seventies of the last century, the dominant mood in Tamil politics was separatism. This led to armed struggle as the only way to achieve Tamil Eelam. As the years progressed the scenes and actors changed from time to time but the drama of traitorization went on.
In the forties of the 20th century, any Tamil not subscribing to fifty-fifty was a traitor. After Independence, any Tamil rejecting Federalism was a traitor. Later on, any Tamil opposing a separate Tamil state became a traitor. Then any Tamil protesting against armed struggle became a traitor. Thereafter all organizations, other than the LTTE were called Traitors. After the LTTE was defeated and the Tamil Eelam demand lost its vigour, the concepts of Thaayagam(homeland), Suyanirnayam(self-determination) and Theasiyam(nationhood) became the new Mantras of Tamil nationalism. Anyone opposing these three concepts is a traitor.

	Genocide, genocide
When the UN Human Rights Council passed a resolution on Sri Lanka, the Tamil extremists said it lacked sting and opposed it. The UN probe was an eyewash it was alleged. Tamils supportive of the resolution were called traitors. Now the very same lunatic fringe is opposed to the UN Probe report being delayed. Any Tamil in favour of the UN report being released in September is a traitor. In the aftermath of CV Vigneswarans genocide resolution all Tamils are expected to chorus Genocide, Genocide. Anyone failing to chant the G-word will soon be dubbed traitors. Traitors will be created and Traitors will be decimated but, Traitorization like Tennysons brook will go on for ever.
The spate of political killings within the Tamil community that began with the Durayappah assassination continued for years and then decades. So many eminent Tamil leaders like Dr. Neelan Thiruchelvam and Lakshman Kadirgamar have been killed as traitors. During the time of Mrs. Bandaranaike from 1970 to 77, Tamil policemen were suspected informants, Tamil activists of the SLFP etc. were killed as traitors. In July 1977, JR Jayewardene and the UNP target shifted. After 1977 it became the turn of Tamils affiliated to the UNP to be killed as traitors. This spree of killings continued throughout the Premadasa, Wijetunga, Kumaratunga and Rajapaksa periods until 2009.
Intra-Tamil killings of alleged traitors took on new forms and content. The TULF which called Tamil political opponents traitors found themselves traitorized with the passage of time. Tiger guns turned on the TULF and ex-Kopay MP, Aalalasundaram was shot and injured in 1982. It was only then that Amirthalingam issued a hard-hitting statement saying after biting the goat and cow, the animal had now bitten a human. As the Tamil liberation struggle progressed the militants began calling the TULF leaders traitors. Soon many were killed. Amirthalingam who had described many a political opponent as being traitor was killed and unfairly accused as traitor himself.

	Fratricidal Warfare
The guns also began turning sideways and inwards. Soon there was fratricidal warfare among the Tamil groups. Organizations were dubbed wholesale as traitors by the LTTE and were prohibited from the Tamil areas. Massive killings of rival groups followed.
When the Indian Army was here and war with the LTTE erupted, several Tigers were killed by groups toeing the Indian line like EPRLF, ENDLF and TELO. After the Indian Army left, the Tigers massacred wholesale those members of the pro  India Tamil National Army. Both sides described each other as traitors of the Tamil cause. This practise continued.
The LTTE killed more than 60 members of organizations like the EPDP, PLOTE, TELO and EPRLF after the ceasefire in 2002. They were all branded as traitors. Later the roles reversed and Tamil paramilitary groups aligned with the state killed many Tamils suspected of LTTE links as enemies of the state. They were traitors to Mother Lanka from the Sri Lankan States point of view.
After President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas in November 1963, the Black American leader Malcolm X spoke at a Nation of Islammeeting in December 1963. When asked about Kennedys killing, Malcolm X in his reply seemingly justified it. He said President Kennedy never foresaw that the chickens would come home to roost so soon...Being an old farm boy myself, chickens coming home to roost never did make me sad; they always made me glad. Malcolm X himself was shot dead two months later in February 1965.

	"In the present situation, comparatively moderate TNA leaders such as R. Sampanthan and M.A. Sumanthiran are also being labelled as traitors. Their portraits and effigies are being burnt. TNA national list Parliamentarian Sumanthiran is the favourite target of the LTTE elements. He is being vilified widely as a thurogi or traitor. As noted earlier, the practise in the past when the Tigers were riding high was to demonize someone as a traitor and then exterminate him."

	Titan Cronus/Saturn
It was a case of the chickens coming home to roost as far as Sri Lankan armed militancy was concerned. The Greek myth about Titan Cronus or Saturn feared that he would be overthrown by one of his children. So he devoured the children one by one as they were born. Like Saturn devouring his own children, the Tamil liberation struggle too devoured its own children. The internecine violence was sought to be justified by the real or imagined existence of traitors. The victims of violence were all traitorized. Later some of the perpetrators themselves were victimized by the violence. The pendulum now swung the other way and those who traitorised others were in return traitorised.
Former LTTE Deputy Leader, Gopalaswamy Mahendrarajah alias Mahattaya who went public in denouncing Amirthalingam as a traitor was himself later executed by the Tiger supremo. Mahattaya was now called traitor and charged with conspiracy to overthrow Pirapaharan. More than 150 of his supporters were also killed as traitors. Mahathaya was also killed after a protracted Kangaroo Court Trial. Mahathaya had ordered the killing of several PLOTE, EPRLF and TELO cadres as traitors when he was at the Tiger helm.
The PLOTE indulged in killing hundreds of their cadres as suspected traitors. Youths were killed and disposed of in the training camps run by the PLOTE in Orathanaadu in Tamil Nadu. A senior cadre who specialized in killing the cadres suspected of being traitors acquired the name Dumping Kandasamy on account of this. Later on, many PLOTE leaders and cadres were killed by the LTTE as traitors. Finally, the PLOTE head Uma Maheswaran alias Muhunthan who was reverentially called Aiyah and Periyavar by his followers was killed by his own men and dumped on the rail track in Bambalapitiya. His killers said it was punishment for being a traitor.
The TELO split into the Bobby and Das factions. Sree Sabaratnam, the TELO head was partial towards the Bobby faction. Das hailing from Udupiddy in Vadamaratchy was lulled into a false sense of security by Sree Sabaratnam. He was lured into the Jaffna hospital without arms and killed in the premises. Thereafter the Bobby faction unleashed violence on the Das faction calling it traitor. When residents of Vadamaratchy took out a procession in protest were fired at by the TELO, which issued a press release saying traitorous forces were fired upon. Within months the LTTE struck at TELO and killed hundreds of TELO cadres. Sree Sabaratnam was captured and personally executed as a traitor by the LTTE Jaffna commander Kittu on May 5, 1986.

	Traitors of the East
The revolt of former Eastern Tiger commander Vinayagamoorthy Muraleetharan in March 2004 saw the mainstream LTTE executing a large number of rebel cadres as traitors. Soon Karuna allied with the State and unleashed violence against Praba- loyalists dubbing them traitors of the east.
The LTTE has killed a number of people within and outside the movement as suspected traitors over the years. It was in the neo-fascist nature of the LTTE to discover more and more new traitors on a regular basis. Anyone seen as holding different opinion or not toeing the line was easily labelled traitor. There were numerous instances of many being wrongfully accused and executed.
Even in a post-Prabhakaran situation, the LTTEs tendency to demonize those with different viewpoints as traitors continues within the global Tamil Diaspora. Selvarasa Pathmanathan alias KP and his supporters are called traitors by the Tiger and pro-Tiger elements opposing him. So too are Karuna, Pillaiyan, Daya Master and other ex-LTTE members co-operating with the state.
It is only a matter of time before Cabinet Minister D.M. Swaminathan and deputy Minister Vijayakala Maheswaran in the new Sirisena-dispensation are dubbed traitors as former Cabinet Minister Douglas Devananda and ex-deputy Minister Muralitharan were traitorised in the previous Rajapaksa regime.
Any Tamil, proposing conciliatory politics or supportive of co-operation with the Government have the Damoclean sword of Traitorization hanging over them. In the present situation, comparatively moderate TNA leaders such as R. Sampanthan and M.A. Sumanthiran are also being labelled as traitors. Their portraits and effigies are being burnt. TNA national list Parliamentarian Sumanthiran is the favourite target of the LTTE elements. He is being vilified widely as a thurogi or traitor. As noted earlier, the practise in the past when the Tigers were riding high was to demonize someone as a traitor and then exterminate him.
Mercifully, this is no longer an option for the Tigers and their fellow travellers because of Mahinda Rajapaksa, who has bestowed a great gift upon the Tamils by destroying the LTTE militarily in Sri Lanka. In a post-Prabhakaran era, the course of action available is not assassination but character assassination. The idea is to kill without killing by portraying the targeted victim as a traitor. Unable to kill physically, the bloodthirsty fiends satisfy their lust by cremating portraits and effigies. However, there is the danger of this trend acquiring a destructive capacity if left unchecked or contained now.

	Traitorization Mania
This traitorization mania affecting Tamils has resulted in countless people being killed as traitors in the past. It has reared its ugly head again in the present and has the potential to become a serious problem in the future.
The recurring phenomenon of traitorization is a Tamil tragedy for which others cannot be blamed. There is an urgent need for serious introspection. The Tamil people must address this issue that has destroyed the community in the past and could do so in the future too.D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com 
		
==============================
## Title: Traffic restrictions for Modis visit
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 06:26 am
Traffic restrictions for Modis visit
	
Vehicular movement will be restricted between 4.30 p.m. and 5.00 p.m. today along the road leading to Galle Face from the Sri Jayewardenepura Parliament via the Polduwa, Ayurveda Junction, D.S. Junction, Nelum Pokuna, Kollupitiya Junction and Galle Road under the special traffic arrangements for the Indian Premiers visit, Police said.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the members of Parliament this afternoon. 
		
==============================
## Title: US welcomes release of Jayakumari
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 March 2015 02:19 am
US welcomes release of Jayakumari
	
	The US government has welcomed the release of Balendran Jayakumari by the Sri Lanka's new government.
	State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki Thursday said that Jeyakumari was among eight detainees freed this week. She has been released on bail pending trial.
	"We understand Ms. Jeyakumari has been released on bail pending trial, and we encourage the Government of Sri Lanka to afford the individuals and all detainees due process of law."
	"We applaud this positive step and encourage the government to continue its efforts to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms for all Sri Lankans," Psaki said.
	Jeyakumari was arrested last March, accused of sheltering a man trying to revive the LTTE.
 
		
==============================