## Title: A gallant young soldier snatched by a bullet
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:23 am
A gallant young soldier snatched by a bullet
	
Captain Theja Mangala Liyanagamage

It is 20 years since the passing away of Mangala Liyanagame, the gallant young soldier who was gunned down by LTTE terrorists on 8th June 1998 in the Kilinocchi jungles when he was only 27 years old. Although two decades have passed since his tragic demise, he still lives in my heart, not only as a beloved cousin but also as a young hero from the South whose precious life was snatched away by brutal LTTE terrorists in the prime of his life. 
Theja Mangala Liyanagamage, born on November 26, 1971, was the youngest of the three sons of late Mr. Piyasena Liyanagamage (All Island J.P.) and late Ms. Prema Liyanagamage (nee Samaranayake), both Government servants, of Hapugala, Galle. Like his two elder brothers, Mangala too had his entire school education at Richmond College, where he was an outstanding sportsman. His forte was Hockey in which he captained the college team and later represented the Southern Province and the Army. When he finished his school education, his parents wanted him to select a career other than in the forces, as his two elder brothers were already in the forces by that time. But that was not to be. Without telling anyone, he applied to join the army and when he appeared for the interview, with his nearly six feet stature and brilliant achievements in sports as well as his family background, the Army had no questions to ask. He was readily recruited to the Army on August 26, 1991 as a Cadet Officer. It was the beginning of a brief, but a most brilliant and exemplary military career. 

You sacrificed your life for the sovereignty of Sri Lanka. Although we cannot see you, fond memories about you are still fresh in our minds and will never be forgotten. Since your departure, every year in the month of June, your parents gave a Sangika Dana to the Maha Sanga in your memory and to invoke blessings on you
Having undergone preliminary military training at the Diyatalawa Miltary Academy, Mangala was commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant and thereafter, during his entire career in the Army he served only in the operational areas in the North, including Elephant Pass, Paranthan, Venthalaikeni and Kilinocchi, at a time when LTTE terrorism was at its peak. 
Mangala was one of the pioneer members of the 10th Battalion of Sinha Regiment, which was set up in the year 1997. As an officer of the Sinha Regiment he was very well known and popular as an officer who served the Army with full commitment and dedication. In the year 1995, he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant. In recognition of his bravery and commitment, he was awarded the prestigious gallantry medal Weera Wickrama Vibhooshana (WWV). 
Having served in the war torn areas in the North for a continuous period of over six years, Mangala was eligible to apply for a transfer to a congenial area in the South. But he did not want to leave the battalion which he led with courage and dedication. Then came the fateful day, June 8th, 1998, when he was actively engaged in the battle fields in Kilinochchi, he was killed by a LTTE bullet. He died with his boots on. It was the most pathetic end of a most promising military career. 
Mangalas eldest brother, Ravi (Air Commodore Ravindra Liyanagamage), who joined the Sri Lanka Air Force in 1988 as a Cadet Officer, is now the Base Commander of the Ratmalana Air Base and his other brother, Jagath (Captain Jagath Liyanagamage ), who joined the Sri Lanka Navy in 1990 as a Cadet Officer, is now Captain Logistic Department -South East Naval Command. If Mangala did not become a victim of brutal LTTE terrorism, by now he would have risen to the highest echelons in the Sri Lanka Army. But unfortunately, fate decreed otherwise. 
Dear Mangala malli, we are proud of you. You are our hero. You sacrificed your life for the sovereignty of Sri Lanka. Although we cannot see you, fond memories about you are still fresh in our minds and will never be forgotten. Since your departure, every year in the month of June, your parents gave a Sangika Dana to the Maha Sanga in your memory and to invoke blessings on you. All of us in our family circle as well as a large number of your friends participated for such annual alms givings. After the demise of your parents, this tradition is being continued by your brothers. 
May the blessings of the Noble Triple Gem be with you always throughout your journey in Sansara. 
Damitha Samaranayake 
Commissioner General of Buddhist Affairs, 
Department of Buddhist Affairs, 
Colombo 07. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Construction Expo 2018
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 30 June 2018 04:00 am
Construction Expo 2018
	
Construction EXPO 2018 was launched at the BMICH under the patronage of Industry and Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen yesterday (29). It will provide a common platform for all industries that link with construction and will give the participants a chance to show their products and services which cover all spheres related to the industry. The exhibition will be held until tomorrow(July 1). Pix Kithsiri De Mel








 
		
==============================
## Title: Democracy vs. Dictatorship what do we want
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:04 am
Democracy vs. Dictatorship what do we want
	
The Buddhist monks over the years have cemented their presence in almost all activities in the island which is quite contrary to the Western Democracies who have had the rule of government freed from religion

Perhaps its inevitable, perhaps one has to choose between being nothing at all and impersonating what one is. 
~Jean-Paul Sartre 

When in 1956 S.W. R. D Bandaranaike introduced the politics of religion and nationalism into the body politic of Sri Lanka, he not only announced the advent of a new era of politics and electioneering, he also unleashed a force, thereto dormant, that took the land by a storm of ethno-religious frenzy, it signalled a departure from secular socio-political conversation. Ironically enough, it was the infamous Buddharakkhita, whom Bandaranaike chose to direct this ethno-religious election campaign and who eventually ended up as the leading conspirator of his own assassination. Histories of all lands are replete with such cruel ironies. But taken in the context of what followed the 56 transformation, the brutal offspring of that revolution and the unbridgeable gulf between the two main ethnic groups in Ceylon, Sinhalese and Tamils, that irony has contributed in very harsh dimensions to her social fabric. 
The unholy entry of the Maha Sanga into an arena that had been dominated by laymen and women, may have changed its landscape forever. Unlike in Western democracies, which had had this rule of Government free of religion, of secular constitutions, with the Bandaranaike doctrine of the common mans politics, ethno-religious politics had an inroad that couldnt be undone by the following years; they were more violent and terribly volatile than the preceding decades of harmonious relationship that existed between the peoples of the two ethnic groups. It may be unfair to attribute this declining cultural condition to the Bandaranaike policies, but when historians try to decipher the true state of the once-dynamic and friendly coexistence, they will find that Bandaranaike and his bedfellows unquestionably crossed the Rubicon in the lands ethnic conglomerate. 

Philosophical preaching has no space in a mindset crowded with shallow and superficial patriotism and dogmatic popular religious beliefs

The holiness of a religion
Quite comfortably or uncomfortably for the vast majority of Sinhalese Buddhists in the country, there wasnt a single member of non-Buddhist order of clergy so intricately and wholly involved in the political currents in the country. A cruel assassin of a Prime Minister set the pattern and other members of the same religious order put their lock, stock and barrel into it; the holiness of a religion became a product wrapped in a saffron robe lost its holiness; upholding ones religion should not be in the hands of legislators as much as it is essentially not the exclusive responsibility of a corrupt set of religious leaders. Nevertheless, the vast majority of Buddhists are steeply entrenched in their own history and their Great Chronicle (Mahawansa), which was written by Buddhist Monks at the behest of the King or Queen who reigned at the time, initially to please that Monarch, honestly believe that the wrongs done unto them by the rule of colonial powers for nearly half a millennium have to be undone. That paranoid mindset cannot be discarded as trash; it couldnt be disregarded as unsophisticated; the neo-liberals who theorize that a secular constitution is the answer to all ethnic issues must find other ways of expressing themselves in terms that relate to this segment of our population. They represent almost 80% of our voting population. 
The 56 transformation has had its lasting and unchangeable effects. Its effects were not confined to religion; its generational impact was not limited to mere economic issues, they had their unmitigated influence on the countrys culture and philosophical psyche of the people. An emergence of a new Ceylonese, closely entwined with his religious predominance and misplaced patriotism; his expression of that predominance and patriotism was more violent than tolerant, more wile than sensible and definitively more shallow than profound. 

The political geography has changed forever and a shrinking middle ground tells the absence of tolerance, reconciliation and accommodation

Multiple eruptions of violence and mayhem around the country where innocent Tamil families were subjected to unspeakable humiliation and slaughter were manifestly present during those riotous days of infamy. What started in 1957 as a protest against the Tamil leaders who performed Satyagraha in the North and then at the Galle Face Green, right opposite the then House of Parliament, was followed by violence against Tamils living outside the Northern peninsula and culminated in 1983, the year in which the strengthening of Tamil militancy and reorganization of their fight against the Governments security forces.

Buddhism and violence
The participation of Buddhist Monks in these riots is beyond question. In fact most of these riots were led by them from the front and the association of Buddhist Monks with these unholy wars against an ethnic minority ran diametrically opposite to the noble Teachings of the Buddha who was the first of religious leaders who preached Ahimsa (non-violence) as a premier principle of his religion. 
Polarization of the Sinhalese Buddhist population, while a majority of whom doggedly have been clinging on to violent expression of patriotism and a minority believing in accommodation and reconciliation, defined the ensuing socio-political constitution of this segment of our people. This polarization has lasted since then. Buddhist Monks who had a say and could say an emphatic no to their cohabitants kept numb and this muted expression in turn was acknowledged by the Gnanasaras of the day as a silent yes to this un-Buddhistic conduct.The birth of Buddhist fundamentalism as a direct byproduct of this virulent and misplaced patriotism has changed our society, at least for some years to come. 
What todays political leaders have to realize is that this change, whose root cause may be hidden in a web of circumstantial substantiation, has taken root in our collective psyche. It is not possible to un-root such a fundamental element buried in a warped mindset. It may be unwise to expect a change from this elementary circumstance; it may be even laughable to teach non-violence and affectionate thoughts to a people hell-bent on vengeance and reprisal. Philosophical preaching has no space in a mindset crowded with shallow and superficial patriotism and dogmatic popular
religious beliefs. 
In such a sad setting, what else is left for a political leader whose thoughts are less impure and more ambitious Bandaranaikes dream of a common mans homeland has become a nightmare for minorities. That common man, at least a vast majority of his cohabitants, has consciously and willingly become a pawn in the hands of cruel and deceitful politicos. An astute politician would not hesitate to exploit these vulnerabilities of the common man and provide fodder to him with ease because such fodder will inflame the commoners greedfor vengeance. 
When such emotions and sentiments are manifestly present in a people, talk of dictatorship in the likes of Hitler and Stalin lends itself as a easy way for deliverance. To a population that was once gripped by the fear of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam (LTTE) and its Masters in Tamil Nadu, India, the Government that happened to be in power looks more like a more suitable alternative than one that later provided freedom of expression and movement. 
The political geography has changed forever and a shrinking middle ground tells the absence of tolerance, reconciliation and accommodation. On the other hand, endurance of nasty and brutally dishonest politicians whose one and only ambition is to attain power and loot the countrys wealth and treasures has become the norm. The moderate voter would realize that usurpation of power depends largely on money, whether ill-gotten or otherwise, muscle-power and an appallingly gullible population. The United National Party, Sri Lanka Freedom Party or any other alternative, if their ambition is to come to power, will have to resort to ungentlemanly (mildly expressed) politics. That is the norm of the day. The choice has become one in between unpalatable and corrupt democracy and unendurable dictatorship. 
The writer can be contacted at vishwamithra1984@gmail.com 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Empowering entrepreneurs to embrace our birthright
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:20 am
Empowering entrepreneurs to embrace our birthright
	

Last Friday, the Coalition Government launched one of its most enterprising schemes which it believes will be the centrepiece or showpiece of its sustainable, eco-friendly development strategy for the coming months and hopefully years. 
President Maithripala Sirisena launched the Enterprise Sri Lanka loan scheme with the aim of converting Sri Lanka into a haven for entrepreneurs. Under this programme, the brainchild or masterpiece of Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera and State Minister Eran Wickramaratne, mainly small and medium scale entrepreneurs will be provided with three different loan schemes -- Ran Aswenna, Govi Navoda and Riya Shakthi.
The President said if the State banks were making massive profits, it was important for these profits to be equally shared among the people through investments among the local entrepreneurs. He announced that about Rs. 60 billion would be given as loans to entrepreneurs. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, addressing the highly-publicised event to launch Enterprise Sri Lanka, pointed out that before the Coalition Government took office in 2015, Sri Lanka was not even able to repay its mountain of foreign debts let alone provide such a huge sum as loans to creative, innovative and enterprising people. Rejecting reports that the economy was in shambles, the Premier said that last year Sri Lanka received a large number of foreign direct investments while export earnings soared to the highest levels in recent years. Minister Samaraweera said an enterprise Sri Lanka desk would be set up at every bank and in addition, a relationship manager would be appointed to meet those who wished to obtain loans to launch enterprises.
In jackets or front page advertisements published in most newspapers last Friday, the government said: Enterprise Sri Lanka embraces our true birthright. Trade and enterprise run in our veins and are welded into our DNA. Ancient inscriptions and archaeological evidence, dating as far back as the Anuradhapura Kingdom era, give credence to the most outstanding maritime hub for east-west trade. We were Serendib to the Arabs, Taprobane to the Greeks and Lanka to the Indians, owing to our enterprising past. Trading was not by any means limited to goods brought in for local consumption; we were exporting our own produce, building ships of legendary sizes and acting as the main transhipment point for the region. We had international trade agreements, merchant guilds and our own globally accepted coinage long before most nations knew how to mint them. We were a thriving, entrepreneurial metropolis setting the benchmark for bold go-getters. Thats our glorious past. Then, why shouldnt it be our present and our childrens future 
The government also said it was creating history by setting up the infrastructure and inviting all to boldly follow their dreams. Under Madya Aruna for registered journalists Rs. 300,000 would be given to buy media equipment. Under Divi Saviya Rs. 50,000 would be given for poultry producers and the self-employed to buy deep freezers. Under Arambuma Rs. 1.5 million would be given to young graduates. The full interest would be paid by the government. It said progress should not be the privilege, it was the right of every Sri Lankan.
Attractive jacket advertisements and nice words are impressive. But during the past three years, the government has made many pledges and launched projects which have not been properly implemented. We hope Enterprise Sri Lanka will be different for the sake of the country, the younger and the future generations and not for the personal or party political gain or glory of any person or political party. 
Significantly, the Enterprise Sri Lanka launch coincided with the United Nations Day on June 26 for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In a statement, the UN said the goal was to encourage member States to facilitate observance of the day by increasing awareness and actions to support small business. According to the data provided by the International Council for Small Business, formal and informal micro, small and medium-sized enterprises make up more than 90% of all firms and account on average for 60-70% of total employment and 50% of GDP.
We hope that with our political leaders serving our people sincerely, selflessly and sacrificially, Sri Lanka could make steady and sustainable progress towards this goal and vision. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Five brigadiers, 34 captains promoted
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 02:16 pm
Five brigadiers, 34 captains promoted
	
President Maithripala Sirisena as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, has promoted five Brigadiers in the Army to the rank of Major General with effect from June 29, the Army said.
Further, 34 Army Captains have also been promoted to the rank of Major, the Army headquarters said.
All those five Senior Officers while serving either as Support, Infantry or Service arms or in combat have played praiseworthy roles during Humanitarian Operations and rendered a yeoman service to the country in the fight against terrorism and separatism.
Brigadier H.G.I Vidyananda of Sri Lanka Army Ordnance Corps (SLAOC), currently serving as Commander, Forward Maintenance Area (FMA) in Kilinochchi has accordingly been promoted to the rank of temporary Major General, effective from 16 May 2018. Prior to his Kilinochchi appointment, he served as the Commandant, Army School of Logistics (ASL) and held the appointment of Director, Directorate of Ordnance Services at the Army Headquarters (AHQ) and a number of other key appointments. He also served as Colonel, Administration & Quartering (Col-AQ) at the Security Force Headquarters - Jaffna and Colonel Ordnance, Directorate of Ordnance Services, AHQ.
Brigadier T.J Nanayakkara of Sri Lanka Engineers (SLE) who is serving as the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 11 Division at present has been promoted to the rank of Major General effective from 16 May 2018. He has also served as the 56 Division, GOC, 54 Division, GOC and as Director, Army Recruitment, AHQ after his appointment as Brigadier General Staff at Security Force Headquarters - Mullaittivu and Commander, Area Headquarters, Mannar and Centre Commandant, Regimental Centre, Sri Lanka Engineers.
Brigadier D.M.W.W.W.M.R.B.M Daulagala of Gajaba Regiment (GR) who has also been promoted to the rank of temporary Major General effective from 16 May 2018, is currently serving as Director, Army Recruitment, AHQ. He has also held a number of key appointments as the in addition to appointments such as Colonel General Staff, Security Force Headquarters - East, Commander, 681 Brigade, GOC (Offg), 58 Division, GOC (Offg), 61 Division and GOC, 56 Division.
Brigadier S.K Thirunavukarasu of Sri Lanka Engineers (SLE), Director Rehabilitation of the Army is also among one who has also been promoted to the rank of temporary Major General, effective from 20 May 2018. He has also served as Commander, 653 Brigade, Director (Coordination), Office of the Chief of Defence Staff, Brigadier General Staff, Security Force Headquarters - Jaffna, GOC, 55 Division, GOC, 51 Division and several other appointments before he was appointed the Director Rehabilitation at the Army Headquarters.
Brigadier P.R Wanigasooriya of Sri Lanka Artillery (SLA) Regiment who is serving currently as the GOC, 59 Division under the Security Force Headquarters - Mullaittivu has also been promoted to the temporary rank of Major General with effect from 16 June 2018. During his career, he has served as Chief Instructor, Defence Services Command and Staff College (DSCSC), Commander, 653 Brigade, Director Training, AHQ, Director / Military Spokesman - Media Centre, Ministry of Defence and the Director Operations, Office of the Chief of Defence Staff (OCDS).
 
		
==============================
## Title: France knock Argentina out of the World Cup 4-3
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 11:32 pm
France knock Argentina out of the World Cup 4-3
	
France are through to the Quarter Finals after a 4-3 victory over Argentina.
In one of the games of the tournament so far France took the lead through an Antoine Griezmann penalty after Kylian Mbappe raced past Marcus Rojo and the Argentinian dragged him down. Argentina weren't really in the game until Angel Di Maria picked the ball up 30 yards out and fired the ball into the top corner. Argentina took the lead just after halftime when Lionel Messi took a shot at goal and it deflected off Gabriel Mercado and into the net.
France levelled things up with their own wondergoal through Benjamin Pavard, the ball was crossed in from the left and found its way all the way to Pavard who volleyed into the top corner. Mbappe then took the game away from Argentina with a couple of goals. The first came after the ball dropped to him in the area: he shifted the ball away from the defenders and fired past the keeper. The second came when a France counter attack led to Olivier Giroud poking the ball through for Mbappe to race away and slot past Franco Armani.
It looked as though the game was over but Argentina gave it a dramatic ending when Messi played the ball into Sergio Aguero who headed home, but it was too little too late.
France will now go into the Quarter Final to face Uruguay.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Full of political prejudice; China on NYT article
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 08:02 pm
Full of political prejudice; China on NYT article
	
The Chinese Embassy in Colombo said that it has noticed the New York Times' article published on June 25, as well as the clarifications and responses by various parties from Sri Lanka, criticizing it full of political prejudice and completely inconsistent with the fact.
The Embassy stress that China has always been pursuing a friendly policy toward Sri Lanka, firmly supporting the latter's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, and opposing any country's interference in the internal affairs of Sri Lanka. It is encouraging that all sectors of the Sri Lankan society highly appreciate China's tremendous support and selfless assistance for ending the civil war and post-war reconstruction in the Island nation, the statement said.
It further stated; Despite any interference from a third party, China would like to work together with Sri Lanka to actively implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, and concentrate unwaveringly on our fixed goals, continuously promote the pragmatic cooperations under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiatives following the "golden rule" of "extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits", to better benefit the two countries and the two peoples.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Indonesia Bali volcano eruption halts some flights
## Section: International
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:14 am
Indonesia Bali volcano eruption halts some flights
	

The Indonesian tourist island of Bali closed its international airport on Friday, stranding thousands of travellers, as the Mount Agung volcano gushed a 2,500-metre column of ash and smoke. The National Disaster Mitigation Agency said the airport closure began early Friday. It said nearly 450 flights were cancelled, affecting 75,000 people. The regional volcanic ash advisory centre in Darwin, Australia, said winds could carry the ash southwest toward Java, Indonesias most densely populated island. Volcanic ash is a potentially deadly threat to aircraft that can cause engines to flame out. 
The volcano began gushing smoke on Thursday. Its alert level has not been raised and an exclusion zone around the crater remains at 4 kilometres. 
Mt. Agung, about 70 kilometres northeast of Balis tourist hotspot of Kuta, last had a major eruption in the year 1963, killing about 1,100 people. 
It had a dramatic increase in activity last year, forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands of people, but had quietened by early this year. Authorities lowered its alert status from the highest level in February. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Nasheed quits presidential race
## Section: International
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:12 am
Nasheed quits presidential race
	

THE HINDU, 29th JUNE, 2018-Former Maldivian President and exiled opposition leader Mohamed Nasheed on Friday said that he was exiting the presidential race, after the Election Commission barred his candidacy.In light of the fact that @ElectionsMv have written to [Maldivian Democratic Party] MDP saying that I cant contest in the upcoming Presidential Elections, I have decided to relinquish my Presidential ticket. I hope to do this at MDPs 3rd Congress. The ECs decision is illegal and they must be sanctioned, he said in a tweet. Earlier this month, authorities said Maldivian presidential elections would be held on September 23. Incumbent leader President Abdulla Yameen is eyeing another term, while his political opponents and dissidents remain in jail or in exile.
With Mr. Nasheed pulling out of the controversial election, the MDP is considering other candidates. Amidst speculation that the partys parliamentary group leader and senior lawmaker Ibrahim Mohamed Solih was a likely replacement, MDP sources said a final decision would be taken based on discussions at the MDPs national congress scheduled to begin Saturday.
Amidst what critics deem Mr. Yameens growing slant towards authoritarianism, last year, opposition forces announced an unlikely coming together to jointly challenge him.

 
		
==============================
## Title: National security: Govt. trying to hide actual situation- Weerasekara
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 03:01 pm
National security: Govt. trying to hide actual situation- Weerasekara
	
The Government is hiding the real security situation in the country, retired army officer and former MP Sarath Weerasekara said.
He said this while referring to the incident where uniforms, a flag, bombs, and several military equipment belonging to the LTTE were found at Oddusuddan recently.
Mr. Weerasekara told Daily Mirror that the government had not revealed the fact that 15KG clay-more mines had also been recovered and that it was a reporter named Tissa Ravindra Perera who had exposed the Oddusuddan incident. "Exposing such facts will place media personnel under threat," he said. Claymore mines are explosive devices that can be set off by remote control. It is serious situation because of the Claymore mines being found in Oddusuddan. The National Security is in great danger. Therefore, the Government should reveal the actual facts so that the people will be more alert.
He said this was not the first time that the Government had attempted to hide the actual facts where dangerous weapons were found. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nikki Haley has a point, we arent getting it
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:02 am
Nikki Haley has a point, we arent getting it
	
From Day One, the Trump administration has been at loggerheads with itself.

It neednt have happened this way. The United Nations Human Rights Council, created in 2006, has not exactly had cosy relations with the United States. There have been instances where critics of the US and the hegemony it represents have called out on its whitewashing of the atrocities that country has perpetrated across the world and there have been instances where those who side with the US have called out on its singling out of US allies like Israel for censure. The Trump administration coming out against the Council just weeks after it concluded talks with North Korea, in Singapore, presents something of a conundrum. Id like to suggest here that what is perceived to be a conundrum is actually a simple paradox: in the United States, there is a rift between what the president and his cohorts wish and do, and what apex bodies under him, left to their own devices, wish and do. That the American Embassy here took the trouble to inform our Government that they are committed to the resolution which we cosponsored with them, last year, is an indication that those apex bodies are rattled. 
From Day One, the Trump administration has been at loggerheads with itself.This is nothing new. The United States has always been at loggerheads with itself ever since it was created. As Malinda Seneviratne so cogently argued years ago, the founding fathers made a fundamental mistake when they wrote the Constitution: they managed to separate the Church and State in a way which never really separated them, thereby unleashing an almost-haphazard process of self-identification which led the worlds youngest democracy to define itself against the Other. Liberals I have talked with, who hold that age-old notion of Manifest Destiny high, I feel, subscribe to the problem at the heart of the liberalism which the founding fathers imbibed from Locke and all those other Enlightenment era philosophers: it was a blessing for the few, and a curse for the many. It is this split which spilt over to foreign policy as well, i.e. promote democracy abroad while shielding domestic interests. Closet realpolitik at its best. 

Whatever said and done, as history has shown, the liberal leadership in the US has not been as congenial to these highbred notions of decency as one might suppose. Thats what makes Nikki Haleys comments on the Human Rights Council all the more pertinent, particularly for Sri Lankas liberals

American president
Donald Trump is the most unique president the Americans have got for quite some time. He is a phenomenon in himself. On the one hand, he promotes what liberals call out as racist invective. On the other hand, he maintains links with what those same liberals like to identify as mass murderers and despots, Putin and Kim Jong-Un along with the Chinese leadership being just three examples. Its fair to surmise that on both counts, he irritates the liberal left. But to assume that the liberal left discourse is unconditionally right is to assume that their narrative, i.e. one in which America is a beacon of freedom, in which men and women are judged according to the content of their character, has proved to be right for the conduct of American domestic and foreign policy over the years. Whatever said and done, as history has shown, the liberal leadership in the US has not been as congenial to these highbred notions of decency as one might suppose. Thats what makes Nikki Haleys comments on the Human Rights Council all the more pertinent, particularly for Sri Lankas liberals. 
Haley called the Council a cesspool of political bias. She is correct, but also wrong as to the content of this bias. She contended that US calls for reform were not heeded (the point that the United Nations as a whole needs reform has been emphasised again and again over the decades, especially from the time of Boutros-Boutros Ghali). She argued that certain countries, especially Israel, were singled out. She announced that human rights abusers continue to serve on and be elected to the body. Well, one can argue that the biggest abuser of human rights is the same country which Haley happens to represent, but for the moment lets forget that. Lets concentrate instead on the crux of Haleys argument: that the Council has been diminishing in scope and significance. Heres my reply to that: as a body, its been losing its sacrosanct streak. 
Just what were those human rights that the Council was defending The Council was premised on the assumption that objective truth, not subjective bias, would guide its path to securing those rights in the world. What happened was the obverse: when atrocities were being perpetrated on parts of the world which harboured no hostility towards their perpetrators, it issued token condemnations, while when dubious report after report inflated figures of murdered citizens, inflating figures which themselves were not verified properly (I am, of course, talking about Sri Lanka immediately after the Civil War), it badgered us to punish a democratically elected government. The Trump administration, at its head, has not sought to issue condemnations on flimsy evidence like this, but its apex bodies, as I mentioned before, continue to do so. This is the real cesspool at the heart of the Council, and both Haley and Mike Pompeo, by calling out what was obvious, though not confirming the real truth (which is that their country shares the blame for that cesspool), has done what was needed to be done. 

Hypocrisy
As Sri Lankas former ambassador in Geneva has argued, more than 80% of the Human Rights Councils funding requirements come from countries like the US, as well as its allies. If we consider here the relationship between a donor and a donee, with the fact that the latter has to be a virtual slave to the demands of the former, then its reasonable to suppose that the Council has become a slave to the interests of those who lavishly fund it. That the US defied even this position it held in the Council to rant and rave about the latters hypocrisy, leaving it effectively in the hands of allies whose powers have vastly diminished (thanks to the economic crisis and the rise of rightwing oppositions), speaks volumes about where the world order is headed to. 
The Trump administration operates on two layers: the centre and the periphery. The American Embassy here belongs to the latter category. If not literally, then at least theoretically. We do not know if Mr Trump is planning on isolating the US. We do not know if he is planning on promoting his variant of Manifest Destiny by resorting to a culture of trade wars and inward looking policies which hearken us back to the 1920s (back when the US was at its most isolationist). What we do know is that the writing is on the wall, that no matter how pathetically servile we may be to the apex bodies which make up the current US administration, the centre of that administration has long since discarded the philosophy which kept the world glued to its interests.

 
		
==============================
## Title: One militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K
## Section: International
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:13 am
One militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K
	

Hindustan Times(Srinagar), Jun 29 2018 - One militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Trehgam of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir, police said. 
A police official said security forces launched a search operation in the Kachema forests of Kupwara following information about the presence of militants there. 
Officials said that the army patrol noticed the movement of some militants in the forests in the wee hours of Friday. As the army challenged them, an encounter broke out in the area resulting in the killing of one militant. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Regional Courts will take SL to pre-2015 era: Thalatha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:15 am
Regional Courts will take SL to pre-2015 era: Thalatha
	
Justice and Prison Reforms Minister Thalatha Atukorale said yesterday the suggestion made by some people to setup separate regional Courts to curb underworld activities would lead the country into a situation which prevailed before 2015.
She said this at the end of a visit to Welikada Prison and pointed out that nobody should ever think of such a step which would result in labelling the country as a place where the underworld was thriving.
The Police and the Judiciary have jointly launched a mechanism to curb underworld activities. Our Ministry has taken up the responsibility to do so. We will curb these underworld activities irrespective of political and religious status, the minister said.We are holding these portfolios only for a limited time. We need to fulfil our responsibilities during that period. Even, Prison officers should fulfil their responsibilities well especially with regard to these underworld activities. There are many allegations against prisons officers. We should prevent it.
She said there were several reports about activities which had taken place inside the prisons and underscored the fact that the authorities should consider prisoners as human beings.
The minister said there were some issues with regard to space in some prisons. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Seizure of Tiger arsenal in North renews fears of an LTTE revival attempt
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:29 am
Seizure of Tiger arsenal in North renews fears of an LTTE revival attempt
	

Influx of Tamils after Govt. removed fear element prevalent under MRs regime

TID probe still in preliminary stage

Attempt to foment violence allegedly backed by tiger-ish elements

By
D.B.S. Jeyaraj
The 21km-long Puthukkudiyiruppu-Oddusuddan road progressing through the hinterland of North-Eastern Mullaitivu District, links Puthukkudiyiruppu on the A-35 Paranthan-Mullaitivu highway and Oddusuddan on the A-34 Mankulam-Mullaitivu highway. It was along this road that a trusted deputy of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)supremo Velupillai Prabhakaran was killed by the deep penetration squad of the Sri Lankan armed forces on September 26, 2001. Vaithilingam Sornalingam alias Col Shankar, the founder-chief of the tiger air wing was killed by a claymore mine hung on a tree as he was driving his two-seater four-wheeler pick-up vehicle alone. The killing transmitted shockwaves amongst LTTE circles as it demonstrated the fact that the armed forces were capable of infiltrating the heartland of tiger-controlled territory and inflicting lethal damage.
The time was around 4.45 a.m. on June 22, 2018 when a trishaw proceeded along Puthukkudiyiruppu-Oddusuddan road to Oddusuddan. It was signalled to stop at the Paeraaru junction by four policemen attached to the Oddusuddan police station. It was simply a random check to ascertain whether the driver had proper identification and authorisation documents. Initially, the vehicle drove up speedily as if he intended defying the police signal. However, it suddenly screeched to a stop.
When two policemen approached the trishaw, one of the passengers who appeared to have lost part of his arm from the elbow downwards jumped out of the vehicle and ran off in one direction. The second passenger got off from the other side and ran off in a different direction. Two cops then gave chase to the second man and managed to apprehend him while a third constable ran after the other man who evaded arrest. The fourth policeman prevented the trishaw from evasion though the driver did not display any signs of attempting to do so.

It is an open secret that the intelligence agencies are keeping hundreds of ex-tigers on their payroll as informants. They are paid a monthly stipend and provided immunity from arrest. There is always the possibility of these ex-tiger informants being utilised by intelligence agencies for covert operations

A quick search of the vehicle showed that two bags and two parcels were being transported. The cops were shocked when the cursory inspection of the contents revealed explosives, arms and ammunition in addition to material connected to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). The two arrested men along with the vehicle and baggage were taken to the Oddusuddan police station. A thorough search resulted in the discovery of one claymore mine, two pressure mines, two hand grenades, 98 rounds of T-56 ammunition, four remote control devices, six electronic detonators, two LTTE military fatigues, three t-shirts embossed with the tiger logo, two red and yellow LTTE flags and two large rolls of wire.

TERRORISM INVESTIGATION DIVISION (TID)
The revelations shocked the Oddusuddan Police who immediately alerted the Terrorism Investigation Division (TID) of the police stationed at the Mullaitivu town. TID officers from Mullaitivu arrived at Oddusuddan and took away the two arrested individuals, trishaw and items seized to Mullaitivu. The TID hierarchy immediately dispatched two special teams from Colombo and Vavuniya to Mullaitivu. A perusal of the claymore mine revealed that it was an LTTE-manufactured explosive named Bhavaan. The claymore weighing 15 kilos had been named after an LTTE cadre Capt Bhavaan also known as Aiyaah who was killed in combat in 2005.
A swift search was conducted in the semi-jungle areas surrounding the Paeraaru junction for the man with an impaired limb who had escaped. He was known as Aehaambaram. The other arrested person was called Dinesh. It is not clear at this juncture whether Aehaambaram and Dinesh are their real names or convenient nom de plumes. Under interrogation, the trishaw driver said he had nothing to do with the arsenal and other LTTE material in the trishaw and that they were being transported by Dinesh and Aehaambaram. The vehicle was reportedly proceeding towards a house frequented by Dinesh in the outskirts of Oddusuddan. The TID conducted a search on the residence and arrested the occupant of that house too. An intensive search was conducted in Oddusuddan. Several people were taken in for questioning and released. The three arrested persons and LTTE materials seized along with the trishaw were taken to the TID Northern Headquarters in Vavuniya for further interrogation and closer scrutiny.

The freedom from fear ushered in by the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government is being exploited by known diaspora tiger operatives to travel to Sri Lanka freely and possibly encourage the return of political violence

It was disclosed that escapee Aehaambaram as well as the arrested Dinesh were former members of the LTTE. Both had been detained after the LTTE was militarily defeated in May 2009 and were subsequently released after rehabilitation. The man known as Aehaambaram was a resident of Saanthapuram in Kilinochchi. The trishaw driver was from Thiruvaiyaru in Kilinochchi and was apparently hired by Aehaambaram on a long-term basis. It was also discovered that the driver had at one time been arrested on suspicion of transporting smuggled Kerala Ganja. A special TID-led police squad was sent to Kilinochchi for further investigations.
An intensive cordon and search operation were undertaken in Saanthapuram and Thiruvaiyaru by the TID with the aid of the Kilinochchi Police. Many were questioned. Among them was the elder sister of the hand-impaired man, Aehaambaram. The sister told the police that her brother had gone missing in January 2016 and that she had not sighted him since then.

The government of Mahinda Rajapaksa had in March 2014 proscribed by gazette 16 diaspora organizations and 424 individuals under the United Nations Act No. 45 of 1968

She said she lodged a complaint with the police over her brothers alleged disappearance in 2016. She also said her brother had close contacts with military intelligence personnel in the North. Aehaambarams elder sister also said her brother had lost a hand while making an improvised explosive device for the LTTE. She said two of her brothers and a sister were also LTTE members and had been killed in war with the armed forces.

SEARCH IN THIRUVAIYARU-KILINOCHCHI
The search in Thiruvaiyaru-Kilinochchi in the vicinity of the trishaw drivers residence resulted in the discovery of four motorcycles hidden in a house. Its occupants said the vehicles belonged to 24-year-old Ketheeswaran, also known as Kethees, who was currently warded at the Kilinochchi Hospital due to a stomach ailment. Kethees, a child soldier of the LTTE, had been released after rehabilitation. However, he had been re-arrested two years ago on suspicion of being involved in an attempt to revive the LTTE in the North. He had been released after a period of detention and interrogation.
As news of the detection of the LTTE arsenal and tiger-related material and consequent arrests began spreading in the northern mainland known as the Wanni, many ordinary, peace-loving residents got perturbed. They had suffered much during the war and wanted no return to LTTE violence in any form. The police found themselves receiving much information from Tamil civilians. Many of the tips were useless and turned out to be false alarms. However, one constructive tip-off received by the Mankulam Police resulted in the elusive Aehaambaram being taken into custody while travelling along the Mallavi-Mankulam road at Vannivilaankulam on June 23. This was followed by the arrest of Kethees on June 24. TID officials arrested him no sooner he was discharged from the Kilinochchi Hospital.
All five key suspects comprising the man known as Aehaambaram, the trishaw driver, his neighbour Kethees, the other vehicle passenger Dinesh and the Oddusuddan house occupant are now being detained at Vavuniya and interrogated by the TID. Police sleuths are tracing the telephone numbers recorded on the mobile phones recovered from the arrested persons. Many have been questioned and statements recorded. Some whose statements did not seem satisfactory were taken to their respective area police stations and intensively interrogated. They were released after their statements were recorded in full. It is learnt that about 15 to 20 persons have had their statements recorded in this manner. They have been told to make themselves available to the police for further investigations whenever necessary.
The TID probe is still in a preliminary stage and a composite picture of the situation is yet to materialise. However, initial investigations have raised the spectre of an attempt to foment violence in the North in the name of the LTTE again. It is premature to say whether the LTTE is being revived or the tigers are regrouping, but it certainly appears that a fresh attempt is underway to foment violence in the name of the tigers to create a demonstration effect that the LTTE is capable of raising its head again and inflict deadly damage.

DISTINCTIVE MARKOF THE TIGER
It is well-known and widely-accepted that the day of the LTTE as a conventional militia occupying territory is over. It also cannot be a powerful guerilla force capable of confronting the armed forces directly now. What LTTE or pro-LTTE elements can hope for is an isolated attack of the hit-and-run variety. It is possible to plan an assassination or set off an explosive attack in the present politico-military environment prevalent in the North. Against this backdrop, it is suspected that the claymore and pressure mines could have been used to trigger a landmine explosion targeting an important politician or key administrative or defence services official. The LTTE flags and fatigues could have stamped the exercise with the distinctive mark of the tiger.
It is strongly suspected that the attempt to foment violence in the name of the LTTE is being backed financially by tiger-ish elements in the global Tamil diaspora. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the chief suspect known for the present as Aehaambaram has a number of identity cards under false names. He also has several bank accounts under different names where sums of money amounting to 30,000 and 40,000 rupees per instalment have been deposited regularly. It has also been found that the man travelled to Jaffna recently for an extended stay in the peninsula during which he reportedly interacted closely with a prominent LTTE diaspora activist vacationing in the North. It is indeed a sad fact of life that the freedom from fear ushered in by the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government is being exploited by known diaspora tiger operatives to travel to Sri Lanka freely and possibly encourage the return of political violence.

What LTTE or pro-LTTE elements can hope for is an isolated attack of the hit-and-run variety
However, a troubling factor in this state of affairs is the alleged links of the man known as Aehaambaram to the military intelligence division of the army. It is an open secret that the intelligence agencies are keeping hundreds of ex-tigers on their payroll as informants. They are paid a monthly stipend and provided immunity from arrest. There is always the possibility of these ex-tiger informants being utilised by intelligence agencies for covert operations. It is also likely that some ex-tigers may turn rogue and work according to a diaspora tiger agenda while retaining links with the military for their own protection. If proven concretely that the key suspect operating under the name Aehaambaram is indeed a double agent serving both the State and the LTTE it could drastically alter the course of investigations pursued by police sleuths so far. It is very likely that more details would emerge when three of the key suspects are taken to Colombo by the TID.
Meanwhile, the detection of LTTE material, explosives, arms and ammunition at Oddusuddan was officially acknowledged by Law and Order Deputy Minister Nalin Bandara who, according to a news report in Daily Mirror, said the government would not allow terrorism to raise its head again. Addressing a news briefing, Nalin Bandara said TID officers were conducting a special investigation into the incident. Investigations are underway to find out whether there is secret movement or organization that assists the scattered LTTEers to reorganize again, the minister said.

14 INDIVIDUALS WITH LTTE LINKS DESIGNATED
Interestingly enough, just two days prior to the tiger arsenal detection at Oddusuddan, the government issued an extraordinary gazette notification placing 14 individuals living abroad with suspected links with the LTTE on the list of designated persons, thereby banning them from entry to Sri Lanka. The amendment to the list of designated persons under the United Nations Regulations Number 1 of 2012 has made through a gazette issued by Defence Ministry Secretary and Presidents Counsel Kapila Waidyarathne. The 14 individuals included in the said list, who have been barred from entry to the country over alleged connections to the Tamil Tigers, are namely;
Individuals barred from entry:1. Nadaraja Sathyaseelan alias Seel Maran (intelligence)
2. Kamalasingham Arunakulasingham alias Kamal
3. Antonyrasa Antony Calistor alias Parathan (intelligence)
4. Sivasubramaniyam Jeyaganesh alias Ganesh (international finance) and a.k.a. Samraj
5. Ponnaswami Paskaran alias Jeyakaran
6. Velaudan Pradeepkumar alias Kaleeban
7. Sivarasa Surendran alias Waddann
8. Sivagurunathan Murugadas alias Kadirawan
9. Thirunilakandal Naguleshwaran alias Pushpanadan
10. Maheshwaran Ravichandran alias Mendis and a.k.a. Thirukkumaran
11. Suresh Kumar Pradeepan
12. Kandasamy Krishnamoorthi alias Moorthi
13. Jeevarathnam Jeevakumar alias Siranjeew Master (intelligence)
14. Tony Jehan Murugesapillai

The decision of the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government to designate 14 individuals within the global Tamil diaspora as being linked to the proscribed LTTE and ban their entry into
Sri Lanka raised many eyebrows.
The government of Mahinda Rajapaksa had in March 2014 proscribed by gazette 16 diaspora organizations and 424 individuals under the United Nations Act No. 45 of 1968.
However, after the regime change in January 2015, the new government reversed this designation drastically in November 2015. The present government de-listed 8 organizations and 269 individuals from the previous list. This resulted in only 8 organizations and 155 individuals remaining on the proscribed list. Although this de-listing was severely criticised from a national security perspective, the then Foreign Affairs Minister Mangala Samaraweera justified it on the basis that it was necessary at that juncture to help expedite the reconciliation process. Incidentally, the de-listing was done on the eve of a visit to Sri Lanka by then US envoy to the UN in New York, Samantha Power.
Now, the same Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government seems to have had second thoughts on the listing issue. The reasons which led the government into designating 14 LTTE linked individuals remains so far in the realm of the unknown and will very likely become the focus of a forthcoming article in these columns. However, there are a few puzzling points deserving mention at this point of time.
At least two of the designated individuals Kamalasingham Arunakulasingham alias Kamal and Jeevarathnam Jeevakumar alias Siranjeevi Master have for long been suspected of maintaining links to Sri Lankan intelligence agencies. The Sri Lankan intelligence network succeeded in infiltrating many LTTE diaspora organizations in the aftermath of the war against the LTTE and Kamal and Siranjeevi Master were allegedly key instruments in this exercise. In fact, a few Sri Lankan journalists were even politely requested not to write about these two by informed sources. While Kamal based in Norway operates mainly in Europe, Siranjeevi Master handled Asia shuttling among Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. However, Siranjeevi has reportedly shifted to Japan recently.

SIVASUBRAMANIYAM JEYAGANESH ALIAS SAMRAJ
Another person of interest in this list is Sivasubramaniyam Jeyaganesh alias Ganesh. Jeyaganesh based in France is widely-known among Tamil diaspora circles as Samraj. Heis currently in charge of overseas LTTE finances in Europe. He is said to be running a number of commercial establishments in different parts of Europe registered in the names of trusted confidantes.
Jeyaganesh alias Samraj hit the headlines when his 41-year-old wife Paheerathy Murugesu and 8-year-old daughter Pahalavi Jeyaganesh were stopped by TID officials at the Bandaranaike International Airport in March 2015. They had arrived in Sri Lanka in February 2015 and were to board a flight back to Franceafter a month-long vacation. The TID let the daughter, a French citizen, go but continued to detain the mother, a permanent resident of France, saying she had been a former member of the LTTE sea tigers. It later transpired that the ulterior objective behind the detention was to pressure her husband Jeyaganesh to come to Sri Lanka and then detain him. The plan did not work as Jeyaganesh and Paheerathy, who married in 2005, had formally divorced in 2012. After much legal wrangling, Paheerathy was released. She returned to France while Jeyaganesh in his Samraj avatar continued to oversee LTTE finances in Europe.
The gazetting of 14 LTTE members including Samraj, Siranjeevi Master and Kamal evoked a derisive reaction from former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. According to a news report in Ceylon Today, Mahinda Rajapaksa commenting on the gazette notification banning 14 persons had said the move came in the wake of the 14 arriving in the island, travelling to Kilinochchi, getting what they wanted done and leaving with money. The former President noted that in the light of this, the issuing of the gazette was laughable as it was akin to closing the stable door after the horse had bolted. At a time when a majority of the countries in the world are acting against terrorism, why is Sri Lanka following a lax policy and according to whose agenda, he queried.
The former Presidents statement about shutting the stable door after the horse had bolted provides much food for thought. Does Mahinda Rajapaksa have reliable information that the 14 persons had travelled to Kilinochchi, accomplished what they wanted to do, got what they wanted and returned safely to their countries If so, have the Sri Lankan authorities been caught unawares and are reacting only after the damage was done Worse still have the overseas tigers with links to Sri Lankan intelligence taken their handlers for a ride Or is the Medamulana Machiavelli simply trying to score debating points against his political rivals

FREEDOM FROM FEAR EXPLOITED
One is unable to furnish definite answers at this point of time but the existing reality in the North tallies with the essence of what Mahinda has been saying. Ever since the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe Government came to power and removed the fear element prevalent under the Rajapaksa regime and ushered in Freedom from fear, there has been an influx of overseas Tamils into Sri Lanka.
Many Tamils who feared arrest in Sri Lankafor having attended an LTTE event abroad now felt secure in travelling to Lanka. Unfortunately, this freedom has been exploited by LTTE and pro-LTTE elements who too have been sojourning in Sri Lanka without fear. The tiger-ish elements have been promoting an extremist agenda in Lanka in the recent past. It is felt that a lot of tiger money is being pumped into Lanka to foment violence. What the tigers need at this point of time is not sustainable violence with a long term perspective but an immediate exhibition of violence for short-term demonstration effect.
In that context, it must also be noted that attempts by diaspora tigers to foment violence in Sri Lanka did not commence after the present coalition government came into power only. Although Mahinda Rajapaksa is trying to project an impression that tiger activity did not exist under his rule from 2010 to 2015, the reality is different. There have been many attempts by the diaspora Tigers to foment violence in Sri Lanka after the war ended in May 2009. Mercifully, none of them was successful. A brief re-run of post-war history shows there have been several such attempts in the years after 2009. Some of these happened during the time Mahinda Rajapaksa was President and his sibling Gotabaya, the all powerful Defence Secretary. Some have occurred after the current government came to power. Most of the diaspora LTTE-backed abortive attempts to cause violence have been written about in detail in these columns in the past.
One does not know how the investigations into the Oddusuddan detection would proceed or whether details of a diaspora LTTE backed plot to foment tiger violence would be uncovered, but there are two salient points that need to be emphasised here. The first is that the LTTE has indeed been militarily wiped out in Sri Lanka, but the fact remains that the overseas tiger branches described wrongly as the rump are not destroyed yet. Secondly, the overseas Tigers are capable of fomenting violence in a bid to revive the LTTE in Sri Lanka or project an impression that it is being done so. It is important to distinguish clearly between a real revival, genuine revival attempt and an exercise aimed at creating an impression that the LTTE is being revived.

TAMIL PEOPLE WONT EXTEND SUPPORT
A full-scale revival of the LTTE and a return to the past where the Tigers were a formidable force is virtually impossible in the present situation. There could however be no guarantee that attempts would not be made to revive the LTTE despite those efforts proving unsuccessful. Since Tiger elements in the diaspora would continually finance such attempts the dangers exist. There is a need therefore for constant vigilance as there is little room for complacency in matters like these. At the same time, it must be realised that the Tamil people who have suffered much during the war are in no mood for a return to LTTE-sponsored conflict again. Whatever the attempts by Tiger-ish elements in the diaspora to promote violence in Sri Lanka, it is doomed to fail in the final analysis because the Tamil people themselves are unwilling to extend support.
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: She left a void  in the lives of all who knew her
## Section: News Features
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:25 am
She left a void  in the lives of all who knew her
	
Peace Emilda Devapriya Somaratne(nee Karunaratne)

 For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain Philipians 1:21
My beloved sister Devapriya went to be with her Precious Lord Jesus on the 21st of December 2017. Its hard to accept that we wont see her smiling face, or hear her gentle voice, encouraging, comforting and guiding us. 
Akka was born on the 18th of April 1943, the second in a family of five. She was just fifteen months older than me. Though we were totally unlike each other in looks and temperament, we were often mistaken for twins. We were the best of friends, studying and playing together. It was hard for me when we were separated at the O Level class, when she went into the Arts stream as she excelled in Arts subjects, and I was selected to do Science.
Akka made a distinctive contribution as a student to Methodist College, being appointed a prefect for two years; as House vice captain for one year, and captain the other. She was also the leader of the Sinhala debating team, and a member of the English debating team.

She entered the University of Peradeniya in 1961 to read for a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics. During this time there was a revival of Sinhala Drama under the influence of Prof. Ediriweera Sarathchandra. This exposure gave her the vision and skill to direct Chora Pabbathaya and Sakkaya Ditthi two highly successful, stylized Sinhala dramas.

Akka was the epitome of simplicity often dressed in white. She shunned jewellery, wearing only a simple pair of ear studs. Her adornment was her beautiful smile, which radiated her goodness and inner peace

She married Professor G.P.V. Somaratne in 1966 and accompanied him when he went to London to read for his PhD in History. She was his devoted and caring wife for 52 years.
On their return to Sri Lanka in 1969, she joined the tutorial Staff of her Alma Mater Methodist College. She was a gifted teacher, having the skill to kindle an interest in the subjects she taught: History, Sinhala and Economics, in the O Level and A Level classes. She was a strict disciplinarian, but earned the warm affection and loyalty of her students, as they sensed her genuine concern and interest in their welfare.
Students and staff alike were devastated when akka gave up teaching in 1982. She had been invited to join a team who had taken on the challenge of editing a new Sinhala translation of the Holy Bible, spearheaded by the Ceylon Bible Society. She felt that part-time involvement was insufficient to do justice to such a tremendous task.
Though she loved being a teacher, she willingly gave it up, as she was convinced that this was Gods calling for her. She was also responsible for editing a Sinhala Study Bible, which had hitherto not existed. She got actively involved in supporting her husband in helping with research, editing and proof-reading the many books he wrote in the past two decades which have enriched Christian literature. She was indeed the wind beneath his wings.
Akka was the epitome of simplicity often dressed in white. She shunned jewellery, wearing only a simple pair of ear studs. Her adornment was her beautiful smile, which radiated her goodness and inner peace. Akkas compassion and caring knew no bounds. She would reach out to those in need, those who were hurting, and was able to comfort, encourage and heal.She was always ready to lend a helping hand, paying the school fees of less affluent students at Methodist College, providing a regular supply of dry rations to families who were struggling economically, all without publicity or fanfare.The daily maid who helped her with cleaning, tearfully told me that akka had given her Rs. 1000 to buy Christmas gifts for her two little boys just before she was admitted to hospital in December.
Akka was a gifted speaker, but she never showed off. She never used big words or high flown theology. Her words were simple, and touched the hearts of her listeners, and made an indelible impact on them. When she prayed, we felt that she had a hot line to Jesus. 
Akka has a son Dasharatha (a Chaplain in the US Army) and a daughter Prarthana Devi (a Primary School Teacher), both who reside in the US. She provided them with love, support, and guidance and most of all inculcated in them a steadfast love for their Savior Jesus. These two well balanced, outstanding young people are witness to her good parenting. Akka has eight grand children and five great grand children. She was the beloved Priya akka to her many cousins and a much loved Loku achchi to her grand nieces and nephews.
After akkas demise, many of her past pupils at Methodist College, scattered in Sri Lanka and abroad contacted me to express their sympathy. Many stated that they are who they are today because of the sound moral and Christian values that were instilled in them by their beloved teacher at a young and impressionable age.
Goodbye my dearest akka. Your departure has left an aching void in our lives. We will hold you in our hearts, and find comfort in the sure knowledge that you are safe in the arms of Jesus. We look forward to the glorious day when we will meet again, beyond the sun set.
Dr. Suriyakanthi Amarasekera
 
		
==============================
## Title: Silumina editor Chamara Lakshan passed away
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 11:20 pm
Silumina editor Chamara Lakshan passed away
	
The Editor-in-Chief of Silumina and Resa newspapers, Chamara Lakshan Kumara, passed away this evening(30). He was 39.
He was receiving treatment at the Colombo General Hospital following a sudden heart attack at the time of his demise.

 
		
==============================
## Title: SL makes significant efforts to end human trafficking: US report
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 10:50 am
SL makes significant efforts to end human trafficking: US report
	
The Sri Lankan Government is making significant efforts to eliminate human trafficking though the government is still to meet the minimum standards in several key areas, the Trafficking in Persons Report released by the US Department of State said.
Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo and President Donald Trumps Assistant and daughter Ivanka released the 2018 Trafficking in Persons report at State Department headquarters in Washington, DC.
The report said the Sri Lankan government demonstrated increasing efforts compared to the previous reporting period and therefore Sri Lanka remained on Tier 2.
Countries categorized in the Tier 2 are described as Countries whose governments do not fully meet the Trafficking Victims Protection Acts (TVPA) minimum standards, but are making significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with those standards.
Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 2-Watch List and Tier 3 are the four categories of countries. Governments of Tier 1 countries fully meet the TVPAs minimum standards whereas the governments of Tier 3 countries do not fully meet the minimum standards and are not making significant efforts to do so.
The report said the Sri Lankan government demonstrated increasing efforts by identifying more potential trafficking victims and also amended legislation to allow diplomatic missions to record evidence and take statements from victims or witnesses overseas, which resulted in the referral of 29 statements related to alleged human trafficking to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) for further investigation.
However, the government did not meet the minimum standards in several key areas. For the fourth consecutive year, the courts did not convict any traffickers under the governments trafficking statute, although they continued to convict potential trafficking cases under the procurement law for obtaining a person to become a prostitute. Only one person convicted for procurement served prison time; two other convictions were suspended, it said.
The report recommended that Sri Lanka should improve efforts to investigate and prosecute suspected traffickers, including complicit officials and convict and punish offenders with sentences commensurate with other serious crimes.
Efforts should be increased to proactively identify trafficking victims and train officials on victim identification and referral procedures. Protection services should be improved to ensure identified victims, including men and children, receive specialized care services. Steps should be taken to eliminate all recruitment fees charged to workers by labor recruiters and instead ensure they are paid by employers. The Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureaus (SLBFE) mandate should be expanded to include regulation of sub-agents, it said enumerating recommendations.
The report further said Sri Lanka is primarily a source, destination, and, to a lesser extent, a transit country for men, women, and children subjected to forced labor and sex trafficking.
Within the country, women and children are subjected to sex trafficking in brothels. Boys are more likely than girls to be exploited in commercial sex in coastal areas for child sex tourism. Children, individuals with physical deformities, and those from socially vulnerable groups are forced to beg or engage in criminal activity in Sri Lankas largest cities. Some child domestic workers in Colombo, generally Tamils from the tea estate region, are subjected to physical, sexual, and mental abuse, non-payment of wages, and restrictions of movementindicators of labor trafficking. In recent years, a small number of women from other Asian and Central Asian countries have been subjected to forced prostitution in Sri Lanka. Police reportedly accept bribes to permit brothels to operate, some of which exploit trafficking victims. Sub-agents collude with officials to procure fake or falsified travel documents to facilitate travel of Sri Lankans abroad, the report said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL Navys Southern Command moving to Hambantota  PM office
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 07:15 pm
SL Navys Southern Command moving to Hambantota  PM office
	
The Prime Minister office today said that the Sri Lanka Navy is moving its Southern Command to Hambantota.
Issuing a statement over a media report regarding Prime Ministers speech made at the Dr. Saman Kelegama memorial conference held on Friday in Colombo, the PM office said that at this conference the Prime Minister stated that he negotiated with Prime Minister Li and President Xi of China and came up with a proposal which was beneficial for both parties.
Sri Lanka also informed the Chinese that Hambantota cannot be used for military purposes. The Sri Lanka Navy is moving its Southern Command to Hambantota. There is no need to be frightened as security of the port will be under the control of Sri Lanka Navy.
Once an American has asked him, what would you do if the Chinese troops land in Hambantota. The Prime Minister has responded saying that there is a full army division stationed at Hambantota. The Prime Minister never mentioned that we will not be resisting any invasion. Further, no Navy in the region has the capacity to land an army division in Sri Lanka, the statement said.
As far as Hambantota port is concerned it will only be a commercial port which will trigger off much needed economic development of backward districts of Hambantota and Moneragala very soon, it added.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL-Pakistan discuss training of security forces
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 08:30 am
SL-Pakistan discuss training of security forces
	
General Zubair Mahamood Hayat who is on a four-day visit to Sri Lanka, on an invitation of Chief of Defense Staff, Admiral Ravindra Wijeygunaratne, called on President Sirisena at the Presidents Residence in Polonnaruwa.
The President's Office said they held discussions on armed forces' training programmes between the two nations.
Special attention was given to armed force training programmes between Pakistan and Sri Lanka and the President was thankful for the cooperation extended by Pakistan for the establishment of the Defense Services College being built at Kollupitiya for the training of senior officers of the Tri-forces of Sri Lanka, the statement said.
The Pakistan's Joint Chief-of-Staff acceded to the Presidents request to provide lecturers with specialized knowledge for the college.
General Zubair Mahamood Hayat is the 17th Joint Chief-of-Staff of Pakistan as well as the most senior officer of the Pakistan armed forces.
High Commissioner of Pakistan Dr.Shahid Ahmad Hashmat was also present at this event.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL to launch Light Rail System soon: Champika
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 06:45 am
SL to launch Light Rail System soon: Champika
	
Sri Lanka hopes to build a Light Rail System (LRS) with the main objective of easing traffic congestion on roads leading to Colombo from the suburbs and the feasibility report on the first project was handed over to Megapolis and Western Development Minister Champika Ranawaka yesterday at his Ministry.
According to the feasibility study prepared by the Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA), an elevated light railway line will be built on a 16-kilometer stretch from Malabe to Pettah at an estimated cost of US$1.7 billion or some Rs.272 billion by 2024.
The Japanese government has granted this loan package at 1% interest per annum in 40 years with a grace period of 12 years.
At a media conference after the feasibility report was handed over by JAICA Chief in Sri Lanka, Fusato Tanaka, the minister said his ministry was not only able to obtain this huge funding from the Japanese government on a highly concessionary rate of interest, the Sri Lankan Government would be in a position to repay the loan before the stipulated period of 40 years.
The Light Rail Transit Project (LRTP) will not be a white elephant. It has the capacity to repay the loan in full before the stipulated period. The LRTP will no doubt be a blessing to the country and a big boost to the economy because it will reduce the travelling time from Malabe to Fort or Pettah from 90 minutes to 40. I hope when more and more people prefer to travel in comfort by modern light trains which will save time and money, it will also reduce the use of petrol and diesel vehicles contributing to environment protection, the minister said. The LRTP will also help to minimize road accidents when moving to this form of travel."
He said this railway service from Malabe to Fort will be the first such projects with another three in the pipeline to minimize traffic snarls on Galle Road, Kandy Road and High Level Road on the basis of Public Private Partnerships. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Stamp exhibition at Public Library
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 30 June 2018 03:36 pm
Stamp exhibition at Public Library
	
The stamp exhibition organized by the Sri Lanka Independent Philatelic Association was launched at the Public Library Colombo yesterday. The exhibition will be held until tomorrow (01). Pix by Kithsiri De Mel






 
		
==============================
## Title: Thursdays EU summit must conquer misleading immigration policies
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 30 June 2018 12:18 am
Thursdays EU summit must conquer misleading immigration policies
	

Navel-gazing can sometimes be a good thing. But, as the self-help books and articles advocate, looking at ones achievements to date to boost ones morale is always a good step forward before attempting to improve the mind and spirit.
Europes summit opens on Thursday. With immigration the central point on the agenda its going to be a big one.
So what is the central achievement that won the EU the Nobel Peace Prize six years ago Its the abolition of war among EU countries. Today, Europe is the most peaceful part of the world with the highest human rights standards of anywhere. Europe used to be the most war-stricken place on earth. Between 1648 and 1789, Europe was the site of 48 wars. The British army was at war in some part of the world throughout the entire nineteenth century. The twentieth century saw two world wars, centred in Europe.

Now for the hard part, when self-improvement must take a big step forward. It has to be at this summit. The slow slide back towards ultra-nationalism in Hungary, Poland and most importantly the UK must be halted

The united Europe of the present day, James Sheehan has written, came into being in the wake of World War 2 because it was no longer full of national enthusiasm and patriotic passion but of widespread commitment to escape the destructive antagonisms of the past.
Now for the hard part, when self-improvement must take a big step forward. It has to be at this summit. The slow slide back towards ultra-nationalism in Hungary, Poland and most importantly the UK must be halted. Europe paid enormous sums of money militarily and financially to liberate the first two countries from communist government. Today, Europe still pours in money. Unless they shake up their political institutions back in a democratic direction, their subsidies must be cut off. Therell be a backlash, but the EU must ride it out knowing that these two countries have nowhere else to go.
As for Brexit, leaving the EU is drawing on a different kind of nationalism. Democracy and human rights observance are not threatened. But common sense is. Britain, after its leading role in the two World Wars, needs more than most to support the idea of European unity. Its common sense that a 52% victory in a referendum be not allowed to change the whole course of history. Prime Minister Theresa May, in an interview earlier this year, was asked how she would vote if the referendum were held again today. She replied that she didnt know. Yet, its she who is leading the charge to exit, pursuing the hardest line of all the possibilities. This was not a very intelligent answer.
The nationalism that precipitated the referendum was first and foremost fired by excessive immigration. I wrote about the dangers of this back in 1974 in an Encounter magazine article, The New Proletariat. The immigration-control lobby was then dominated by conservatives. I was one of the few liberal voices.
Over the last 40 years, immigration has increased both within the EU and from Africa. Policies being advocated today for Europe to really help African sending countries develop faster and to absorb their own labour were ignored in the 1970s.

As for the Syrian and African migration that has filled our television screens the last two years it is overstated. The massive Syrian flow was a panic attack. Now it has dramatically subsided

So can Britain get itself out of the immigration imbroglio and stay in the EU It can -- by negotiating an agreement with the EU that its allowed to impose restrictions on the supposedly sacred tenet of the free-movement of labour within the EU. I personally believe free-movement lifts all boats, but it can come later, not now, at least in the UKs case.
As for the Syrian and African migration that has filled our television screens the last two years it is overstated. The massive Syrian flow was a panic attack. Now it has dramatically subsided. There is no reason to think there will be another such great influx from the eastern Mediterranean countries.
The African migration comes and goes. It was reported on 40 years ago, especially about the migrants from the French-speaking countries who went to France and illegally worked to clean the city streets and to do the night shifts and dirty work in the car factories. The French government largely turned a blind eye since the industrialists and city mayors pushed for that. It seems with all the awful boat stories from the Mediterranean that the problem has suddenly multiplied ten or twenty-fold. It hasnt.
Because of the horrors of the Syrian sea crossings the TV cameras came down to the Med. Then they stayed on the lookout for new events. They filmed the crossings of Africans whose numbers seemed to be suddenly magnified. This is not to say there hasnt been some increase in numbers, especially since the European economy started to bounce back.
Given the right political leadership the electorate can be guided into tolerance. Look at Spain and Portugal where racism barely exists and there are no nationalist political parties. Good leadership from left and right and the church have achieved that.
Its time to save the idea of Europe. Thats what this summit has to do.
Copyright: Jonathan Power.
(For 17 years was a foreign affairs columnist for the International Herald Tribune/New York Times.)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will file submissions over enjoining order on film distribution: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 June 2018 01:05 pm
Will file submissions over enjoining order on film distribution: Minister
	
Submissions will be filed on Thursday's enjoining order issued by the Colombo District Court restricting the National Film Corporation from taking over local film distribution, Higher Education & Cultural Affairs Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe said.
The EAP, CEL, MPI and LFD film circuits which had hitherto handled local film distribution since 2001, filed action in court, following a decision by the National Film Corporation to take over local film distribution.
The decision to allow the National Film Corporation to handle film distribution was taken on the grounds of the private sector monopoly which has led to a catastrophe in the Cinema Industry. These private companies have done nothing towards the up-liftment of the Cinema Industry. We want to protect the Film Industry and for that, we need the cooperation of all stakeholders, Mr. Rajapakshe told a news conference.
He said they had discussed the issue with President Maithripala Sirisena who had promised to render his support and also to grant tax concessions to the film industry.  (Sheain Fernandopulle)






Pics by Kushan Pathiraja
 
		
==============================