## Title: A Silver Story with Friday Shine
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 September 2018 09:27 am
A Silver Story with Friday Shine
	
Silver has been a part of jewellery and culture of varied continents over the years. Inspired by this, Friday Shine has stepped in to the Silver Jewellery Industry in Sri Lanka to create a new shopping experience with a luxurious, contemporary, online jewellery store for the new age consumer.
Friday Shine prides itself for creating a transparent atmosphere for customers where they can learn about the value of their purchase and silver jewellery care tips. The company initially started its journey with silver jewellery, focusing on personalized Necklaces and personalized Bracelets, but has now extended their product range to Rings, Earrings, Pendants, Anklets and other jewellery items as well. Friday Shine has carved a niche for itself in making personalized and customised Silver Jewellery; the customer has the liberty to customise singular designs and Friday Shine crafts into a solid, dashing piece of ornament that could be perfect personalized gifts. Friday Shine operates with the goal of building an absolutely transparent buying process where the customer is thoroughly educated about the purchase. This enables them to make healthy and informed choices about their jewellery.
Celebrate your special moments in your life, with one of best places to make your own personalized silver jewellery gifts. No matter your silver jewellery requirement  birthday gifts, personalised gifts, handmade gifts, wedding gifts, wedding anniversary gifts, anniversary gifts or engagement gifts! Friday Shine will help you dazzle and enhance your style at all occasions.
In the future, Friday Shine hopes to establish itself as a brand that people trust for its clarity, transparency, and personalized service. Friday Shine also hopes to be the number one choice when it comes to personalized jewellery gifts. The company has its sights set on expanding and building the business progressively within 3 years.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Aravakkadu to be treated like garbage
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:09 am
Aravakkadu to be treated like garbage
	
Politicians in the area silent despite Government authorities trying to shift refuse from Colombo and suburbs to a location bordering Wilpattu National Park

There has been a local uprising, even turning violent in desperation, that it is imminent that the garbage of Colombo and the suburbs is to be disposed in Arawakkadu, an area bordering the Wilpattu National Park. 
According to latest reports the garbage is to be transported by road for the moment till such time the rail link is established. 
Has there been any study undertaken as to how raw garbage is disposed in countries like Singapore where apparently garbage is first used for the generation of power and then processed and used as land fill. Only 2% of its solid waste is used for landfill while it burns 38% to generate electricity while the balance is recycled. 
If Singapore is supposed to be using the residue to reclaim the sea, Sri Lanka has a ready-made solution for landfill with the Port City project. 

The purported dump sites are within the area claimed by Holcim and are disused excavation pits which were dug for the extraction of Limestone for the manufacture of cement. The rail network used to transport the Limestone from Arawakkadu to the cement factory at Puttlam is to be used for the transport of the garbage to its sites via Puttlam
A lesson we could have learned is from Malaysia which vastly used the dirty and cheap method of open air landfills to overcome their garbage issues, but now having realised the colossal and irreparable damage caused to ground water sources, soil contamination, air pollution etc and the spread of disease through birds, rodents and insects etc. is taking a cue from Singapore and switching to recycling, generation of electricity and other eco-friendly methods. 
The purported dump sites are within the area claimed by Holcim and are disused excavation pits which were dug for the extraction of Limestone for the manufacture of cement. 
The rail network used to transport the Limestone from Arawakkadu to the cement factory at Puttlam is to be used for the transport of the garbage to its sites via Puttlam. 
The enormous stench and flies etc. which will emanate from this site will affect the thousands of people from the villages of Karaitivu, Gangewadiya, Serakuli, Eluwankulam, Tirikkapallama, Wanathavillu and even the peninsula of Kalpitiya; a popular tourist destination which is only a few kilometres from the site across the Puttlam Lagoon. 
Disaster awaiting
This stench which will surely flow across to the Wilpattu sanctuary will draw herds of elephants from the sanctuary to the dumpsite and will certainly cause an elephantine problem and a national wildlife and ecological disaster in the end. 
There are over 100 elephants that haunt this vicinity at present and this move would be a definite death knell for all of them and many other wild animals big and small which abound in the area. 
The seepage from the garbage dumped into these deep pits with the collection of rain water, will certainly contaminate the adjoining Puttlam Lagoon, the nearby Kala Oya, the several deep water wells and catastrophically the deep underground water channels which will eventually pollute and render unusable the deep water which the people of the area depend on for their survival in addition to the tons of green house gasses that would be released to the atmosphere. 

This stench which will surely flow across to the Wilpattu sanctuary will draw herds of elephants from the sanctuary to the dumpsite and will certainly cause an elephantine problem and a national wildlife and ecological disaster in the end
Though several attempts have been made by environmentalist organisations to put a stop to this ill conceived project, it seems that the project is well underway as reported recently. It is still not too late for all concerned wild life enthusiasts and environmentalists to raise a joint voice against this venture which would disturb the tranquillity of the local people and wild life due to garbage entering the area from a different province, a problem ought to be solved within such boundaries from where they emanate. 
If the argument of the entities favouring the project are to state that this will not harm the environment nor affect the wildlife of the area etc. since the disposal would be done in a very scientific and methodical manner, let them find a site within their province to avoid the hassle of transport, logistics monitoring etc. at a serene place as far away as Arawakkadu. 
Only compromise
If the deep pits at Arawakkadu are eventually used as a dump site the only compromise the residents would come to would be under the condition that the raw garbage is processed in Colombo or someplace in the province and then transported and dumped into the pits in any form totally sans the usual stink and other harmful and polluting effects. 
A system termed the Semi-aerobic landfill structure developed and commercialised in Japan was first introduced overseas at an open dump site in Malaysia. This system is now being introduced to countries in Asia such as Malaysia, Pakistan, China, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as Samoa, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Italy and many others. If such a system is what is being considered by the authorities there could be some justification after a dialogue with the people of the area. 
The people of the villages mentioned are humble fishermen, farmers and small time traders who have no way to voice their opinion whilst most of them are not even aware of the impending disaster which is to befall their communities if the envisaged project is implemented. 
It is also very alarming to note that some very vociferous politicians who represent the people of the area have to date not made any significant representation or any agitation to have this impending disaster averted in favour of the very peoplethey represent. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bribery Commission summons GMOA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 02:30 pm
Bribery Commission summons GMOA
	
Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) Treasurer Dr Nath Wijesuriya has been summoned to the Bribery Commission this morning to record a statement over an investigation launched into an alleged foreign funds received by the GMOA.
GMOA Secretary Dr Haritha Aluthge and several top officials who met the Bribery Commission officials today handed over a letter stating that the complaint filed against them was false.
Addressing a press conference Dr Aluthge said there was a conspiracy led by several Ministers to suppress the GMOA in order to cover up their corruptions.
The complainant or the nature of the complaint was not disclosed yet therefore the GMOA will request the Commission officials for the original complaint, he said.
Dr Aluthge said that all financial transactions of the GMOA were done in a transparent manner, while two internal and external audits were conducted annually.
He said that the GMOA never depended on Government or foreign funds or any independent commission could obtain the audit reports through the Department of Labour. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Denuclearisation to top Moons Pyongyang agenda
## Section: International
## Date: 18 September 2018 11:07 am
Denuclearisation to top Moons Pyongyang agenda
	

SEOUL AFP, Sept17, 2018 - Denuclearisation will be high on South Korean President Moon Jae-ins agenda when he meets with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang this week, Moons office said Monday. 
Moon will fly to the North Korean capital on Tuesday for his third summit with Kim in the latest stage of a diplomatic thaw on the peninsula, although progress has stalled in denuclearisation talks between Pyongyang and Washington. We will push for North Koreas advanced denuclearisation and a reciprocal measure from the US by swiftly reviving sincere dialogue aimed at establishing new, peaceful relations, Moons chief of staff Im Jong-seok told reporters. 
Moon, who met Kim twice this year, was instrumental in brokering the historic Singapore summit between US President Donald Trump and Kim in June, when Kim backed denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula. 
But no details were agreed and Washington and Pyongyang have sparred since over what that means and how it will be achieved. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Depreciation of rupee has increased debt amount by Rs.1,000 bn: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 07:41 pm
Depreciation of rupee has increased debt amount by Rs.1,000 bn: JO
	
The drastic depreciation of the Sri Lankan rupee against the US Dollar has increased the countrys national debt amount by Rs.1,000 billion since 2015, the Joint Opposition (JO) said today.
Addressing a news briefing, MP Bandula Gunawardane said Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe continues to mislead the people by saying that the former government was responsible for current colossal amount of debts.
I challenge the Prime Minister to prove his claim. The debt amount has increased because of deprecation of the rupee which is a result of the governments fiscal mismanagement. The national debt amount has increased by Rs.285 billion in 2015, Rs.187 billion in 2016 and Rs.225 billion in 2017 due to depreciation of the rupee. When all this is added on to the increased debt amount this year, the total increase in the debt amount will be close to Rs.1,000 billion. The Premier can issue a statement if these facts are false, he said.
He said the amount of all loans obtained to construct the Hambantota Port, the Mattala Airport, the Lotus Tower and the Akuregoda Defence Headquarters Complex was only Rs.300 billion.
In order to prevent the rupee from hitting 200 against the US Dollar, he said President Sirisena should immediately suspend the New Trade Policy of the Government.
This New Trade Policy is the epitome of the liberal economic principles of the government. If this was suspended, at least the pace of depreciation of the rupee will slow down. During the Rajapaksa government, depreciation of the rupee was 2% per annum and under the current government it is 6% per annum, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Deshamanya M.A. Bakeer Markar A Ceylonese  deep in his heart
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
Deshamanya M.A. Bakeer Markar A Ceylonese  deep in his heart
	
His peace building initiative was purely based on genuine consensus building
	He livedSri Lankan most but remained an ardent Muslim
	At Beruwala UC, he was instrumental in making Sinhala the official language


The reasons to commemorate the brilliant traits of a leader can be many and lessons to be learnt from such leadership and foresight are often invaluable. The lessons learnt become the lasting legacy, which blossoms to be emulated in the future.
This, in a nutshell, tells about the vision of late Deshamanya Alhaj Mohamed Abdul Bakeer Markar, about which we now think in terms of Vision for an inclusive Sri Lanka.
His peace-building initiative was purely based on genuine consensus building. He lived Sri Lankan most but remained an ardent Muslim.
In 1939, he joined the Ceylon Law College to pursue his legal career. He would attend lectures in the morning and in the afternoon he gave tuition to make ends meet.
The World War II disrupted his studies, as schools, as well as institutions, were closed down for over two years. He had to enlist and serve in the ARP (The Air Force Security Service), after receiving training in Hyderabad, India.

One Identity under One Nation  Has vision impacted positively on the citizenry How far are we looking at his progressive outlook today
It was in 1949, he was able to resume his studies at Ceylon Law College. He passed out as a lawyer and commenced his legal practice at the Kalutara Bar in 1950.
His initial steps into politics, was in 1946 when he was sub-warden at Zahira College, Colombo. Then Dr T.B. Jayah contested the Labour Leader A.E. Goonesinghe at the General Elections of 1946, to the State Council.
Bakeer Markar has entrusted the task of carrying out Dr Jayahs Election Campaign, which he carried out successfully. Dr Jayah was elected Member of the State Council.
The Leadership of Dr Jayah was laudable. In the State Council, Leader of the House S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike paying tribute to T.B. Jayahs contribution on the Soulbury Report said:
Credit for the attainment of independence should undoubtedly go to T.B. Jayah for his historic speech in passing the Dominion Bill.
With this kind of inspiration, experience and the taste of political nectar, Bakeer Markar pursued in the footsteps of his Political Guru Dr T.B. Jayah, to be elected member of the Maradana Ward of the Beruwala Urban Council, uncontested, in his very first attempt in 1949. This opened the avenue for him to tread successfully in the wider political arena.
At Beruwala Urban Council, he was instrumental in moving the resolution to recognize the Sinhala Language as the official language, which was voted for the majority of the members.
This was the first ever Local Government council to adopt such a resolution. Even at the All-Ceylon Muslim Organization Conference, he earnestly propagated the Sinhala language to be recognized as the Official language. In fact, for his stance, he was nick-named and affectionately called Sinhala Bakeer.
He was for the use of Sinhala language by the Muslims from his youth. As a Nation, Muslims must unite with the Sinhalese.
In his own words Though I belonged to the minority community, I was able to enter the national and international arena only because I was able to go forward with the majority community.
He was passionate in his noble thoughts. He believed in unity for the sake of peace, coexistence and above all for the development of the nation, with Unity in Diversity.
We are reminded of Prime Minister Dudley Senanayakes precious words: Ceylon belonged not only to the Buddhists but to anybody who claimed to be Ceylonese.
His preserving efforts to serve the voters of Beruwala more effectively paid manifold dividends with his active participation and contribution made at the Delimitation Commission of Thalgodapitiya and Tittawala.
As a result, the new electorate of Beruwala was carved out, composed of a mixed population of Buddhists, Christians and Muslims.
His was an illustrious Parliamentary career, from 1960 to 1988, which was of enviable lustre.
He commenced his Parliamentary career in March 1960, being elected Member of Parliament for the newly carved out Beruwala electorate.
Bakeer Markar always thought of himself as a Ceylonese. In his address to Parliament on the Appropriation Bill on 24th August 1965 congratulating the Finance Minister Wanninayake, he said:
I should like to do it in a more unorthodox way because I think the man to be congratulated is the Prime Minister, for he chose as Minister of Finance, a person who is Ceylonese in every sense of the word.
Again, speaking on the Special Allowance to Plantation Workers on 6th October 1965, he spoke on behalf of the estate workers, referring to them: If we care Ceylonese, they are Ceylonese, if the Sinhalese are Ceylonese, they are Ceylonese; if the Muslims are Ceylonese, in the same way, the estate Tamils are Ceylonese. He believed and espoused the true spirit of equality for everyone.
These go to show his vision: One Identity under One Nation  Has vision impacted positively on the citizenry How far are we looking at his progressive outlook today
Bakeer Markar made contributions even to the smooth and effective functioning of democracy at the grassroots level.
During the Parliamentary debate on June 13, 1968, on the Establishment of District Councils, he submitted a memorandum to the Minister of Home Affairs and Rural Development, in which recommendations were made for changes to be introduced to the Provincial Administration.

At Beruwala Urban Council, he was instrumental in moving the resolution to recognize the Sinhala Language as the official language, which was voted for the majority of the members.
He wanted the provincial administration to be reformed and reconstituted at District Level, to give the much needed new look.
He felt that District Machinery should be under the supervision of the Member of Parliament, nominated by the Prime Minister. This was to form the basis of the District Coordinating Committee. His victory at the General Elections of 1977 was the dazzling landmark of his political career.
At this General Election, he was returned with a remarkable majority of 27,000 votes, with a total poll of 49,000 votes. His nearest rival R.G. Samaranayake was placed far below. This electoral victory of 1977 was a historic gift to the respectful minority.
It was on August 4, 1977, he was elected Deputy Speaker. This was a short stint. He was thereafter elected to the high Office of Speaker on September 21, 1978, being the unanimous choice of the Government and the Opposition.
His name was proposed by Anandatissa De Alwis, Minister of State and seconded by M. Sivasithamparam, Member of Parliament for Nallur.
This exalted position was held in his esteem by the Speaker M.A. Bakeer Markar from the time he was elected Speaker up to the time of his resignation on August 31, 1983. He was the last Speaker of the old Parliament at Galle Face and the first Speaker of the new Parliament in Sri Jayewardenepura.
On his elevation to the position of Speaker, he stood by the great traditions and decorum of the Speakers Office. He did not want to be a nominal Speaker, merely presiding at Parliamentary Sessions.
The Office of Speaker was made most significant. The Mace was not any more mere symbolic, placed long before the entry of the Speaker to the Chamber of the Parliament. The Speakers Mace was made the due symbol of authority.
Being carried with solemnity by the Sergeant-at-Arms and placed at the appropriate place, as the Speaker came to preside at the Parliamentary Sessions.
The Speakers traditional robe was reintroduced, which to this day has its glamour. We have seen the majestic appearance of the Speaker and witness this being continued to this day. Dignity was restored and redefined to the Speakers office during his tenure. Above all, Speaker Bakeer Markar saw to it that the annual audit of the Parliamentary administration was brought under the direct supervision of the Auditor General, making Parliamentary affairs and administration transparent.
A novel constitutional aspect of his Parliamentary career was, when he was the Speaker, he had the rare privilege of presiding at the Swearing-in Ceremony of two Cabinet Ministers and as such handed over acting Ministerial appointments to V.L. Wijemanne and A.R.M. Attanayake, as acting Minister of Plantation Industries and Minister of Higher Education respectively, whilst President Jayewardene and Prime Minister Premadasa were away from the country in 1981, to attend the Royal Wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana. Another facet which dazzled the Speakers Office, while holding office, was the series of overseas official trips, which he undertook as Speaker of Parliament. He maintained excellent rapport with the diplomatic community. He was honoured with official invitations to Malaysia and attended the Inter-Parliamentary Conference in Lisbon, Portugal in 1978.
In his farewell speech in Parliament on June 9, 1988, he declared I am proud to be a Sri Lankan, for here in Sri Lanka a man can freely worship God in his accustomed fashion.
He strongly believed in reconciliation and coexistence. But soon we find the sad tone in his address to Parliament. He poured out.
When he said: It is my regret that I shall no longer be with you when you add chapter to shining chapter in Sri Lankas history.
He dreamt further when he said: The time is not far off when Ceylon will sit in the Assembly of Nations, as a well- developed country and take its rightful place there and play its role.
All these go to show that Deshamanya Bakeer Markar was Sri Lankan, deep in his heart, and was a Leader with the sincere message to all of us, Buddhists, Christians, Hindus and Muslims.
Let me end with the words of Bismarck, who said: Politics is the art of the possible, the attainable  the art of the next best.
This is food for thought!
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ensuring free and fair polls: A challenging task in Bangladesh
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:09 am
Ensuring free and fair polls: A challenging task in Bangladesh
	

Bangladesh is to have its 11th parliamentary elections in November-December this year. As in the past, the elections are expected to take place in the midst of several controversies, some new and some enduring. Again, as in the past, ensuring free and fair elections in Bangladeshs highly divisive, politicized and violence-ridden environment is going to be a major challenge for the State. 
Begum Khaleda Zia, head of the main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), is in jail for alleged corruption with no chance of release before the polls. The leaderless BNP has threatened to boycott the coming elections if she is not released and if a neutral or Non-Party Caretaker Government (NPCG) is not put in place to conduct the polls. 
In 2014, the BNP had boycotted the elections saying that it had no faith in the electoral process in the absence of a NPCG. 
Though only 30% of the electorate voted as a result of the boycott, the Awami League (AL) was got into power with a huge majority. It had won 150 seats uncontested.
With the BNP leaderless and without any influence over the government, the AL headed by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has been having a field day. It has achieved notable feats in the economic sphere launching mega projects with Chinese loans. But the government is also seen as being repressive. Disappearances, arrests of critics and the extra-judicial killing of suspected terrorists and drug dealers had become commonplace, giving rise to fears that in her bid for a third term, Hasina could rig the 2018 elections. 
Hence the rising demand for a non-partisan election-time government, a system which had existed in the past and had, on balance, succeeded in instilling confidence in the public. 
Given the subtle pressure from Big Brother India and the West to facilitate the return of the BNP to parliamentary elections, PM Hasina has talked about holding the elections  under an election-time government. But she has not said if the election time government will be a non-partisan or a non-party government. 
However, the General Secretary of AL, Obaidul Quader, has said that no one from outside will be part of the election-time government. In other words, there will be no technocrat in the election-time government. Earlier, Hasina had said that it could be a government of the ruling and opposition parties. Quader had said that the Jatiya Party requested the government to include two or three of its members but added that the Prime Minister had not decided on it.
With Hasina and her party being vague about the election time government, the Gono Forum led by Kamal Hossain, and the Jukto Front on Saturday demanded dissolution of parliament before the schedule for the next election and the formation of an election-time government after discussions with all parties. 
The leaders of the poll-time government should not contest the elections, the two organizations said. They demanded the reformation of the Election Commission (EC) with people acceptable to all parties.

The EC, they said, should control the police. And the army should be deployed with magistracy powers for 40 days from a month before the voting day. There should be a moratorium on the arrest of politicians and Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) should be prohibited.

Though only 30% of the electorate voted as a result of the boycott, the Awami League (AL) was got into power with a huge majority. It had won 150 seats uncontested
Past Performance
Sheikh Hasinas reluctance to sanction a NPCG is not unprecedented. In the past, political parties and civil society had to struggle hard for it, losing life and limb in the process. It was part of a larger struggle and continuous for democracy.
The first blow to democracy was delivered in January 1975, four years after the birth of Bangladesh, when the then President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman banned all political parties barring his own Bangladesh Farmers and Laborers Peoples League popularly known as BAKSAL. This led to his assassination by some army officers in August 1975. That in turn led to military rule under Gen. Ziaur Rahman. Later he formed the BNP to give his rule a civilian veneer. After Zia was assassinated by military personnel in 1981, Gen. H. M. Ershad assumed power and ruled through his own outfit, the Jatiya Party (JP).
Though elections were held by Zia and Ershad, these had no credibility because of the military backed their political outfits. It was only in 1986 that political parties got together to oust Ershad and hold free and fair elections. The movement for NPCG intensified and got the widest measure of support ahead of the 1988 elections. The struggle continued till Ershad quit in 1990.
President Shahabuddin Ahmed was made head of the Caretaker Government, which held the fifth parliamentary elections in 1991. In sharp contrast to the past, these elections were free and fair. 
The BNP won the elections and formed the government in alliance with the Bangladesh Jamat-i-Islam (BJI). But the BNPs rigging of the Magura by-election made the AL and Jatiya Party support BJIs proposal to hold all future elections under a NPCG.
The ruling BNP resisted this, but offered to reform the Election Commission. But this was not acceptable to the AL, JP and the BJI. The opposition began a boycott of parliament and started an agitation with AL demanding that power be handed over to the Chief Justice. When the BNP rejected this, 153 opposition members resigned from parliament. The Speaker declined to accept their resignation. The opposition stuck to the boycott of parliament though.
The sixth parliamentary elections were held in February 1996 without NPCG, The opposition had boycotted the election. With only 10% of the electorate voting, BNP won handsomely. But Prime Minister Khaled Zia could not savor the victory as agitations against the illegitimacy of her government mounted. She had no option but to enact a law to install an NPCG. She then resigned and handed over the government to retired Chief Justice Habibur Rahman.
The NPCG held free and fair elections in 2001. For the 2006 elections the NPCG was reconstituted with K. M. Hasan as the Chief Advisor. But the opposition opposed Hasan saying that he was a BNP loyalist and launched an agitation, which resulted in President Iajuddin Ahmed himself becoming Chief Advisor with a team of Advisors chosen by him. 
The Awami Leagues continuing agitation led to Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed, former Governor of the Bangladesh Central Bank, becoming the head of the NPCG but with the involvement of the army chief Gen. Moeen U. Ahmed. The people welcomed the army-backed NPCG. But this NPCG was turned out to be undemocratic, banning all political functions, annulling scheduled parliamentary elections and launching a massive anti-corruption drive, arresting over 200,000 suspects.

NPCG alienated the political parties, which resulted in Hasina and Khalida joining to fight for a proper NPCG.
Repeal of NPCG
Fresh polls were held in 2008, which the NPCG conducted in a free and fair manner. The AL registered a landslide victory. But once ensconced in power, the AL took advantage of a Supreme Court ruling of May 10, 2011 on the NPCG, to end the NPCG system. 
The court had said that the NPCG is an undemocratic and unconstitutional system because it is un-elected. By the 15th Amendment, Hasina got rid of the NPCG system. 
President Zillur Rahman, an AL man, tried to sugar coat the bitter pill by saying the Election Commission will be strengthened. But this did not cut ice with the masses. According to a survey conducted by the Center for Strategic Research, 67% of the people interviewed were against abolition of the NPCG.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Female Circumcision: An Islamic practice brings untold benefits to women
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
Female Circumcision: An Islamic practice brings untold benefits to women
	
Circumcision, like the other fitra acts involving the removal of redundant outgrowths that contribute to uncleanliness, takes the human body to a more perfect state ordained by God
Much has been written about female circumcision of late, with many writers confusing this Islamic practice with FGM (Female Genital Mutilation). However this is far from the truth. Female circumcision as prescribed in Islam involves removing only the prepuce (foreskin) covering the clitoris. This is a relatively minor and harmless procedure very much like male circumcision and which like it confers many health benefits, including facilitating genital hygiene and improving sex life. Nowadays even American womenchoose to undergo it as a cosmetic surgery popularly known as hoodectomy. 
Islamic Basis
The evidence for circumcision, both male and female, come from the ahadith (Sayings of Prophet Muhammad, PBUH) like the following: 
1) Five are the acts of fitra:circumcision, removing pubic hair, clipping the moustache, cutting the nails, plucking the hair under the armpits(Sahih Bukhari and Muslim) 
Circumcision, like the other fitra acts involving the removal of redundant outgrowths that contribute to uncleanliness, takes the human body to a more perfect state ordained by God, which is why it is called an act that is in accord with the fitra (God-given natural inclinations of humans). That it should apply equally to females as much as males goes without saying as both sexes have a prepuce, a fold of unclean skin covering the erectile tissue of their genitals. Besides, it is a well established principle of Islam that males and females are to be treated equally in all respects where they are similar and there can be no doubt that in this respect they are indeed similar. 
2) When the (male) circumcised part meets the (female) circumcised part, bath becomes obligatory(Ahmad, Tirmidhi)
Here we have the Prophet declaring that the bath following sexual intercourse (without which no prayer is valid) becomes obligatory when both the circumcised parts meet The fact that the Prophet defined sexual intercourse as the meeting of the male and female circumcised parts when stressing on the need for the obligatory post-coital bath pre-supposes the obligatory nature of circumcision in the case of both males and females. 
3) Abdullah Ibn Umar states that the Prophet instructed some Ansar (Medinan) women visiting him to be circumcised (Mukhtassar zawaid musnad al bazzar, Ibn Hajar).
4) The Prophet told Umm Atiyyah Al Ansariyyah, a lady who circumcised girls in Medina: When you circumcise, cut plainly and do not cut severely, for it is beauty for the face and desirable for the husband (Abu Dawud and Tarikh Baghdad of Al Baghdadi). 
But thats not all. We have a few more traditions concerning the Prophets closest companions who believed it to be necessary for women: 
1) Umm Al Muhajir said: I was captured with some girls from Byzantium. (Caliph) Uthman offered us Islam, but only myself and one other girl accepted Islam. Uthman said: Go and circumcise them and purify them (Adab al Mufrad of Bukhari) 
2) Umm Alqamah says that when the nieces of Ayishas brother were circumcised, Aisha was asked: Shall we call someone to amuse them Yes she replied (Adab Al Mufrad)
So here we have Uthman, one of the closest companions of the Prophet and the third Caliph of Islam ordering that some women who had converted to Islam be circumcised. The other tradition tells us that the Prophets wife Ayisha had her nieces circumcised, suggesting that she believed it to be obligatory.
The Islamic Procedure
All the early scholars of Islam were agreed that all that is needed to be removed in the circumcision of the female is the prepuce of the clitoris, the fold of skin covering the clitoris. This is the female equivalent of the foreskin in males which is taken off during circumcision. Ibn HajarAsqalani states in Fathul Bari that it constitutes the removal of the skin covering the cocks comb-like structure, and not the flesh. These early scholars of Islam did not arbitrarily decide how it should be done. They based it on a saying of the Prophet where he is reported to have told Umm Atiyya Al Ansariya, a lady who circumcised females in Medina: When you circumcise, cut plainly (in a shallow manner) and do not cut deeply, for it is beauty for the face and desirable for the husband (Sunan Abu Dawud). 
This hadith clearly indicates the procedure to be followed in the circumcision of girls. The words Cut plainly and do not cut deeply (ashimmi wa-la-tanhaki) is to be understood in the sense of removing the skin covering the clitoris, and not the clitoris. The word ashimmi used here means to sniff, thereby implying a delicate sniff of steel (over the clitoris to remove its skin). Latanhaki means do not cut deeply, do not uproot which is a clear prohibition to do harm to the clitoris. Thus it is very clear that the Prophet commanded the removal only of the clitoral prepuce and prohibited harming theclitoris in any way. 
Health Benefits
As shown by numerous studies, male circumcision confers significant health benefits. That its female equivalent which involves an analogous procedure, the removal of the prepuce of the clitoris, should offer similar benefits goes without saying. It has been found that the genital hygiene of women is, on the average, poorer than that of men because of numerous folds and the semi-hidden position of the clitoris. Whether we like it or not, its easier for males to retract and clean their foreskins of the regular buildup of smegma than women to clean theirs due to the obvious anatomical differences as shown above. It would be necessary for them to retract the hood each day or every other day, in order to prevent adhesion forming and smegma collectingbeneath the prepuce. 
It has been found that urinary tract infections (UTIs), an all too frequent complaint in women even more so than in uncircumcised little boys is very likely caused by smegma buildup beneath the clitoris. Female circumcision also contributes to preventing HPV (Human Papilloma Virus) transmission to male partners of women enjoying oral sex as the virus which finds a congenial home beneath the prepuce of the clitoris could be transmitted through cunnilingus or oral sex resulting in the occurrence of oral cancer among men. Interestingly Hollywood Actor Michael Douglas recently revealed that his throat cancer was caused not by smoking or drinking, but by HPV (Human Papilloma Virus) contracted by giving oral sex to women. 
The procedure also prevents unpleasant smells associated with the smegma buildup beneath the clitoris. Men as is widely known are turned off by unpleasant smells during sex and when it comes to oral sex could be easily put off (unless of course his partner has washed her clitoris by retracting it thoroughly with soap or body wash). So why go through all this as a routine matter when it could be permanently corrected by a minor surgery, preserving sexual joy in its purest form. 
Fulfilling Sex Lives
Detractors claim that female circumcision reduces sexual pleasure in women. This is because they have deliberately lumped it together with un-islamic forms of Female Genital Mutilation like clitoridectomy and infibulation practiced in some African countries. These harmful forms have a detrimental effect on female sexuality but cannot be compared with Islamic female circumcision which has the opposite effect from these. In fact it contributes to enhancing sexual satisfaction in women during the sex act rather than decreasing it. This procedure is gaining popularity among Western women, and especially American women, not so much for health reasons as to lead satisfactory sex lives. It is popularly known as hoodectomy, after the hood of the clitoris (clitoral prepuce) that is removed in this minor procedure. 
The author is Vice President- Outreach, Centre forIslamic Studies
 
		
==============================
## Title: Five-day probe on alleged assassination plot
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:05 am
Five-day probe on alleged assassination plot
	
weighed against 5-hour conclusion and arrest in 1962
According to Police Spokesman Ruwan Gunasekara, IGP Pujith Jayasundara is reported to have handed over the investigations from SIU to the CID over the allegations levelled against DIG Nalaka de Silva, who is in charge of the Terrorist Investigation Division (TID). IGP Jayasundara, earlier ordered the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) to initiate an investigation into the incident. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe had also called for a report from the IGP. President Maithripala Sirisena, speaking on the alleged conspiracy to eliminate him and former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa, said the examination into the episode would be handed over to the CID immediately after the SIU concluded its investigation and presented its first round report.
The recording, which talks of assassination attempts on me and Gotabaya Rajapaksa, states that they want to do so because we are against drugs. I already spoke to the IGP and will discuss the issue further this evening, he told media heads.
Although the details are somewhat confusingly misleading, the accuracy or inaccuracy of them cannot be confirmed until a fair and unbiased probe is done. Usually, in another country, by now these officers would be either arrested or sent on compulsory leave pending a final outcome of investigations. Some say this could be an attempt to divert peoples attention from burning issues to fantasy assassination plots.

The IGP was instructed to issue a directive to all police stations that no orders of special, unusual or non-routine nature, should be carried out by them, unless expressly authorised by the IGP
How Felix Dias Handled it in 1962
Considering the unusual delay and lethargic approach of the authorities, we would like to travel back in time to 1962, and reminisce on the lightening speed the investigations were carried out by Deputy Defence Minister, the 31-year-old Felix Dias Bandaranaike playing the role of Criminal Investigator, when a group of policemen led by C.C. Dissanayake, Senior DIG, and grandfather of Ravi Karunanayake along with a few military high-ups planned a conspiracy to arrest the then Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike and take over the government in the night of January 27.
56 years ago, a conspiracy by a few military and police officers along with a senior civil servant, driven by an overriding emotion of loss of power and the position that they benefitted from conspired to take over the State from a democratically-chosen government on the pretext of politicians ruining the nation through maladministration. The coup, code named Operation Holdfast, was expected to be conducted within a few hours.
Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who continued her slain husbands socialist policies they thought as weak, inexperienced and unfit to rule, and therefore needs to be replaced. According to plan, she was to be arrested on her return from Kataragama on 27th Saturday night.
As per design, at 10.00 p.m., C.C. Dissanayake was to issue a Take Post order. Seizure of Colombo and cordoning it off was believed important to resist a possible counter-strike. Sydney de Zoysa, ex- DIG, will co-ordinate Army and police operations from Field Force HQs, Col. Maurice de Mel posted at Army headquarters: Col. F.C. de Saram positioned at Temple Trees with CC at Queens House where the Governor-General resides. Johnpillai, ASP will clear strategically-significant highways and all main roads of traffic. Officials, N.Q. Dias, S.A. Dissanayake DIG-CID (Jingle), twin brother of C.C. (Jungle), senior ministers including Felix Dias, Acting Navy Chief and John Attygalle, SP- to be arrested and sent off to a bunker at the armory. A junta of coup leaders will run the show in the first phase and the second a council of ex-Prime Ministers, coup leaders and the G-G and the third stage back to democracy under a new Constitution
The CTO and Telegraph Exchange were to be shut down; Police Headquarters, Times of Ceylon, Lake House and Radio Ceylon, the only electronic communication institute, will be seized by 11.00 p.m.
IGP Abeykoon, Acting Navy Commander Kadirgamar, Army Commander Maj-Gen. Wijeykoon, Air Force Chief Barker were entirely in the dark about the conspiracy. On triumphant accomplishment of the coup, the leaders would meet G-G and demand the suspension of the Constitution, handover direct authority to the junta. This original plan went off-centre with the cancellation of Sirimavos scheduled trip to Kataragama. They feared she had come to know of the coup. As a contingency Lt. Col. Willie Abraham was moved into her residence, Temple Trees.
It was on the same morning during their regular walks on Galle Face Green that C.C. Dissanayake uncovered the scheme to his loyal subordinate, SP Colombo, Stanley Senanayake, inviting him to join them. Senanayake, who remained non-committal, met as promised CC that afternoon at his residence.
T.D.S.A. Dissanayake, writer, author son of C.C. Dissanayake describes the meeting his father had with Stanley on 27th ,
Sir, May I now reiterate what I told you at Galle Face this morning, when for the first time you asked me to join your coup. I am totally opposed to a democratically elected government being overthrown by a Coup de` tat, be it bloodless or otherwise, be it run by gentlemen or otherwise
- Politics of Sri LankaT.D.S.A. Dissanayake: Vol. III.
Understanding that he had misapprehended Stanley, CC kept pondering over. There were reservations among the key members comprising the De Mel brothers, De Zoysa, De Saram, and Dissanayake about the feasibility of going ahead as intended. Stanley Senanayake, father-in-law of Mayoress Rosy, grappling with his morals for few hours told his wife Maya, daughter of P. de S. Kularatne, who was a Parliamentarian then, about the planned conspiracy. She lost no time in conveying it to her father. Around 6.00 p.m., Kularatne informed the IGP, who in turn passed it on to Felix Dias Bandaranaike, who within minutes got into counter action.
Stanley revealed the names of senior police officers involved in the coup; DIG, C.C. Dissanayake, Retd. DIG Sydney de Zoysa, M. Jebanesan, David Thambaih and V.E. Perera, all Superintendents of Police and two Assistant SPs, namely, B. Johnpillai and Colin Van den Dreisen. He also affirmed that a round of briefing by the leaders was taking place at that instant at Lt. Col. Basil Jesudasans home at Elibank Road.
Temple Trees was cordoned off. It was tense all around; no one sure if the coup was still on.Felix faced the situation very boldly and efficiently
After the Orient Club meeting, IGP Abeykoon, hurried to Felixs residence at Mahanuge Gardens, Colpetty. The minister moved into action swiftly and determinedly. Time was around 8.00 p.m., just three hours from H-hour when the three met Prime Minister Sirimavo at Temple Trees to appraise her of imminent disaster; the PM immediately sent for the three service commanders, Wijekoon of the Army, Barker of the Air Force and Acting Commander of the Navy, Kadirgarmar. Stanley was asked to come with P. de S. Kularatne MP. At this crucial meeting, he revealed the details.
At the end of the first round, Felix Dias gave orders that Police Depot at Bambalapitiya should be immediately sealed off. It was to prevent movement of vehicles, arms, ammunition and men, that night. It was also decided to shut the telex room, where radio-teletype messages could be sent by the plotters to stations in the provinces. The young dynamic minister, Felix faced the situation very boldly and efficiently. The IGP was instructed to issue a directive to all police stations that no orders of special, unusual or non-routine nature, should be carried out by them, unless expressly authorised by the IGP. On arrival of acting Navy Commander Kadirgamar, he was briefed on the facts so far, and was instructed to immediately get in touch with the Air Force Commander, reinforce the security at Temple Trees by positioning Air Force men strategically, around it; because no one was sure of the depths the plotters had dug into Army, Navy and Police rank and file. Additional internal platoons were to standby at Flag Staff Street, Navy Headquarters.
All three service commanders were asked to stay back and assist in countering the conspiracy. Stanley also revealed that a final round of briefing by the coup leaders to their men was taking place at that particular moment at Lt. Col. Basil Jesudasans home at Elibank Road. The junior level officers summoned by the investigating team cooperated with them; probably they thought by making long confessions they would enhance their chance of being pardoned. Navy Chief, Rajan Kadirgamar was seen in blue battle dress toting a sub-machine gun and pacing down the corridors of Temple Trees. A cordon around Temple Trees had already been thrown. It was tense all around; no one knew whether the coup was still on or not.
Arrests of plotters commence
Armed with all the information collected so far, the Prime Minister and Minister Felix Dias Bandaranaike decided to act fast. Necessity to make immediate arrest of key men involved in the conspiracy was imminent.
While Air Force men were busy with the task of providing security to all vital installations, it was decided to arrest C.C. Dissanayake, Sydney de Zoysa, Morris de Mel and the other leaders of the conspiracy. It was carried out by midnight and in a harsh manner.
However, Col. F.C. De Saram, a kinsman of Bandaranaikes, was asked to appear before the PM on the following morning.

They say blood is thicker than.Writer can be contacted at
- kksperera 1 @gmail.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: General Denis Perera The Epitome of Leadership
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
General Denis Perera The Epitome of Leadership
	
When the Defence Academy was eleveated to Universoity status, Gen. Denis Perera (Bottom) was made the first Chancellor


The Association of Retired Flag Rank Officers is a distinguished Association of Senior Officers, composed broadly of Generals, Admirals and Air Marshal and subcategories among these high ranks, now officially in retirement from the services.
The association is engaged in a broad range of activities pertaining to the areas of international relations, defence policy, institutional development and comparative studies and historical research relating to the three services.
In this context, they have brought out a biography of Deshamanya General Denis Perera former Commander of the Sri Lanka Army titled General Denis: Epitome of Leadership.
The General, a pioneering and seminal contributor to the growth, expansion and the inculcation and enforcement of high standards in all matters connected with the development of the Army was possessed of a commanding personality allied to a sense of personal modesty.
Therefore, when about to retire it was suggested that he should write his memoirs, he replied politely that I will leave to others. Those others in the form of The Association of Retired Flag Rank Officers have now acted on the Generals comment which at the time it was made, he no doubt felt would not bear fruit. Sadly, he is not with us to appreciate the commendable effort that has gone into bringing out this publication.

The book relates the central role he played in upgrading the Training Centre at Diyatalawa to the status of a well-constituted and well-resourced academy...
The book is important in many dimensions: The General was among the first batch of officer cadets who were sent to the Sandhurst Military Training Establishment in Britain at the dawn of Ceylons Independence.
From that point onwards, Denis Pereras career and growth of the national army were coterminous.
In this unfolding scenario, the young officer gradually acquiring more seniority and entrusted with more responsibility showed his qualities of hard work, consistency, bold initiative and implementation capacity.
Perhaps, there was an element of destiny in all this. Denis happened to enlist as an officer cadet on the 10th of October 1949, the day the Army was formed, which also happened to be his birthday!
The book contains well-researched facts, figures and dates. It has in a commendable manner gathered up important details that would have been scattered in files, documents, regimental records, the Training Centre at Diyatalawa and many other places.
These have been woven into the narrative in an easy and readable style enriched further with interesting personal recollections of many persons. As one reads, one feels the difficulty of separating the person from the institution, the institution that he was doing so much to build.
At the end of the book, there is the reproduction of a moving eulogy delivered by Brigadier A. P. R. David at the memorial service for the late General at the All Saints Church, Borella on October 14, 2013. In death as in life, General Denis Perera was loved and respected.
This book then is a valuable contribution to the biographical literature of the country. It is all the more valuable in that there is a comparative dearth of writings on the institutions and personalities relating to the armed services.
The information, episodes and material in the book, however, transcend the institutions that form its background and have many elements of universal application and relevance.
There is very little knowledge in the civilian sectors about matters relating to the intense training, discipline and standards that are promoted and inculcated in service by men and women.
The knowledge and insights provided in this book are important, relevant and valuable to all professional groups and persons who themselves have to follow conventions and codes of discipline, establish focus, provide leadership and aim at the achievement.

There is very little knowledge among civilians about the intense training, discipline and standards that are promoted and inculcated in service by men and women.

The Association of Retired Flag Rank Officers has therefore provided a valuable public service in bringing out this book. It is plain that much hard work, research, discussion and skilled drafting had gone into the production of this biography which is enhanced with well-selected pictures and photographs. The writers and editors while paying deserved homage to a great military personality and gentlemanhave also skillfully made the publication relevant to the wider circle of professionals in this country.
The impact made is, therefore, greater than the life and times of a single person, important as he was.
The book relates the central role he played in upgrading the Training Centre at Diyatalawa to the status of a well-constituted and well-resourced academy. In striking fashion, the narrative records the growing seniority, positions, responsibilities and achievements of the subject of this biography.
The Major Army Cantonment at Panagoda; the Combat Training School at Ampara. The setting up strategically of cantonments in various planned locations; the raising of new Regiments, many of them of great note and importance later, such as the Vijayabahu Infantry Regiment, The Rajarata Rifles, later to become the Gajaba Regiment; the Commando Unit, the Womens Corps and others, were all the products of his vision, energy and initiative.
The book also relates the negotiations conducted with Sir John Kotelawala and success that was had in persuading Sir Johnto gift his Kandawala Estate in Ratmalana to set up the Defence Academy for the higher education and training of officers of all three services.
Quite deservedly when the academy was elevated to the status of a University, General Denis Perera became its Chancellor.
There were many other achievements to his credit as a military personality. They are all contained in the book. But one that needs special mention is the Generals role in coordinating the compilation of the important publication entitled the History of the Army Fifty years on
The biography also knits together many interesting stories and anecdotes relating to the training at Sandhurst, travel on the continent, the resourcefulness and problem-solving skills that were displayed when required, camaraderie among colleagues and idiosyncrasies of trainers among other matters. The book also brings out charming vignettes of family life encompassing different generations and families. It contains reminiscences of children, grandchildren, in-laws, friends, colleagues and subordinates. All reflections display both affection and respect. The positive impacts on others lives are clear. The biography is therefore not a mere historical record or a chronicle of events and personalities. It is also a warm and living human document.
Finally, the book unfolds the Generals post-retirement activities and the responsibilities he undertook as High Commissioner to Australia with concurrent accreditation to many other countries, including Papua New Guinea and Fiji, as well as the important role he played in the private sector of Sri Lanka, as Chairman or a member of the Board of Directors of many companies.
The Generals interests and accomplishments did not stop there. He was a member or high office holder of many important associations, including being President of the Association of Retired Flag Rank Officers.
Writer, Deshamanya M. D. D. Pieris is a former member of the Ceylon Civil Service (SLAS) and Secretary to the Prime Minister and has served as Secretary to several Ministries as well.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Global warming: Keep cool and carry on the battle
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:20 am
Global warming: Keep cool and carry on the battle
	
Although a hurricane and floods rising to several metres are devastating Carolina, the United States President Donald Trumpreported by the Washington Post fact checker to have made more than 5000 false or misleading statements during his one year and nine months in office, still continues to describe global warming as largely a Chinese hoax. Recently he pulled the US out of the Paris climate change accord reached in December 2016 with most analysts now saying Mr. Trump is mentally unfit to rule the worlds most powerful country with some of his close aides describing him as idiotic or having the world political knowledge only of a fifth grade student as described in famous author Bob Woodwards latest book which has already had a record sale of more than one million copies. 
Whatever the impulsive or dangerously unpredictable US President may think or say, the international community last Sunday, September 16 marked the International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer and there were some positive news.
In a message to mark the occasion, the United Nations Secretary-General Antnio Guterres said that for more than three decades, the Montreal Protocol had done much more than shrink the ozone hole; it had shown us how environmental governance could respond to science, and how countries could come together to address a shared vulnerability. I call for that same spirit of common cause and, especially, greater leadership as we strive to implement the Paris Agreement on climate change and mobilize the ambitious climate action we so urgently need at this time, he said. Analysts wondered whether or what Mr. Trump would say in a Tweet about the success of the efforts to save the ozone layer. 
According to the UN, the ozone layer--a fragile shield of gas--protects the Earth from the harmful portion of the rays of the sun, thus helping preserve life on the planet. The phase out of controlled uses of ozone depleting substances and the related reductions have not only helped protect the ozone layer for this and future generations, but have also contributed significantly to global efforts to address climate change; furthermore, it has protected human health and ecosystems by limiting the harmful ultraviolet radiation from reaching the earth.
The UN says the 2018 World Ozone Day theme is keep cool and carry on the Montreal Protocol. It is a motivational rallying call urging all people to carry on with the exemplary work of protecting the ozone layer and the climate under the Montreal Protocol. The theme has two connotations  that our work of protecting the ozone layer also protects climate and that the Montreal Protocol is a cool treaty, as exemplified by its outstanding success.
In Sri Lanka, President Maithripala Sirisena himself asked for and obtained the additional portfolio of environmental protection. Despite divisions and disputes, setbacks and unfulfilled pledges, the coalition government has taken practical and sustainable steps to protect the Ozone layer in line with the Montreal Protocol. For instance, tax concessions are being offered for the import of electric vehicles while solar power is being promoted for use by companies, schools, other institutions and even households. The government says it is strictly implementing laws against cutting of trees and deforestation but recently there have been reports of politicians being behind the cutting of Kumbuk and other valuable trees.
At a personal level, whatever the government does or does not do, eco-friendly and responsible citizens need to save fresh water, electricity, cultivate home gardens without the use of poisonous chemicals, reduce the use of plastic or polythene and use public transport or bicycles as far as possible to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide which depletes the ozone layer. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Going beyond banning  EFL calls for levy on single-use plastic
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
Going beyond banning  EFL calls for levy on single-use plastic
	

Indisputably, excess waste in the environment is one of the most prevalent threats to the ecosystems and societies, alike. Although plastic itself is an extremely useful material and has revolutionised food, health and consumer sectors, our use and management of it has become extremely damaging to the environment and the food chain. Due to its low cost and convenience, single use plastics are one of the biggest polluters globally and locally here in Sri Lanka, generating approximately 420 MT of plastic waste daily. Plastic can remain in our environment for over 500 years. Due to a lack of disposal sites and poor management, it has led to tragedies such as Meethotamulla and our oceans have become dumping grounds, choking marine life. Consumed by livestock and marine creatures, it also finds its way into the food chain as micro-plastic and could lead to cancers, neuro-behavioural disorders and birth defects [1]. Unsightly garbage dumps and widespread littering significantly impacts tourism and the economy, as well.
Existing Regulation on Plastic
Single use plastics make up the biggest component of plastic waste generated. This includes lunch sheets, packaging, bottles, shopping bags, containers and cutlery. Action taken by the government directly targeting the reduction of these single use plastics can have a large scale impact on significantly reducing the waste generated islandwide and reduce the burden on waste management systems. In September 2017, the government passed landmark laws targeting reduction of some single use plastics. Although the laws are big steps in the right direction, its implementation and monitoring in the major cities and rural areas have not been upheld for the laws to be fully effective. Many consumers and establishments continue using lunch sheets, polythene bags and HDPE (High-density polyethylene), while lay people are unable to differentiate between the different micron bags.
Proposed Levy on Plastic
In addition to the ban on specific plastics, The Environmental Foundation (Guarantee) Ltd (EFL) believes that, an introduction of a levy on the use of plastics for consumers, manufacturers or importers, in different capacities, would substantially dampen the average plastic consumption. EFL also thinks that, this will ensure that the users do not continue using thicker plastic bags (>20), etc. that are not banned. Further, these levies are meant to be minimal, symbolic amounts but would serve as a noticeable, continuous reminder to the consumers. Such a non-coercive measure will encourage broad changes in behaviour over time by influencing peoples understanding of the issue. This economic tool would also generate revenue which can go towards strengthening plastic reduction strategies.
The Environmental Conservation Levy Act No. 26 of 2008 was introduced according to the budget proposals in 2008. The act provides for the imposition of a levy

On specified items owned by consumers
	On specified items imported in to or manufactured in Sri Lanka or
	On specified services provided in Sri Lanka,
which are likely to have a harmful impact on the environment.
This existing act could be the foundation upon which the proposed levies can be introduced. It should be implemented with clear communication of the reasoning behind the imposed levy. Education and awareness amongst key stakeholders of the direct impact of the levy can reduce resistance and ease adoption. At the same time, EFL suggests that alternatives to single use plastic should be made available and incentivized to make them more affordable for wider acceptance.
Biodegradable bags, reusable bags, glass bottles with collection systems and waiving tax on manufacturing materials are solutions which can be encouraged.
The proposed levy on plastic by EFL has been brought to notice of the President, the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister so far.
Examples of countries successfully implemented levies
In 2002 the Irish government introduced a tax on plastic bags at points of sale, known as the Plas Tax. The levy was set six times higher than the estimated willingness to pay per bag, with the aim to trigger behavioural change in consumers and promote the use of reusable shopping bags. The levy was accompanied with clear government body responsible for the tax, extensive stakeholder consultations and clear awareness campaigns with the intentions of the levy. The result was wider public recognition and smooth enforcement of the levy, with the plastic bag usage plummeting by 90% and the consumers favouring the increased environmental protection [2].
Indonesia successfully implemented a levy on plastic bags. Although it received resistance from consumers and plastics industry, plastic bag consumption has reduced by 40%.Portugal also implemented a plastic bag tax in February 2015 to reduce the consumption of plastic grocery bags and in turn reduce the potential contribution to marine litter. Within four months following the tax implementation, it was observed that the plastic bag consumption reduced by 74% and the reusable plastic bag usage increased by 61%. Majority of the European countries have successfully implemented levies to reduce single-use plastics, while complete bans or levies have been implemented across many African and Asian countries.
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) released a global report in 2018, on policy decisions taken by governments across the world to tackle single use plastics. The report presents excellent research and guidelines, which will be a useful resource in developing a related policy.
In Sri Lanka, EFL believes that, a combination of the existing bans whilst imposing new levies will work successfully to reduce plastic consumption and help manage our waste crisis. This will need to go along with strong accountability, clear awareness campaigns on the environmental and economic impacts, stakeholder engagement and continuous monitoring. Ultimately, if EFL believes that Sri Lankans can have the fortitude to introduce a levy on single use plastics, it can be the catalyst for a greener and healthier environment for all Sri Lankans.
Reference guide: [1] Galloway T.S. (2015) Micro- and Nano-plastics and Human Health. In: Bergmann M. Gutow L. Klages M. (eds) Marine Anthropogenic Litter.
Springer, Cham
[2] UNEP (2018). SINGLE-USE PLASTICS: A Road map for Sustainability 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gold bracelet, his latest whim!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:56 am
Gold bracelet, his latest whim!
	
A central province politico known to be a close buddy of a high political authority is now being popularly referred to by the nickname, Rattaran, they say.
People have given this nickname to him because of his craze for wearing gold ornaments.
His latest acquisition is said to be a gold bracelet which, he tells all and sundry, cost him one and a half lakhs of rupees.
He would often fold up his shirt sleeve to proudly exhibit his new ornament.
Rattaran and his precious gold bracelet has become a subject that provides much amusement to the people in the area, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: India to develop Palaly airport
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 11:33 am
India to develop Palaly airport
	
State-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI) will prepare a detailed project report for development of Palaly airport in Sri Lanka, the PTI reported.
This would be the first project for the AAI in the island nation and "we are trying to get engaged with our neighbours", an AAI official said.
In a release issued on Monday, the AAI said it has signed an agreement with External Affairs Ministry for "preparation of a Detailed Project Report for development of Palaly airport in Sri Lanka
The official said all the technical and design aspects would be covered in the DPR, which is expected to be completed in three months time.
"The AAI has developed more than 60 airports in metro and non-metro cities in India and now the AAI wants to leverage its expertise to other countries on a bigger scale," the release said.
The AAI manages more than 120 airports in different parts of the country.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Indulging siblings at taxpayers expense!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:58 am
Indulging siblings at taxpayers expense!
	
The political chief of the main province has reportedly placed two of his official vehicles at the disposal of his son and daughter.
This politico had procured a 30 million rupee worth Mercedes Benz with public funds when he already had at his disposal a deluxe limousine left behind by his predecessor. His son is said to be now cruising about in this Benz.
Meanwhile, his daughter serving on his personal staff is using another official vehicle set apart for the politico.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Jumbo Tragedy
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:57 pm
Jumbo Tragedy
	
Three jumbos were killed after a herd was hit by the Batticaloa bound train early this morning while the elephants were walking across the tracks. One female elephant was pregnant at the time of the accident and the fetus had come out following the impact. (Pix by K.G. Karunarathne)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kobbekaduwa Commemoration remembering  a valiant soldier
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:05 am
Kobbekaduwa Commemoration remembering  a valiant soldier
	

The Anunayake of Malwatte Venerable Rajakeeya Panditha Niyangoda Vijithasiri Thera said that it was a sad state of affairs when one couldnt find out how the murder of Lieutenant General Denzil Kobbekaduwa came about.
The Anunayake Thera was speaking at the 26th Death Anniversary of the demise of Lt. General Denzil Kobbekaduwa, which was held at the Byrd Park, Kandy.
Lt. General Kobbekaduwa comes from a lineage of the Mahanayake of Malwatte when the British took over Kandy. He could claim the lineage from that time, coming from a noble family.
The function was formally conducted by the former Governor of the Central Provincial Council Tikiri Kobbekaduwa, but since he was not in good health the ceremony was taken over by the Kandy Municipal Council (KMC).
Just like Mahanayake Siriniwas Kobbekaduwa protected the Sacred Tooth Relic during the British regime, Lt. General Denzil Kobbekaduwa protected the country at a very unusual time, Anunayake Niyangoda Vijitha Siri Thera said.

Lt. General Kobbekaduwa comes from a lineage of the Mahanayake of Malwatte when the British took over Kandy. He could claim the lineage from that time, coming from a noble family.

Speaking further the Thera said that it was somewhat heartbreaking to see how some react to the ten-year-old peace, after a thirty-year-war and how sometimes the valiant soldiers were spoken about.
It is also a sad moment in the annals of history of this Sacred Land, that how Lt. General Denzil and others died is not yet revealed, he said.
Yet, his memory among the common man and the service he has done would never be forgotten. He did yeoman service to the country and its people and this simple ceremony was undertaken by the Kandy Municipality is a symbol of acknowledgement of that service of the valiant soldier, Anunayake Venerable Rajakeeya Panditha Niyagoda Vijithasiri said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan arrested in Milan was a former diplomat: MFA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 06:24 pm
Lankan arrested in Milan was a former diplomat: MFA
	
A Sri Lankan, who was a former diplomat on contract from 2012-2015, has been arrested in Milan but he has no valid Diplomatic Passport in his possession any more, as claimed by reports, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said on Tuesday.
In a statement, it said the Ministry has received media reports from Italy that a Sri Lankan with a Diplomatic Passport has been arrested at Malpensa Airport in Milan for allegedly trying to smuggle four youths into Italy.
The Ministry initiated immediate inquiries to ascertain the veracity of this information. Accordingly, the Officials of the Consulate General of Sri Lanka in Milan have met the person arrested and have established his identity. It has been confirmed that the arrested person is not at present employed at any Sri Lanka Mission abroad or at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The person concerned does not hold a valid Diplomatic Passport and has travelled to Italy on an Official Passport issued to him on the basis of his employment in a government agency in Sri Lanka. It has also been established that this person had held a diplomatic assignment abroad on contract from 2012-2015 and was in possession of a Diplomatic Passport that had been cancelled, upon completion of his contract, the statement said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lorry goes for a swim
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 18 September 2018 09:56 pm
Lorry goes for a swim
	
A lorry was seen floating in the Hamilton Canalnearthe Alakanda area todayafter it fell into the canal. No one was injured in the accident. Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Mastercard Introduces Mastercard TrackTo Make the Business of Doing Business Easier
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 September 2018 01:34 pm
Mastercard Introduces Mastercard TrackTo Make the Business of Doing Business Easier
	
introduced Mastercard Trackin collaboration with Microsoft(NASDAQ: MSFT). Track is a unique global trade platform that will simplify and enhance how companies around the world do business with each other.
While parts of the B2B process have been digitized, large and costly gaps still remain an estimated $500 billionin annual administrative costs and rising .These costs are added to the inefficiency of the nearly half of all global business transactions  $58 trillion  that are still done in paper.
Mastercard Track will address these fundamental challenges by further streamlining and automating the procure-to-pay-process  enabling businesses to manage business identity, compliance and payments in a more efficient way.
While there have been great improvements and innovations in the way consumers pay, the global B2B space remains highly inefficient and paper-based,said Michael Froman, vice chairman and president of strategic growth at Mastercard. This adds hundreds of billions of dollars of costs and burdensome delays to global trade. Mastercard Track is a tool that will help reduce frictions in the global trading system and promote increased exports  especially by small and medium-sized businesses.
Unlocking growth for businesses of all sizes
While consumers have become accustomed toa broader choice of technology solutions, businesses too are looking for speed, security and convenience in their everyday operations.From reducing the steps it takes to identify a business partner,to making the payments process simpler and more transparent, Mastercard Track has the potential to unlock economic growth and to level the playing field for small- and medium-sized enterprises (SME).
Together with Mastercard, were helping companies around the world accelerate the pace of their own transformation by creating a more efficient buying and selling process at scale, said Peggy Johnson, executive vice president, Microsoft. By building Mastercard Track on Azure, Mastercard will be able to take advantage of our stringent security and compliance standards, our global footprint and our intelligent cloud solutions to help organizations of all sizes drive value from the back-office to the front of the enterprise.
Mastercard Track underscores the companys commitment to address several pain points in the global business environment. The new platform draws on and complements the whole range of Mastercard innovation and B2B assets, from account-to-account and card payment solutions to fraud management, data analytics and payment gateway services.
Addressing identity, compliance and payment management needs
Initially, Mastercard is partnering with nineB2B networks and procure-to-pay solution providers Basware, BirchStreet, Coupa, the Infor GT Nexus Commerce Network,Ivalua, Jaggaer, Liaison Technologies, Tradeshift and Tungsten Network  representing a wide range of global businesses, to roll out Tracks identity, compliance and paymentmanagement capabilities to buyers and suppliers.
Beginning in early 2019, customers of these organizationswill be able to maintain, retrieve and exchange key information relating to themselves and their trading partners through the Track Trade Directory, a secure, permissioned repository of over 150 million company registrations worldwide.This central directory will integrate feeds from more than 4,500 compliance lists into one place, making the screening and onboarding of suppliers more efficient.
As the platform expands, suppliers will have better visibility into cash flow  when they can expect to get paid and for how much  across multiple networks. Track will help connect all types of payments  account-based, card-based or bank transfer  within the platform, while also connecting purchase order and invoice information. This will streamline and simplify back-office reconciliation, one of the largest burdens facing businesses today.
Through its partners, Track will enable B2B networks, banks, insurance companies and technology providers to extend value-added services to business customers, such as enhanced data analytics and trade finance.
Integrated with Singapores National Trade Platform
In Singapore, Mastercard Track has already been integrated with the National Trade Platform, a one-stop digital trade eco system which brings together key logistics functions, such as movement of goods as well as regulatory and financial elements for players across the trade value chain. Mastercard Track facilitates secure and efficient electronic payments between buyers and suppliers, helping to strengthen the countrys position as the leading trading hub for the region.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Minister bats  for neighbours Dr. Harsha to fight against  condominium corruptions
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
Minister bats  for neighbours Dr. Harsha to fight against  condominium corruptions
	
Minister Harsha de Silva with the affected residents near the construction site on Saturday (15)


A meeting conveyed by State Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs Dr. Harsha De Silva regarding issues faced by a group of residents in Off Buthgamuwa Road, Rajagiriya is to take place today (September 18) with Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation (SLLRC) Chairman Roshan Gunawardena and Municipal Commissioner of Sri Japura-Kotte Wasanthi Rathnapala.
Following the Dailymirror Expose titled Nuisance next door published on September 13, Minister De Silva, who is also the MP for Kotte, visited the group of affected residents on Saturday (September 15) and called for this meeting with SLLRC Chairman and Municipal Commissioner of Sri Japura-Kotte.
TheDailymirror  Expose reported the long standing residents in the area alleging an Indian property developer Iconic Developments (Pvt) Ltd of building a super luxury condominium project named Iconic Galaxy on a land in their neighborhood. The story neighbours were quoted in stating that the property developer was illegally filling the marsh, forcibly using a private road and building an unauthorised bridge as the main access to the complex.
They also alleged that the Urban Development Authority (UDA), the SLLRDC, Japura-Kotte Municipal Council and the Welikada Police are acting to facilitate the requirements of the Indian company, violating the laws of Sri Lanka.
According to the revelation byDailymirror it was found that a private road had been allegedly converted to a public road to make access to the condominium under construction. This was supported by documentary evidence. The residents also complained that they were greatly disturbed by the construction with sound pollution continuing to late night. The female residents also had complained that they were undergoing sexual harrament due to the workers at the site.
As there can be many sides to a story, theDailymirror before publishing the Expose also obtained a response from the Indian property developer and published it prominantly in the article.
Meanwhile, Minister de Silva, who is a very active politician on social media, made a post on his official Facebook page, regarding this Rajagiriya issue, in connection which Iconics MD Parikh has also replied. Later, a conversation between Parikh and Minister De Silva began.
Ministers FB post
In reply to the Iconic Developments Managing Director, the minister made a lengthy post. Below are extracts from his comments.
I had a meeting, with all stakeholders together; Iconic representatives, residents, UDA, SLLRDC, MC, police etc. At that meeting it was found that the road was in fact a private one. That is why the police agreed to the signage This is a Private Road being erected. There seems to be a dispute with regard to the filling of the land too. I have asked the SLLRDC to immediately inspect and provide a report.
All I want is the law to be adhered to. Most disturbingly I just found out today that last week a meeting had been called without me and certain decisions had been taken to demolish what has been called illegal constructions encroaching on to the 30 foot public road. I have directed that the minutes of the said meeting be immediately sent to me to understand what had happened at this non-transparent meeting by leaving the elected representative out.
This I find most strange and not in keeping with the good governance we have to practice. In any case the ownership and the width of the road have to be established before any demolition of houses of long time residents is to take place given the situation.
When I visited the area every person on that road came to speak with me. Yes, it is only a few residents who live down the road. I am perplexed about your number of 500 residents; perhaps they are those who have paid for the new apartments. Yes, they are important and hard earned money has been spent. Sums between Rs 30 and 50 million has been paid as down payments and these monies keep the construction going. I am fully aware of their rights and intend safeguarding same. But that does not in any way mean that the rights of the existing residents can be dismissed.



I would also like to mention in public that I cannot be silenced by powerful people and it is best that such attempts are not made in the future by either side. It is best that there is an understanding that not every politician is the same, the minister said. (Note that the ministers Face Book comments have been edited to the suite the print edition of theDailymirror )
Meanwhile, the minister said that he was not satisfied with the Kotte MC at all since corruption has been rampant within the MC.
I requested for an audit from the UDA of 39 ongoing developments in Kotte last year, after we were alerted by some residents about a massive fraud where a particular developer had obtained a permit to go up 13 stories, but found a way to increase it to 25 stories. According to this report, of the 37 buildings audited (the Kotte MC did not share details of 2 projects even after the UDA requested for same repeatedly) it was found that:
a) Only 04 projects complied with the planning and building regulations specified in the Kotte Development Plan.
b) Of the remaining projects, 12 had received permits, but with major deviations; and
c) 15 were progressing with valid permits, but without clearances from relevant agencies such as the Central Environmental Authority and the Traffic Planning Committee etc.
d) The rest were not scrutinized as they could not be classified as apartments.
Minister stated that certain persons, who were directly responsible for the 13 stories going up to 25, were the same people who are involved in the Iconic Galaxy apartment complex mess from the MC.
If we find out that Kotte MC officials have been manipulating matters I will ensure that they are dealt with full force of the law, he further said.
Justice to be metedout to all
The minister reiterated that he hoped justice would be meted out to all parties and if the developer has transgressed they will have to correct themselves. If the residents have transgressed then they will have to correct themselves too.
Meanwhile, many people and residents representing organisations from Dehiwala, Mount Lavinia, Kotte and Colombo suburbs have rendered support to the group of Rajagiriya residents. Those organisations and the people claim that they were experiencing the same issues intheir areas.
Meanwhile, the Daily Mirror learns that the Indian developer in question Iconic Developments (Pvt) Ltd has organised a press conference to be held today (Tuesday) at afive- star hotel in Colombo.

Iconic developers send second response
TheDailymirror contacted the management of the property developer via email and sent them the allegations made by the people, seeking a reply to be published in the Expose. Subsequently, the Managing Director of the Iconic Developments Rohan Parikh replied and his reply was published in the DM article. However, the management of Iconic Developments Pvt Limited had sent another response on Monday in response to the Expose article. As the Daily Mirror respects the right of reply and believes all voices should be heard, the following are the relevant sections of the second response sent to the Daily Mirror:
1: Iconic causing inconvenience to residents
Response: A small group of 4-5 residents has misled a local politician and the residents have been trying to extract monies from Iconic. 4-5 residents have illegally built their walls onto a shared public road which is blatantly an illegal act. When asked to move their walls back, they have responded with lies and threats. This is their vested interest.
2: Indian and Chinese workers behaving inappropriately
Response: Not a single Indian or Chinese national worker is employed at Iconics site. The photograph in the paper is of workers from the neighbouring site belonging to another Sri Lankan construction company. The same project has taken up a large warehouse for storage on this particular road. There are multiple developments coming up along that area. Iconic developments take the utmost care to ensure that any inconvenience to the residents is at the minimum. We follow all norms prescribed by the local authorities regarding construction. Our construction is handled by Maga, a local Sri Lankan Company employing Sri Lankan manpower. In fact every agency working on our project is a Sri Lankan Company employing Sri Lankan manpower.
3: The construction site releases effluents into the canal
Response: The canal was a sewage dump until it was cleaned and maintained by Iconic. Images of the canal before and after are easily available. Iconic challenges the newspaper and the neighbours to produce a single shred of evidence of pollution.
Iconic further charges that the canal was used by the residents as a garbage dump for many years. Now that a clean development is coming up, their use of this canal as a dump yard has been stopped. This has annoyed the 4-5 residents as mentioned previously.
We have left 60% of the land open for flooding of the canal in compliance with the rules of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation & Development Corporation.
4: RTI revealed Off Buthgamuwa road is not a public road
Response: Municipal records, Land records, UDA records, the owners purchase documents confirm that the road was declared public in the 2009. Anyone is free to visit either the Kotte Municipal or our offices where all copies exist to verify the same. It is unfortunate that basic due diligence is missing.
5: Off Buthgama Road is a private road for residents
Response: Not only is it a public road, Iconic owns a clear right of way over the road. Iconic has an inalienable right to use this road. The opinion of nearly every top law firm in Sri Lanka is unanimous on this, as is the opinion of every government agency.
The right of way documents are available for public examination at the offices of Iconic Development.
6: Govt agencies are turning a blind eye
Response: The project has gone though years and months of intense scrutiny from the BOI, the UDA, the Kotte Municipal Council, the Ministry of Environment, The Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation. Many onerous environmental and developmental standards have been imposed on Iconic and 100% complied. Every building code, fire code, flood code, earthquake code, structural code, etc has been complied with to the letter. We challenge anyone to find a single code violation.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel hosts yet another mega Cash Bonanza Carnival in Anuradhapura
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 18 September 2018 01:29 pm
Mobitel hosts yet another mega Cash Bonanza Carnival in Anuradhapura
	
The Mobitel Cash Bonanza Carnival took center stage recently in the culturally significant town of Anuradhapura. The Salgado Grounds buzzed with activity as families and friends gathered to witness the full-day event hosted by Sri Lankas National Mobile Service Provider, Mobitel. The carnival, a part of the Cash Bonanza initiative, is a loyalty rewards draw that travels across the country throughout the year, and is a celebration of family, fun and unity that is the essence of Mobitels We Care, Always motto.
The carnival featured activities for those of all ages. The young gathered at the high speed 4G powered gaming zone, where they enjoyed hours of free gaming fun. Children were treated to a host of fun activities including art competitions, movie experiences and music with clowns and mascots adding to the festivities. In an effort to add convenience to the lives of many, in a rare opportunity, residents of Anuradhapura, were allowed to apply for national identity cards in a span of 08 hours at the event. The highlight of the event was the eye clinic organized with the participation of renowned eye specialists; saw the distribution of 1,000 reading glasses and free kidney checkup amongst the citizens of the district. The event culminated in a musical fiesta at the end of the day. The musical group Sanidapa, entertained visitors with music and dancing, a fitting way to end an enjoyable day. Mobitel also hosted a special Internet Workshop giving the youth of the area a chance to get updated on how to use the internet to increase productivity. A special workshop was also conducted on Entrepreneurship by Sanath Gamage who is a Human Skills Development Consultant.
The 2018 Cash Bonanza promotion will give away Mercedes Benz cars and loyal and lucky Mobitel customers are eligible to win Rs. 211 Mn worth of Prizes throughout the year in the Daily and Quarterly Draws. As many as 220,000 Daily winners can win cash prizes each up to Rs.500 on a daily basis throughout the year. Mobitel is the first operator in the mobile telecommunication industry to carry out this mega promotion starting with giving out 24 Montero Jeeps in the years 2016 and 2017 and this year this has been upgraded to give away Mercedes Benz cars to its valued customers.
Cash Bonanza is a reload, recharge and bill payment promotion for Mobitel customers. Mobitel Pre-Paid, Post-Paid and Broadband customers are eligible for the Mobitel Cash Bonanza draw with a winning chance for every Rs. 50/- cash recharge, reload or Post-Paid bill value payment. There is no separate registration process but all Mobitel customers are automatically entitled for the draw. For the daily cash prizes, Pre-Paid winning customers will receive the prize by way of talk time and data for the same value and Post-Paid winning customers will receive the prize by way of a rebate on their Post-Paid bill. Cash Bonanza winners will only be notified via Mobitels customer care hotline 071 27 55 777 and in writing via post. Customers will not be charged an additional fee for any prizes they have won.
 
		
==============================
## Title: National Elections-UNP will take vital decisions soon: Akila
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 07:15 am
National Elections-UNP will take vital decisions soon: Akila
	
The United National Party (UNP) Working Committee will soon take vital decisions with regard to the national elections that are due in 2019 and 2020, Party General Secretary and Minister, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said yesterday.
He said this at a ceremony held at the Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya headquarters in Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte to mark the 112th birth anniversary of former president J.R. Jayewardene.
The UNP is keen to see that the next head of state is a nominee of the party," the minister said and added that the joint opposition candidate for the next presidential election will not pose a challenge to the party no matter who he or she would be.
It will not matter whether the presidential candidate selected by the JO is a Rajapaksa or somebody else, the minister said.
He said the UNP would emerge victorious at the national elections as it is currently in office.
Paying a glowing tribute to former president Jayewardene, the minister said the late leader was a man who had a broad vision of the future. The way Mr. Jayewardene handled a crisis and his patience is a great lesson for young politicians. He was a man who kept himself updated with the changing world, he said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: 2nd South Asian Youth Summit to hold in Colombo
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 18 September 2018 09:30 pm
2nd South Asian Youth Summit to hold in Colombo
	
The 2nd South Asian Youth Summit scheduled to be held this year will take place from the 28th of November to the 01st of December at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall. Addressing a special press conference yesterday, International Youth Committee (IYC) Chairman Dr. K.K.Singh said the summit will be held under the theme Creating a Sustainable Future in a Fractured South Asia. Pix by Waruna Wanniarachchi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Novichok ruled out after couple fall ill in UK
## Section: International
## Date: 18 September 2018 11:03 am
Novichok ruled out after couple fall ill in UK
	

LONDON AFP Sept17, 2018 - There is nothing to suggest that Novichok caused two people to fall ill in the British town where a Russian ex-spy and his daughter were poisoned by the deadly nerve agent, police said Monday. 
Parts of Salisbury in southwest England were sealed off and a hazardous area response team was called to the scene after the pair became unwell at an Italian restaurant on Sunday evening. 
Due to recent events in the city and concerns that the pair had been exposed to an unknown substance, a highly precautionary approach was taken by all emergency services, Wiltshire Police said in a statement. 
We can now confirm that there is nothing to suggest that Novichok is the substance. Police said the couple, a man in his 40s and a woman in her 30s, were assessed in hospital where they remained under observation. 
It was unclear if any crime had been committed, police said, adding that the events were no longer being treated as a major incident but enquiries were ongoing. 
It was in Salisbury in March that Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were poisoned with Novichok, a powerful nerve agent created in the Soviet Union. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Overzealous investigations into military affairs counter productive to transitional justice
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
Overzealous investigations into military affairs counter productive to transitional justice
	
At the Cabinet meeting, the President raised concerns about the prolonged detention without trial of military officers. He was equally livid that he as the Commander-In-Chief of the tri-forces was not informed of the impending arrest of the Chief of Defence Staff


Last Thursday, barely 48 hours after the regular Cabinet meeting, President Maithripala Sirisena convened an emergency Cabinet meeting. The reason for this hush-hush meeting (The President repeatedly urged his ministers not to divulge the substance to the media) was the impending arrest of the Chief of Defence Staff, Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne by the CID. Admiral Wijegunaratne was accused of aiding a former officer of the naval intelligence wing, now a key suspect in the disappearance of 11 civilians, to evade the arrest. The officer in question is Hettiaratchchi Mudiyanselage Chandana Prasad Hettiaratchchi, better known as navy Sampath, a former Lieutenant Commander of the Navy and the personal security officer of the former navy commander Admiral Wasantha Karannagoda. Earlier, Mr. Hettiarachchi was arrested at Lotus road. It was alleged that he had been working at a plantation in Dompe, using a forged National Identity Card. However, talk in the military circles was that he had been assisted by the naval top brass to flee the country.

Nor does it reassure the majority in the South, when the same government is failing to forge ahead with an equal amount of assertiveness in matters of economic development
Now, the CID alleged that he had been transported out of Sri Lankan waters in a naval vessel and moved to another ship which took him to Thailand. Later he had returned to Sri Lanka under an assumed name. There were allegations about the connivance of the naval top brass, including Admiral Wijegunaratne, a former navy commander. Colombo Chief Magistrate had issued an order for the arrest of Admiral Wijegunaratne if the CID found incriminating evidence against him. However, on the day he was summoned to the CID (September 11), Admiral Wijegunaratne took a flight to Mexico, ostensibly to represent Sri Lanka at Mexicos Independence Day celebrations. He is expected to give a statement to the CID on September 19 upon his return.

At the Cabinet meeting, the President raised concerns about the prolonged detention without trial of military officers. He was equally livid that he as the Commander-In-Chief of the tri-forces was not informed of the impending arrest of the Chief of Defence Staff, the senior-most serving officer of the unified command of the armed forces. The current government is in itself caught up in a catch-22 situation because of the extreme vested interests and raw emotions attached to the trials of military officials. 
The President himself promised in his election manifesto to investigate the incidents of human rights violations allegedly committed during the previous regime. His government subsequently co-sponsored a UN Human Rights Council resolution in which the government reaffirmed its commitment to transitional justice and to bring a closure to the thousands of victims of the 30-year war. Since then, a few selected cases have been vigorously pursued by the CID. One was the disappearance of 11 youth, though the initial complaint on the matter was lodged by the then navy commander Admiral Karannagoda in 2009 after his then personal security officer Lt. Commander Sampath fell out with him.
There are various analogies about the immediate cause for the estrangement; the incident, nonetheless, led to the unearthing of an abduction racket run by the Special Intelligence Unit of the Navy, ostensibly with the knowledge of at least some of the senior officers. Fearing for his life, Mr. Sampath later sought sanctuary under the then Army commander General Sarath Fonseka. A mutual animosity between the then Army chief and his navy counterpart was also public knowledge. Sampath also confided that the senior officers were privy to the abduction racket, and divulged an alleged plan to kill several journalists loyal to General Fonseka. This saw them being accorded security by the army commandos. Then defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa, though some of his associates claim was keen to investigate the allegations of abductions, in fact sat on them. Investigations were resumed only after the election of the current government in 2015. During a five-year-long hiatus, much could have happened to the evidence. 
Thus this whole affair is a lot more complicated than it appears on the surface. It also bears the signature of the recent troubled past. That was also a time when an entire country was reeling from suicide bombers; security vulnerability of the state effectively triggered a kind of behaviour that may not be condoned in hindsight, though abductions of the innocent young men for ransom, as the case under investigation has revealed to be, is unjustified under any circumstance. 
None of the above should deprive the victims and loved ones the justice they are clamouring for. However, the path to justice is trickier than it would normally be. Justice will be best served to the victims if the CID and the other agencies focused on the case itself (i.e. who is responsible for the tragic plight of 11 young men) and not its subsequent swings. Sidetracking the investigation could well open a can of worms and getting rid of the infestation would not be easy. It is better to avoid that predicament. 

However, talk in the military circles was that he had been assisted by the naval top brass to flee the country. The CID alleged that he had been transported out of Sri Lankan waters in a naval vessel
It is fashionable in this country to be sanctimonious after the end of a brutal conflict. However, war is a bloody business where one may be forced to cross the lines of what is not permissible in normal times. Counter insurgency is dirtier. Digging deeper into the affairs of the past would not be in anyones interest. 
Also, the overzealous actions of the CID in certain cases are not matched by the other agencies that investigate separate cases. While military officers are held in prolonged detention without trial, and then released, those who are accused of high profile cases of corruption during the previous regime are roaming free. The government has failed to convict a single fat cat politician whom it accused of being corrupt even when evidence of certain incidents of corruption are publicly available. Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the former defence secretary has avoided arrest by obtaining repeated restraining orders. Investigations into certain other incidents, such as the killing of Welikada prison inmates, ostensibly picked and chosen according to a Gota list have been stalled. 
This governments inertia does not add up with overly eager investigations into certain other matters. Nor does it reassure the majority in the South, when the same government is failing to forge ahead with an equal amount of assertiveness in matters of economic development. 
Sri Lankas quest for transitional justice cannot be pursued in isolation of other national priorities. It should be one among a set of multiple pressing imperatives that should be achieved in coordination. Any mutually exclusive approach to appease the European Union and UN Human Rights Council is bound to fail at home. 
In its search for transitional justice, the government should also be able to a draw a line between what is possible and what is not and focused its time and energy on things which are possible to achieve without creating a major consternation in the country. Rather than empowering peace and giving a closure to the victims, mixing up of priorities would only embolden the ultra-nationalists in the South.
Follow @RangaJayasuriya on Twitter
 
		
==============================
## Title: Premasiri Khemadasa:  Thank you for the music
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:09 am
Premasiri Khemadasa:  Thank you for the music
	
All things considered, music is one of the most acute markers of cultural identity and sophistication in any given society. One need not be a theorist or practitioner in the field to realise this. As such, the biographies of composers, lyricists, and vocalists, not to mention sound engineers and even studio owners, are inextricably woven into the history and evolution of those identities. What would Western civilization be without Mozart and Beethoven, for instance
For me, music is therefore at once a promoter of cultural uniqueness and fluidity. And for me, three names crop up when one tries to validate this thesis in the context of our culture: Amaradeva, Clarence Wijewardena and Premasiri Khemadasa
One of the very first articles I wrote to this paper was on Khemadasa (Premasiri Khemadasas lost songs). In it, owing to my immaturity, I broke down the mans career to three distinct periods, corresponding to certain shifts in the mans outlook on his field. I realise now that such an exercise, though certainly befitting of an academic, can only be futile if not simplistic if undertaken by an amateur like me. It makes one miss the bigger picture, the full worth, of the person being written on. The truth of the matter is, then, that when it comes to the biography of someone like Khemadasa, one has to start from the beginning. There are no shortcuts.
Premasiri Khemadasa Perera was born in Wadduwa, the youngest alongside 12 other siblings, in 1937. He was not born to an affluent family: his father died when he was seven and from that point on it was his mother who looked after the household. Owing to economic reasons, there was never much interest shown towards the education of the children, a fate which befell young Premasiri despite the fact that he maintained strong academic credentials at school.
It was around this time that he chanced across, and bought, a cheap flute. Like Oscar Matzerath, the hero who carries a toy tin drum in Gunter Grass classic novel, young Premasiri formed an inextricable bond with that flute. In his biography of the man, Eric Iliyaparachchi writes of how, as a boy, he would entertain train passengers with it on the way to Colombo from his hometown, and how those passengers, who happened to be port labourers, would buy him the platform ticket to exit the station. That flute would, not surprisingly, become a reminder of a rather strained childhood.
These were happy times, though they were almost always undone by his schooling, for while he was academically inclined, he never got the recognition he deserved from his teachers. This, coupled with the inevitable pressures of growing up with 12 elder siblings (who would constantly break his beloved flute), meant that his attachment to his instrument bred in him a love, an intense love in fact, towards music.
After entering the Radio Ceylon orchestra, Khemadasa, young no more, began his career properly in the field of film music. It is in here, and not in the symphonic pieces he would compose decades later, that we see him evolve as an original composer.
Film music at the time was nothing more than the art of transcribing some foreign (usually Indian) melody after adding some Sinhala lyrics. John de Silvas theatre had found its cinematic equivalent in the Jayamanne brothers, and this found its way to film soundtracks. The 1950s moreover saw a plethora of vocalists from other parts of the world - America, Europe, even LatinAmerica - make their way to local airwaves. Local performers, enamoured by the exoticism of it all, merely added to the process of cultural plagiarism that the Jayamanne brothers had inadvertently initiated.

Whether or not Khemadasa determined at the outset to stray away from this trend, we cannot say. In any case, he was caught in a tentative battle between the populists, who went on borrowing from the outside world, and the exponents of the sarala geeya, who wanted a more original idiom in tune with our civilization.
When Madawala S. Ratnayake and Amaradeva transformed the jana kavi to the sarala gee, they cut down on the background music. This privileged the literary worth of a song, as opposed to its instrumentation, so much that, as in India, the sarala geeya here became an alternative to film music. As such it was the counterpoint to the film song, the popular ditties and ballads which, in Sri Lanka, had been plagiarized from India. It was a rift that could never be bridged, at least not until the 60s when the likes of Ratnayake and Amaradeva entered the cinema as poets and composers and challenged the Muttusamys and the Pandurangans who had dominated the field until then.
Khemadasas entry to the cinema has to be assessed against this backdrop. He sought to look beyond the popular balladeers, who privileged the vocalist, and the champions of the sarala geeya, who privileged the poet, and bring about a fusion between the two. But before everything, there was a cultural challenge he had to reckon with.
The Odi poet Fakir Mohan Senapati once observed that when the people of Odisha tried to read prose works, they would try to sing the words and express surprise and irritation at not being able to find the rhyme or metre. What was true of that territory was true of ours too: we preferred poetry to prose. Perhaps that is why prose works, even during the Dambadeniya period, were never as popular as poetry was, here.
The indifference to Western classical orchestral music this gave birth to (owing to our dislike of aesthetic works which lacked poetry or vocal backing) was the challenge that Khemadasa had to face. While he faced it well, it was still not possible in Sri Lanka for this kind of musical purism to go beyond the critics. It needed a different sensibility. After all, we were not a country that had seen court composers, who spoke to the elite, the patrons of the arts. We were a country that had seen court poets, who spoke to the people, the consumers of the arts. This difference can help explain why Khemadasas later forays were lauded by the elite, yet ignored by the people.

In that respect, the mans greatest contribution was in the territory he had started his career in. Admittedly, there had been much work done before on (film) music by other composers, a point that Eric Iliyaparachchi misses in his biography. The likes of Sunil Shantha and Ananda Samarakoon, for instance, had suffered for the sin of originality, faced obstacles very different to the ones that Khemadasa would face, and laid down the groundwork for their successors. The challenges they had to wade through were specific to their time, but having met them, these early pioneers became instrumental in helping the likes of Khemadasa to evolve later on.
And yet, even when one brushes aside these historical antecedents, one can only be amazed (as I am, always) by the length and breadth of the mans works. From the opening, evocative bars of Sulan Kurullo(from Senasuma Kothanada) to the sharp and deft interplay of cello, harp, and drum in the sequence of the protagonist coming across the woman he marries to offer as a sacrifice in Nidhanaya,there is much in Khemadasas compositions, with or without a poetic veneer, which bespeaks to a higher consciousness, a higher level of sophistication.

The truth of the matter is, then, that when it comes to the biography of someone like Khemadasa, one has to start from the beginning. There are no shortcuts
M. S. Anandan, who shot Nidhanaya, told me that he was not a little frustrated by the decision of its director (Lester James Peries) to shoot a waltz sequence between the protagonist and his wife. I badly wanted, he candidly recounted, to turn it into a musical number. By musical, he meant the cha-cha, the twist, the swing. He could not have been moved by or impressed with Khemadasas waltz, which was so dazzling to me that even now, I am sorry that no one took the time to do a better recording. To be mesmerised by it, one requires both intellect and connoisseurship.
Indeed, so evocative was the music in Nidhanaya that no less a person than Sanuka Wickramasinghe alluded in Saragaye to the opening bars of the films main theme. Bathiya and Santhush had alluded to Bachs Air on the G String in Wasanthaye, and to Beethovens 6th in Ras Wihidena Samanaliyakuge; in that sense, the closest to Bach and Beethoven a local performer could take from, in here, was Khemadasa.
I thus believe that in one point I was right in my last article on him: like Beethoven, Premasiri Khemadasa saw music in terms of its potential to liberate the artist from the corridors of tradition. It was this which motivated, right from the time he came across that cheap flute in his childhood, so much so that in the end, we cannot say that we are not all the richer for what he did. Or for that matter tried to do.


 
		
==============================
## Title: Price of gas increased by Rs.190
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 05:26 pm
Price of gas increased by Rs.190
	
The Cabinet had today endorsed a gas price hike of Rs.190 for a 12.5 kg cylinder of gas.
Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama presented the Cabinet memorandum seeking approval for the price hike. However, the gas suppliers had sought a price hike of Rs. 325.
The effective date for the price hike will be announced later. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Price of gas up by Rs.195, milk powder down by Rs. 25
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 09:01 pm
Price of gas up by Rs.195, milk powder down by Rs. 25
	
The Cost of Living Committee, which met this evening, has recommended to increase a 12.5 kg cylinder of gas by Rs.195.
It has also decided to reduce price of a kilogram of milk powder by Rs. 25.
Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama had presented a Cabinet memorandum seeking approval for the price hike earlier today.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Private entities show reluctance to implement RTI: Official
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 02:26 am
Private entities show reluctance to implement RTI: Official
	
Compared to state institutions, the private entities which come under Public Authorities had shown less cooperation to the process of Right To Information (RTI), National Media Centre Director Jagath Liyanarachchi said yesterday.
Addressing a workshop held on promoting RTI ahead of the RTI week, Mr.Liyanarachchi said private entities are of the view that the RTI doesnt apply to them.
This is not what we assumed. These private institutions had not even appointed an RTI officer. We thought there will be resistance from the state workers to the process of RTI.
They have embraced the RTI with love. State sector employees enthusiastically help those who apply for RTI information. Even the politicians today use the RTI, he said.
According to the Right to Information Commission, private entities which come under Public Authorities include private entities which work under contract, agreement, licence or a partnership with the government and private entities which have been funded by the government.
The NGOs which receive funds from the governments of Sri Lanka or other countries should also follow the RTI Act.
The RTI week will be held from September 21 to 28 to make people aware about the use of RTI and the process of applying for information under the RTI. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ready to provide security to Gota if he requests: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:23 pm
Ready to provide security to Gota if he requests: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said the government would provide police security to former Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa if he requested.
He told parliament that if Mr. Rajapaksa thinks that his life was at risk, he could request for security.
"As I know, we may have to provide him security due to the rift in the joint opposition. Do not try to gain political advantages from this incident," he said.
Mr. Wickremesinghe said he was surprised that opposition members who were silent when the common candidate's security was removed during the presidential election, were now bothering about the President's security.
He said both he and the President had ordered an investigation into the incident.
"CID will inform us on actions to be taken after the investigations. There is an investigation going on and we cannot reveal all the details right now," he said.(Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Right connections assure the right comforts!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:57 am
Right connections assure the right comforts!
	
This onetime white- collar one currently detained in the State lodge on charges of corruption said to have committed while serving a political authority, is having a good time in a healthcare unit despite a medical consultant giving him a clean bill of health, they say.
The white-collar one who had gained admission to the health care unit at the very outset, had been sent back to the lodge after a short while, but a female high-up of the lodge, who had returned to this place after having served a brief stint elsewhere had taken hurried steps to send him back to the unit again to enable him to continue to enjoy the comforts provided there. A Ministry high-up and his better half, a doctor herself, are behind the plan to keep this particular lodger in the best possible comfort, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sanga gives key advice to Pakistan players ahead of India clash
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 02:58 pm
Sanga gives key advice to Pakistan players ahead of India clash
	
Sri Lankan legend Kumar Sangakkara has given some key advice to Pakistans rising stars Babar Azam and Usman Khan Shinwari as Men in Green prepare for the highly anticipated clash against India, the Pakistan media reported.
Pakistan and India will lock horns on September 19 at Dubai Cricket Stadium for the first time after ICC Champions Trophy final last year. This is also the first meeting of the two sides on the UAE soil since 2006.
Following Pakistans crushing victory over Hong Kong, the legendary batsman came on to the field and gave some key advice to Babar and Shinwari.
According to the Pakistan Super Leagues (PSL) official twitter account, the batsman told Pakistani duo to stay calm and control your nerves ahead of the clash.
The match is set to take place tomorrow (Wednesday). Meanwhile, India will look to kick off their campaign on a positive note by winning against Hong Kong today (Tuesday), but their game against Pakistan will be at the back of their mind.(Business Recorder)
Stay calm and control your nerves!@KumarSanga2 message for @babarazam258 and @shinwarii3 ahead of the #INDvPAK #AsiaCup2108 clash. The power of the PSL bond! #HarSaansMeinBolo pic.twitter.com/AMaADBjG2b
 PakistanSuperLeague (@thePSLt20) September 17, 2018
 
		
==============================
## Title: Seeking justice for Kamer
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 18 September 2018 08:00 pm
Seeking justice for Kamer
	
Silent gathering organized by the family members of Mohamed Kamer Nilar Nizamdeen who was detained on the charges of alleged connection to terrorism offences in Sydney, was held at the Independence Square today seeking immediate justice for him. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana




 
		
==============================
## Title: Shocking and disappointing: Mathews
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 02:43 pm
Shocking and disappointing: Mathews
	
After the tournament-ending loss to Afghanistan in the Asia Cup 2018, Angelo Mathews rued the errors of the batsmen, putting the blame on the unit for the defeat.
"This was shocking from the whole team," said Mathews after the match. "Even in the first game, we got all out for 150-odd. Congratulations to Afghanistan as they outplayed us, the ICC reported.
"We got a good start but again lost our way in the middle overs. The bowlers did well, the fielding had also improved from the last match. It's just the batting unit that let us down.
"We played better cricket in the later parts of the South Africa series. Just disappointing to see the way the boys went about it. We couldn't handle pressure. Not passing 150 on both occasions is very shocking and disappointing."
The 91-run win on Monday, was Afghanistan's first against the five-time Asian champions in one-day internationals. Sri Lanka, who had earlier lost their opening clash against Bangladesh, are now out of contention for the Super Four following their loss to Asghar Afghan's men.
Afghanistan's top-order provided them with a strong start with Mohammad Shahzad and Ihsanullah Janat adding 57 runs for the opening wicket, while Rahmat Shah, the No.3, top-scored with a 90-ball 72. Hashmatullah Shahidi's 37 and handy contributions from the lower middle-order powered Afghanistan side to a competitive total of 249.
Sri Lanka bowled decently, with Thisara Perera claiming his first five-wicket haul since 2012. However, up against Afghanistan's spin attack, Sri Lanka's batsmen couldn't find a way to stay firm.
They lost wickets from the beginning and were finally bowled out for just 158 in 41.2 overs.
 
		
==============================
## Title:   SL should take guidance from Indian counterparts  
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
  SL should take guidance from Indian counterparts  
	
Regarding LGBT rights and to uphold fundamental rights of marginalised citizens
Aritha Wickramasinghe

The judgment confirmed that this law is not part of our South Asian cultureand heritage and was forcibly imposed on usby a colonial power
	This law has been used to target and criminalise the lives of LGBT people
	Why should LGBT people tolerate being treated differently because of the way they were born
	I saw the real ugly side of Sri Lankan politics, the duplicity of some politicians and how people try to sabotage good initiatives by spreading lies

Aritha Wickramasinghe is a finance lawyer and an activist who promotes the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) rights and the rights of women, children and ethnic minorities. He was instrumental in lobbying for the Transgender Equality Inquiry by the Women and Equalities Committee of the British Parliament. He was also part of the team that successfully negotiated with theEU to include LGBTrights as a condition forSri Lanka to gain preferential market access into the single market. He has also worked at the Chambers of the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Tanzania.
In an interview with the Dailymirror , Wickramasinghe spoke about the recent landmark judgment by the Indian Supreme Court decriminalizing homosexuality, the laws in Sri Lanka and possibility for reform and the discrimination faced by LGBT professionals today. He further spoke about his resignation from an initiative called Think Equal which aims to teach children equality, empathy, peaceful conflict resolution, critical thinking, gender sensitization, emotional literacy etc. through its curriculum. It was initiated by award winning filmmaker and HR activist Leslee Udwin,who produced the controversial documentary Indias Daughter. Further, the patrons of Think Equal include Malawais first female President, Joyce Banda and award winning actress and activist Meryl Streep. Think Equal is the first global education initiative endorsed by the UN Human Rights Office.The programme is aimed to be implemented in all of Sri Lankas 19, 000 preschools and over 10,000 national schools.
Excerpts:
QRecently the Indian Supreme Court decriminalized homosexuality.What are your thoughts about this judgment and its implications
The Indian Supreme Courts ruling declaring section 377 of Indias Penal Code irrational, indefensible and manifestly arbitrary and thereby unconstitutional was a landmark judgment in many ways. 
This was really a historic judgment, not only for the people of India, but for the world. Since the British imposed this law during colonial rule, millions of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people have lived their lives shrouded in the fear of just being themselves. This judgment lifted that shroud and gave hope, not only to LGBT people that live in countries that criminalise them (including Sri Lanka), but to all oppressed minorities across the world that live under unjust laws. 
The judgment confirmed that this law is not part of our South Asian culture and heritage and was forcibly imposed on us by a colonial power. Asian culture and religions have historically been inclusive and have acknowledged and celebrated the diversity of human existence, including sexuality. The judgment also confirmed that homosexuality, like heterosexuality, was natural and part of the natural order of human existence  dismissing the unnatural argument against homosexuality. 
The Indian Supreme Court was also sensitive to the suffering endured by the LGBT community, expressly referred to their pain and acknowledged that the law  which should be a tool for justice and a fairer society - had been used as a weapon in the hands of the majority to seclude, exploit and harass the LGBT community.

This is exactly what happens in Sri Lanka. The law actually prohibits carnal intercourse against the order of nature between man, woman and animal and gross indecency between persons. There is actually no express criminalization of homosexuality or gay sex. The Indian Supreme Court referred to a number of previous judgments in the Commonwealth that made it very clear that this law applied equally to both homosexual and heterosexual sex. The law actually criminalises all forms of sex between adults which doesnt have any reproductive purpose, this has included oral sex and mutual masturbation. So technically, even using contraception and birth control is a criminal offence  as there is no reproductive purpose. 
However, what has happened is that this law has been used to target and criminalise the lives of LGBT people. The Indian Supreme Court therefore held that due to its application, the law had violated the fundamental rights to equality, non-discrimination and the freedom of expression of LGBT people and was struck down. 
QIn Sri Lanka an attempt to decriminalize homosexuality was rejected by the Cabinet. But we had a judgment in 2016 where though gay sex was upheld to be an offence, the custodial sentence attached to it was not imposed mainly because the act in that instance was consensual.Your comments.
The 2016 Sri Lankan Supreme Court judgment was progressive in some ways, but also disappointing. 
First of all, with great respect to our learned judges, they got the law wrong. The two people who were appealing their High Court conviction were charged and convicted under section 365A of the Penal Code which prohibits gross indecency between any persons. However in their judgment, the Court held that section 365A deals with the offences of sodomy and buggery. 
Therefore, in the first instance, the Supreme Court mixed up the unnatural sex offence under section 365 with the gross indecency offence under section 365A. In the second instance, the offence of sodomy and buggery is the act of anal intercourse. However, the two appellants were convicted for having oral sex. This is not the offence of sodomy and buggery. If the Court was of the view that it was only anal intercourse which was unlawful, then confirming a conviction for oral sex is manifestly wrong. This oversight by the highest court in our country was actually quite surprising and disappointing. 
Additionally, as the appellants were charged for gross indecency and not carnal intercourse against the order of nature, the Supreme Court had a great opportunity to define what is meant by gross indecency. We must be mindful here that under the gross indecency prohibition in section 365A it is the act which is the offence, not the gender of the persons committing the act. By affirming that oral sex is grossly indecent, the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka has effectively accepted the criminalization of all oral sex, whether either heterosexuals or homosexuals commit it. In my view, the Supreme Court failed to use its powers of interpretation to declare that oral sex was not an act of gross indecency and squash the conviction. This may be because it got section 365 and 365A confused with each other and probably got oral sex confused with anal sex. 
However, the Supreme Court did give us a positive signal in its judgment. Although affirming, in my view, a wrongful conviction, the Supreme Court nevertheless held that a custodial sentence was not appropriate because the parties consented. This was actually ground breaking and has wide legal implications. By using their powers of interpretation and affirming that consensual sexual relations (irrespective of them being grossly indecent) do not warrant a custodial sentence the Supreme Court has, in some ways, made the law impotent. Why would you arrest and take to court any person under these laws if the highest court in the land has held that there shouldnt be a custodial sentence where there was consent 
QDo you think the Sri Lankan Supreme Court has the potential to decriminalize homosexuality
First of all, we need to understand the differences between the Indian Constitution and the Sri Lankan Constitution. In Sri Lanka, unlike India, judicial review of any laws is not permitted under our Constitution. This means that we basically have a fundamental rights chapter in our Constitution which is not worth the paper its written on as once Parliament has passed laws that violate our rights, the citizens of our country have no legal recourse against them.This strangely seems to apply to laws that were even imposed on us by foreign parliaments. The current law being used to target LGBT people was passed by a foreign, colonial power. Yet, the Fundamental Rights Chapter of our Constitution prevents the citizens of an independent Sri Lanka from challenging the laws of the colonial master. 
The implications of this prohibition dont only affect the LGBT community, but also women, ethnic minorities and other marginalised groups that were historically discriminated against and mistreated by our former colonial rulers. 
Having said that, the Sri Lankan Supreme Court does have wide powers of interpretation. Our learned judges can certainly take some guidance from their Indian counterparts and the incredible exercise of their powers of interpretation to uphold the fundamental rights of marginalised citizens. 
The Supreme Court should also take note of statements made by the Government of Sri Lanka in both 2014 (under President Rajapaksa) and 2017 (under President Sirisena) that discrimination against LGBT people was unconstitutional and that the application of sections 365 and 365A in a manner that was discriminatory against LGBT persons was unconstitutional.

So, yes  I do believe that the Sri Lankan Supreme Court has the power to decriminalize homosexuality if they effectively use their powers of interpretation and exercise their duty to protect the fundamental rights of our citizens. 

Our FR Chapterof our Constitution prevents Sri Lankafrom challengingthe laws 
	Our judges can take guidance from India to uphold the fundamental rights of marginalised citizens
	My private life and the sexual orientation I was born with should have nothingto do with my professional career
QDo you think that there is a culture of acceptance among the Sri Lankan populace if either the judiciary or the legislature was to decriminalize homosexuality
Sri Lanka has a long cultural history of acceptance and tolerance. The main religions of this country, especially Buddhism and Hinduism, are entrenched in the principles of tolerance, acceptance of diversity and inclusion of all minorities. 
Following the recent Indian judgment, Sri Lanka remains the only country with a significant Buddhist and Hindu population that criminalises homosexuality. We are an anomaly in Asia  not because our society doesnt accept LGBT people, but because our politicians would rather maintain a system that subjugates and tramples on the dignity of our citizens than establish a system that would protect them. 
The Christian world has also progressed rapidly. Many decriminalized homosexuality over 50 years ago and have moved forwards towards full equality, including marriage rights. Italy  the centre of the Catholic Church-has even gone as far as legalizing same sex unions  recognizing the love between two persons and protecting that love. Muslim countries such as Turkey, Indonesia, Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia, Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Niger and Tajikistan dont criminalise homosexuality and some have expressed legislation that prohibit discrimination against LGBT persons. 
Sri Lanka is now in the unenviable category of countries that include Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Nigeria which criminalise homosexuality. We need to ask ourselves whether the culture of these countries reflects our own and whether this is a category we want to continue remaining in 
QThe LGBTQ community faces constant discrimination and stigmatisation in Sri Lanka. What challenges do LGBTQ professionals face
LGBTQ professionals face a number of challenges. Many have not made public their sexuality out of fear, some have been forcibly ousted from work and others have been subjected to humiliation. 
Recently I had to intervene in a matter where a gay man, working in a major establishment in Colombo, was taken inside the security room of that establishment by the senior management and forced to confess his sexuality and give details of his private, sexual practices. He was subject to humiliating and derogatory treatment and his entire ordeal was recorded on video. He fortunately reached out to me and together with our pro bono lawyers at iProbono, we were able to redress his situation, seek a just solution and ensure that similar incidences are never repeated in that establishment again. Although I must commend the head of that establishment (without whose knowledge the ordeal happened) for taking swift and prompt action against such abuses

If incidences of this nature can happen at some of the most sophisticated places in this country, you can imagine the situation of gay men in other work places. 
On a weekly basis I receive emails and messages from LGBT people who are desperate to leave Sri Lanka. Many who contact me are educated and can contribute so much to the development of this country. But, they want to leave because living here would mean living a life that, for them, is not worth living. It breaks my heart each time I read those messages. 
QIn which ways do you think the rights of the LGBTQ persons should be recognized
LGBT people are not asking for any special rights. They are asking for the same rights as every other person in this country. No one would want to be treated differently because of their race, religion, gender or caste, therefore, why should LGBT people tolerate being treated differently because of the way they were born
QRecently you resigned from an initiative called Think Equal due to certain allegations. Firstly, could you explain what Think Equal entails and what it aims to achieve
The Think Equal initiative was born out of a movement to end violence in this world especially against women and introduces a new subject into schools (designed with input from Montessori International and the University of Yale) that will teach children social and emotional intelligence. This is teaching children moral values and key skills such as critical thinking, problem solving and creativity. It aims to create a new, enlightened generation of Sri Lankans that will have the knowledge and skills suitable for the 21st century. 
QCould you explain the circumstances that led to your resignation as a trustee of Think Equal
Unfortunately, like many good things which have been started in Sri Lanka, this organisation too got exposed to politicization and became a football for political disputes. Some politicians wanted to gain mileage out of this programme and others who didnt want a more enlightened Sri Lanka started making allegations that the programme was promoting homosexuality due to my involvement in it. 
This programme has nothing to do with promoting homosexuality or any sexuality. I mean, how can you give education about sexuality to 3-year-old children We need to question the morals of people who come up with these false ideas and allegations and the people who spread them. 
The Think Equal curriculum is publicly available for anyone to download and to read it for themselves. Unfortunately with the advent of social media, people just share things without thinking or checking facts. But every time you share a lie on Facebook, it has terrible and painful consequences. As a society, we need to be more conscious of that. 
QWas your resignation absolutely essential, considering the fact that you were a founding trustee of Think Equal, and the fact that this curriculum is acclaimed internationally
My resignation was not essential, but I didnt want to be a distraction to the benefits of the programme. If my presence was going to get in the way of creating a more enlightened generation of Sri Lankans, then I would rather step aside and let that generation be created. The programme and its outcomes are bigger than I and considering the circumstances, I thought it was in the best interest of the programme to step aside. 
Having had to work with politicians and the Government administration on this project, I saw the real ugly side of Sri Lankan politics, the duplicity of some politicians and how people try to sabotage good initiatives by spreading lies. But, at the same time, my admiration grew for the Government servants I worked with, their professionalism, integrity and their genuine interest to create a better Sri Lanka for everyone. Unfortunately, some bad politicians prevent our Government servants and our professionals from doing their jobs. This explains why we as a country are still struggling to develop and why our people would rather be slaves in the Middle East than be subjugated and humiliated by their own people here. 
QHow did these false allegations impact you
The allegations against Think Equal really hurt me incredibly. Firstly, because it was all lies and politically motivated and secondly, because I am a gay man. But, my private life and the sexual orientation I was born with should have nothing to do with my professional career and my capabilities or work. I was the only gay man in this organisation of about 50 people from diverse cultural, religious and ethnic backgrounds. To say that having one gay man helping an organisation of 50 people means that the organisation is promoting homosexuality is as absurd as saying that having one Hindu man working for an organisation means that the organisation is promoting Hinduism. 
I am a banking and finance lawyer. I helped organisations such as Think Equal through the free work I do as a lawyer. I help a number of initiatives for free because I truly believe that we all deserve to live in a world where we are treated with dignity and fairness. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka knocked out by Afghanistan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:48 am
Sri Lanka knocked out by Afghanistan
	
Afghanistan have on Monday knocked five-time Asian champion Sri Lanka out of the continents premier ODI competition.
Batting first, Afghanistan set a modest target of 250.
Shah struck five boundaries during his 90-ball knock of 72 and added 50 for the second wicket with Ihsanullah Janat (45) after Afghanistan won the toss and opted to bat on a flat pitch.
Janat hit six boundaries in his 65-ball innings while his opening partner Mohammad Shahzad batted in his aggressive style, hitting a six and four boundaries in his 47-ball 34.
For Sri Lanka, who lost the opening match to Bangladesh by 137 runs in Dubai, seamer Thisara Perera took five for 55 and spinner Akila Dananjaya finished with two for 39.
In reply, Sri Lanka were all dismissed for 158. Rehman, Nabi and Rashid took two wickets apiece. Tharanga remained highest scorer for Sri Lanka with 36 runs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka to release 173 Indian boats
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:34 am
Sri Lanka to release 173 Indian boats
	
The Sri Lankan government has ordered the release of all the 173 Indian trawlers confiscated by its navy since 2015 after arresting fishermen on the charge of illegal fishing in their waters.
The government order dated September 7 was received by the Fisheries Department here last week and it is set to send a salvage team comprising fishermen, mechanics and officials to the island nation to assess the condition of the trawlers.
We have received the order and the salvage team will leave for Sri Lanka after getting clearances from the Tamil Nadu government, Mr Johny Tom Varghese, Additional Director of Fisheries (Ramanathapuram) told The Hindu on Monday.
He would head the team comprising fishermen from Ramanathapuram, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai and two mechanics. The operation is expected to commence before the onset of north monsoon.
The island nations order clearly states that trawling equipment in boats would not be released.
The boats, each valued at <U+20B9>10 to <U+20B9>50 lakh, were berthed in Karai Nagar, Kankesanthurai, Trincomalee, Kalpatti and Mannar, sources said, adding most of the boats after years of neglect got submerged in water. We will be happy if we could salvage 40 to 50% of the trawlers, they said.
P Sesu Raja, fishermen leader, welcomed the Sri Lankan government order. (The Hindu)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankan rupee hits record low of 166.64
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 01:34 pm
Sri Lankan rupee hits record low of 166.64
	
The Sri Lankan rupee today recorded the highest deprecation of Rs.166.64 selling price for US dollar.
According to the foreign exchange rates issued by the Central Bank, the selling price of US dollar is Rs.166.64 while the buying price is shown as Rs. 163.10.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 18th Dudley Senanayake Memorial Oration Inspiring leaders world over
## Section: News Features
## Date: 18 September 2018 12:10 am
18th Dudley Senanayake Memorial Oration Inspiring leaders world over
	
pix by Kushan pathiraja


The 18th Dudley Senanayake memorial oration will long be remembered by all who heard the impeccable eloquence of the speaker, Gordon Mackay, who will be remembered for his speech and for his suave debonair presence, all of which, had a remarkable impact on all who heard him.
Gordon Mackay is the Secretary-General of Liberal International, a prestigious post for one so young, and a former member of the South African Parliament from 2014 to 2018.
He has moved on from Parliamentary politics to a wider aspect of politics in the international sphere, which keeps him in touch with Parliaments and politics in all parts of the free democratic world where liberal democracy plays a prominent role.
He is just 37 years old, so his present experience of being the Secretary General of Liberal International, will endow him with a multitude of experience, which will undoubtedly stand him in good stead in the future, helping him to face challenges and overcome them, whether in his country or in other parts of the world.
There was pin-drop silence as he spoke and what warmed the hearts of all of us who were admirers of the late Dudley, who was an irreplaceable statesman.
God probably broke the mould after creating him, he said in his opening remarks. He said that among the reasons, which inspired his entry into politics, was reading the speeches made by the late Dudley Senanayake.
He spoke of the attainment of freedom in South Africa, following the first historic democratic election as being a cathartic and freeing experience, of Nelson Mandela, the architect of this intellectual freedom, who had developed a deep commitment to justice, fair play, an unwavering belief in democracy, the rule of law, freedom of speech and a deep desire to achieve ethnic amity.
A quote from the late Senanayake, which he said has come to define his own personal brand and belief in Liberalism, is as follows:
The words progressive and reactionary are being bandied about on the floor of this House. What is the criterion by which a measure is judged progressive or reactionary As there cannot be freedom without economic well being, there cannot be real freedom without individual and political freedom as well.
This line he said stood out for him and made it possible for him to finally commit fully to Liberalism and the pursuit of liberal values.
By linking individual freedom to economic freedom, he said the late Dudley Senanayake played a vital role in developing his thinking, around societal redress and redistribution and gave him the intellectual framework in which to decide on what the role of government is in society.
So, he said in a practical sense it was the late Dudley Senanayake, who inspired his entry into politics first as a city councillor, and later as a Member of Parliament and member of the shadow Cabinet, and infused his thinking with ideas of social and Progressive Liberalism.
He also explained Liberalism, its objectives, values and achievements, regretted that although we have a great need for intellectual giants and leaders of the deep integrity of the calibre of the late Senanayake today, the entire world seems burdened with small-minded, self-interested and petty political leadership.
The welcome speech by the Chairman of the Dudley Senanayake Memorial Foundation Minister D.M. Swaminathan was also good, bringing back memories of this much loved Leader as the Speaker related many anecdotes about Dudley Senanayake, focusing on his simplicity, including that, when even as Prime Minister, he preferred to drive his own little Triumph Herald rather than in luxurious limousines with security.
The other brilliant speech that evening was the vote of thanks by State Minister of Defence Ruwan Wijewardene, the grand nephew of the Late Dudley Senanayake, who prefers to go on in his own steam and be recognized for his own worth, rather than riding piggy-back on the Senanayake name to fame and power.
This has endeared young Ruwan to one and all, and he has certainly inherited this trait of simplicity from the late Dudley Senanayake.

It is indeed an honour for our country, that a young leader today like Gordon Mackay was inspired to enter politics by the words spoken by the late Dudley Senanayake, so many decades ago.
He reminded the audience of the democracy and freedom regained in 2015, the benefits to the people with land returned, prices of medicines reduced, insurance for school children, housing schemes, salary increases and many other benefits while stating that there was a lot more that needed to be done.
The Dudley Senanayake Foundation is ever grateful to The Friedrich Naumann Foundation for their partnership with the oration through the years and for the most eloquent, distinguished speaker they got for the oration this year.
It must be recalled that the Resident Representative of the Stiftung, Mrs Sagarica Delgoda was arrested, remanded on false charges and harassed, during the tenure of the last regime.
But this has fuelled her even further, with the strength to fight for and keep the candle of Liberal Democracy alight in our country. Her arrest caused the pull out of all German NGOs here who only returned to continue their good work after the change of Government.
I was glad to see the prefects of S Thomas College Mt. Lavinia at the oration.
The late Dudley was a Head boy, Cricket Captain, took part in other sports and was proud of his school.
Im sure that the Thomian Prefects would be equally proud of Dudley Senanayake, an old Thomian, whose example has inspired young politicians in other parts of the world.
It is indeed an honour for our country, that a young leader today like Gordon Mackay was inspired to enter politics by the words spoken by the late Dudley Senanayake, so many decades ago.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three jumbos killed by train collision
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 08:29 am
Three jumbos killed by train collision
	
Three elephants were killed after a herd was hit by the Batticaloa bound train early this morning while the elephants were walking across the tracks, the Wildlife Conservation Department said.
The officials said the elephants were knocked down by the train with oil tank wagons at about 4.30 a.m at the 127-milepost between the Habarana and Palugaswewa Railway Stations.
One she-elephants was pregnant at the time of the accident and the fetus had come out following the impact.
Meanwhile, the Railway Control Room said the train engine and two oil tank wagons derailed and one tank wagon had developed a leak.
The railway track was also damaged. After the repairs of the railway track, the train services will back to normal by this evening, the Control Room said.
Until then services had been limited up to Maho and Gal Oya Stations.
The Habarana Police and Railways Department are conducting investigations. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

Video by Susantha, Kanchana Kumara

Pix by K.G. Karunarathne

 
		
==============================
## Title: Two cops killed in accident in Galgamuwa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 10:07 am
Two cops killed in accident in Galgamuwa
	
Two police officers aged 29 and 31were killed when their motorcycle collided head on with a cab in Galgamuwa on the Anuradhapura- Padeniya Main Road last night, Police said.
They said police officers attached to the Thambuththegama and Anuradhapura Police Stations were identified as residents of Ambanpola and Galle.
The cab driver surrendered to the Thambuththegama Police after the accident and later he was handed over to the Galgamuwa Police. (Athula Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Uproar in House over assassination plot
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 09:29 pm
Uproar in House over assassination plot
	
Parliament erupted in heated arguments today over the alleged plot revealed by anti-corruption movement leader Namal Kumara to kill President Maithripala Sirisena and former Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa.
Joint Opposition leader Dinesh Gunawardane asked in parliament about the progress of the investigation carried out into the incident. MP Gunawardane said if the President was assassinated, the Prime Minister would function as the acting President until a new President was elected.
"It was a serious matter. This conspiracy should be thoroughly investigated and all those involved should be brought to book," he said.
Law and Order Minister Ranjith Maddumabandara said CID had launched an investigation into the incident and added that Namal Kumara had been questioned by the CID for 10 hours.
"His mobile phone which was said to have contained the alleged audio and video recordings had been taken into the custody of the CID. The unedited video and audio recordings had been requested for, from the media institutions," he said.
The Minister said TID's DIG Nalaka De Silva had been transferred to the IT Department of the Police on a request made by the CID.
JO MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage, who joined the cross talk said, the security of Namal Kumara has been removed and that it was reported there was a plot to send him overseas and requested the Law and Order Minister to provide him with police security.
JO MP Shehan Semasinghe said the transferring of DIG Nalaka Silva to the IT department was a threat to the investigations.
JO MP Sisira Jayakody alleged that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was silent over the matter for which the Premier responded saying that he and the President had ordered for an investigation into the incident. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: We request that the IGP be removed - State Minister Sriyani
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 18 September 2018 11:29 pm
We request that the IGP be removed - State Minister Sriyani
	
State Minister Sriyani Abeywickrame said yesterday TID's DIG Nalaka Silva should be interdicted and arrested immediately over the alleged plot to kill President Maithripala Sirisena and former Defense Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa.
She told parliament that it was a serious matter and added that when there was an allegation involving criminal activity, what was done first was to interdict and arrest the person.
She said they as government members, were not satisfied with the conduct of IGP Pujith Jayasundara.
"We request that the IGP be removed and investigations initiated under a new IGP," she said. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
==============================
