## Title: Full support for no-faith motion against Ranil: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 11:20 pm
Full support for no-faith motion against Ranil: JO
	
The joint opposition would give its fullest support in case a no-confidence motion was brought against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe as proposed by State Minister Range Bandara of the UNP, MP C.B. Ratnayake said today.
Referring to the statement made by the state minister on Monday that a no-confidence motion would be moved against the party leadership with the support of other UNPers, the MP said they would not hesitate to extend their support in such a case.
The MP told a news conference that he appreciated the courageous statement made by the state minister that the UNP leadership should be revamped and threatened to move no-confidence motion in case the party leadership remained unchanged. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Greed knows no bounds
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:34 pm
Greed knows no bounds
	

A politico is said to have put up a posh residence on a 10 -perch block of land earmarked for a cesspit for the district headquarters of a movement dedicated to support the physical and mental development of young people.

The movements district chief had on the sly transferred the ownership of this block of land to the politico who is a close buddy of his.
The district chief had stalled the construction of the cesspit to buy time to hand over the piece of land to the friendly politico, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hambantota port will not be used as military base: CDS
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 07:54 pm
Hambantota port will not be used as military base: CDS
	
Hambantota port will not be used as a foreign military base, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Ravindra Wijegunaratne clarified today at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue 2018 at the Manekshaw Centre in India.
Wijegunaratne assured of no such action to take place in the Sri Lankan harbours and waters "which would jeopardise India's security concerns." He further reiterated Sri Lanka's stand on not entering into any military alliance with any nation.
Sri Lanka will not make its naval bases available to any other countries, the chief added further.
The Hambantota port was handed over to China on a 99-year lease. The port will now be co-owned by the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and the China Merchants Port Holdings Company (CM Port) with the latter holding as much as 70 percent stake. (wionews.com)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hardware shop gutted in Salawa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 08:07 pm
Hardware shop gutted in Salawa
	
A hardware shop was caught in fire in Salawa near the army camp this evening, Police said.
They said no casualties were reported and that the fire was being doused by the army and the residents.
Police said traffic congestion was reported along the High-level Road towards Avissawella.
The fire brigade said fire trucks were deployed to douse the fire.
 
		
==============================
## Title: In memory of Rajani: the mother, the wife and the revolutionary  Keeping memories alive
## Section: News Features
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:04 am
In memory of Rajani: the mother, the wife and the revolutionary  Keeping memories alive
	
Dr. Rajani Rajasingham Thiranagama, a symbol of Tamil human rights activism was shot dead by the LTTE in 1989. At the time of her murder, Rajani was the head of the Department of Anatomy at the University of Jaffna. She was also one of the founding members of the Jaffna branch of University Teachers for Human Rights. Breaking ethnic and religious barriers Rajani married Dayapala Thiranagama a student leader from Kelaniya University who went onto become an academic in his own right. 
The following article written by Dayapala Thiranagama first appeared in September 2009, to commemorate Rajinis 20th death anniversary. It is reproduced to remember her 64th birth anniversary which fell on February 23, 2018.

Our ethnic differences would have appeared unbridgeable at the very beginning, as I was a product of the 1956 Sinhalese Buddhist social mobility that had been created by my parents generation of people who were part of the Panchamaha Balavegaya. (Sanga, weda, guru govi, and kamkaru) and in turn the 1956 and its perpetuation
One night in 1983, soon after midnight Rajani woke me up and whispered to me that she had been asked to treat an injured boy from the Iyakkam (movement). For her, this was an act of compassion by a doctor towards her patient. For me it was a political act. I was frozen. I turned back and slept. I was caught up in the agony of belonging to the oppressor and the woman I dearly and unconditionally loved trying to liberate her own community by undertaking her bit in the struggle. This whisper and the brief political argument that followed opened cracks in our relationship which grew wider and wider.
Rajani had an enormous influence on those around her. She was a mother of two young children, Narmada aged 11 years and Sharika aged 9 years respectively, at the time of her death. She was 35 years old. Rajani had begun to demonstrate an extraordinary courage and vision in her political activism defending human rights and took an uncompromising position whenever these rights were violated. The armed confrontation between the Tamil Tigers and the IPKF was at its peak at the time and no dissent was tolerated. She had had links with the LTTE and had treated injured Tamil militants before at the inception of Tamil tiger militancy. Then they were only a small band of armed men. Times had changed. Her assassins had been waiting for her on her way home after work at the Medical Faculty and she was gunned down near her home in Kokuvil, Jaffna on 21st September 1989 around 4.00pm.They came behind and called her by name. Then she was still sitting on the bike, turned back and looked at them. Eyewitnesses say that she tried to cover her forehead with her bare hands seeing the gunmen pointing the pistol at her head. They demonstrated extraordinary cruelty against a woman who had only her bare hands to cover her head against the bullets. Even after she fell on the ground they shot the back of her head with two bullets to make sure that she would not be alive to criticise them again. They showed no mercy towards the woman who had showed them such compassion and had treated them when they were injured. Her young daughters hearing the gun shots wondered who the victim would be this time.
The purpose of this account is to make some personal reflections and analysis on the life shattering individual experiences suffered by us as a young family in the unprecedented political upheavals for decades simply because we did not wish to be just observers. It also attempts to trace the political journey of two individuals with an intimate relationship in relation to the wider political process that engulfed the country.
First meeting
I met Rajani in September 1976 when the student unrest was rapidly spreading within Sri Lankan universities and there was a renewed militant student activity among the university students. An innocent student, Weerasuriya at Peradeniya had been gunned down by the police and the student militancy grew stronger in the face of such atrocities against the student movement. These were extraordinary times. The political unrest in the country had already begun to change our lives and our lives in turn were set to change the political course of the country, even in a small way, to a point of no return. I had just come out of prison for the second time after spending long years in prison in 1976. Rajani, a young Tamil woman with Christian religious background and radical political thinking had just started to influence the medics at the Colombo Medical Faculty with her thirst for justice and democracy against a repressive state apparatus that had a hallmark of historical discrimination and violence against Tamils. I had just become a university academic by this time. When we met and forged our relationship it was clear that our lives would never be the same again, for us, as well as our children who were yet to be born. We got married on 28 August 1977 in Colombo, without a ceremony, in the midst of anti-Tamil riots in Colombo.
On the day we got married we stayed in Ratmalana with a Sinhalese friend of mine and her father loaded his shot gun and kept awake all night in order to protect us as a number of Tamil families had been attacked on the previous night in the neighbourhood. Our marriage brought together two ethnically, socially, politically and culturally diverse individuals into a relationship based on human understanding and deep love which appeared unshakable at the time. Once she wrote to me saying that her love for me was as deep as the ocean. With all these differences, one of the most interesting issues was how far our loving relationship with all its complexities would serve to protect our marriage during a politically divisive time when the two communities were at war and in which the Tamil minority was at the receiving end. Both Sinhalese and Tamil popular cultures had been at war with each other and the Sinhalese considered their culture was superior.

We were also politically different and in reality these political differences played a divisive role in our marriage. I had near religious belief in the Marxist-Leninist/Maoist political agenda and Rajani wanted to apply the revolutionary success stories in other countries to Sri Lanka as pragmatic examples of social justice

Ethnic differences
Our ethnic differences would have appeared unbridgeable at the very beginning, as I was a product of the 1956 Sinhalese Buddhist social mobility that had been created by my parents generation of people who were part of the Panchamaha Balavegaya. (Sanga, weda, guru govi, and kamkaru) and in turn the 1956 and its perpetuation. Its ideology had shaped our thinking and political outlook as young people who had very little to do with the Tamil community and understanding of their issues. The political issues Rajani tried to grapple with as a young medic had in fact become intractable due to the ideological and political outlook perpetuated by the 1956 social mobility amongst the Sinhalese youth, which discriminated against the minorities in Sri Lanka. This was a big advantage for the JVP to build their pro- Sinhalese political project in the late 60s, throughout the 70s and 80s. Rajani was able to understand this political trend when she studied and worked in the Sinhalese areas and in Colombo. The JVPs pro Sinhalese project showed that the Tamil democratic struggle had to be fought by the Tamils themselves as it did not accept the Tamils had specific democratic and political grievances to be resolved. It was this kind of political rejection in the Sinhalese South that drew people like Rajani to support militant organizations in the Tamil community.
Social class
Socially, we belonged to two different social classes. Rajani had a middle class upbringing in Jaffna. I was brought up in a poor peasant family in the South and the only life chance opened to me was education. As a young boy I had walk to my school miles and miles with my bare feet. My childhood poverty and deprivation and how I had to overcome these as a young boy was very distressing to Rajani to the extent that I never wanted to explain the full extent of my past to her beyond a certain point. It was a lottery that I managed to succeed in my education. Rajani had no issue whatsoever about my social class vis--vis her middleclass background. She defended me strongly within her own middle class family members and outside whenever it came to their attention that I had not been living up to their middle class norms.
We were also politically different and in reality these political differences played a divisive role in our marriage. I had near religious belief in the Marxist-Leninist/Maoist political agenda and Rajani wanted to apply the revolutionary success stories in other countries to Sri Lanka as pragmatic examples of social justice. It was also due to this pragmatism that Rajani became closer to the Tamil Tigers in her own political journey. In the same way this core ideological belief of pragmatism benefitted her to turn her energy and emotions into human rights campaigning later in her political life when she left the Tamil Tigers.
When I met Rajani I had only just left prison I still had scars of torture all over my body and while in prison I had never expected to live again let alone have a relationship. Rajani showed extraordinary courage to accept me as I was with all the differences between us, with my own social and political past which was such a contradiction to her own middle class life and aspirations. She had to battle it over with her family. Rajani had accepted that I would one day leave her and go in order to fulfil my political responsibilities. It was also accepted we would not meet again once I left the family. My generation had undergone a tremendous change in their mindset and all our personal needs and aspirations had to be suppressed for political justice and the emancipation of the poor. We also had a very deep sense of family ties and gratitude and the need to provide for our parents who underwent untold sufferings to bring us up. This sentiment and obligations we had suppressed in the belief that social justice followed by the armed revolution would resolve this for ever. Rajani had been coming to terms with a life with our children without my presence and her expressed determination to look after them on her own. This idea was no longer sustainable when the demands upon us required us to sacrifice our expectations and throw away our perceived traditional roles. This is what exactly Rajani did. We thought at the time that even if we were not there our children would be looked after by others, particularly our comrades.
1983 anti-Tamil riots
The 1983 anti-Tamil riots had an unprecedented influence on every Tamils conscience and their dignified existence became untenable: either you had to accept your unequal status and keep quiet or you had to fight for justice and democracy.
For the Tamil community it seemed there was no way out. However, Rajani was still unclear about the political line to be taken in search of justice and democracy. My views were clear in this regard. I never wanted to join any political organisation which would not allow you to get out if you disagreed with them. Without that kind of internal democracy it becomes a very dangerous affair if they take up arms. Additionally, here was another issue which we did not pay adequate political attention to as youthful political minds: even nominal parliamentary democracies could withstand armed struggle and demonstrate flexibility in recreating political space defeating the resolve of armed combatants. In Sri Lanaka still the political space had not been closed. We were in a hurry and the political space for the democratic struggle had not been exhausted. The failure of the JVP armed struggle in 1971 and 1987-89 as well as Tamil Tigers recent military defeat has to be viewed in this context, despite its own organisational and structural weaknesses.
Rajanis pragmatic mind and her compassion were drawn to the Tamil Tigers political project. Rajani left for England in 1983 on a commonwealth scholarship and by the beginning of 1984 Rajani had joined the Tamil Tigers in London. I visited Rajani in May 1984 in London. Following a very painful but comprehensive discussion it appeared that there was no space for the continuation of our marriage except our joint responsibility for our daughters. We decided to part and I went back to Colombo. Rajani had become a seemingly unwavering member of the Tamil Tigers military project. Once our relationship had appeared to be unshakable but there were no guarantees in a time of war that we could maintain it with such divergent political views. The deep human love that brought us together over our differences had vanished for forever ever. Rajani became very distressed but her political loyalty was placed above the loyalty that had existed in our relationship. We had decided to go our own ways as our political and personal differences were irreconcilable. Our differences had their own dynamics in a relationship that became dysfunctional.
After a couple of months of my return to Colombo, Rajani had resigned from the Tamil Tigers. She wrote a letter to me breaking the news and assured me that our relationship was still as strong as during our happiest times. Rajani acknowledged our separation in these words in all my trials and tribulations you stood by me in strong love but I was cruel to youRajani was always open and frank. For me still there was no guarantee that it could ever be the same again. On my part I had moved on. During this time the political suppression had become acute and I was keeping a low profile. Rajani would now be returning home to her beloved people and Jaffna, to resume her work in the University after completing her PhD.

I never wanted to join any political organisation which would not allow you to get out if you disagreed with them

Rajani arrived in Jaffna in 1986. She became the Head of the Anatomy Department. Rajanis political transformation was becoming impressive. She was evolving as a human rights activist and her feminist outlook look brought a new political dimension to her politics and a pioneered a new kind of peoples political agenda in Jaffna. She became a tireless campaigner for freedom and democracy against the rule of the gun. She pioneered the formation of the University Teachers of Human Rights (UTHR) with three other academics which drew anger and wrath from both IPKF and militant groups particularly the Tamil Tigers. Rajani and others recorded all the human rights violations from all sides in the conflict. She believed the human life was so precious that no human life should be eliminated for political reasons. She also supported and was actively involved in Purani, a refuge for destitute women. She became a remarkable mother, a tireless activist and respected academic in an environment that posed a great danger to every human being there at the time.
From time to time Rajani visited me with the children in Colombo in order to make sure that they did not miss their father. During this time she also began to write Broken Palmyra with some others in the UTHR(J) this made her an obvious target of the Tamil tigers. When I read the manuscript I had no doubt what the outcome would be if it was published. I advised Rajani that she would have to lie low and that they would not spare her if she went ahead with its publication. She agreed but the UTHR (J) had to make the decision. By the time she was gunned down, it had not been even published. The Tamil Tigers knew that it was going to be published.
Rajani clearly understood the danger to her life if she continued campaigning but she did not wish to scale down her activities and stop what she felt she had to do. Such was her indomitable courage and determination during such difficult times in the history of Tamil militancy.
Rajani was buried in her family cemetery in Nallur on 25 September 1989. I walked with my two young daughters hand in hand, the most difficult, most painful and saddest of walks in my life. Along with her, the happy days of our family were buried and the family was never the same again without her presence. We have not been able to visit her grave for twenty long years. Each day her daughters passed without their mother, brought home to them their irreplaceable loss. They joined other children in Sri Lanka who lost their parents due to the war. The irony was that it was me, not Rajani who had expected to die in the struggle and she had accepted that her role would be to care for the children. But the total opposite happened. At the beginning of our relationship I never thought that I would end my political career for the responsibility of looking after my children. I thought that my involvement in Sri Lankan politics would result in my death. That did not happen. Instead Rajani gave her life for the human rights of the Tamil people and I had to be alive for the children. I looked after them until they were independent. But my tribute goes to Rajani. It was Rajanis solid foundation she laid in their formative years that helped me to complete the task. This situation was not specific to my children or family. Such was the dramatic transformation of the political situation and its impact on individual members in the Tamil community within a short period of time of militant activity.
Before she was gunned down, in early September Rajani was in Colombo on her way back from England after a short trip and waited for me in Colombo before travelling back to Jaffna. But I could not make contact with her. She left Colombo in disappointment. Before leaving Rajani wrote a few lines on the back of the cover of the book she bought for me in London and left it for me. This was her last note to me.
To
Him, who lives out of the paradox of deep tenderness and love with the strive of Bakunins characterization of a revolutionary has no interest of his own, no cause of his ownno habits, no belongings he does not even have a name If in this era of cataclysm and overwhelming terror  when no victories are won or end seen - if it is only reverence that this woman can pay to him who carries fire in his heart and burning determination in his spirit let it be only thatRajani 1989.
After Rajani wrote this, she went to Jaffna. Then I received a message on 22nd September which I never wanted to hear. Her death brought the demise of my political career. Rajanis death also made our relationship brief but our memories have become life long with rich life experiences.
The commencement of Rajanis political journey with the Tamil Tigers brings to the fore questions about why people join certain militant organizations where dissent will not be tolerated and where criticism might lead to death. I had discussed this issue with Rajani over and over again. The elimination of traitors was a common practice in Sri Lanka in both JVP and Tamil militant organizations. Both the JVP and LTTE killed their political adversaries and these killings showed no mercy and some of them demonstrated unimaginable brutality.
Any responsible political organization must explain to the people why they had to resort to such brutal eliminations of their critics. The JVP has failed to do it so far and its unlikely that they would do it after so many years have passed since their gruesome murders were carried out. They have not ruled out that they would not do it again. They eliminated those Sinhalese who advocated granting the rights of the Tamil people under the 13th amendment during 1987-89. Both the JVP and Tamil Tigers should take this issue seriously as it is a demonstration of their democratic credentials. If they choose to eliminate their political dissent without dealing with them in a democratic manner now, there will never be room for democratic freedom in the future even if they were to succeed in installing their dictatorships over the masses of people. Rajanis death and her political legacy shows that ordinary human beings, when faced with acute degradation of human freedom under the rule of the gun will never be silent and their political reaction will be more powerful than the gun. I salute Rajani for being one of such heroic women.Rajani was asked not to return to Jaffna in 1977 from England by the family and friends in the midst of a very destructive war during a time many professionals were leaving Jaffna, but she felt very strongly to get back to serve her community. Rajani refused to listen to the same advice just before her death on her return to Jaffna.
Rajanis assassination had weakened the Tamil democratic movement. Those who are responsible for her death should accept their political mistake if the Tamil democracy is to become a mature, responsible and viable political force in the coming years. This is because her assassination was symbolic of the political indecency, dictatorial and anti-human nature of Tamil militancy that went off track, leaving a huge political vacuum in the Tamil community.
Even though Rajani was assassinated the political ideas she fought for will never be vanquished. The pro- people political ideas she developed and analysed in Broken Palmyra provides a very powerful critique of Tamil militancy which in the name of Tamil liberation was becoming a ruthless military apparatus and using people cynically to build a dictatorship.
The Tamil democratic struggle needs peoples structures in every sphere of life that would guarantee their rights and freedom and these structures should be strengthened against corrupt politicians and the rule of the gun.
( The article first appeared in September 2009, to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Rajanis death. Her 64th birth Anniversary fell on February 23rd 2018 )
Rajani arrived in Jaffna in 1986. She became the Head of the Anatomy Department. Rajanis political transformation was becoming impressive. She was evolving as a human rights activist and her feminist outlook look brought a new political dimension to her politics and a pioneered a new kind of peoples political agenda in Jaffna. She became a tireless campaigner for freedom and democracy against the rule of the gun. She pioneered the formation of the University Teachers of Human Rights (UTHR) with three other academics which drew anger and wrath from both IPKF and militant groups particularly the Tamil Tigers. Rajani and others recorded all the human rights violations from all sides in the conflict. She believed the human life was so precious that no human life should be eliminated for political reasons. She also supported and was actively involved in Purani, a refuge for destitute women. She became a remarkable mother, a tireless activist and respected academic in an environment that posed a great danger to every human being there at the time.
From time to time Rajani visited me with the children in Colombo in order to make sure that they did not miss their father. During this time she also began to write Broken Palmyra with some others in the UTHR(J) this made her an obvious target of the Tamil tigers. When I read the manuscript I had no doubt what the outcome would be if it was published. I advised Rajani that she would have to lie low and that they would not spare her if she went ahead with its publication. She agreed but the UTHR (J) had to make the decision. By the time she was gunned down, it had not been even published. The Tamil Tigers knew that it was going to be published.
Rajani clearly understood the danger to her life if she continued campaigning but she did not wish to scale down her activities and stop what she felt she had to do. Such was her indomitable courage and determination during such difficult times in the history of Tamil militancy.
Rajani was buried in her family cemetery in Nallur on 25 September 1989. I walked with my two young daughters hand in hand, the most difficult, most painful and saddest of walks in my life. Along with her, the happy days of our family were buried and the family was never the same again without her presence. We have not been able to visit her grave for twenty long years. Each day her daughters passed without their mother, brought home to them their irreplaceable loss. They joined other children in Sri Lanka who lost their parents due to the war. The irony was that it was me, not Rajani who had expected to die in the struggle and she had accepted that her role would be to care for the children. But the total opposite happened. At the beginning of our relationship I never thought that I would end my political career for the responsibility of looking after my children. I thought that my involvement in Sri Lankan politics would result in my death. That did not happen. Instead Rajani gave her life for the human rights of the Tamil people and I had to be alive for the children. I looked after them until they were independent. But my tribute goes to Rajani. It was Rajanis solid foundation she laid in their formative years that helped me to complete the task. This situation was not specific to my children or family. Such was the dramatic transformation of the political situation and its impact on individual members in the Tamil community within a short period of time of militant activity.
Before she was gunned down, in early September Rajani was in Colombo on her way back from England after a short trip and waited for me in Colombo before travelling back to Jaffna. But I could not make contact with her. She left Colombo in disappointment. Before leaving Rajani wrote a few lines on the back of the cover of the book she bought for me in London and left it for me. This was her last note to me.
To him, who lives out of the paradox of deep tenderness and love with the strive of Bakunins characterization of a revolutionary has no interest of his own, no cause of his ownno habits, no belongings he does not even have a name If in this era of cataclysm and overwhelming terror  when no victories are won or end seen - if it is only reverence that this woman can pay to him who carries fire in his heart and burning determination in his spirit let it be only thatRajani 1989.
After Rajani wrote this, she went to Jaffna. Then I received a message on 22nd September which I never wanted to hear. Her death brought the demise of my political career. Rajanis death also made our relationship brief but our memories have become life long with rich life experiences. The commencement of Rajanis political journey with the Tamil Tigers brings to the fore questions about why people join certain militant organizations where dissent will not be tolerated and where criticism might lead to death. I had discussed this issue with Rajani over and over again. The elimination of traitors was a common practice in Sri Lanka in both JVP and Tamil militant organizations. Both the JVP and LTTE killed their political adversaries and these killings showed no mercy and some of them demonstrated unimaginable brutality.

The elimination of traitors was a common practice inSri Lanka in both JVP and Tamil militant organizations
Rajanis death and her political legacy shows that ordinary human beings, when faced with acute degradation of human freedom under the rule of the gun will never be silent and their political reaction will be more powerful than the gun. I salute Rajani for being one of such heroic women.Rajani was asked not to return to Jaffna in 1977 from England by the family and friends in the midst of a very destructive war during a time many professionals were leaving Jaffna, but she felt very strongly to get back to serve her community. Rajani refused to listen to the same advice just before her death on her return to Jaffna.
Rajanis assassination had weakened the Tamil democratic movement. Those who are responsible for her death should accept their political mistake if the Tamil democracy is to become a mature, responsible and viable political force in the coming years. This is because her assassination was symbolic of the political indecency, dictatorial and anti-human nature of Tamil militancy that went off track, leaving a huge political vacuum in the Tamil community. Even though Rajani was assassinated the political ideas she fought for will never be vanquished. The pro- people political ideas she developed and analysed in Broken Palmyra provides a very powerful critique of Tamil militancy which in the name of Tamil liberation was becoming a ruthless military apparatus and using people cynically to build a dictatorship.
The Tamil democratic struggle needs peoples structures in every sphere of life that would guarantee their rights and freedom and these structures should be strengthened against corrupt politicians and the rule of the gun.
( The article first appeared in September 2009, to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Rajanis death. Her 64th birth Anniversary fell on February 23rd 2018 )
 
		
==============================
## Title: 42 injured as bus topples in Walapane
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 02:05 pm
42 injured as bus topples in Walapane
	
At least 42 passengers had sustained injuries following a bus plying from Theripaha towards Nildandhahinna toppled at Walapane this morning, the Police said.
They said the driver had lost control at Abanella and the bus toppled and crashed into a nearby house around 8.30 a.m.
The injured were admitted to the Nildandhahinna Hospital.
The driver of the bus has been arrested and the Theripaha Police are conducting investigations. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Inquiry into  Lasanthas killing  in a muddle
## Section: Expose
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:02 am
Inquiry into  Lasanthas killing  in a muddle
	


The investigative teams were able to discern that five telephone numbers were prominently in use during the journeys of the late Wickremathunge
	During this session of questioning the CID was able to retrieve the photocopies of the pages of the police information book, which had been torn off on the orders of the DIG
	At the outset the investigation team was confronted with the conflicting opinions expressed regarding how Wickremathunge died
	The Government analyst, who visited the site, also ruled out shooting in his report
	Now there are three suspects in the Wickremethunges murder case
	After the Presidential Elections 11 soldiers from the Kohuwala Army Camp were taken into custody on 26th February 2010





A gang that arrived in motorcycles was seen stabbing with pointed rods. Alleging that the evidence relating to the killing of Sunday Leader Editor Lasantha Wickremathunge had been concealed several big shots in Sri Lanka Police being handcuffed and taken into custody was observed during the past two weeks. Among them was a DIG. News to the effect that suspects in the Lasantha Killing had been taken into custody spread like a wildfire within the society. Up to now no one has been arrested as suspects in the killing, and those who had been taken into custody are those who are alleged of concealing or destroying valuable evidence related to the killing. This article, penned after much investigations, features facts that were revealed to the courts by the CID with regard to the investigations so far conducted on the killing of the late Wickremathunge. By 2009 there were two Newspapers that were being printed by Leader Publication Company. One was the Iruduina and the other was Sunday Leader. Wickremathunge was the Editor-in-chief of Sunday Leader. At that time he was in the process of revealing frauds and corruption of the then Government through this newspaper. His revelations on the MIG Aircraft transaction led to a case being filed in courts, and he had asserted his colleagues that in the second week of January, when the case was been taken up, more vital information would be made available. 

The killing
It was the eighth of January 2009, and the time around 08.10 am. Near Wickremathunges house, in Terence Road, Kandewatte on the Poorwarama Road, and a few blocks away near a boutique, there had been a parked three wheeler (tuk tuk). The driver of the three wheeler was reading a newspaper. A motorcycle had halted in front of the three wheeler and its rider was wearing a full face helmet. The rider of the motorbike had been sitting and waiting for a while. Another person who was carrying a helmet in his hand and smoking a cigarette had been waiting at this place while having his eyes focused on the road. 
By 08.20 am Wickremathunge had left his residence at Terence Road. As he was passing the boutique the person who was smoking had shouted there he comes and got on to the Motorcycle. Then he started following Wickremathunges car. Being suspicious of these movements the driver of the three wheeler had immediately informed those who were in the boutique. As Wickremathunges driver frequented this boutique, the owner had the telephone number of this driver. The call taken to that phone didnt bring a response as the particular phone had been in the car that was being driven by Wickremathunge on that day. 
A while later Wickremathunges driver came to the boutique and when informed about what had taken place a couple of minutes ago, he hastened to the office of Wickremathunge, but not finding him there, he had brought this to the notice of a manager at the office. He had taken a call to Wickremathunge, who was now driving, and given the telephone to the driver. Wickremathunge had instructed the driver to find the number of the Motorcycle. 
Wickremathunge had gone to the house in Battaramulla. A servant employed at this house had fallen sick. Wickremathunge had then visited a friend who was a doctor and consulted about the servants sickness. He had then obtained the required medicine ordered by the doctor and revisited the servant and handed over the medicine. During these trips Wickremathunge had observed the motorcycles following him. He had then parked his vehicle in the compound of the house and locked the gate. He had observed the motorcycle passing his house and proceeding further. 
After staying there for some time he again got into the car in order to proceed to Sunday Leader office. On the way he had received calls from Asath Sally, Malik Samarawickrama and several others with regard to various matters. He had informed all these callers that a motorcycle was closely following him. They in return instructed him to get to a safe place. He had then travelled to Japan Friendship Road and met a Lawyer. When leaving the residence of the lawyer, Wickremathunge had observed two motorcyclists following him. Samarawickrama had been constantly in touch with Wickremathunge and instructed him to go to a safe place. 
At Attidiya, near Malagala Junior College, he had to stop his car because a bus, that was ahead of him, had stopped near the zebra crossing. Wickremanthunges deadly hour was at hand. The two motorcyclists had halted their bikes obstructing his car. Two other motorcyclists had halted their machines on either side of his car. The gang alighted from their motorcycles and approached Wickremathunge. They then stabbed him using pointed rods and fled the scene. Wickremathunges telephone conversation with Samarawickrama also ended abruptly. 
Two motorcycles headed towards Piliyandala from Malagala while the other two headed towards Mount Lavinia and vanished from the scene. A bystander who had witnessed the scene said that the gang which arrived on motorcycles had stabbed the person inside the car and fled the scene. 
A person working in a printing press nearby, and another person had then halted a passing van and carried the injured Wickremathunge in it. One person had Wickremathunges head on his lap. When his phone rang he had explained to the caller what had happened and the person at the other end, which was Samarawickrama, had instructed him to take the injured person to the Kalubowila Hospital. 
As alerted Prof. Mohan Silva and a team of doctors were in readiness at the Kalubowila Hospital. Immediate attention was given to Wickremathunge by the doctors. As the injuries sustained had been critical an operation was performed, but it was of no avail. Wickremathunge passed way by noon that day. 
telephone calls
The Professor who had performed the operation on Wickremathunge filed a report containing his opinion on 12th January 2009 to the Judicial Medical Officer, who conducted the postmortem. The Professor in his report had stated that there were neither parts of bullets in the body of the deceased and nor sign of any marks of bullets exiting from the body, categorically stating that the death wasnt due to shooting. 
The Government analyst, who visited the site, also ruled out shooting in his report. Despite both these individuals maintaining that death was not due to shooting and the statement made by the eyewitness saying that he had seen someone stabbing the victim, the postmortem report stated that the death was due to shooting. We do not wish to mention the telephone calls that were received by the JMO. Due to this contradiction in reports and the release of the postmortem, the investigations became muddled. 
Commencement of investigations
The OIC of the Boralesgamuwa Police Station Apelekotuwa, who had been passing the scene of crime while on a different errand, had briefed the Mt. Lavinia police regarding this matter. Jayantha Wickramarathne had been the IGP at that time and Prasanna Nanayakkara had been the DIG in charge of Mt. Lavinia Division. While Hemantha Adikari had been the SSP of Mt. Lavinia, the functioning of the Mt. Lavinia Police Station was overseen by ASP L.C.Gunawardene. Chief Inspector Mahesh Perera had been the Mt. Lavinia HQI, and Hettiarachchige Thissasiri Sugathapala had been the OIC crimes of the Mt. Lavinia Police. As the scene of crime, where Wickremathunge was killed, came under the jurisdiction of the Mt. Lavinia Police, the investigations began under Thissasiri Sugathapala who was functioning as OIC Crimes. He had visited the scene and began investigations while Inspector Lalith Weerasinghe too joined him and recorded evidence. The field note book and other items belonging to Wickremathunge and found inside his vehicle were recorded itemized by police inspector Weerasinghe in Suspect property receipt number 101/09. 
Sub Inspector Thissa Sugathapala, who examined the field note book, had noted that in 126 pages out of 160 pages Wickremathunge had noted various matters in English. In the front page and the back cover two numbers of vehicles had been written. On further verification from Wickremathunges family members Sugathapala suspected these numbers to be those of the vehicles that had been following Wickremathunge. Accordingly he made these records in the police Crime Information Book and entered it as a case production in the receipt book under number 154/09. On obtaining verification from the Motor Transport Department it was established that one Motorcycle was from Boralesgamuwa while the other was from Ja-Ela. Being convinced of its veracity Sugathapala first visited Boralesgamuwa. 
Destruction of records
When he was on his way he received a call. The story which followed and what was reported to the courts is as follows. The call is from SSP. He instructs Sugathapala to come immediately to go and meet a DIG. As instructed he returns and accompanied by the SSP SI Sugathapala went to meet the DIG. There the DIG examined the field note book of Lasantha and mentioned to the IGP over the phone what was contained in the note book. Police suspect that what was indicated therein were information he was to produce to courts at the next hearing. 
Thereafter the DIG had requested Sugathapala to hand over the note book to him. When Sugathapala had told him that he had made certain records of the note book in the police Crime Information book, the DIG had insisted that he tears them off and hand them to him. The SI had at the outset hesitated to do this illegal act. The DIG had retorted  by writing these things and inquiring, you also wanted to get killed. What happened to Lasantha will happen to you also. Havent you children Without getting killed by them give me the record book and the note book to me The CID has informed the courts about this order made to Sugathapala by the DIG. 
Sugathapala had then obtained photocopies of these records and after hiding them in a secure place handed the original records over to the DIG in the presence of the SSP. 
Thereafter the OIC Crimes conducted the investigations. While this was so there was much pressure exerted on the Government to conduct these investigations in a proper manner. The investigations were then handed over to the CID on 25th November, but they could continue with the investigations only for a few months. The then IGP Mahinda Balasuriya on 07th February 2010, removed the CID from continuing further investigations and transferred the investigation to the TID under DIG Wakishta. The TID took into consideration the records of the investigations conducted till then by the CID . 
TID
The investigative teams were able to discern that five telephone numbers were prominently in use during the journeys of the late Wickremathunge. As the numbers ended with 811,812,831,861 and 951 and the similarities observed, they conducted investigations on several angles. The SIM cards had all been purchased on November 12, 13 and 01st December. These SIM cards had been purchased from a communication centre in Olcott Mawatha and the cards had been obtained under a NIC belonging to one Jesudasan of Nuwara Eliya. The TID arrested Jesudasan on 26th February 2010. He was questioned under detention. The next person to be arrested was an army intelligence officer who had been assigned to the Tripoly Army Camp. Jesudasan had been working in a garage. After intoxicating him his NIC had been taken. Despite proof of purchasing SIM cards using Jesudasans NIC, he was not released and finally he died. It is not known whether the death of this innocent man was natural or amounted to another killing. 
The Presidential election in 2010 was conducted during this time. After the Presidential Elections 11 soldiers from the Kohuwala Army Camp were taken into custody on 26th February 2010 for the alleged killing of Wickremathunge. This was followed by another six soldiers being arrested. All these soldiers had been attached to the security contingent that provided security to Sarath Fonseka. Despite having obtained detention orders on charges of conspiring to overthrow the Government, nine of them were released on police bail after six days. The remaining 08 were also released on police bail after 11 days. The intelligence officer who was serving at the Tripoly Market Army Camp was acquitted and discharged on the advice of the AG. 
CID again takes over
With the new Government taking over, there was pressure exerted from all sides for the investigations to be handed back to the CID. On the 25th of February 2015 the investigations were handed over to the CID. Accordingly investigations began under the direction of Senior DIG of CID Ravi Senevirathne and Sudath Nagahamulla who was director at that time and the present DIG. On the instructions of present Director of CID, SSP Shani Abeysekera, and ASP B.S. Thissera the OIC of Gang Robberies Investigation Unit Inspector Nishantha Silva and a police team commenced the investigations. At the outset the investigation team was confronted with the conflicting opinions expressed regarding how Wickremathunge died. The body of Wickremathunge was exhumed in 2016 and another postmortem was held by a team of Judicial Medical Officers led by the Chief JMO of Colombo Dr Ajith Thennakoon. There findings revealed that Lasantha had not died of gunshot injuries, but as a result of stabbing on his head using a sharp weapon. This report tallied with the report made by Prof. Mohan De Silva who performed the operation soon after Wickremathunge was brought into the Kalubowila Hospital. The authorities suspect that the pointed weapon used to kill Wickremathunge is a modern weapon used abroad to kill sheep. This weapon is placed on someones head and after a button is pressed a pointed rod juts out from it with force, penetrates the head of the victim and then returns to its compartment. 
The CID investigators first began interrogating the police sleuths and recorded their evidence. They summoned SI Sugathapala and recorded his evidence on 12th October 2015 and on 04th November 2015. His evidence and those obtained from other police officers appeared to be vastly different. The examination of recordings of telephone conversations proved that he had given false evidence. Therefore he was re-summoned on the 31st of January to record a further statement. Having recorded his statement halfway he had to go for lunch. He then seized this opportunity to flee and later went into hiding. But he was traced by the CID and taken into custody while hiding in a house in Katukurunda. The Gang Robberies Investigation Unit later obtained court approval to detain Sugathapala for 48 hours for the purpose of further questioning. 
During this session of questioning the CID was able to retrieve the photocopies of the pages of the police information book, which had been torn off on the orders of the DIG. These photocopies were found after nine years by the CID which was concealed in the house of SI Sugathapala. 
Drama enacted with regard to the Motorcycles
A petition is said to have been received by the then IGP that the motorcycles used in the killing were found in a canal in Attidiya. Sugathapala was instructed to commence investigations into this matter. As the canal was teeming with crocodiles he decided to obtain the services of divers and went in search of them. He deployed divers on the 26th, but did not find anything. On the 27th, after receiving a telephone call, he instructed the divers to look in the area near a Fig tree, where he found the two motorcycles. 
Following an examination of their chassis numbers and engine numbers it was revealed that the motorcycles belonged to a resident in Vavuniya. The owner, whom the CID met later, had stated that he had sold the motorcycle to an owner of a Jewellery shop. When the SI continued to check on the second owner he came to know that he had gone missing. The SI had been directed by higher officials not to search for the missing person. A story was then fabricated that the motorcycle was owned by a LTTE cadre and that the killing was the work of the LTTE. 
With the commencement of investigations the CID went in search of the second owner of the motorcycle Vishnu Kumar, who had been a resident of Punthottam. He was not a LTTE associate, but a jewellery shop owner. On 18th January 2009 he had been riding this motorcycle accompanied by a friend. There were eyewitnesses who vouch that their motorcycle was stopped by a group who arrived in a green coloured van. The people in the van had then taken away this motorcycle. The following day (19th January) the bodies of these two persons were found in Anuradhapura. They had been shot in their heads. This motorcycle, which had been then used in the killing of Wickremathunge, had been then taken away to Vavuniya 10 days after the killing of Wickremathunge. Therefore the police suspected that this motorcycle had been taken away with the intention of diverting the attention of the investigators. The CID began to make inquiries regarding the petition received by the IGP. The petition had been received by the IGP on 26th January, but instructions to search for the missing motorcycle had been given on 25th January. So ended the motorcycle drama giving rise to clues to another crime. 
Now there are three suspects in the Wickremethunges murder case. One is an army soldier and the other two are from the police. All three individuals are not suspects in the killing of Wickremathunge. They have been taken into custody for concealing evidence and for intimidating witnesses. It proves that the killers of Wickremathunge are still moving freely. 
The CID should be commended for moving thus far amidst difficult situations. It is the duty of the CID to speed up the investigations and take the killers into custody. The political authorities and the general public should create the ideal environment for the investigations to continue unhindered. If not the Wickremathunge killing also would add up to the series of deaths where the perpetrators are still missing.

(Courtesy Lankadeepa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Interim order for Gota further extended
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 02:42 pm
Interim order for Gota further extended
	
The interim order issued by the Court of Appal preventing the FCID from taking action against former Defence Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa under the Public Property Act, was further extended till March 23.
The petition filed by Mr. Rajapaksa in this regard was taken up before the bench comprising Justices P. Padman Surasena (President/Court of Appeal) and Shiran Gooneratne today. (S.S.Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Liability Management Bill will give wings to Govt.s borrowing spree: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 04:54 pm
Liability Management Bill will give wings to Govt.s borrowing spree: MR
	
Former president and MP Mahinda Rajapaksa today said the Active Liability Management Bill introduced by the government wouldgive wings to theborrowing spreeof the government.
In a statement, Mr. Rajapaksa said the government has introduced the Active Liability Management Bill seeking authorization to borrow over Rs. 1trillionfrom local and foreign sources, over and above the yearly borrowing limit set by parliament.
The Yahapalana government has been irresponsible and reckless in borrowing money from its inception. Under my government, Sri Lanka Development Bonds (SLDBs) were issued only twice a year to borrow an average of around USD 350 million per year. However,in the year 2015,the yahapalana government issued SLDBs on no less than nine occasions, followed by six in 2016 and four in 2017 and have up to now borrowed USD 7.7 billion from this source alone, he said.
Meanwhile, he saidthe Auditor General stated that nobody knows what Sri Lankasreal national debt is because debt had been concealed over the past ten years, by being shifted to state owned enterprises and other government entities without being included in the public debt.
Mr. Rajapaksa said the Central Bank had to step into reassure the financial markets by issuing a statement contradicting the Auditor Generals claims and pointing out that Sri Lankas debts are accurately recorded and that that Sri Lankahave an unblemished record in servicing that debt.
The Auditor Generals Constitutionally mandated task is to audit all agencies of the central government, all provincial councils and local authorities and every enterprise in which the state owns more than 50% of the shares.He is the last person in the country who can claim that he does not know how much is owed by each of these institutions, he said.
Under theproposed law, Mr. Rajapaksa said the executive will be able to raise over Rs. 1trillion in debt and make regulations about how that money will be used.
Given the scandals that have already taken place in the issuance of public debt under this government, the danger inherent in this proposed law is obvious. Therefore, the Active Liability Management Bill should be resolutely opposed by every citizen of Sri Lanka, he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran not in Singapore address - Courier service
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 01:23 am
Mahendran not in Singapore address - Courier service
	
An international courier service, which was tasked to hand over the Notice issued by the Colombo Fort Magistrate, to former Central Bank Governor Arjun Mahendran who is in Singapore, had reportedly informed the CID that Mr. Mahendran was not present in the given address in Singapore, informed sources said.
Recently, Colombo Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne issued a notice to be handed over to Mr. Mahendran directing him to appear before the CID before March 8 to record a statement over the investigations into the issuance of Central Bank Treasury bonds.
The Magistrate also instructed the CID to send the Court Notice to Mr. Mahendran through a Speed post to the Singapore address. (Manopriya Gunasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mindfulness is not their need!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:33 pm
Mindfulness is not their need!
	
A meditation training programme for Diyawanna members and staffers was held quite recently. 
Although almost all staffers attended the programme, all Diyawanna members with one single exception were conspicuous by their absence at the inaugural session of the programme, they say.
The programme was conducted by a former lady secretary of the Education Ministry. All 225 members were invited to participate in the programme, an informed source said. The august assembly high-ups who wanted the programme to be a great success were shocked to find that the members had given it a miss, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR flies to Bangalore
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 10:44 am
MR flies to Bangalore
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa left for Bangalore, India this morning with a six member delegation, Airport sources said.
He is to return tonight.
The airport sources said joint opposition MP Lohan Ratwatte and Private Secretary Uditha Lokubandara were also among the delegation. (T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: National Unity Govt should forge ahead
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:36 am
National Unity Govt should forge ahead
	

Land Minister Gayantha Karunatilake, in an interview with Daily mirror , speaks about the current political situation and the future of his party.
The excerpts:

QHow do you rate the outcome of this election which saw the defeat of your party
Of course, people have given a clear verdict against us. We have to admit it humbly. On the one hand, we received such a warning signal when we were halfway through our term. If we waited for the last minute without such a warning signal, we would have faced even direr consequences at a national election-the Presidential Election or the parliamentary elections. We have reached a critical point in politics.
There are numerous areas where we should transform ourselves. There are numerous areas needing reforms. We have to be considerate about public aspirations. While looking to the future, we should also look at the present. That is the message given to us. People pinned a lot of hopes on us when giving us a mandate in 2015. First, they hoped we would act against corruption. We took a lackadaisical effort in this regard. There is a criticism even from within the government over this. There were instances in which the ministers raised it. Somehow or other, the anti-corruption drive took place at a snails space. May be, it is a delay that has to be understood as we follow the proper legal procedure. When nothing happened finally, people thought we only made false allegations about corruption before 2015. 
Not that alone, there were many other reasons that caused our downfall at the elections. The government itself faced corruption allegations. It had a bearing on our vote base in urban areas. That allegation turned out to be a tool of political power game within the government. It was used by one party of the government to undermine the other. It alienated people from us eventually. 
In the agricultural areas like Anuradhapura, people did not receive fertilizer in time. We introduced a new system for the distribution of fertilizer. It was not popular among the people. We experienced drought. That also affected the government finally. I, as an electoral organizer, met with much consternation when it comes to the delivery of Samurdhi. The methodology, adopted for giving Samurdhi benefits, is not acceptable to us at all. We, as Ministers, could not correct any injustice caused in the process. It is a process politicized for years. 
We could not give solutions to issues faced by people in the short term. Whatever anyone might say, ours is a country with Sinhala-Buddhist culture at its core. There was a fear psychosis created among the Sinhala-Buddhists. They feared the foremost placed accorded to Buddhism would be taken away in the proposed new Constitution. I do not think it is legitimate allegation. Anyway, there was fear mongering. 
QWhat are the areas that need changes and reforms
Both the UNP headed by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and the SLFP headed by President Maithripala Sirisena discussed it after the electoral defeat. We all agreed that we had to be more and more people-oriented. We have to reform our policies. We need to take rigorous steps in this regard and ensure sensible benefits to people. 
Cabinet reforms is one things accepted by both the leaders. They were attending to it. We need facelift changes. People expect it.
It is better to adopt changes. We have to renew ourselves. After I received the Land Ministry, I was happy. Otherwise, I was the Media Minister earlier. I assumed duties in that position at a challenging time. There were serious assaults on media freedom. It was a time when some journalists had fled the country or got killed. The media institutions came under arson attack. I ensured media freedom in the truest sense of the word. In fact, media freedom was literally overflowing. But, as the Media Minister, my scope was naturally limited. I could not serve much to my constituents. Yet, as the Land Minister, I could travel across the length and breadth of this country and address land issues of people - giving them freehold rights, deeds etc. 
We have youthful spirits in our party. They have to be assigned responsibilities to grow. We need changes in our party structure.
 QSome members in your party criticized the national unity government and the President. How do you view this
There are factors for and against. It is not an easy task to reconcile two political forces that harboured enmity against each other for long years. It is a gigantic task. We are happy that the President and the Prime Minister took such a decision. We were able to deliver something to the people. That is the positive side. There are minuses also. 
We ran the government together but contested the elections separately. I feel it is better for the two parties to be together for the rest of its period to serve people. 
I do not condone any UNP Cabinet Minister criticizing the President. It is equally unethical for any SLFP Minister to rebuke the Prime Minister in the open. 
QWe saw the UNP backbenchers constantly attacking the President. What do you feel about it
If there is no example set from above, it will be the end result. Then, we will lose control over those in the lower-rung. A Cabinet Minister should serve as an example to others. The Cabinet is collectively bound. We have to correct the situation now. After the Cabinet reshuffle, such discipline should be instilled to avoid criticism of each other. 
The President has given too much freedom to the Ministers in the Cabinet meeting. Some Cabinet Ministers, who served in the Rajapaksa rule said they never had such opportunity to look at anything in a critical perspective. They were mere Yes Sir men. Now the situation is different. The Ministers can openly air out their grievances at the Cabinet sessions. Such criticism should be confined to the walls of the Cabinet hall. 
QYour opinion on the current President...
I feel he is very democratic. He is someone who had a humble beginning. He has his native and village identity. He is familiar with rural conscience, and capable of reading the pulse of the people. He is a practical politician.
The Prime Minister has long experience in politics. It is not easy to produce such an experienced, mature politician. Nobody can match his experience of 40 years in politics and statesmanship. 
We gained a lot through the national unity government. Yet, we failed to convert it to electoral success. People yearn for short-term gains. The 19th Amendment to the Constitution is a great achievement. We avoided economic sanctions being imposed. 
QThere is an allegation that the country cannot get out of the current impasse because of the 19A, which bars snap elections. What is your view
There is no impasse. The national unity government can proceed. The opposition parties try to project the situation as a gridlock. 
QAnimosity between the UNP and the SLFP rose to new levels after the elections. Then, how can you sustain unity in the future
We have reached some agreement now. There were issues. We cannot rule them out. We discussed them and sorted them out. Both the parties have a responsibility to work in keeping with the 2015 mandate.
QEven the new election law has created confusions. A party that won nine out of ten electoral wards has not sometimes got a stable number elected. Your comments on this...
This is a novel experience. We experimented the new system. I think the law should be amended to rectify grey areas. It is practically difficult to nominate woman representatives on the list under the current circumstances. 
QYou have introduced it for the provincial council elections now. What are you going to do with it
We have now tested it for the local polls. We know its shortcomings. We should not fall into trouble for the second time. Otherwise, there will be a serious crisis.
 
		
==============================
## Title: No diesel shortage in the country: CEYPETCO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 07:34 am
No diesel shortage in the country: CEYPETCO
	
The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CEYPETCO) yesterday denied the rumors circulating in social media claiming that there would be a shortage of diesel in the country, CEYPETCO said.
Speaking to the media its spokesperson Ajith Dharmapriya said it was informed that such rumors were created with the intention of disrupting the general livelihood while crippling normal day today activities of the country and creating a chaotic situation to increase consumer demand for diesel in the market.
The CEYPETCO has sufficient all fuel stocks including diesel at the Kolonnawa and Muthurajawela refineries, Mr. Dharmapriya said.
The Corporation request the public not to get alarmed of rumors and steps had been taken to take legal actions against the social media websites for spreading rumors. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: President must officially ask Spore to extradite Mahendran: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 01:43 pm
President must officially ask Spore to extradite Mahendran: JO
	
President Maithripala Sirisena should officially request the Singapore Government to extradite former Central Bank Governor Arjuna Mahendran to Sri Lanka, who is allegedly connected to the bond scam, JO National Organizer MP Dullas Alahapperuma said today.
Addressing a media conference, he said having been issued a notice over Mr Mahendran to appear before the CID before March 8, the CID had reportedly mentioned that Mr Mahendran was not present in the given address in Singapore.
We saw recently how the Government took prompt action against the Defence Attache of the Sri Lankan High Commission in UK Brigadier Priyanka Fernando, who was suspended over making a throat slitting gesture and showing the Sri Lankan Flag. Why such action cannot be taken against the mastermind of the bond fraud, MP Alahapperuma asked. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: SAITM needs a political solution: GMOA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 08:39 pm
SAITM needs a political solution: GMOA
	
The SAITM controversy was a result of arbitrary political decisions therefore it can be resolved only through a political solution, the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) said today.
Although a presidential solution was provided, it has not been conveyed to the Supreme Court yet. Because of this lapse, the GMOA said this issue could get aggravated.
Addressing a press conference, GMOA Secretary Dr. Harith Aluthge said the government has to issue the gazette notification abolishing the SAITM without further delay to find a solution to this issue.
He said although the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University had agreed to accommodate the SAITM students it had certain procedural difficulties to do so and the government has to rectify this situation immediately.
Therefore Dr. Aluthge urged the government to setup a technical committee to decide on these matters when SAITM students follow the study programme at the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
Most importantly, the committees technical solutions over the transfer should be informed to the Supreme Court, he added.
Meanehile, he said the GMOA would not oppose even the government provide necessary facilities to SAITM students via other hospitals to complete their clinical trainings if KDU does not have them. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL Per Capita Debt exceeds Rs.400,000
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 01:04 pm
SL Per Capita Debt exceeds Rs.400,000
	
The Public Debt Management Report released by the Auditor General has revealed that each Sri Lankan is burdened with a debt amount of Rs. 417,913 at the end of 2016.
This amount is an increase of the debt burden of each Sri Lankan the year before, which was Rs. 373,462.
The per capita debt of Sri Lanka was only Rs. 108,908 in 2005. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLIM Certificate in Pharmaceutical Marketing
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 27 February 2018 03:21 pm
SLIM Certificate in Pharmaceutical Marketing
	
Deleivering The Special Message - Mr. Pradeep Edward - Vice President Slim & Ceo Of Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics
Pharmaceutical marketing has become a subject to reckon in the present context. Stiff competition prevailing in the pharmaceutical sphere demands individuals to have professional know-how on the subject to resist competition and create an edge in the marketplace.
The Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM), the national body for marketing has embarked on furthering the knowledge of pharmaceutical marketing professionals, medical representatives and grooming school leavers who are keen in building careers as medical delegates, with its Certificate course in Pharmaceutical Marketing. The programme was developed as aunique six-month long comprehensive course, comprising of 3 areas; Anatomy, Management and Marketing.
The course has been designed focusing on grooming pharmaceutical Salesforceto become true professionals in the pharmaceutical field and is approved by the Sri Lankan Chamber of Pharmaceutical Industry. The step-by-step teaching process sheds light on advancing students in their pharmaceutical career.
The course offers students a higher career path in the pharmaceutical industry and beyond. The programme is conducted by a highly qualified faculty, comprising of reputed professionals in the field, thus adding much credibility to the course.SLIM held the inauguration of the Certificate in Pharmaceutical Marketing and its first intake for the year 2018 in a grand scale, at the SLIM Home in February this year.
Attending the Inauguration Ceremony, Pradeep Edward, the Vice President of SLIM and CEO of Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics, gavethe participants an overview of a Medical Delegates profession. He disclosed how he entered the Pharmaceutical industry as a medical delegate and obtained professional qualifications to brighten his career and life. A medical delegate with professional advancement will build confidence within himself to interact with Doctors and medical professionals in a proficient manner. SLIMs Pharmaceutical Marketing certificate course, while offering students, knowledge of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, also offers them with the knowledge in sales, marketing and management. This acquired knowledge and know-how bestows them with the professionalism needed in the sphere,
The Vice President - events of SLIM, Suranjith Swaris said that SLIM being the national body for marketing has its core competency of being responsible for the qualifications granted by the institute.We add value to our Pharma course with guest lecture sessions, where students get the opportunity to participate and derive exposure from the pharmaceutical experts. Apart from knowledge acquiring, building network with top marketers in the fraternity and participate in student committees attached to National level events, SLIM creates opportunities to the students to develop their inter-personal skills and personality.
The PharMa Syllabus, text books and course content are prepared to suit the current industry requirements with emphasis made on training as well as embracing the most effective and best practices to succeed in the pharmaceutical trade. Any individual or sales representative who follows this certificate course could confidently look forward to a steady career progression in the field. The certificate course will further facilitate persons who are eager to fast-track their education towards an MBA qualification, noted SLIM CEO/ED Sanath Senanayake.
He added, SLIM constantly conducts innovative, practice oriented courses and sessions for students, facilitating them to derive hands-on experience and PharMa is one of those.
AzamJaward, Hon. Secretary of SLCPI and CEO/ Managing Director of CIPLA Pharma Lanka endorsed the programme while stating, The professional expertise of the pharmaceutical sphere by the Sri Lanka Chamber of Pharmaceutical Industry (SLCPI)together with the inputs of Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) designed the course, which ensures to produce professionally qualified pharma delegates to the industry.
SLIM being the national body for marketing is dedicated to enhance the status of marketing in the country by continuous development of marketing education benchmarking with global standards.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Spills, finally !
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 27 February 2018 06:51 pm
Spills, finally !
	
Following the drought experienced in the area, four spill gates of the Parakrama Samudraya in Polonnaruwa were opened today after its water level reached spill levels due to heavy rainfall. Pix by K.G. Karunaratne

 
		
==============================
## Title: Swinging to rhythm of jazz
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 27 February 2018 03:11 am
Swinging to rhythm of jazz
	
Jazz sensation Wycliffe Gordon and sextet, staged a performance for the residents of Slave Island yesterdayas part of the 70th anniversary celebration of US - Sri Lanka Partnership. The group, hosted by the US Embassy in Sri Lanka, performedin and around Colomboon Saturdayand will be staging more performances in Galle and Matara.Pix by Pradeep Pathirana

 
		
==============================
## Title: Tension in Ampara town
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 05:53 pm
Tension in Ampara town
	
Four shops and a place of religious worship were damaged and three people injured in a clash between two groups in Ampara town and is said to have flared up after some tablets were allegedly found in a meal served by a wayside restaurant to a customer.
The incident had first taken place at the restaurant in the vicinity of temple junction in Ampara on Monday night and the officers of the Ampara Police had come to the scene and launched investigations.
Later an angry mob had attacked several shops in the area with the police finding it difficult to bring the situation under control. Thereafter, police reinforcements had been rushed from nearby police stations and the mob dispersed with the assistance of the STF.
Senior DIG (East) Kapila Jayasekera and major General Mahinda Mudalige, General Officer Commanding  24th Division and Ampara District Secretary P. Wanigasinghe had also arrived at the scene.
As a precautionary measure, these officers took steps to safeguard all vulnerable religious places of worship in the Ampara Town by deploying the army, police and the special task force and the questionable food referred to the government analyst for further investigations.
Amid discussions held with the Maha Sangha, parliamentarians and the security forces, it was resolved to prevent such incidents in future.
Senior DIG Kapila Gunasekera of the Eastern Division said he was taking steps to arrest the members of the mob and that security would be provided to all the places of religious worship until the unrest subsides. (Wasantha Chandrapala)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trains come to a standstill between Pannipitiya and Maharagama
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 08:30 am
Trains come to a standstill between Pannipitiya and Maharagama
	
The railway service on the Kelani Valley line came to a standstill this morning after a train bound to Colombo Fort from Homagama derailed between Pannipitiya and Maharagama Railway stations, the Railway Control Room said.
Therefore, the train services had been limited to Maharagama from Colombo Fort.
The train (653) left for Colombo from Homagama at 7.15 this morning.
Meanwhile, the control room announced that another two trains from Avissawella would be late due to the derailment. (Chaturanga Smarawickrama) 

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tree falls at Dutugemunu Mawatha, one injured
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 06:00 pm
Tree falls at Dutugemunu Mawatha, one injured
	
At least one person was injured after a tree fell on to a car at Dutugemunu Mawatha in Pamankada this evening, Police said.
They said the injured was admitted to the Colombo South Teaching Hospital.
Police requested motorists to use alternate routes to avoid the traffic.

Video by Janaka
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wennappuwa ASP arrested while soliciting bribe
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:02 pm
Wennappuwa ASP arrested while soliciting bribe
	
The Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) of Wennappuwa was arrested by the Bribery Commission officials today while soliciting a bribe of Rs.30,000.
It was reported that he had asked for the bribe from a brothel operator so as to ensure smooth functioning of the brothel. (BSJ)

Video by Prasad Mutukuda
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wesley College OBU celebrates Founders Week
## Section: News Features
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:00 am
Wesley College OBU celebrates Founders Week
	
Wesley College Colombo was named after John Wesley (17031791), the great Evangelist and Founder of the Methodist Church. The school is administered by the Methodist Church in Sri Lanka. Wesley College- a leading, Christian Boys School- was founded on the 2nd of March 1874. The College which is celebrating its 144th Anniversary this year. This academic institute provides primary and secondary education to Students. Rev. Samuel Rowse Wilkin was its first Principal and first President of the Old Boys Union. Rev. Daniel Henry Pereira is considered to be the founder of Wesley College Colombo and was also its first Vice Principal. Even though this institution was envisaged to be a Christian boys school, it has opened its doors to provide education for Sri Lankan boys from diverse religious and ethnic backgrounds during the past 144 years. 
Wesley commemorates the memory of her Founder, the Rev. Daniel Henry Pereira  annually on Founders Day. This is the most important event in the schools calendar. During the schools 144-year history, thousands have passed through the hallowed portals of this great institution, which has produced many distinguished Alumni, who have offered valuable service to the society, nation and the world. Among them are: Sir Oliver Ernest Goonetilleke the 1st Ceylonese Governor-General (19541962), Sir Don Baron Jayatilaka, Sir Claude Corea - Member of Parliament, Walisinghe Harischandra - Social Reformer, Historian and Author, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar - Member Legislative Council of Ceylon, Sir Gerard Wijeyekoon - Member Legislative Council of Ceylon, Mahadevan Sathasivam - International Cricket Player, Mr. P. De S. KularatnePrincipal of Ananda College, E. F. C. Ludowyk -first Professor of English University of Ceylon, M. H. Mohamed - Speaker of Sri Lanka Parliament and Mayor of Colombo, Farveez Maharoof- International Cricket Player.

The examples set by many brilliant Old Boys as role models who have lived up to the ideals and values of the Founders, bringing honour and glory to theirAlma Mater

The examples set by many brilliant Old Boys as role models who have lived up to the ideals and values of the Founders, bringing honour and glory to their Alma Mater through their respective professions, will continue to inspire Wesleyites in the years to come. The Current Committee of the Wesley College OBU Colombo, under the leadership of the Incumbent President Wilhelm Van Dort, is striving to uphold the traditions and values of the great Christian Methodist Legacy - which they inherited from preceding generations, and see that it is passed down to the future generations of Wesleyites.
The Founders Week celebrations, taking place from 2-4 March, are certainly going to bring nostalgic memories and rekindle friendships among the double blue fraternity. On the 2nd of March the hockey and soccer matches between the past and present boys will be held at Campbell Park at 4.30 pm. These matches will be followed by the Traditional Principals Tea Party at the Pavilion. Thereafter the Water Polo match between the Past and Present students will be held at 7.30 pm at the college pool. 
On March 3 (Saturday) the old boys and present boys will feature in a basketball match at the school premises. The traditional cricket match between the old boys and the present 1st XI cricket team will follow at 9.30 am at Campbell Park. The traditional OBU Lunch will be at 1.30 pm at the College Hall, followed by The Annual General Meeting of the OBU, scheduled at 3.00pm. The lunch ticket is priced at Rs.1500 and can be purchased from the Club House (OWSC) Manager or by calling Secretary of the OBU Mr. Fowzil Nawaz on 0777900808. The President and Committee of the Old Boys Union invite all Double Blue loyalists to be present and participate actively in the Founders week events, and the AGM. 
ORA ET LABORA..
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wimal asks PM, President to resign
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 03:20 am
Wimal asks PM, President to resign
	
While claiming that it was a big mockery to appoint the Prime Minister, who was the mastermind of the bond scam, as the Law and Order Minister, the National Freedom Front (NFF) leader Wimal Weerawansa said the PM and the President should resign without dragging the country towards anarchy.
Addressing a news briefing, he said the President who proclaimed that he would not engage any culprits to run the government, seemed that he had forgotten what he had uttered during the pre-election period.
The bond scam that took place in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka is considered to be a massive fraud that ever occurred in South Asia. The master brain of such fraud is now being appointed as the Law and Order Minister by the President. Further, giving the portfolio of Youth Affairs to Sagala Ratnayake is like setting a wolf to guard the chickens, he said.
Therefore, he asked as to how the county would move forward in this circumstances and urged the President either to rethink of entrusting of portfolios or resign with the Premier. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: A memorable journey in the field of education
## Section: News Features
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:01 am
A memorable journey in the field of education
	
D. S. Senanayake National School Mirigama celebrates 65th anniversary

D. S. Senanayaka National School, Mirigama celebrated its 65th anniversary. The school, which was established under the initiation of Ven. Wewaldeniye Medhalankara Mahanayaka Thera and the former Prime Minister D. S. Senanayake, has become a recognized school in the country today. 
The history of the school dates back to the time when Sri Lanka gained independence. In 1946 the country was separated into new electorates. As a result a new electorate division was named as Mirigama, which was created by combining Udugahapaththuwa and Aluthkuru Korale. Since there was no school that provided education for senior grade students, many elites used to send their children to schools in Negombo, Kurunegala, Kandy or Colombo. 
This issue drew the attention of both the Buddhist leaders and the Buddhist associations. They then took steps to establish a new school with the aim of providing education to all the students in the region. Ven. Wewaldeniye Medhalankara Thera, who was a young and renowned Buddhist monk in the area, volunteered to initiate the task. He was also close friend of the Prime Minister D. S. Senanayake. The premier couldnt avoid the request made by them due to two reasons. One was that Mirigama was his birth place. The other reason was that the request was made by a well recognized Buddhist monk, who he too highly respected. As a result the new school was first established as a bilingual boys college in Mirigama. 
26-acre land donated 
A few years later a well-wisher in the area, by the name of Mudliyar Dahanayake, donated 26 acres of his coconut estate in Walawwaththa area to build the school premises. The initiative for the same was also done by Medhalankara Thera. The foundation stone for the schools main building was laid by the Prime Minister D. S. Senanayake on 18th February 1951. Unfortunately the death of the prime minister in 1952 affected the construction of the school. The efforts of the Thera and the organizers helped complete the planned task. As a result of these efforts Mirigama College was opened by the end of 1952. The school had 600 students and an academic staff of 25 teachers. 
National school 
The college, which only had a main hall, was further developed and promoted to Maha Vidyalaya status in 1959. The school was then named D. S. Senanayake College with the view of paying tribute to the great man for his commitments in establishing the school. In 1988 the school became a Cluster School supporting 14 small schools in the area. With the introduction of National schools, the school was promoted as a national school in 1999. 
The present principal of the school is J. A. S. Karunathilake. The 16 principals who developed the school from its beginning are: 
Mr. K. P. Pangngarathne(1947  1952) 
Mr. F. D. Wijesinghe (1953  1955) 
Mr. Hemachandra Welikanne(1955  1960) 
Mr. Hyubert Karunaratne(1961  1963) 
Mr. D.A. Jayathilake (1964  1969) 
Mr. P. P. D. T. Aquinas (1970  1972) 
Mr. D.A. Perera (1972  1974) 
Mr. G.D. Francis (1974  1975) 
Mr. R.A.K. Rajapakshe(1975  1976) 
Mr. C. C. Manamperi (1976) 
Mr. G. S. Leelananda (1977) 
Mr. W. R. Karunarathne
(1977  1988) 
Mr. T. K. Ariyawansha (1989  1992) 
Mr. D. G. L. Thilakawarshane(1992  2007) 
Rev. Makkanigoda Assaji Thero (2008  2014) 
Mr. J.A.S. Karunathilake(Since 2014)
The school at present comprises four deputy principals, 120 academic staff, 50 non academic staff and 2000 students. The rapid academic growth of the school has created a great demand for new admissions. The school records the best results among the schools in Minuwangoda zone. Annually, a huge number of students who pass the grade five scholarship examination receive the opportunity to enter this academic institute. 
The school boasts of maintaining an average of producing 75 advanced level students, from Art, Commerce, Science and Technology steams who get the opportunity to enter university. 
The international and national level achievements in sports by the students is outstanding. The students are lucky to have been placed at national level competitions in numerous subjects like Sinhala language, English language, Drama and Theatre, Geography etc during the past few years. 
Both the students and the teachers of the school in the art stream have produced many national level achievements continuously. The school produced achievers who were selected for the national level art competition in 2017. The cadet platoons over the years have managed to uplift the image of the institute by emerging as champions of the seventh Battalion (Gampaha District) several times. They were also the national champions during the Billet Inspection in 2016. The students in the science and mathematics streams of the school have started to produce numerous achievements at national level, especially at National Olympiad competitions. 
We would also like to pay our gratitude to the Past Pupils Association of the school for their continuous support in developing the status of the school in numerous ways. 
In commemorating its 65th anniversary the school organized a walk and a mega exhibition. The walk, held recently, was a great success. The exhibition will be conducted from 28th February to 02nd March at the school premises. 


We wish D. S. Senanayake National School all success. 
Sumudu Geethani 
 
		
==============================
## Title: A Romeo in action
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:38 pm
A Romeo in action
	
This provincial politico known to be a libertine is said to be spending most of his time looking into the personal problems of cute fair ones working in government establishments these days, they say.
This politico has been responsible for providing employment to a good number of fair and lovely ones particularly in the education sector in the province. The playboys political boss aware of his philandering has reportedly decided not to give him party nomination to contest the upcoming election.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Anantha Rathriya Forgotten flicks
## Section: News Features
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:00 am
Anantha Rathriya Forgotten flicks
	
The three women who take in young Suvisal to the family mansion  the mother, played by Radha de Mel, and the two aunts, played by Veena Jayakodi and Priya Ranasinghe  are nameless. They dont talk, they just laugh and smile, and when they sing to one of the aunts playing the piano, Suvisal (and we) dont hear them: he can only hear that piano. Emotionally they are estranged from them, though they try their best to pander to him, and emotionally, were estranged from them too.
The whole sequence at their mansion, coming right after we are made aware of the storys central conflict, is a flashback, and in it we come across the indifference of the world that Suvisal, the protagonist, was brought up in: somewhat puritanical, tempered by rigid class hierarchies. So when Suvisal sees a girl his age (the daughter of the manservant), he is not a little astounded: its the first time hes come across young, nubile beauty. When they grow up, and meet as adults, that beauty is still nubile; it compels the storys central conflict, and with it its tragedy. 
Anantha Rathriya, Prasanna Vithanages second film (after Sisila Gini Gani and before Pawuru Walalu), may be, like Sumitra Periess Sagara Jalaya, one of the three or four most perfectly constructed films ever made here. When it first opened in 2001, the reviews were rave  The film fillips the soul (Nan)  a thought-provoking cinematic experience (Malinda Seneviratne)  and the reviewers were astounded by its effortless economy. At a little more than one hour and 20 minutes, it may have been one of the first contemporary Sinhala movies to liberate itself from the lengthiness that Sinhala movies in general succumbed to. Editing could not have been a piece of cake, Malinda Seneviratne wrote, and he was spot on: theres practically no scene, no sound, no background element, which can be put off or deleted. Largely self-financed (the producer, Damayanthi Fonseka, by then married to Prasanna), it opened up the possibilities that the independent cinema could usher in here. 
Although Anantha Rathriya, at the outset, is about the redemptive power of guilt, its also about the burden that such guilt can perpetuate: neither the protagonist (Ravindra Randeniya) nor the woman he rapes and, in one instant, abandons (Swarna Mallawarachchi) can really opt for reconciliation. Prasannas films play around with this dualism, and even in his lesser work, it comes off convincingly (as when Selvi, by jumping off the window and killing herself at her husbands home, compels an epiphany of profound but impossible passion from her abusive, yet also tormented, husband, in Oba Nathuwa Oba Ekka). Ashley Ratnavibushana and Wimal Dissanayake, in Profiling Sri Lankan Cinema, trace Prasannas fixation with the power of guilt to his childhood encounters with Catholic friends. If thats indeed true, I think we can safely say that the worldview which comes off in his work is Catholic: be it a film like Pawuru Walalu, with its Catholic overtones, or Purahanda Kaluwara, with its Buddhist undertones, his characters hope for an effable, otherworldly reconciliation. Sometimes they achieve it (like Wannihami in Purahanda Kaluwara, by opening up his dead sons casket); sometimes they achieve it facilely (like Violet in Pawuru Walalu, by departing to a new life with her paramour); and more often than not, they dont. Suvisal in Anantha Rathriya belongs to the third of these. He tries to bridge his past, but he cant. 
And to a considerable extent, I think this has to do with the fact that more so than his other work, Anantha Rathriya neatly contains itself within: nearly every character in the story seems to have something to hide from the other, at a time when everything in the country seems to be at boiling point (the setting of the film is hinted to be the second bheeshanaya, with security checkpoints and distraught fathers of arrested insurrectionists adorning the narrative at various points). This rift, between the apparentness of a public tragedy and the repressiveness of a private dilemma, translates to another, between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. Without pandering to political polemics, I believe its best to examine what a Marxist critic, writing in Sinhala, had to say about the film, and the response he got from a critic writing in English. 
Sucharitha Gamlath, in his review of Anantha Rathriya, contended that Suvisals class orientation, of and towards the bourgeoisie, could not really be squared with his later acts of remorse and reconciliation. Perhaps the bigger problem here was that Prasannas sympathy for the girl, Piyumi, seemed at certain points to be overtaken if not transcended by his equally apparent empathy for the protagonist who impregnates and then abandons her. In both cases, for the political pamphleteer at least anyway, the best intentions of the humanist in the director may have undone a political and social reality: that the bourgeoisie lived on an ethic of self-indulgence and exploitation, that its abandonment of a girl like Piyumi could often be trivialised by them. (In Anantha Rathriya we dont even see this act of brushing off from Suvisals family: neither his mother nor his aunts seem to notice what he has done.) 
But what is politically and socially correct in one specific context may not always be so in another. Then again, its easier to identify with a character that is from the class interests you represent because, at the end of the day, Marxist, feminist, or anarchist, a critic is always haunted by his political inclinations the same way that such characters are haunted by their own dark pasts. My problem with the late Professor Gamlaths take on Anantha Rathriya, then, is not just that the rich arent always unredeemable (even when the poor, whom theyve exploited all their lives, refuse to forgive them for what theyve done), but also that Prasannas film has nothing to do with the overtly political, even with its barely visible reference to the bheeshanaya.

The agency of the human being  a convenient erasure of a political reality, or a perfectly apt riposte to a damning indictment by the committed critic
I think Malinda Seneviratne provided the best response: 
The remorse that overcomes him is clearly not in concert with the general conditions of the bourgeois ethic and its lifestyle sustained by the exploitation of the poor. In this I agree with Gamlath. At the same time, I find the story to be less about the issue of class than about the perennial themes of responsibility, guilt, and more importantly the agency of the human being, both the dominating and the dominated.
The agency of the human being  a convenient erasure of a political reality, or a perfectly apt riposte to a damning indictment by the committed critic Its human agency that we see in Anantha Rathriya, underscored by political polemics the characters never succumb to. The greatness of a film like Anantha Rathriya was, in this sense, its refusal to enter the explicitly social; though its difficult to suggest that Suvisals rape has nothing to do with his class background, its equally difficult to suggest that it had nothing to do with his personal frailties, transcending, at the time of the rape, that background. Malindas contention was therefore to the dot, then: it tells us everything we should know about a film indicted by that committed critic.

The bigger problem here was that Prasannas sympathy for the girl, Piyumi, seemed at certain points to be overtaken if not transcended by his equally apparent empathy for the protagonist who impregnates and then abandons her
 
Jayantha Anandappa, writing on Ira Madiyama when it was first released in 2007, implied that neither Pawuru Walalu nor Anantha Rathriya deserved the critical praise they got, and that Anantha Rathriya seemed to betray the filmmakers confusion, as though he was not sure as to what to do with Tolstoys post-conversion masterpiece Resurrection. Despite its economical handling of the players and the settings and the plotlines, despite its deft interplay of the past and the present, I am inclined to agree with Mr Anandappa with respect to one crucial point: the way Suvisal progresses from indifference to remorse. When Suvisal, reminded of Piyumi after coming across his secretary, cruelly shouts at her to get out of his office, the secretary is as confused as we are: because the scene never actually rationalises itself. (The only rational explanation for the scene, for me, is that Suvisal is perpetually and sexually obsessed with young, virginal beauty.) Roughly the same thing can be said of his second telephone conversation with his lawyer friend, played by Asoka Peries, who scoffs at his shows of remorse, scorns him, tells him to do whatever (the hell) he wants, and puts down the phone. We arent really prepared for these sudden fits of temper and anger, because the film hasnt prepared us for them: it flows so gracefully, even when Suvisal creeps to Piyumis room and makes love to her on night (we never see the lovemaking), that these scenes detract. They are needed to explain the cruelty and the indifference of the bourgeoisie, but they come out rather jarringly. 
Regardless of all these merits and demerits, one pertinent thing stands out: the Prasanna Vithanage of those early years was, and still remains, the Prasanna Vithanage who mattered the most. In Ira Madiyama, as in Akasa Kusum, he got as close to the political as he could; when he opted to go beyond, as he tried to in Oba Nathuwa Oba Ekka, it was rather like Icarus getting too close to the sun. Its a different world which thus greets us in even as clumsy a debut as Sisila Gini Gani (which nevertheless has its moments of beauty and brilliance, symbolised by the cats-eyes-sensuality of Sabeetha Perera), a world rich in human beings and their flaws, as opposed to the types that we see in Oba Nathuwa Oba Ekka (Anurudda Pradeep Karnasuriya in 2015: The war has ruined our cinema). One clamours for life, the sense of humanity, which only the cinema can epitomise visually. One sees it abundantly in Anantha Rathriya, but one struggles to see it elsewhere. The wood, as always, was missed out for the trees. What happened eventually was that both the wood and the trees were lost, and we were left with a cinema of overinflated ideas. 
Stills of the film courtesy of Prasanna Vithanage
 
		
==============================
## Title: Body of missing man found in Viyana Canal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 11:35 am
Body of missing man found in Viyana Canal
	
The body of the 29-year-old man,who went missing when a car toppled into the Viyana Canal on the Badulla- Mahiyangana Road yesterday, has been recovered this morning.
The victim wasidentified as Nalin Kariyawasam, a teacher of the Tissapura Vidyalayain Mahiyanganaya.
The body was found floating near Orubandiwewa, some eightkilometersaway from the place of the accident.
Three individuals including a woman were rescuedsoon after the accident occurredlast morning. (Nishantha Kumara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Body of 10yr-old missing boy found
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 10:01 am
Body of 10yr-old missing boy found
	
The body of a ten-year-old boy who was missing since last Sunday has been found this morning at a forest area in Iranawila, Chilaw, Police said.
The victim J.P. Susin Nirmal, a resident of Samidugama, West Iranawila, Chilaw had gone missing from his residence since last Sunday (25).
The body of the ten- year-old was recovered from a forest area in Muwapitiya, Samidugama following a search operation conducted by the police with the support of the residents in the area.
Further investigation has been launched by the Chilaw Police on an individual who was last seen with the boy and had also gone missing. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

Video by Jude Samantha
Pics by: Jude Samantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bribery Commission grills Ravi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 10:51 pm
Bribery Commission grills Ravi
	
Bribery Commission today recorded a four-hour-long statement from former finance minister Ravi Karunanayke, informed sources said.
They said he had reported to the Commission about 9.30 am today on a summons by the Bribery Commission and left about 1.30 pm after his statement was recorded. (Manopriya Gunasekera and Jayamal Chandrasiri)

Video by Janaka and Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Costly gift raises eyebrows
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:37 pm
Costly gift raises eyebrows
	
Preparations are underway to present a Rs.1 million worth gold jewellery item as a memento to a female head of a state establishment due to go on retirement early next month, they say.

A buddy of the fair high-up has taken the initiative to raise money for the proposed gift through subscriptions from employees and donations from private companies having business ties with the establishment.
Although the female head is going to receive a costly gift, her service at this establishment counts less than one year. However, her predecessor who served a long period at the establishment was presented with a bronze figure of an elephant worth only Rs.15,000 on his retirement, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Egyptian lover kills Sri Lankan maid
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 27 February 2018 09:22 am
Egyptian lover kills Sri Lankan maid
	
A 22-year-old Egyptian driver had been arrested on charges of killing a 54-year-old Sri Lankan maid following a love affair, the Egypt Independent reported on Monday.
The suspect, Mahmud R, had admitted during interrogations by Giza prosecutors the details of the story which ended with the maids murder.The suspect and the maid had been working for a former police officer who resided in the Fifth Settlement during which an affair took place between them, according to the suspect.
He asked for permission from his family to marry the victim and travel with her to Sri Lanka, but the family refused.
The victim and the suspect left their work and the latter attempted to cut communication with the maid who insisted to meet with him as usual in a rented apartment in Cairos Shubra al-Kheima area.
The maid told the suspects brother she was pregnant and threatened to disgrace his family and to resort to the Sri Lankan Embassy in Cairo.
According to the suspects confessions, he then contacted the maid and told her that his family pressured him to get engaged to a girl from his hometown in Sohag.
The suspect has convinced the maid that he was going to marry her and taken her to the regional road in Giza where he stabbed her in the neck before dragging her on the roadside and pouring gasoline on her body trying to set fire to it.
The security authorities arrested the suspect in Abu Simbel in Aswan. Prosecutors ordered the suspect to be remanded and he was charged with murder.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Employees asked to resign
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 27 February 2018 12:35 pm
Employees asked to resign
	

The woman human resource head of a recently closed company that belonged to a leading businessman with high political connections had asked all employees to hand their resignations, they say.

The lady high-up had told the employees to hand their resignation letters as the company was already closed adding that action was being taken to release their held up January pay. All employees had reportedly demanded in one voice that they be paid compensation for loss of employment, putting foot down that they would not resign
their jobs.
The lady high-up who was a close friend of the company owner had replied: I am quite helpless. Bigwigs are in jail now. I too am going from pillar to post these days in search of a job!
 
		
==============================
==============================
