## Title: A family row over a secretary
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
A family row over a secretary
	

A male secretary among the personal staff of a prominent female politician has become the cause of a protracted row between her and her husband.

On being informed by reliable sources that the secretary in question was getting bribes from people promising to have their needs attended to by his political boss, the husband had asked the wife to sack the guy. He had also cited instances among others where the secretary had got kickbacks from teachers who had called at the female politicos office seeking help to get a transfer to a school of his or her choice and parents desperate to have a child admitted to a popular school.
However, the lady had refused to sack the secretary saying that she did not believe the graft allegations against him and this has led to the wrangle between the couple, they say.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Animation shows the Moon casting a shadow over Earth
## Section: International
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:31 am
Animation shows the Moon casting a shadow over Earth
	
Last week, an eerie ring of fire rose over the Southern Hemisphere as the moon passed in front of the sun in an annular solar eclipse.
Stunning footage from space now reveals the phenomenon cast a shadow over
Earths surface.
Images from NASAs Moderate Resolution show the massive shadow as the moon blocked sunlight over the Atlantic Ocean, creating what appears like a large ink-blotch just off the coast of South America.
The annular eclipse was visible from the southern tip of South America all the way to
southern Africa.
In one of these events, the moon passes between the sun and Earth, blocking the light  but, at this distance, it doesnt obscure it completely.
This creates the appearance of a ring of fire.
An animation from NASAs DSCOVR Earth Polychromatic Imaging Camera shows what this phenomenon looked likefrom space.
While most of Earth appears normal, the waters between South America and Africa are marred by a large shadow.
Different views from the satellites show the shadows movement across the area.
Stunning pictures from Brazil and Chile show the moon coming between the Earth and the sun to create the spectacular ringof fire.
More than half a billion people across the world had the opportunity to see the annular eclipse, which first passed through, Chile and Argentina before moving across the South Atlantic Ocean to Africa.
The moment of greatest eclipse occurred midway between the two continents at just before 10am ET (3pm GMT) when the moon covered more than 99 per cent of the sun.
It ended just after 5:30 p.m. GMT on Sunday in southern Africa - between Zambia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Later this year, the moon will completely block out the sun, in a total solar eclipse.
This will take place on August 21, 2017, and will cross the United States from Oregon to South Carolina.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Appreciation: Mrs Malinee Hurulle - The most gracious lady I ever knew
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:02 am
Appreciation: Mrs Malinee Hurulle - The most gracious lady I ever knew
	
I came to know the distinguished Hurulle family from my early days of schooling at S.Thomas College Mt Lavinia . Themiya Hurulle former MP & Subject Minister , is my very dear friend and classmate . 
As classmates we used to visit Themiya at their Stanmore Crescent residence , where we met his family often . His father Hon E L B Hurulle , Uncle Edwin to us , was the Minister of Communications in the mid 1960s . A thorough , simple gentleman par excellence and a highly respected UNP political colossus . 
Mrs Hurulle , Aunty Malinee to us , was always a very forthright, motherly personality , full of righteous advice and absolute dignity . She ran house and domestic affairs to sheer perfection , balancing visitors from all walks of life . She was undoubtedly the wind beneath the wings of Uncle Edwin . Their constituents from the North East and Horowapothana were personally well treated , quite contrary to the manner prevailing at present . Having seen it at the highest levels of respectability , I find it difficult to adjust otherwise.


Aunty Malinee was a very elite lady , a loving wife , a devoted mother and a gracious host , who never went overboard . There was much to learn and we were fortunate to see it as teenagers 
Uncle Edwin has his family circle roots deeply embedded to ancient history associated with the arrival and guardianship of the sacred Sri Maha Bodhi Anuradhapura. The responsibilities and obligations in this regard for the entire district was full filled by him and Aunty without any glamour and publicity . 
Aunty Malinee , a Miss Galagoda has her family roots deeply embedded in the historical Kandyan Kingdom reign and the very select nobles administering the Sacred Temple of the Tooth in Kandy in that period . I need not elaborate further as I am well aware that the Hurulle family circle born to maternal and paternal ancestral aristocracy , are not one bit carried away by High Office or Power . 
The result of the matrimony of the Hurulle and Galagoda family , was a blessing . Their children Maya , Deepthi , Themiya , Vajira and Shanaka , stood out with equal dignity in their exemplary ways . Whether or not uncle Edwin was a Minister hardly made a change to the dignified Hurulle family domestic life style. The Hurulle residence was always quiet, well mannered - a serene home with nothing out of line . The unwanted loud fanfare was unheard of . We respected that culture at all times and were always affectionately received . There was never misuse of State assets by them . They never chased behind fame though fame came in search of them . I recall some buses carrying a slogan in North.East . Horowapotana ,
 E L B samaa wenna , nevatha aasanaya baaraganna
some months after he lost the Horowapothana seat for the only time , in the landslide of 1970 . His return to Parliament was with another thumping majority , retained till retirement . 
I recall exemplary ways of Aunty Malinee worthy of grateful rememberance. When Uncle Edwin was the Minister of Communications with the CGR under his Ministry , Themiya and a few classmates went by train to Anuradhapura in the mid 1960s . To drop us at the Fort Railway Station , Aunty Malinee came to the station platform as any other normal citizen . We boarded the train as ordinary passengers . The word had gone around that Mrs Hurulle was present and many station officials came rushing to her . She most politely thanked and excused them with a view not to disturb them in their duties.
What a change from present climes ! When I was going to West Germany for my hotel management training , she invited me to their Paget Road residence for tea and gave me motherly advice for almost an hour of what is expected from children coming from well respected homes ( ref qualities, matrimony etc ) . They were pearls of wisdom . Uncle Edwin had stayed back to wish me . He listened very attentively and seconded the advice . My mothers advice to me with my father was also on similar lines . Regular visits to both our homes brought my parents and family very close to the Hurulle family. 


We were well treated when we visited their home in Hantane Kandy , after they retired from active politics and diplomatic service . Aunty and Uncle were both full of affectionate advice to my two children , as they had done for me ~ very pleasant memories . When uncle Edwin was quite ill and warded in Kandy , I visited him a few times in Hospital . On one visit when asked by his family if he could recognize me , he promptly mentioned my name and asked about our family . Myself and family will continue to remember dear Aunty and Uncle most affectionately. . 
Aunty Malinee being a conservative lady and a disciplinarian on principle , did not send her daughters or a niece alone by car with a driver . The brothers or their dear relative Saliya Ranawana had to take turns to accompany them and stay on. At times she requested us to accompany them with Themiya and Vajira , to learn family obligations early in life . My mother was very similar and I soon began to understand the similarities and the need . It was indeed a learning for a life time and beyond . 
Themiya never forgot his exemplary parental upbringing.


My father was one of the 75 Founder Members of the UNP along with my maternal grandfather . When my father expired in 1994 ,Themiya as a Hon MP and a UNP Subject Minister gave the funeral motorcade a special escort from the southern province entrance at the Bentota Bridge right up to our Estate residence in Baddegama , to convey his respect . Our family is indeed deeply touched by it . On one of my parents visit to UK when I was also there , we were lovingly hosted by genial Themiya and versatile Shalini in their house in Swiss Cottage . I was glad to visit them a few times in UK . Themiya was a regular visitor in hospital , when I had undergone critical surgery few years back , continuing his esteemed sincerity . Aunty Malinee was very pleased when I informed her . 
The Hurulle family was blessed with the marriages of their children to high respectability and acclaim . They all continue to be untarnished in their sincere ways , with a touch of permanent class , which is rather rare these days . I am glad that I did attend the funeral of Aunty Malinee , much against strict medical advice, as I was badly indisposed and confined to bed rest . Had I not gone to pay my final respect , I would have carried a guilt for a life time. 


Aunty Malinee was like a mother to me - full of firm advice on important issues and personal matters . I enjoyed talking gentlemen politics pertaining to the Legislative Council , State Council and Parliament with uncle Edwin and Aunty . My family also has a political dynasty. from the South . Uncle Edwins kinsman Bulankulame Dissawe and my maternal grandfather Simon Abeywickrama were in the Colonial Legislative Council and contemporaries in the State Council and later in the Ceylon Parliament , as Paliamentary Secretaries . It is now a 4th generation family friendship . I could say that animosity, jealousy, dishonesty , hatred etc , does not exist in the Hurulle family circle. 
The distinguished gathering at the funeral and the kind words spoken by the Buddhist Clergy , was a fitting farewell to the gracious , traditional Kandyan Lady, who led a very exemplary long life to the end . In my appreciation I affectionately referred to dear Uncle and family circle with admiration as a tribute to Aunty Malinee , because the high ethos portrayed , has arisen from exemplary parentage and many decades of solid upbringing . The family circle also has contributed very usefully to society in many ways, bringing credit to their parents and ancestry in return . 
Deepest sympathies of our family here and abroad to the Hurulle family circle on their sad loss . May the merit gathered in life long generous acts of charity and great benevolence , bless Aunty Malinee and Hon Uncle Edwin to attain the eternal supreme bliss of Nibbana . 
I bow with revered respect and eternal gratitude .
 Rupang jeerathi majjanang ~ Naama goththang najeerathi Milinda
 
		
==============================
## Title: 8 arrested for mob attack at Bingiriya police
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 08:51 am
8 arrested for mob attack at Bingiriya police
	
Eight persons had been arrested and 30 motorcycles taken into police custody following a mob attack the Bingiriya police station yesterday, Police said.
They said the mob attacked the police station against the court order to grant bail and to release a suspet following recent accident in Hettipola area.
The arrested persons are to be produce at the Hettipola Magistrate court today.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Arrests of intelligence officers risks national security: Rathana Thera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 06:31 pm
Arrests of intelligence officers risks national security: Rathana Thera
	
Parliamentarian Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera today expressed his displeasure at the recent arrests of the military intelligence personnel.
He told a media conference that these arrests had jeopardised national security.
Navy Intelligence Officer Dhammika Anil Mapa, Lieutenant Commander Sumith Ranasinghe and solider Udaya Thushara were arrested recently.
When I questioned several Police officers, they said the arrests were made because of pressure from foreign countries regarding Human Rights violations. But President Maithripala Sirisena expressed his views to the country clearly and said he would not allow military intelligence personnel to be arrested in an arbitrary manner. If there is a report of wrongdoing by military intelligence personnel, action must be taken after a proper investigation, the Thera said.
He said the Prime Minister had idea about the consequences of arresting military intelligence personnel. "Questions have arisen among people as to who is responsible for the arrests, if the President or the Premier were not aware of it, the Thera said. This is not the way to investigate matters connected to military intelligence personnel. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: BIA risks being blacklisted if renovations are delayed: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:00 am
BIA risks being blacklisted if renovations are delayed: Minister
	
The Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) was in risk of being blacklisted if renovations of the main runway were further delayed, Civil Aviation and Transport Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva said yesterday.
On a visit to inspect the progress of the project, the minster said the authorities were forced to expedite the renovation due to the risk of being blacklisted.
The main runway at the BIA was closed for renovation on January 6 and will be reopen for use on April 6. The airport now functions only eight hours each day (from 8.30 am to 4.30 pm).
Several parties opposed the decision to close the airport but we have not closed it entirely and it is for only eight hours a day. Construction is on schedule with 75 percent of the project being completed, he said.
The minister said the Chinese company had guaranteed that the runway would be durable for at least 20 years. The company was using technology from the Netherlands and used local engineers for the project, de Silva added.
The project will widen the existing runway from 65 metres to 75 metres, a necessary upgrade to allow large aircraft such as the A-380 to use the airport.
Under phase two of the project, new terminals will be constructed in a new building when the renovation of the runway is completed. The project is scheduled to begin in July and tenders have been called for the project.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: BIG MATCH Yay or nay
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:01 am
BIG MATCH Yay or nay
	
Most students in our country will now look forward to the end of the first school term. But for a majority of schoolboys, it is that time of the year for permissible mischief and mayhem (all in the name of prestige and pride of course). Although the name suggests a single match, the Big Match is far from a solitary experience.
Big matches are annual cricket encounters between traditional rival schools played between the months of February and April. A fine tradition built over the decades to hone cricketing abilities of boys schools, big matches are no longer just an event in school calendars. The ordinary pedestrian and motorist too have to keep note of the days and venues to avoid finding themselves in the midst of a joyous celebration. If a pedestrian inadvertently happens to tread along one of these colourful parades, they may come across anything, from schoolboys draped in massive flags with tribal motifs on their faces to caparisoned elephants and sometimes even elderly gentlemen dancing their way around kids old enough to be their grandchildren.
While this is business as usual for most city folk, a group of leading Buddhist prelates took offense at this disturbing trend and voiced their opposition, demanding that big matches be banned. Their statements came following a violent clash between two leading boys schools in Colombo early February, which resulted in over a dozen students being hospitalised.
The monks claimed that the event acted as a platform to promote alcohol and derogatory behaviour. In response to this call, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam said big matches cannot be banned as it was not a practical move to tackle student discipline. The minister added that the demands were not new as there have been numerous pleas to ban such events which have become a serious concern. However, the minister stated that discussions with school principals were underway to take preventive measures to tackle possible violence among students during the impending school sports season.
Battles of every kind
When it comes to the big match season, Sri Lanka has all kinds of battles. We have battles in colour; the battles of the blues, golds, and even maroons. We have got the battles of the hills, Ruhuna and Kotte, invoking warrior status to school cricketers. And yes, in Sri Lanka, even Saints are set for battle. Like the word suggests, what we often witness is unfortunately an unhealthy rivalry leading to an exchange of fisticuffs and obscenities. Minister Kariyawasam said recently that he had discussions with school principals to see how best they could curb violence. He said they have instructed law enforcement agencies to take action to minimise incidents which cause public inconvenience during big matches.
Meanwhile, the police have also called for discipline at big matches, warning those participants that they intended to stamp out unruly behaviour.
Addressing the media at the Criminal Record Division (CRD) in early February, Police Spokesman DIG Priyantha Jayakody said the police did not attempt to take stern action during previous traffic law violations by students. He added that he could not allow such violations to continue.
The police will not hesitate to use the law against students making a nuisance of themselves, he said.
However, when the Daily Mirror contacted Deputy Inspector General of Police (Traffic) Palitha Fernando to query his stance on the matter, he said he had not received specific instructions to handle traffic violations reported during the big match season. A clear communication gap between the police departments was further apparent when DIG Fernando assured the Daily Mirror that there was no special disruption in traffic during the big match hype. If at all a communiqu was issued by the Police Chief, it is now evident that it had not reached the Traffic Department of the police.

"If a pedestrian inadvertently happens to tread along one of these colourful parades, they may come across anything, from schoolboys draped in massive flags with tribal motifs on their faces to caparisoned elephants and sometimes even elderly gentlemen dancing their way around kids old enough to be their grandchildren"

Called for a ban, only if morality isnt upheld
Ven. Omalpe Sobitha Thera
 Founder, Sri Bodhiraja Foundation
I did not demand that the big matches be banned. But I maintain that they should be banned if the schools and those involved in these activities cannot maintain their discipline or civil behaviour, the Thera said.
Ven. Sobitha Thera also maintains that big matches are platforms to promote alcohol and drugs adding that past pupils should accept responsibility of misleading the youth.
We are not protesting revelry and celebration. Yet, we must protest when old boys act as old beasts. Instead of setting an example to the younger generations, they use this opportunity to engage in various activities that are detrimental to youngsters and a nuisance to the general public. How ironic is it when liquor licenses are issued for big matches where there are underage youth present. Principals and old boys are responsible for this despicable trend, the Thera added.
Ven. Sobitha Thera further noted that research have suggested a majority of local youth have experimented with their first cigarette during the big match season in school. Lamenting on the disappointing finding, the Thera questioned the effect a school parade or rally will have on the result of the match that is being played between two schools.


Recently, I witnessed a school rally in the Kegalle town which halted traffic for hours. Two helicopters carried the school flag over the town. Why cant this wasteful expenditure be used to make better sanitation facilities in their own schools the Thera questioned.
Referring to the recent brawl between two popular schools in Colombo, he said this was a problem that needed to be addressed urgently.
These are two prominent Buddhist schools of the country. What examples will they set Self-discipline is common to all religions and therefore we must all strive to encourage it. What is regretful is that the authorities have turned a blind eye towards the problem. Parades cause inconvenience to the general public, they utter filth and disturb the peace, while breaking all traffic rules, the Thera stated.
Ven. Omalpe Sobitha Thera also said he would take legal action against the police and other authorities over the neglect of their duties. Ven. Sobitha Thera said he resorted to legal action as relevant authorities failed to take any action to prevent malpractices carried out under the guise of big matches in schools.
I will file a case against the police for the willful neglect and omission of their duties, the Thera concluded.

Big matches a part of school culture
Joseph Stalin
- General Secretary, Ceylon Teachers Union (CTU)
Big matches should not be banned. It is a part of the school culture. Some schools have played against each other for many years with some over a century and they cannot be scrapped away just like that. Sri Lanka is accustomed to a system where education is restricted to passing the Grade 5 scholarship, ordinary and advanced level examinations. The authorities are only concerned with the pass percentage of exams. When Bandula Gunawardena was the Education Minister, this was his vision. Unfortunately, it has not changed with the present government, Stalin said. He believes that the banning of big matches will not help the students in personality development.

"Big matches should not be banned. It is a part of the school culture"
Education is not exam-centric. What we strive for as educators is to give the society a balanced human being at the end of their education in school. This cannot be done without their involvement in these activities. These events teach them the valuable lessons of team spirit, winning and losing and even respect for their alma mater. Most importantly, pupils must enjoy school and for school to be enjoyable, these events are a necessity.
We respect the views of the venerable prelates. However, it should be noted that the present day big match culture is limited to the big schools in the cities. This must change. Big matches should reach the village schools too. The proper co-ordination of these events is a responsibility of the Education Ministry. It must ensure that all children enjoy such occasions during their schooling career, he added.


Too much external influence
Mohan Weerasinghe
 President, National Principal Association
Unfortunately, big matches are no longer within the control of the schools. Past Pupils Associations of most schools have influence over these events and as a result, the poor students are misled. Past pupils have a need to participate in matters of the school and come up with various ideas to cater to an adult audience. What happens is that children in schools are misled that these adult activities are what the big match is for. This is a serious problem and we completely agree with the prelates who raised their concerns, Weerasinghe said. Speaking of the parades and rallies, Weerasinghe said they should be banned completely.
The match should be restricted to the pitch and the students who take part in it. Parades and rallies should not take place on the roads. School principals are perfectly capable of controlling the students, together with their teachers and parents. However, merriment at these matches spin out of control when these PPAs are involved as we have no control over them.
Furthermore, these events are limited to the mega schools in the cities. When cash rich Old Boys Unions have leverage over schools, the event which is meant to be for the students become entertainment for the old boys. Therefore, the influence of old boys in these events must be restricted, Weerasinghe opined.

"There are many who benefit from the increased commercialisation of the event"

The big match arena has been traditionally reserved for males. The only part where girls were involved was when groups of unruly boys force their way or jump into popular girls schools and run around creating a racket. The innocent practice has caused much debate over the recent years and has caused greater misery for principals and teachers of girls schools. Not only do they have to worry about the safety of the girls but sometimes also pay for paint jobs to cover graffiti left on the walls. This year, with a historic big match played between two girls schools in Panadura, more girls schools are proving that they too have what it takes to be part of the spectacular sport.
While many pros and cons can be weighed against each other, big matches are an intrinsic feature of the school culture and the loyalty to ones alma mater is yet another Lankan quirk. When cricket is part and parcel of the Sri Lankan spirit, one cannot expect our youth and those well past youth to take things lightly. It calls for celebration, revelry and a healthy dose of rivalry. There are many who benefit from the increased commercialisation of the event. Wasteful expenditure between the firecrackers and t-shirts (and even the after parties) can be categorised as individual choices. What cannot be simply ignored is the promotion of alcohol among youngsters and the authoritys inability to enforce the law when the general public is inconvenienced. Lets hope that the big match season of 2017 is where it all ends. More importantly, calling for bans -- which has now become a national past-time -- is certainly not the solution to mould a generation of disciplined and balanced youth.
Banning these cricket matches is not the solution. The points the prelates have highlighted are common malpractices present in society, not just in school. These problems must be addressed with a national plan. As someone just out of school, I think the promotion and sale of alcohol and narcotics in and around schools must be dealt with first.
 I. Jayawardene, 18 years, Kuliyapitiya


I think the big match is not just a day for celebrating sportsmanship or talent. I have been to a couple of Roy-Tho matches. Its a way of meeting old friends, being young and going back to those old days. And I think its even cool to see two girls schools coming up with the concept out of which I belong to one of them.
 Pamodi, 25 years, Nugegoda



It is an important part of a sub-culture. I believe the good outweighs the bad. Its a part of the child learning curve towards adolescence. And at the end of the day, it reflects the spirit of sport.
- Mevan Rushdy Hameem, 30 years, Wattala



The big match season is where all the school students, past pupils and girls from nowhere join to celebrate an event which is at best annoying to the general public. Especially when the parade starts, literally parts of the city are jammed with slow-moving vehicles and people behaving like animals on the road.
Ihshan Iqbal, 25 years, Dehiwala



Big matches are needed to uphold spirit of sportsmanship. The match is organised by two schools and its an opportunity to build interpersonal skills. But with increased commercialisation, these events should not be influence by external forces. When Old Boys come to a match, along with them come the beer. There is no discipline before or after the match. We need a change of our attitudes to change these practices.
Shenal Gunasekara, 24 years, Mattegoda

I think youth nowadays should be aware of discipline and sportsmanship. Wreaking havoc, causing a great nuisance to the public and disrupting traffic does not contribute in any way for their team to win the game. Some may say that this is what boyhood is all about and chalk it down to youthful mischief. And what about the property damages and public brawls They ultimately tarnish the good reputation of their own schools.
 Gamini Ranjith, 44 years, Kandy



 
		
==============================
## Title: ComBank ends 2016 reaffirming superiority as countrys largest private bank
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
ComBank ends 2016 reaffirming superiority as countrys largest private bank
	
Commercial Bank of Ceylon (ComBank) has announced the achievement of several milestones in service delivery in 2016 through operational developments that complemented its stellar financial performance. Sri Lankas most profitable private bank according to recently published figures, the bank said its branch expansion programme saw it end 2016 as the largest private bank in the country in terms of physical presence, with 256 branches and an ATM network of 658 terminals, a network that achieved an impressive 99.6 percent uptime during the year. Efforts to expand self-service banking saw Commercial Bank commission five new Automated Banking Centres at which customers can access an extensive list of services entirely on their own.
We firmly believe that our focus on service delivery, be it via technology or brick and mortar branches, is one of the key pillars of our success and exceptional financial performance, Commercial Bank Managing Director/CEO Jegan Durairatnam said.
As a result, we remain the biggest private sector bank in Sri Lanka and amongst the leading organisations that provide customer convenience through technology-based automation.
Another example of the banks investments in automation was the installation of 29 Cash Deposit Machines (CDMs) and 10 Cash Recycler machines in 2016, taking the total number of CDMs to 40. The CDMs completely eliminate the use of paper and are therefore an important step in eco-friendly operations. The Cash Recycler machines are particularly useful to micro and SME entrepreneurs who use of the facility to deposit their daily cash collections even after banking hours.  In 2016, the bank launched e-passbook, a mobile phone and tab-based account passbook app that provides online real-time view of the account, for the first time in South Asia and launched Near Field Communication Technology (NFC)-enabled premium credit cards for both Visa and MasterCard.
Commercial Bank also revolutionalised the industry by launching three sector-specific debit cards, Remittance Card for remittance recipients, Ransalu Card for employees of the apparel sector, and Smart Tea Card for the tea procurement sector, each card inclusive of a host of benefits relevant to the respective sectors. In keeping with its investments to enhance the security and customer convenience through technology, all Commercial ATMs were made EMV compliant, which makes cloning infeasible, thereby significantly increasing the security level of the card when transacting. The bank also became the first bank to launch Over The Air (OTP) PIN facility by sending the PIN numbers of its cards via SMS. Combank Max Loyalty rewards also became the first loyalty scheme in the country to reward both credit and debit card holders. 
Commercial Bank also enabled the Card-less withdrawal function across its ATM network countrywide in 2016, adding a new level of convenience for its customers. The banks ATMs enable automated bill payments to more than 25 institutions in addition to the cash withdrawal facility. The ATM network of the bank penetrates even the most remote areas of the country with state-of-the-art terminals within branches and at off-site locations. Significantly, more than half of Commercial Banks ATMs are in off-site locations for easy access by commuters, employees of industrial zones and the public at large. For new branches in buildings it owns, Commercial Bank has developed a new eco-friendly model in yet another initiative to align its operations with the needs of the planet. These custom-built branches are equipped with an eco-friendly architectural design with energy efficient passive features such as renewable energy from solar panels and walls with more glazed windows and fixed glass panels for maximum utilisation of natural light, as well as heat gain arresting devices such as shades and fins that facilitate power saving. To date, 10 such green branches have been added to the banks network. Taking its commitment to the planet further, Commercial Bank achieved a significant reduction in the use of paper in 2016 by actively promoting the migration of customers from traditional banking channels to digital platforms such as mobile and online banking and its sophisticated e-Passbook.
The banks other environment-related initiatives include programmes to reduce its carbon footprint through energy saving, energy optimisation and responsible fleet and vehicle management, responsible disposal and recycling of materials, responsible water consumption, the discontinuation of the use of products that emit ozone-depleting substances and protecting the biodiversity in areas where branches are present.
Efforts to make branches more accessible to the differently-abled customer segment also made steady progress in 2016, with the bank completing the construction of 190 wheelchair ramps covering 75 percent of its branch network.
In the sphere of financial performance, Commercial Bank ended 2016 with the momentous feat of becoming the first private bank in the country to surpass Rs.1 trillion in assets and had the largest deposits (Rs.739.5 billion) and advances (Rs.633.3 billion) portfolio in the private sector. The banks profit after tax of Rs.14.5 billion makes it the most profitable private bank in Sri Lanka.
Commercial Banks key financial parameters such as current account to savings account (CASA) ratio, cost to income ratio, net operating income and capital adequacy ratio all recorded outstanding growth making them among the best in the industry. Commercial Banks also further improved its international footprint by opening a fully-fledged Tier I bank with a stake of 55 percent in the Maldives in September 2016 and by launching its own money transfer operation Commex in Italy. The banks other overseas operations encompass Bangladesh, where the bank operates 19 outlets and Myanmar, where it has a representative office in Yangon.
The only Sri Lankan bank to be ranked among the Top 1000 banks of the world for six years consecutively, Commercial Bank swept the board by winning all major international awards in 2016 and has over the years won multiple awards as Sri Lankas Best Bank, Best Trade Bank, Strongest Bank and Most Respected Bank from a number of local and international institutions and publications. It has also been adjudged one of Sri Lankas 10 best corporate citizens by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for several years.
 
		
==============================
## Title: COPE Report: Legal action by AG only after CID completes probe
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 07:24 pm
COPE Report: Legal action by AG only after CID completes probe
	
The Attorney General has informed the Speaker that he would have to take legal action against those responsible for the bond issue only after the CID investigations on it are completed.
He has said this in a letter addressed to the Speaker after receiving the report of the parliamentary Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE).
"An investigation based on a complaint to the police is a pre-requisite to initiate criminal proceedings against any person or institution under the aforesaid provision or any other law," the AG said in his letter. "In addition to aforesaid civil and criminal remedies, the Central Bank is entitled to exercise regulatory powers over primary dealers in terms of regulation 11(2) and 12 of the Registered Stocks and Securities (Primary Dealers) Regulations No. 1 of 2009 and section 21D of the Registered Stocks and Securities Ordinance and also under section 56A of the Ordinance and the Code of Conduct of Primary Dealers."
Meanwhile, Speaker Jayasuriya informed the House that he had sent the COPE report to the Attorney General. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Country run according to the whims of a few  - Ven. Rathana Thera
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:07 am
Country run according to the whims of a few  - Ven. Rathana Thera
	
Parliamentarian Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera, who recently said he would act independent of Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) as his party, speaks about the ideology of his new political movement and the plans for the future in politics. He played a pivotal role in the formation of the new government. He shared the following:
When I say a state of confusion, it does not mean an extremely bad situation. Had the previous rule existed up to now, the situation would have been even more complicated by now. It would have led to a revolt against the government then. Today, society is free. There is space for dialogue. However, there is confusion in the way the government is run today. That has to be corrected
	Situation would have been even worse if the previous rule remained
	
	
	All LTTE cadres, military personnel should be released forthwith
	
	
	Police service should be structurally changed
	
	
	Armed police service needed to combat crime
	
	
	Civil police service should be decentralized to the provincial level
	
	
	Most enjoy their perks today because of me
	
	
	For one year within the party, I did not speak with Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka even for five minutes
	
Q: What is the way forward for your newly formed National Council
I intervened in the installation of this government representing Pivithuru Hetak, an organization spearheaded by me. For that, I had a series of meetings. Its role became crucial in the establishment of this government. It was possible to elect President Maithripala Sirisena because of my involvement. Next, I believe I would be able to do active politics for another ten more years. During this period, I thought I should unite all national forces. There are civil society organizations, social services movements and, above all, religious organizations comprising Buddhist monks and the clergy of other religions  Christian, Hindu and Islam. I thought of a broad forum where all of them could stand together. Especially, there is intelligentsia concerned about the countrys future. Yet, there is no forum for them to speak. I wanted to fill that vacuum. Today, we see the country being run according to the whims of a few individuals. We have to stop it. We have to work out a broad, national programme to change the course of this government. More than a programme, it is a vision for the country to be worked out. 
Q: Some people say the country is in a state of confusion today. You also said the country is run according to the whims of a few. Do you feel that you are also responsible for it because of your role in the installation of it
When I say a state of confusion, it does not mean an extremely bad situation. Had the previous rule existed up to now, the situation would have been even more complicated by now. It would have led to a revolt against the government then. Today, society is free. There is space for dialogue. However, there is confusion in the way the government is run today. That has to be corrected. 
Q: You are just one member in Parliament. How can you do it without the support of others
At that time, there was a great deal of trumpeting that Mahinda Rajapaksa could not be unseated. We did it. An individual with dedicated commitment could do a lot of things with the backing of others. I have committed my life to a course. 


"I signed the agreement along with Champika Ranawaka because we were together in the same party for a long time. The UNP also invited me. I declined to contest elections. I feel ashamed to contest election. Most enjoy their perks today because of me"

Q: Do you think some more MPs would join hands with you
I cannot say it at this moment. Let alone the parliamentarians, it is clear to me that a large number of people would rally behind me. 
Q: What is your opinion on President Sirisena and Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe
You are asking very difficult questions. It is not nice for me to express my individual opinion regarding them. In general, there should be consensual approach between the parties they represent. That is to bring out a vision for the country. In the absence of it, we see them working separately. The government is not on a common agenda. The government does not stick to a common approach. Instead, small individual groups are at play. 
Q: There is a perception that you formed this movement in view of the Presidential polls scheduled for 2020. What is your response
At the beginning, I never had the idea of unseating MR and be replaced with President Sirisena. Even now, I have no idea of whats to be done in 2020. There is a long time left for it. It is difficult for us to say whether President Sirisena and PM Wickremesinghe will be contesting. Also, we do not know whether another one will come in their place. There is a duty cast upon us. That is to prevail upon the current government to deliver. We cannot get it done by quitting the government. Anybody can dream of becoming the next President. There is no ban on it. I have never uttered that so and so should become the next President. We believe in creating ideologies and then find the individuals who can drive them. If one focuses on Individual centric politics, it is nothing but political bankruptcy. We believe in the formation of ideologies, not individual figures. In politics, individual centric approach is pursued by one due to political bankruptcy
and imprudence. 
Q: What is the national economic policy of your movement
Today, there is no vision for development in the country. Some believe in industrialization of this country with foreign investment. We do not have foreign investors as such in the world today. Only China can pump in money for investment in the globe. The United States is now encouraging its companies for inbound investments. It is opting for national economy from free, liberalized economy. Britain is embracing the same model. Industrialization, as a model for growth, had a golden space after the World War II. Now, that era is gone. We had a chance between 1970 and 1990. Today, it is longer there. The energy crisis is looming, oil and coal resources would be exhausted completely in another 50 years. We feel the effect of environmental damage caused by the excessive use of these resources. 
Q: You promote organic farming. What is the impact it has made so far in the economy
With the use of organic fertilizer, we cultivated lands. Of that land extent, 90% was devoted to high yield paddy crops. Here, we have to consider the advantage of cultivating traditional paddy varieties. We promote high yield crops in organic agriculture. There is lamentation that crop yields less in organic agriculture. Also, it is lamented that it is difficult to find or produce organic fertilizer. We have rubbished all that. 
Q: How many acres have you cultivated in this manner
In the past, we had our land extent scattered throughout the country. It was around 20,000 acres of paddy cultivation, 3,000 acres with other crops. We had some 3,000 acres of tea cultivation. We cultivated less this time because rain failed in these areas. Leaving aside these lands, we planned to cultivate newly identified 50,000 acres yet in two identified locations this time . We strove to do it. It was an arduous task to encourage people to opt for it. We have trained around 2,000 farmers. It is a revolution. The result is high yields. In organic agriculture, the harvest improves. It is more climate-resilient. It is less water intensive. If we opt for organic agriculture, we can save Rs.80 billion to be spent otherwise for agro-chemical imports. 


"Today, we see the country being run according to the whims of a few individuals. We have to stop it. We have to work out a broad, national programme to change the course of this government. More than a programme, it is a vision for the country to be worked out"

Q: What is your position on the Constitution making process amid allegations that plans are in place to do away with the foremost place accorded to Buddhism
There are proposals in the documents worked out. There is stress on the removal of the foremost place to Buddhism. There are proposals to that effect. Also, there are proposals to do away with the unitary status of the constitution. It is a concept paper. If the executive presidency is abolished in full, the unitary status will automatically be abolished. As a result, we had a policy agreement with President Sirisena right at the beginning. We only wanted to reduce powers of it, that look draconian in nature. In this exercise, executive powers needed to uphold the unitary character should not be scrapped. 
Q: Would you defeat that exercise through your movement
There is nothing to defeat. A two-thirds is needed in Parliament to do it. The President has no mandate to do it. Both the PM and/or MR have no such mandate. Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) has articulated clearly that it would not be abolished. 
Q: Recently, you have advocated the devolution of police power. How should it be done
I only talked about the structural changes of the police service. We have to bring about a change in its outlook. I am saying that even the dress code should be changed. We have to restore its image. We have to categorize the police service into two. We need an armed police service specifically trained to combat crimes- murders, drug trafficking, house-breaking and all. Armed police personnel are not needed to carry out civil functions such as traffic control, the conduct of state events etc. For that, a separate civil police service should remain. The civil police service can be decentralized even to the north. But, the armed police service should be vested with the centre. For people in Jaffna, there is no need to depend on police personnel from the south to conduct their events and all. Crime combatting should be solely with the police service coming under the purview of the central administration. Yet, the police power related to civil affairs should be decentralized as much as possible. For that purpose, a separate unit can be set up in the police. Its service can be decentralized to the level of Divisional Secretariats. It does not mean devolution of police power to the provincial councils. 
Q: Where did you get such an idea from
This is my idea. I spoke to the TNA as well. Its views also helped me in the formation of my opinion. In Costa Rica, there is no military. In Europe, the police personnel are clad in white. Ours is a civilized country. We have to depart from feudal thinking. Instead of colonial police service, we should think of our own police service. We have to amalgamate the military and police intelligence services. 
Q: There is an allegation against this government about the victimization of intelligence officers. Could you share your views
It is an endless exercise to identify those responsible for crimes committed in the war situation. We rehabilitated 11,000 LTTE combatants, and some of them were recruited to the Civil Defence Force. They may be the ones responsible for the massacre of Bhikkhus in Arantalawa; the bomb attacks on Dalada Maligawa or Jayasiri Maha Bodhi. Why is the TNA advocating punitive action actions against the members of the security forces only Didnt the LTTE commit murders So many Tamil political leaders were wiped out by the LTTE. 
I am saying that all the LTTE cadres serving in jail at the moment should be released. Alongside, all inquiries against military personnel should be stopped forthwith. We have to resolve the matter in that way once and for all. Our leaders do not have the guts to say it. That is the Buddhist approach. A general amnesty should be advocated for all. Otherwise, it would be a futile, endless exercise. 
Q: We encountered criticism against you in the social media. Your latest move is criticized as another gimmick to stay in politics after your earlier moves were rendered invalid in politics today. How do you respond to this
I became a member of the clergy at the age of 14. It happened without my knowledge. After I knew, I sacrificed my life for a worthy cause in society. I never had an idea of becoming a parliamentarian. Yet, I had a political purpose to change the direction of the country. I gave my thought to it. There were duties cast upon us as the situations warranted in the past. All should look at it positively. We sacrificed our entire lives as youths to this cause. We were beaten by the police. We were jailed. We had a continual struggle based on ideologies. 
Q: Recently, you said you would be independent in Parliament. At the same time, you said you would not leave the government. What is this contradiction
I never said I would leave the government. For one year within the party, I did not speak with Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka even for five minutes. Then, how could I hold any responsibility there There is no need to say that I am independent during the period. It is virtually there. The JHU never asked to say that MR would be defeated. The JHU never asked me to have the crucial public meeting at that time. I only voted against the Casino project first. The JHU also voted against it. But, I did it first. There is no ideological clash with the JHU. 
Q: The JHU is asking you to resign from the MP seat. How do you react
At that time, I could have secured an MPs slot with whatever the party I would have liked to. I could have signed the agreement for it with Premier Ranil. I had a political clout. With that clout I got it. I could have secured votes with that clout from whatever side. Both the UNP and the SLFP wanted to accommodate me. I signed the agreement along with Champika Ranawaka because we were together in the same party for a long time. The UNP also invited me. I declined to contest elections. I feel ashamed to contest election. Most enjoy their perks today because of me. 

"We cannot get it done by quitting the government. Anybody can dream of becoming the next President. There is no ban on it. I have never uttered that so and so should become the next President"
 
		
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank receives ISO 27001:2013 certification
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
DFCC Bank receives ISO 27001:2013 certification
	

DFCC Bank was recently awarded the ISO 27001:2013 certification in recognition of implementing the best practices in legal, physical and technical control for information security management.
The certificate was awarded to DFCC Bank Chief Risk Officer Palitha Gamage by Bureau Veritas Sri Lanka General Manager Shan Nanayakkara at the awarding ceremony held at the DFCC Bank auditorium recently.
This certification entails that the bank has met all levels of confidence in information security management, becoming one of the four financial institutions in the country to be certified. Apart from enhancing DFCC Banks image and giving it a competitive edge in the industry, the certification also reinforces the banks willingness and commitment in enhancing security posture of the organisation to increase customer confidence in line with international standards and best practice.
This is yet another step in our journey of growth as a bank that is committed to providing sustainable solutions to all stakeholders. We take pride in being awarded this certification, which demonstrates our compliance with mandatory certification as laid down by the Central Bank. As one of the first few financial institutions to comply with this requirement, this certification will help us to manage information security risks at acceptable levels and provide assurance to customers and suppliers.
DFCC Bank sustains the highest levels of compliance and governance and risk frameworks and gaining this ISO standard goes a long way in proving our ability and willingness to spearhead the industry. The DFCC management was committed to implement the ISO 27001:2013 security standard and engaged with PWC for the ISO implementation and with Bureau Veritas for the certification audit. We are grateful to them for their support, said DFCC Bank CEO Arjun Fernando.
Commenting on this achievement, PwC Sri Lanka Director Yudhishtran Kanagasabai said, DFCC has taken a bold step well ahead from Baseline Security Standard mandated by the regulator in moving towards ISO 27001:2013 thus firstly raising security awareness, establishing processes and then keeping an unblinking focus on violations and new threats as they emerge with a view to strengthening its security posture.
In an era where the technology landscape continues to change and the diversity of the threat landscape continues to increase this certification would move DFCC to the next level in being a cyber-resilient organisation thus providing comfort to all its stakeholders about privacy of data and information. PwC is proud be associated with this journey that resulted in DFCC being certified in ISO 27001:2013.
Bureau Veritas General Manager Shan Nanayakkara said, I would like to congratulate the management of DFCC Bank and all those involved in this collective effort. Your achievement will make a positive difference in developing the objectives of the bank. The ISO 27001:2013 standard provides a robust model for information security risk assessment and security design, implementation and management. With its comprehensive approach that takes into account threats, vulnerabilities and impacts, the standard helps to ensure the adoption of appropriate security controls that protect the information of the company, customers and other stakeholders.
Being certified to ISO 27001 will not only help DFCC Bank to manage and protect its valuable information assets but will enhance its reputation by demonstrating to customers that the security of their information is paramount. DFCC Bank PLC is a fully-fledged dynamic commercial bank and development bank that services customers from all walks of life and is rated AA- (lka) by Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited. The bank has been rapidly growing its footprint across the country and is connected to the LankaPay Common ATM Switch, enabling accountholders to access over 3,500 ATMs islandwide and performs zero cost cash withdrawals and balance inquiries via connected banks.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 'Everyone is under the countrys law, including Forces': SF
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:45 pm
'Everyone is under the countrys law, including Forces': SF
	
Minister of Regional Development, Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka yesterday said the President, Army Chief and members of the armed services and all other citizens in the country should be under the countrys law and there is no need to have any separate investigation boards as Parliamentarian Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera had suggested.
While addressing the media at the Government Information Department in Narahenpita, Minister Sarath Fonseka said no one is above the countys law.
referring to the statement made by the Ven. Rathana Thera yesterday Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka said it is not fair to make such statements by the Thera.
Ven. Rathana Thera yesterday suggested to have a separate investigation board to probe the issues involving military intelligence personnel.
Minister Fonseka said, even Buddhist Priests have to face the same consequences if they breached the countrys law. Buddhist Priests would not be tried by the Sangadhikaranaya. Already there are about 80 Buddhist priests in the Welikada prison.
I personally respect the Ven. Rathana Thera as a Buddhist priest, but he is not a person with military expertise. If the Thera says anything against the war and the arrest of the military intelligence personnel, he is expressing the ideas of the Joint Opposition and making statements while keeping a totally different agenda in his mind, he said.
If the Thera wants to make such statements he should resign from the government. He cannot make such statements while being a member of the government. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Facebook finally has a dislike button, but its hiding
## Section: Technology - Main
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:10 pm
Facebook finally has a dislike button, but its hiding
	
For as long as I can remember, Facebook users have been requesting a feature that the firm has avoided implementing  a dislike button. That could be about to change, though, as TechCrunch has caught wind that the social networking giant is currently working on bringing Reactions to Messenger, and the coveted thumbs-down emoji is included.
The way it works is simple: Users have the option to react to individual messages in a chat thread with an emoji. When they receive a new message, all they have to do is hover over it, then tap the emoji icon to pick from seven different Reactions  heart-eyes, lol, wow, sad, angry, thumbs-up and thumbs-down.
However, Facebook isnt marketing the thumbs-down emoji as a way to dislike content. Instead, it told TechCrunch its intended to be used as a no button, in order to make everyday decisions, like choosing where to go for lunch, a lot easier for people in groups where multiple discussions are happening at the same time. Although, it accepts itll inevitably be used as a way to show disapproval.
Reactions for Messenger, which is almost identical to Reactions for the News Feed (its just gained a thumbs-down emoji), is currently being tested by a small number of Facebook users, and itll only make its way to the rest if its deemed to be useful. Given the success of Emoji Reactions in Slack, we have a feeling itll catch on.
Not the same as disliking cat pictures in your News Feed
Sure, its not the same as being able to dislike the slew of cat pictures that undoubtedly appear in your News Feed (although, Im not sure why youd want to  cats are great), but it should certainly help introduce a much-needed form of structure in rapid-fire group chats.
www.technobuffalo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: 360ft superyacht comes with a swimming pool, beach club and aquarium
## Section: International
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:42 am
360ft superyacht comes with a swimming pool, beach club and aquarium
	

A record-breaking superyacht the size of St Pauls Cathedral has been built in Holland. The luxury liner comes complete with a swimming pool, beach club and aquarium. 
At 360-feet (110 metres) long, the Jubilee is the largest yacht ever to built in the Netherlands - and is in the Top 100 of the largest superyachts in the world. 
The Jubilee has six decks and can accommodate up to 30 guests in 15 staterooms. 
The plush liner also features an exclusive suite for the yachts owner and a helicopter landing pad. 
It will be put through its paces in trials in the North Sea over the coming weeks and is set to sail over the Mediterranean this summer. 
The blue and white 4,500-tonne vessel is made of steel and aluminium and can travel at a top speed of 18 knots. 
And the boats power comes from a pair of MTU diesel engines. 
Its ribbon-like exterior creates an aerodynamic flowing design with no obstructions. 
The superyacht was built in a specially-made 460ft (140m) long enclosed dry dock. 
The dock was built at the end of 2014 and is designed so huge, multi-millions vessels can be made under wraps 
The state-of-the-art 100ft tall six level building in Alblasserdam, near Rotterdam, is made of concrete and is impervious to outside weather and ground water temperatures. 
A spokesman for Dutch yacht manufacturer Oceanco said: Jubilee is truly a vessel in a class of her own with a unique and architecturally challenging design which creates a visual effect of multi-level decks never seen before. 
She represents a number of firsts in yachting and is a visual and technological tour de force. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: He now frequents night clubs
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
He now frequents night clubs
	
A young handsome purohita holding a key portfolio has of late taken to a happy-go-lucky life style.
He has now become a regular patron of some night clubs and is enjoying himself throwing all cares to the four winds.
The handsome one makes it a point to visit the night clubs with a beautiful damsel in tow, of course not with the same one every day, but different cuties on different days.
The young purohita had worked with great zest and commitment during the first few days in his new office, but he now appears set to have a good time come hell or high water, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heavy traffic at Town Hall
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 03:15 pm
Heavy traffic at Town Hall
	
Heavy traffic was reported in Lipton Circus in Town Hall, Colombo due to a protest march carried out by the joint opposition citing various failures of the current government.
Motorists are advised to steer clear of the area to avoid any inconvenience.

 
		
==============================
## Title: JO goes ahead with 'Surakimu Amma'
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 7 March 2017 07:30 pm
JO goes ahead with 'Surakimu Amma'
	
The joint opposition today launched a protest march titled 'Surakimu Amma', against the Government commemorating the International Womens Day starting from the Lipton Circus to Viharamahadevi Park in Colombo. Pix by Nisal Baduge
 
		
==============================
## Title: Keen to demonstrate his partys strength
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
Keen to demonstrate his partys strength
	

A leader of a minor political party is set to convene a national convention of his political party to showcase the partys strength.

This leader had decided to demonstrate the partys popular base thus in response to jibes aimed at him by some people saying that he is leading a three-member party. He has further requested a leading political heavyweight to help him get a venue for holding his party convention.
However, the political heavyweight had not taken his request seriously, they say. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Money talks louder
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
Money talks louder
	

A billionaire businessman politico hailing from a district north of the hill capital is throwing away peacock notes like mad in a bid to subdue the growing dissent in the area against his political boss.

A large number of local politicos who once ruled the roost in now dissolved small governments had gone vociferously critical of a high political authority. And the billionaire had taken over the task of buying the silence of these rebel politicos.
Once uproarious local politicos in the entire district have now gone mute,they say.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Murder of Lankan: Three Nepalese remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 09:32 am
Murder of Lankan: Three Nepalese remanded
	
Three Nepalese men have been remanded in custody over a northern suburbs murder that allegedly left a Sri Lankan victim face down in a pool of his own blood.
In the Elizabeth Magistrates Court on Monday, prosecutors successfully applied to have the identities of all three alleged murderers suppressed to safeguard the ongoing police investigation.
The identity of the victim has also been suppressed  because Major Crime detectives have yet to locate his family in Sri Lanka and inform them of his death.
Police have alleged that a man, 39, man was killed at Penfield Gardens, north of Adelaide on Friday night.
They have further alleged the mans housemate had to flee for his life through barbed-wire fences from a group of up to six assailants.
Eye witnesses claim the distraught and wailing housemate was found bleeding, and on the verge of collapse, at the front of the property.
They said he was hanging on the barbed-wire yelling someones got to help, they killed my mate.
A neighbour said he had entered the house and found the 39-year-old laying dead and face down in a pool of blood.
Police subsequently arrested a man, 44, from Davoren Park, a Northfield man, 34, and a man, 48, of Elizabeth North.
On Monday, none of the men applied for bail and they were remanded in custody to face court again in May. (dailytelegraph)
 
		
==============================
## Title: NDB releases annual report for FY16
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
NDB releases annual report for FY16
	
National Development Bank PLC (NDB) released its annual report for the financial year 2016 (FY16) to the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) yesterday.
The report is a comprehensive account of how the bank performed during the year under review (2016) in both financial and non-financial aspects.
The report is also a clear reflection of what the bank aspires for the future under its new leadership at the helm. The essence of the report is encapsulated in its theme Unlocking our potential to unleash YOURS and continues from the banks previous annual report (2015) themed YOURS, which was based on the banks tagline, Our Commitment. Your Success.
The story that unfolds in the 2016 report will help the readers understand how NDB reaches out to a wide mass of customers ranging from individuals, small-scale entrepreneurs to blue-chip corporates and how the bank has something on offer to empower each and every one of them to reach his or her true potential.
The readers will also learn of the strong market proposition that the bank enjoys as a full spectrum financial services provider, integrating both banking and financial solutions as well as capital market solutions through its group companies engaged in a host of capital market services.
The banks report is in full compliance with applicable regulatory disclosure requirements and is firmly based on the principles of clarity, transparency and consistency in reporting. This report is the fourth integrated annual report of the bank, which is a result of a journey that the bank embarked on in 2013. Since then, the bank has largely enhanced its reporting practices based on integrated reporting principles through internal and self-driven initiatives as well as external support.
The report is based on the concepts of capitals and is a clear depiction of how the bank generated value to a host of its stakeholders over the year. Sustainability reporting is based on Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards In accordance  Core guideline publications. The contents of the report will be largely useful for a wide spectrum of annual report users comprising of investors, regulators, customers as well as researchers on corporate and sustainability reporting practices.
The report is available in print as well as in online versions. The PDF form and an interactive HTML version of the report are hosted on the banks corporate website www.ndbbank.com under Investor Relations/Reports section. The bank also released a video commentary of the newly-appointed Chief Executive Officer Dimantha Seneviratne to coincide with the release of the report to the CSE.
The CEO commented that the year gone by was one marked by many challenges, the learning of which will provide a very strong foundation for devising precise strategies for 2017 and beyond. The CEOs commentary can be viewed on YouTube as well as in the banks corporate website as mentioned above.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Rasa Mathaka Asiriya  a work of nostalgia
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:05 am
Rasa Mathaka Asiriya  a work of nostalgia
	
Rasa Mathaka Asiriya by Vijith Kumar Senaratne is an absorbing collection of essays on a number of professionals in spheres as diverse as photography, broadcasting, teaching, music and the plastic arts. 
While some of the faces in this galaxy are well known, others have hardly ever been known to the general public. Composer Premasiri Khemadasa is a known face but few would have heard of sitarist Piyadasa Athukorala, who performed in almost every major concert in the 60s and 70s including Victor Ratanayakes Sa, and contributed those unforgettable opening melodic refrains of the song Sinidu Sudumudu Thalawe from the film Sath Samudura. 
Author Senaratne, with two previous books to his credit including one on pioneer singer Sunil Santha, has researched extensively his subjects and their careers, thereby bringing out a plethora of fascinating detail. 
In the meandering tone of a natural story teller who loves telling his stories, Senaratne mentions that Sunil Santha gave away his thriving music class to young Amaradeva at a time when he himself was quite short of money. Or that Leela, Sunils wife, saved a couple of Tamil neighbours from a mob during the July 1983 riots, and that she died holding the hand of her old friend Dr. Thilokasundari kariyasasam. 
Sitarist Athukorala went on his fathers shoulders to see Rabindranath Tagore lay the foundation stone for the Sri Pali school in Horana. Photographer and film producer Chitra Balasuriyas Chitra Studio in Gampaha was a haven for actors and musicians, paving the way for films such as Parasathu Mal and Thunman Handiya. 
"Author Senaratne, with two previous books to his credit including one on pioneer singer Sunil Santha, has researched extensively his subjects and their careers"

The career of flutist Weerasena Pieris, whose mellifluous tones can be heard in songs such as W. D. Amaradevas Pipunu Kusuma and Victor Ratnayakes Thotupola Aiye, was cut short when he was attacked with a knife as a political reprisal. Announcer Gunathunga K. Liyanage pioneered the broadcasting of Hindi songs on SLBCs Sinhala commercial service, introduced direct phoning during live programmes into Sinhala medium broadcasting, allowing scholar Edwin Ariyadasa to comment directly while news of mans first steps on the moon were being broadcast. 
Palitha Perera, better known for his cricket commentaries, was put in charge of SLBCs first FM Broadcast City FM. 
When it comes to the teaching profession, Maya Abeywickrema rendered invaluable services as a music teacher, widening the scope of Western music education in our schools and initiated the National Youth Orchestra, producing many fine Western classical musicians. Prof. J. B. Dissanayake made the study of Sinhala an attractive proposition and wrote books in English for those studying it as a second language. 
Hemapala Perera, adept protagonist of the mandolin and tabla though better known for flute playng, went blind at a tender age due to a botched innoculation. Nimal Mendis, composer of Master Sir and Ganga Addara, wrote and performed the music with his UK band for songs by British jazz singer Mary Marshall. Mendis and his wife Ranjani made several documentaries too, including Dawn of Terror and Stop Killing, Start Singing. 
Singer Irene Malini Ranasinghe, now largely forgotten, comes live in these pages. She made her mark as a playback singer in the films Mee Messo and Arunata Pera. Singer Wasantha Sandanayake was actively involved in film making, working in films such as Wahal Dupatha and entertaining people with Tamil songs whenever the film locations were in the hills. 


"Rasa Mathaka Asiriya is an absorbing collection of essays on a number of professionals in spheres as diverse as photography, broadcasting, teaching, music and the plastic arts"

Narada Disasekara, though he became one of our best known singers in the 60s, studied science and joined the SLBC as a recording technician, achieving such fame in that profession that he recorded Ravi Shankar and was sought out by Sunil Santha to record his lament when PM S. W. R. D. Bandarnaike was killed. Narada got his break as a singer in the film Sikuru Tharuwa thanks to film star Punya Heendeniya, who convinced music director R. Muttiswamy to give him a chance to sing. Some of M. S. Fernandos slower songs such as Bola Bola Meti came out of a creative necessity, due to a SLBC ban on fast rhythms during the Ridgeway Thilakaratne era. 
Radio announcer Elmo Fernando was so enamoured as a schoolboy by Prosper Fernandos Hindi songs programme that he habitually ran 15 minutes from home to school after hearing it to the end. SLBCs Vernon Corea noticed this young enthusiast and handed him over to Karunaratne Abeysekara who took him under his wing. In the same era, prolific musician and multi-instrumentalist Douglas Ferndinands lived in a house along Park Road, Havelock Town, which was more recently occupied by politician Douglas Devananda. 
The book is filled with many such anecdotes and reminiscences. 
Published by Agahas Prakashakayo, 717/2, Madinnagoda, Rajagiriya, the book is available at leading bookshops including Sarasavi, Gunasena, Sooriya, Vijitha Yapa and Surasa Maradana. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: RIGHT OF REPLY - The Truth behind VISION 2020:  The Right to Sight
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:03 am
RIGHT OF REPLY - The Truth behind VISION 2020:  The Right to Sight
	
VISION 2020 representsthe global initiative for the elimination of avoidable blindness, a joint programme of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) launched in 1999. 
The College of Ophthalmologists was the initial partners in Sri Lanka when its activities started in 2000. Eye surgeons as members of the college supported the programme and in the year 2007 at its annual conference the college signed an MOU with the Ministry of Health to support and strengthen the activities of the programme. 
Five key areas in eye care service were identified as follows; cataract, child hood blindness, glaucoma, refractive errors, low vision and diabetic retinopathy. 
Five eye surgeons were appointed as focal point [consultants] and to be in charge. The director general of the Ministry of Health was the national focal point playing a major role in planning, implementating and monitoring the process. 
At a special general meeting of the college in 2006 it was proposed to have a steering committee consisting of consultant eye surgeons. Later on the donors were also invited to the steering committee.
A bank account for the Vision 2020 programme was opened with the initial deposit from the College of Ophthalmologists and is still under the preview of the college treasurer. The accounts are audited with the college accounts and the audit report is presented at the annual general meeting of the college for approval of the membership. Even at present the admin. staff of the secretariat is recruited by the College of Ophthalmologists and the main signatory to service agreements is also the college. 
In May 2008 an MOU was signed between the College of Ophthalmologists of Sri Lanka, NGOS and the Ministry of Health. 
In the same year, the council of the college requested for the appointment of two medical officers to the secretariat to coordinate the activities of the V 2020. 
The many activities carried out under the five focal points with the participation of the peripheral consultant eye surgeons who were members of college were noteworthy. NGOs like Sight Savers, CBM, Iris and ICEE were main donors at the inception. Later on more organisations joined in support. 


"The College of Ophthalmologists was the initial partners in Sri Lanka when its activities started in 2000. Eye surgeons as members of the college supported the programme and in the year 2007 at its annual conference the college signed an MOU with the Ministry of Health to support and strengthen the activities of the programme"


With the support of the donors thousands of cataract surgeries were performed. Glaucoma awareness was spread throughout the country and screening programmess were arranged. Diabetic retinopathy screening was also arranged and equipment provided to peripheral eye units while primary eye care workers were trained. 
At a meeting held at the Ministry of Health presided over by Hon. Minister of Health Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, and in the presence of the Secretary of the Minister of Health Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine , Director General of Health Services and the Council of the College of Ophthalmologists Dr Jayasundara Bandara was appointed as the National Focal point. To coordinate the smooth functioning of the programme Dr Muditha Kulathunga a Senior Consultant Eye Surgeon was appointed as the national coordinator. Further it was decided to shift the office of the of the Vision 2020 Secretariat to the National Eye Hospital for better coordination. 
At the same meeting Hon: Minister informed the decision of the government to provide good quality, intra-ocular lenses free of charge to all the patients seeking treatment from government hospitals. The Hon: Minister emphasised that the same good quality lenses should be given to patients undergoing cataract surgery through the Vision 2020 programme free of charge. The college welcomed this 
The College of Ophthalmologists is willing to collaborate with other professional bodies, the government, NGOs, donors and the media to continue with the existing programme and to expand it further in keeping with objectives of the programme. 

College of Ophthalmologists of Sri Lanka  
 
		
==============================
## Title: SAITM CEO's Shooting: Was offered Rs.5 lakhs to say I did it: Suspect
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 09:38 pm
SAITM CEO's Shooting: Was offered Rs.5 lakhs to say I did it: Suspect
	
The suspect identified as Tilan who was originally arrested in connection with the shooting at SAITM CEO Samira Senaratne's vehicle had revealed that an interested group had offered him Rs.500, 000 if he accepted the responsibility for the shooting, Minister of Law and Order Sagala Ratnayake told Parliament.
Responding to a question asked by Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake on an earlier date, the minister said two more suspects -- Lakshan Wilathgamuwa, a format UPFA member of the Kaduwela Pradeshiya Sabha and one Sunil a driver attached to PS were arrested in connection with the incident. He said further investigations were continuing.
Mr. Dissanayake urged the minister to expedite the investigations. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sikhs respond with fear and disbelief after Seattle hate crime
## Section: International
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:28 am
Sikhs respond with fear and disbelief after Seattle hate crime
	

Fear, hurt and disbelief weighed on the minds of those who gathered at a Sikh temple Sunday after the shooting of a Sikh man who said a gunman approached him in his suburban Seattle driveway and told him go back to your own country. 
Everybody who is part of this community needs to be vigilant, Satwinder Kaur, a Sikh community leader, said as several hundred people poured into a temple in Renton for worship services about one mile from Friday nights shooting. 
It is scary, she added. The community has been shaken up.  Authorities said a gunman approached the 39-year-old Sikh man as he worked on his car in his driveway in the city of Kent, about 20 miles south of Seattle. The FBI will help investigate the shooting, authorities said. Kent Police Chief Ken Thomas said the department is investigating the shooting as a hate crime. He said no arrests have been made yet after the victim was shot in the arm but that he did not believe anyone was in imminent danger. 
Kent Police Chief Ken Thomas said the department is investigating the shooting as a hate crime. He said no arrests have been made. The victim was shot in the arm. 
This is a top priority investigation, and we are doing everything possible to identify and arrest the suspect, Thomas said in an email, adding that residents in the city of about 125,000 should be vigilant but also not let the shooting hurt their quality of life.
Kent, (Hindustan Times), Mar 06, 2017- 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Six students arrested for assaulting another student
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:31 am
Six students arrested for assaulting another student
	
Six students of a leading school in Anuradhapura were arrested for allegedly assaulting a 17-year-old student of a another school yesterday.
Police said the victim was admitted to the Anuradhapura hospital after he was assaulted at a private class in the area due to a personnel dispute on Sunday evening.
The suspects were arrested after they surrendered to the Anuradhapura Police yesterday.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL economy plunges to crisis level: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 04:38 pm
SL economy plunges to crisis level: JO
	
Sri Lankas current economic situation is identical to that which led to the economic collapse in Greece, the joint opposition said today.
SLPP Chairman G.L. Peiris said the countrys economy was breaking upwith investors beginning to withdraw their investments.
The well-known Templeton fund has withdrawn US$1,475 million during a period of 14 months with US$ 475 being withdrawn within the past two months. This is only one example of whats happening as a result of investors losing faith in the countrys economy, he said.
Furthering, Prof. Peiris said that by next week US dollar value would rise up to Rs.170 causing the rupee depreciation. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

 
		
==============================
## Title: SL Navy denies allegations of shooting TN fishermen
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:27 pm
SL Navy denies allegations of shooting TN fishermen
	
Sri Lanka Navy today denied allegations of shooting dead a 22 year old fisherman from Tamil Nadu while he was fishing allegedly a short distance off the Katchatheevu islet.
Tamil Nadu fisheries officials pointed the finger at Sri Lankan Navy personnel for the death of one fisherman and injuring another.
Speaking to the Indian media Fisheries Department Assistant Director Kulanchinathan said the incident occurred when the fishermen from Thangachimadam in central Rameswaram of Tamil Nadu, was fishing near the islet.
Kulanchinathan alleged that Sri Lankan naval personnel had arrived at the spot and fired at the fishermen.
The 22 year old fisherman was shot in the neck and had died on the spot, while another fisherman was shot in his leg. The other fisherman at the scene had escaped unhurt and returned to shore at around 12.30 a.m, Kulanchinathan claimed.
Rameswaram Fishermen Association President P Sesuraja told PTI that more than 2,000 fishermen were fishing well within Indian waters when the Sri Lankan naval personnel came to the spot taking them by surprise. The Lankan navy officials did not even fire a warning shot, he alleged. 
However, when contacted Sri Lanka Navy Spokesperson Lieutenant Commander Chaminda Walakuluge vehemently denied such allegations and stated the Navy had never been ordered to fire at Indian fishermen nor had they done so.
Navy sources also said smugglers most often used the sea route and there were incidents reported quite often. The fishermen may have been caught in the cross fire or they could have been part of the smuggling operations. When something like this happens they point the finger at the Sri Lankan Navy, the sources said.
The Tamil Nadu government also protested the "escalation" in apprehension of its fishermen by Sri Lanka and said the Centre did "not seem to put adequate pressure" on Colombo regarding the matter. 
In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister K. Palaniswami had referred to the arrest of 32 Indian fishermen by the Lankan authorities in the last few days and said these incidents were causing hardship and mental agony to the fishermen community. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLFP, UPFA won't let it be signed: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 09:13 am
SLFP, UPFA won't let it be signed: Minister
	
The UPFA which is one of the main coalition partners of the Unity Government yesterday vowed not to allow the government to sign the Hambantota Port agreement with China Merchant Ports Holdings because in its present form it was extremely harmful to our national interests.
United People's Freedom Alliance (UPFA) General Secretary and Minister, Mahinda Amaraweera said Ports and Shipping Minister Arjuna Ranatunga had already highlighted the controversial clauses in a letter to the Government's Privatization Chairman Minister Sarath Amunugama and as such it was necessary for the Cabinet to re-review the agreement and delete the clauses which were not in the best interests of the country.
President Maithripala Sirisena, the SLFP and the UPFA are of the view that the Hambantota Port agreement should be beneficial to the country and to the economy and must not compromise national security or the sovereignty. We have reservations on some of the clauses in the draft agreement and therefore we need to review the agreement and remove whatever was harmful, the minister said yesterday.
He said neither the SLFP nor the President would agree to the 80% equity swap as proposed in the draft agreement
Minister Ranatunga in his letter has pointed out that the draft agreement gives the authority to a separate company to operate the Hambantota Port with the sole power to decide on port fees and carry out development work within a 50-kilometer radius of the port.
"The proposed private company will hold 80% equity of the Hambantota Port Development project with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority having the balance 20%. As such, the agreement between the China Merchants Ports Holdings Company and the SLPA cannot be signed without amending the previous Public Private Partnership (PPP) agreement and the SLPA Act," he said.
The minister has proposed that the SLAPA equity be increased to 35% and reduce the 99-year lease period and voiced his concern on the failure to include a clause relating to port security.
He has called for a review of the US$1.4 billion as agreed by the two partners as the cost of the Hambantota port pointing out that the Hambantota Port was worth much more. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Softlogic Finance Galle branch celebrates 7th anniversary
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
Softlogic Finance Galle branch celebrates 7th anniversary
	

Sri Lankas most dynamic financial services provider, Softlogic Finance PLC, celebrated its seventh anniversary of operations in Galle with a gala dinner in appreciation of the support extended to the company by its clientele. This was organised in commemoration of seven years of dedicated and highly successful relationship building with its client base from the Galle District.
We, at Softlogic Finance, take great pride in the outstanding work of our Galle branch, which has steadily built up a legacy of trust, stability and reliability in keeping with the values of Softlogic Finance and the Softlogic group, Softlogic Finance PLC Director/CEO Nalin Wijekoon stated. Having worked to deliver superior service to its valued clientele, Softlogic Finances Galle branch has consistently been rated as one of the groups best-performing branches as a result of its optimal levels of customer service whilst maintaining excellence in performance. Softlogic Finance PLC is part of the Softlogic group, diversified Sri Lankan company with interests in healthcare, retail, financial services, ICT, leisure, automobiles and restaurants.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Stunning simulations reveal the shock waves that cause chunks of ice to calve
## Section: International
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:37 am
Stunning simulations reveal the shock waves that cause chunks of ice to calve
	

 New computer simulations reveal the shock wave created when a chunk of ice breaks off a glacier.
This shock wave causes sea ice to shift and can even spur widespread fracture, increasing the chances of subsequent breakage events 
Understanding these processes could help scientists to better predict how melting ice will contribute to sea-level rise. 
The new study from California Institute of Technology examined the effect of the melange breakup on iceberg calving  or the process of shedding chunks of ice. 
Melange is a floating aggregation of sea ice and icebergs, and scientists have long speculated that it may apply enough force on a glaciers terminus to suppress calving. 
In the winter, the icebergs that make up the melange freeze together, creating a frozen iceberg logjam that prevents more material from breaking off. 
But, as the weather gets warmer, the sea ice begins to thin, eventually allowing for the first calving event in the summer. 
The new animation from Caltech reveals the effect of this process. 
When the first calving event happens, it sends a shock wave through the cluster of ice. 
At first, it causes compression, which later leads to slow expansion. 
As a result, the event can initiate widespread breakage of the sea ice. 
This reduces much of the pressure on the glacier terminus, increasing the risk of further calving. 
Ocean and atmosphere warming in the Arctic have already caused longer periods of sea-ice-free conditions, which may lead to a transition from currently slow calving, predominantly occurring in the summer to rapid calving, occurring throughout the year. 
There is, however, also the possibility that the increased runoff from the melting ice could create a layer of cold, fresh water, spurring the formation of more sea ice. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: The Hijack that caused ripples across Sri Lanka.
## Section: News Features
## Date: 7 March 2017 02:52 pm
The Hijack that caused ripples across Sri Lanka.
	
Sepala Ekanayake in 1982, hijacked a plane belonging to Alitalia airlines flying from New Delhi to Tokyo. It was the first time that a Sri Lankan was involved in hijacking a plane.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Waiting for Saturns exit
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 7 March 2017 12:00 am
Waiting for Saturns exit
	
A certain state purohita is said to have gone into ecstasy following a strong rumour that a reshuffle of the top team is in the offing.
We are about to be rid of Saturn; it is to move into a new sign, the state purohita would tell all his friends coming to see him these days, rubbing his hands with glee.
His Saturn - the purohita at the top team level has not only failed to delegate any powers and functions to the state one, but also is said to be giving him the cold shoulder at every turn. Not to be outdone, the state one also never misses a chance to lash out at him, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 7 year old child and man hacked to death
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 7 March 2017 07:47 am
7 year old child and man hacked to death
	
A seven-year-old child and 45-year old relative were stabbed to death while the mother of the child suffered severe injuries last evening following a family dispute in a house at Magala area in Deraiyagala. Police said.
The childs mother was rushed to the Awissawella hospital accident ward for treatment.
Police investigations had revealed the identity of the suspect and he was at a large.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Youth feel  isolated the MORE they use social media.
## Section: International
## Date: 7 March 2017 10:40 am
Youth feel  isolated the MORE they use social media.
	

Its success is largely down to its popularity among millennials. But, paradoxically, social media has an adverse effect on the young people who readily consume it, a new report has revealed. 
Specifically, both time and frequency of time spent on sites including Instagram, Facebook, Snapchat and Twitter can actively worsen feelings of isolation among young people.
The finding, published today in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, was conducted by University of Pittsburgh School ofMedicine scientists.
They studied 1,787 adults aged 19-32 using questionnaires to determine how long - and how often - they used Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Google Plus, Instagram, Snapchat, Reddit, Tumblr, Pinterest, Vine and LinkedIn.
Their responses were measured using an assessment tool called the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System.
Meanwhile, those who visited various social media platforms 58 or more times per week had about triple the odds of perceived social isolation than those who visited fewer than nine times.
Those who used social media more than two hours a day had twice the odds for perceived social isolation than their peers who spent less than 30 minutes online.

 
		
==============================
==============================
