## Title: A STORY WORTH TELLING!
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
A STORY WORTH TELLING!
	
Moving away from the reprehensible political arena of our country, I would like instead to share with you a heart warming story I received, as told by Radhanath Swami!!! In the vicious world we live in today, it provokes a little soul-searching and conscience evaluating!!! Swami says and I quote:
In an evolved human society people love people and use things, but unfortunately so much in this world has changed. People love things and use people to get them and to keep them; unfortunately, there can be no inner-satisfaction in our lives in such a state of consciousness. Swami continues: Recently, I was told of one very influential doctor in America, who regularly would get his newspaper from a little boy whose leg was crippled.
The doctor felt a certain compassion for him and decided he could not afford it but would arrange a surgery. So, he went to a local medical hospital and said: If you give me your medical facilities for free, I will teach how to do this surgery to all your students. So, it was arranged and he told the little boy I will fix your leg so that you can run and play with all the other children. The little boy looked up at him and said: This is a really good thing because if you teach other people how to do this for free, so many other people like me will also benefit.
So the day of the surgery came and they were in the theatre for the surgery. The doctor and all his staff were together and the students were behind glass with CCTV watching everything. The little boy was wheeled in and the doctor told all the students exactly what he was about to do. Just before he went into his sleep from anaesthesia, the boy said Doctor, I think you are a really wonderful person and I pray that God will bless you for your kindness to me and he went to sleep. After the successful surgery, the doctor told all the students what he had done. And then he said, with tears in his eyes, Over the years, I have done surgeries for super VIPs, multi-millionaires, billionaires; I have made great fortunes from my surgeries. With great emotion, he said, But I can tell you Ive never experienced so much meaning, fulfilment and happiness as when I heard the words of appreciation from this little child. -Radhanath Swami.Reading this is infinitely better than being taken through the vicissitudes of politics today!!!!!!
Whither Politicians

How many of us can claim to have done something as noble and fulfilling as the doctor that Radhanath Swami talked about Apart from singular instances such as that, we have innumerable causes:-Lanka Alzheimers Foundation, Sri Lanka Anti-Narcotics Association, Associations for the Deaf, the Blind, the Disabled, the Paralyzed, Cancer and counting; and yes, there are good people who take on these causes; work for them, walk for them!!! Yet, have we seen a single Minister or politician join one of these campaigns Donate to a worthy cause The Voice remains silent today!!!
FUTURE IMPOSSIBLE TENSE
Again, I am sharing today a worthwhile true to life discourse on LIFE!!! There are three things that control our lives, TIME, HEALTH AND WEALTH!!! When we are young we have time, time to play, time to work, time to explore, and time to be curious!!! When we are young we generally have health, we have energy, we have strength but most of us dont have wealth, we dont have all the money in the world!!! We dont have money to buy everything we want; we dont get all we want!!! As we get older, we still have our health, it may not be the same but it is still there!!! We now have more wealth, more money, a house, we have devices, we have possessions, we have a car, we have access to things but we dont always have time!!! Money can buy a house but not a home, it can buy a bed but not sleep, and it can buy a book but not knowledge!!! Money can earn a title but no respect, it can buy a clock but not time!!! Those of us who think we have no time for our health will sooner or later have to find the time!!! When we are young we have time and health but no money, when we get older we have money and health but no time!!! And finally, in old age, we have money and time but no health to use that wealth; so what do we do
We can have them all but not all at the same time!!! We place so much pressure on ourselves trying to get everything to be perfect, trying to get everything to balance not recognizing that none of these things actually creates happiness or fulfilment in life!!!
As we get older, time, health and wealth will be taken away from us, but it is only the impact that we leave on others that will not be taken away from us!!! Our health is the foundation of how we can build our time and wealth!!! We become successful by what we give if our wealth and energy are used to make a positive difference in the lives of others, to make an impact on the lives of others; it is that legacy that will never be taken away!!! And, as Maya Angelou said, People will forget what you said, People will forget what you did, but they will never forget how you made them feel.
Finishing on a hilarious note  a Teacher asked
One day our country will be corruption free, what tense is it
The student responded:
FUTURE IMPOSSIBLE TENSE!!!
THE VOICE
 
		
==============================
## Title: ARE JUDGES NEXT
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
ARE JUDGES NEXT
	
The crisis begins
On October 26, 2018,President Maithripala Sirisena, in an unprecedented and unexpected move, deposed Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and appointed his one-time adversary, Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister. This otherwise illegal transfer of power was justified by the President on the grounds that his coalition, the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) had withdrawn from the National Unity Government coalition led by the United National Party (UNP). According to Sirisenas logic, the withdrawal of one party from a coalition of parties in Government led to the automatic dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers and the post of the Prime Minister. 
End of National Government and Constitution
The Constitution of Sri Lanka refers to the words National Government only twice in its entire 221 pages and both times under Article 46 of the Constitution on page 42. Under Article 46 (4), the restriction on the maximum number of Cabinet Ministers being 30 is removed when a National Government is formed if Parliament so determines. Article 46 (5) then attempts to provide a very poor meaning of what is meant by a National Government. Nowhere in the remaining 220 pages of the Constitution does it state that when a National Government ends or one of its coalition members leave that the Cabinet of Ministers
automatically dissolves. 
Dissolution of Cabinet and common sense
President Sirisena and those justifying his illegality argue that the dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers when the UPFA withdrew from the National Unity Government was, common sense. Common sense would argue that the express, written provisions of the Constitution should prevail over the questionable sense of a man who has clearly failed to read them. 
Article 48 titled Dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers expressly reads that the Cabinet of Ministers is dissolved either upon the Prime Minister ceasing to hold such office or if Parliament rejects the Statement of Government Policy or the Appropriation Bills or passes a vote of no-confidence in the Government. The Constitution does not, even in its most imaginative reading, state that the Cabinet of Ministers automatically dissolves when a National Government ends. What should have happened, is the reduction in the number of Cabinet Ministers from around 45 to 30 as required under Article 46 (1) of the Constitution  which anyway would have happened once all the UPFA members left the Cabinet. 
The 19A to the Constitution was a historic piece of legislationfor Sri Lanka
	All Presidents, once elected, failed to fulfil the promise of abolishing Executive Presidency
	President only recognises Article 70 that grants him the power to prorogue and summon Parliament
Prorogation debacle
On October 27, 2018, in an effort to buy time to splurge on new Cabinet Ministers in trying to win over a majority in Parliament, President Sirisena exercised his powers under Article 70 (3) and prorogued Parliament until November 16, 2018. The Gazette No. 2094/45 (Prorogation Gazette) of the President expressly reads and recognises that he is exercising his power to prorogue only underArticle 70.
On November 4, 2018, Sirisena issued Gazette No. 2095/50 (Summoning Gazette). In the Summoning Gazette, he exercised his powers under Article 70 (3) (i) and summoned Parliament to meet on November 14, 2018.
Origins of the power to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament
The power of the Executive to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament is derived from the historic powers of the Crown of the UK to do so. These powers of prorogation and summoning still remain, without any express written limitation, with the Crown over its subjects in the UK, Canada, Australia and other dominions of Great Britain. Although such powers remain without any express written restrictions, a long-settled Constitutional convention has required that the exercise of such powers over Parliament can only be done with the consent of Parliament. To do otherwise would result in the Executive usurping the Legislature and thereby violating the basic tenets of democracy requiring the separation of powers. 
Powers of Governor General of Ceylon and the first non-executive President
The powers to summon, prorogue and dissolve remained with the Governor General of Ceylon until 1972 when Sri Lanka became a Republic. Such powers were then conferred on Sri Lankas first President, William Gopallawa. Under Article 21 of Sri Lankas first republican constitution of 1972 (1972 Constitution), the otherwise ceremonial President had the power to summon, prorogue and dissolve the National State Assembly (the former name of our Parliament) without any restriction in Article 21. The only qualification to this unrestricted power was Article 27 (1) of the 1972 Constitution which required the President to always act on the advice of the Prime Minister. 
Powers of the Executive President
Following the introduction of the present Constitution in 1978 when the Executive Presidency was introduced, these same powers of prorogation, summoning and dissolution of Parliament held by the previously ceremonial President and the Governor General were transferred to the new President. The constitutional convention still required that the exercise of these powers was done with the consent of Parliament. This convention has been breached twice in Sri Lankas constitutional history. The first, when President Chandrika Kumaratunga sacked the UNP government in 2004 and dissolved Parliament and the second time, in October 2018, which brought us to the present crisis. 
The difference between the two incidents is, however, that President Kumaratunga had the legal authority to sack her Government under the Constitution at that time, even though it violated established a Constitutional convention. President Sirisena, on the other hand, gave up those express legal powers when the 19A to the Constitution was successfully passed in 2015. 
19A and powers of President to summon, prorogue, dissolve Parliament
The 19A to the Constitution was a historic piece of legislation for Sri Lanka. Since 1994, all candidates elected to the office of the President, including Presidents Chandrika Kumaratunge and Mahinda Rajapaksa, were elected on the promise of abolishing the Executive Presidency. All Presidents, once elected, failed to fulfill that promise. 
President Sirisena, however, became the first President to have nearly fulfilled that promise. Through the 19A a significant amount of the powers of the Executive was rightfully transferred back to Parliament and the independent commissions. For the last 3  years, it appeared that the checks and balances vital for a democracy were restored and Sri Lankas slide into authoritarianism had ended. 
President is responsible to Parliament
Importantly, the 19A inserted Article 33A (identical to the previous Article 42 but this time under the section on the powers of the President), which made the President responsible to Parliament for the due exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties and functions under the Constitution and any written law. This provision re-emphasised that the President was always accountable to Parliament when he exercised his powers, including his powers to summon, prorogueand dissolve. 
Together with the other amendments, Parliament and the people had re-established their supremacy and independence over a single person occupying the seat of the Executive. 
President attempts to dissolve Parliament
On November 9, 2018, Sirisena dropped another Friday night bombshell by issuing Gazette No. 2096/70 and attempting to dissolve Parliament (Dissolution Gazette). 
In the Dissolution Gazette, President Sirisena states that he is dissolving Parliament subject to his powers under Article 70 (5) (which concerns the process and the obligations of the President following dissolution), Article 62 (2) (which confirms that the life of Parliament is five years, unless sooner dissolved) and the apparent trump card  Article 33 (2) (c) (which refers to the general power of the President to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament). 
Constitution is not a buffet
The Dissolution Gazette conveniently ignores Article 70 (1) which reads that the President shall not dissolve Parliament until the expiration of a period of not less than four years and six months from the date appointed for its first meeting, unless Parliament requests the President to do so by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present), voting in its favour. The Dissolution Gazette also ignores Article 33A and his responsibilityto Parliament. 
In both the Prorogation Gazette and the Summoning Gazette, President Sirisena only recognises Article 70 as that which grants him the power to prorogue and summon Parliament. No reference is made in either the Prorogation Gazette or the Summoning Gazette to the disputed Article 33 (2) (c).
By reading the last three Gazettes issued by the President, it is clear that he sees the Constitution as a buffet  where he can pick and choose the Articles he likes depending on his mood and which diet he is on. But, Constitutions dont work like diets or buffets. You must always read the Constitution and any legislation or even a contract  as a whole. 
The Supreme Court challenge
On Monday, November 12, 2018, 10 petitions were filed in the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka against the Dissolution Gazette of the President. 
The petitioners argued that the Dissolution Gazette was unconstitutional and violated Article 70 (1) which prevented the President from arbitrarily dissolving Parliament prior to 4  years of its first meeting. The respondents and intervening petitioners in support of the Dissolution Gazette, which included the Attorney General, argued that Article 33 must be read in isolation of Article 70 (1) and that Article 33 (2) (c) (on the general power of dissolution) has no relation to Article 70 (1) (on how that power can be exercised). 
Rules of interpretation
The rules of statutory interpretation have been long settled by various common law judgments. Studying these rules form part of the basic legal education of any lawyer. 
There are three rules of interpretation that are relevant to the present challenge in the Supreme Court. They are the: 
1. Rule on intention; 
2. Rule on reading the whole text; and 
3. Rule of generalia specialibus non-derogant. 
Intention of Parliament and 19A For at least 600 years, common law courts have maintained that the primary object of statutory interpretation is to: 
a) determine what intention is conveyed either expressly or by implication by the language used in the law; and 
b) to give effect to the intention of the lawmaker (in this case, Parliament) as that intention is to be gathered from the language used having regard to the context in connection with which it is used. 
The rule on intention has often been described by various historic judgments as the only rule, the paramount rule, the cardinal rule or the fundamental rule of interpretation, to which all others are rules are subordinate. 
The intention of Parliament when passing the 19A was crystal clear from its inception. The purpose of the amendment was to restrict the powers of the President, prevent the Executive from capturing Parliament and to restore the independence of Parliament. In fact, excerpts from the Hansard confirm that even intervening petitioners in the current Supreme Court challenge, such as parliamentarian Prof. G.L. Peiris, affirmed that through the 19A, the President could no longer dissolve Parliament until at least 4  years had passed or until two-thirds of all Members of Parliament consent to dissolution. 
An interpretation that Parliament did not intend to restrict the Presidents powers but in fact, did the very opposite, by giving him an unrestricted power to dissolve Parliament whenever he wished, would be a direct violation of this cardinal and most fundamental rule of interpretation. 
Rule on reading the whole text
The rule on reading the whole text requires that every part of a statute must be considered together with the other parts and kept subservient to the general intent of the whole enactment. 
The rule requires that a law must not be read in truncated parts and that its provisions must be read in relation to the whole law. The rule further emphasises that a statutes clauses and phrases must not be taken as detached and isolated expressions, but the whole and every part of it must be considered in fixing the meaning of any of its parts in order to produce a harmonious whole. 
Sir Edward Coke explained this rule as far back as 1628: [I]t is the most natural and genuine exposition of a statute to construe one part of the statute by another part of the same statute, for the best expresseth the meaning of the makers. Coke added: If any section [of a law] be intricate, obscure, or doubtful, the proper mode of discovering its true meaning is by comparing it with the other sections, and finding out the sense of one clause by the words or obvious intent of the other. 
This rule is also aligned with the rule against surplusage which directs that the proper interpretation of a statute is the one in which every word, phrase, section, etc. has meaning. Under this rule, the law must be interpreted in such a manner that no other parts of the law are made redundant or meaningless. 
The primary argument of the respondents and the intervening petitioners in the Supreme Court challenge is that Article 33 must be read in isolation of Article 70. Aside from violating the rule on reading the whole text, if the Supreme Court was to agree with such an interpretation, it would also render Article 70 (1) redundant and meaningless. This would violate the rule against surplusage. 
Generalia specialibus non-derogant rule
This 19th century rule requires that whenever there is a general provision in a law which, if taken in its most comprehensive sense, would override a particular, specific provision in the same law, the particular provision must be operative. 
The purpose of this rule is to ensure that general provisions do not override specific ones. 
The specific and the qualification will always trump the general. Article 33 of Sri Lankas Constitution sets out the general powers, duties and responsibilities of the President. These powers include, amongst others, the general power to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament. However, it is Article 70 which sets out how that general power on summoning, proroguing and dissolving Parliament can be exercised. Article 70 is the particular, specific provision and Article 33 is the general provision. The application of this rule means that Article 70 must override Article 33.
There is an inherent danger in the argument that Article 33 of the Constitution must be read on its own, in isolation of other provisions of the Constitution. 
Article 33 (2) (c) may describe the Presidents general power to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament. But, it is Article 33 (2) (f), if read in isolation, that may pose a greater threat to Sri Lankas democracy and to the Court itself. 
Article 33 (2) (f) describes the Presidents general power to appoint the Chief Justice and other judges of the Supreme Court, the President of the Court of Appeal and other judges of the Court of Appeal. 
Article 33 (2) (f) does not refer to Article 107 (1) which guarantees the independence of the judiciary and which require that the appointment of the Chief Justice, the President of the Court of Appeal and every other judge of the Supreme Court and of the Court of Appeal be approved by the Constitutional Council. 
If the argument that Article 33 (2) (c) must be read in isolation wins, then it wont be long before Article 33 (2) (f) is also used in isolation  allowing the President to literally pick people from the street and appoint the Chief Justice and other justices of the Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal. With that one strike will end 217 years of the independence of Sri Lankas judiciary and following that - Sri Lankas democracy  as there will be no one else left to speak.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CDS released on conditional bail
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 04:40 pm
CDS released on conditional bail
	
Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Ravindra Wijegunaratne, who was in remand custody, was released on conditional bail by Fort Magistrate Ranga Dissanayake today.
The CDS was remanded over allegedly intimidating a witness in the case of Naval Officer Prasad Hettiarachchi allegedly abducting and making 11 civilians disappear.
D.S Tissera of the CID appearing with OIC Nishantha Silva made a lengthy submission and said that CDS Wijegunratne had attempted to shoot and abduct witness Laksiri Galagamage at the Naval Restaurant at Navy Headquarters. (Shehan Chamika Silva and Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Chandrika working behind the scenes Navin
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
Chandrika working behind the scenes Navin
	
Navin Dissanayake, the eldest son of prominent United National Party (UNP) politician Gamini Dissanayake, was the Plantation Industries Minister before the disputed government was appointed. He is the National Organiser of the UNP and one of the young UNPers who is being groomed to take over the party leadership. He is also the son-in-law of Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. Navin, who is an Attorney-at-law, holds a masters degree in Finance and Financial Law from University of London. He sat with Daily Mirror for an interview on the current political impasse and shared his and his partys future plans. 
Rajapaksas will breach their political contract and the promise given to the President. Despite this agreement between Mahinda Rajapaksa and President Sirisena, the Rajapaksas will present their own candidate
I dont think I am ready to run for presidency as yet. It will take another five years for me to prepare myself
The vote of the motion freezing the disputed Prime Ministers expenses was a very clear affirmation that Mr. Jayasuriya has acted in the best interest of the majority
Excerpts:
Q Why is the UNP calling for a Presidential election when the UPFA and the SLPP are demanding general polls
At the moment and according to the interim order given by the Supreme Court recently, the general election cannot be held till December 7. We hope the judgment on December 7 will be the same because once the court has given an interim order, it is difficult for the judicial body to change its judgment. We will wait and see. We will be pleased to hold a Presidential election after January 9.
Q But local government elections have been postponed for years.
With the situation the country is in at the moment, lets go for a Presidential election and elect the Head of State.
Q Who is going to be the UNP Presidential candidate
Everyone will come to know about it at the right time. According to our standard procedure, the UNP selects its candidates through closed door discussions and debates with its Working Committee and Parliamentary group. The best example is how we selected our candidate back in 1988. During discussions, Ranasinghe Premadasa, my father Gamini Dissanayake and Lalith Athulathmudali were nominated but they came into an agreement that the best would be elected; that was Ranasinghe Premadasa.
Q What about the discussion on a common candidate from the UNP to run for presidency
Well, it is going to be a common UNP candidate. There are several people in the list including Karu Jayasuriya, Ranil Wickremesinghe and Sajith Premadasa.
Q Why are you not in that list There is speculation that you and Sajith Premadasa are potential leaders of the party. How well equipped are you for competition
Sajith Premadasa and I have been marginalised from the party for years. He being the deputy leader and me being the National Organiser of the party, there is no competition between us. However, I believe competition in a democratic and decent manner is good because there should not be a monopoly in the party. Whoever musters the biggest support from the people and whoever is fortunate will get the chance to run for presidency from the UNP.
Q In case you are nominated as the UNP common candidate, how confident are you of winning the election
First of all, I dont think I am ready to run for presidency as yet. It will take another five years for me to prepare myself. I am confident enough to face any challenge. I am someone who believes in gut instincts as they have guided me throughout my political journey. I think there are more qualified people in my party for candidature. They should be given the opportunity. I will fully support whoever gets nominated by the party.
Q With the current political crisis, which is somewhat beneficial to the UNP, do you think your leader Ranil Wickremesinghe will agree to send someone else for upcoming polls
It actually depends. As he had let himself to be replaced in 2010 and even in 2015, I think he will do it next year too.
Q Is there any truth in Johnston Fernandos and Dayasiri Jayasekaras allegations that you are influencing your father-in-law, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya is a very strong politician who takes decisions independently. Our personal relationship never gets mixed up with politics. He does whatever he feels is right. He has never asked for my opinion when taking political decisions. Neither have I.
Q The Speaker, coming from the UNP, is the main reason behind allegations that he is partial to his party. What are your thoughts
None of these allegations would come up if the Mahinda faction had a majority in Parliament. The vote of the motion freezing the disputed Prime Ministers expenses was a very clear affirmation that Mr. Jayasuriya has acted in the best interest of the majority. He cannot act in the interest of the minority. One of the accusations levelled against him was that he had not followed the procedure in the no-confidence motion (NCM) against Mahinda Rajapaksa.
The NCM we brought against Rajapaksa was an extraordinary measure because this commotion happened all of a sudden. The Parliament had been prorogued even without asking the Speaker. When Parliament was summoned after the prorogation, Sumanthiran from the TNA stood up and suspended the standing orders.
Then, we were legally given the liberty to make decisions using the majority in Parliament. The Mahinda faction didnt allow us to take a vote by name. That is why he went on voice vote which is not new in the House. For instance, when Chamal Rajapaksa was the Speaker, the House had a voice vote for the Right to Information Act. Karu Jayasuriya acted within the standing orders. Those who level allegations against Mr. Jayasuriya have no leg to stand on.
Q What do you think of your previous common candidate President Maithripala Sirisenas course of actions and decisions in the recent past
Just like every citizen of this country, I am shocked and disappointed about the President. He acted in a complete undemocratic manner which cannot be accepted by anyone. If the President is reading my interview, I would ask him to take a step back.
Q Why do you think he made such controversial decisions
He has come up with various reasons. Therefore, only he knows the real reasons behind his actions. He has never spoken to us regarding any of the allegations he mentioned to the media. He should have called for a group meeting and a Cabinet meeting to discuss any issues he had.
What he did was having a dialogue with Mahinda Rajapaksa for about three months. Thilanga Sumathipala acted as the intermediary of this political contract. Deal is essentially that the President would block court cases against the Rajapaksa family and they would then give the SLPP Pohottuwa vote to Sirisena at the Presidential election. Their deal is already in action. In the next ten days, everyone will see how cases against the Rajapaksa family will get blocked and postponed.
Q Do you have anything to say about the silent approach of former President Chandrika Kumaratunga in this political crisis
She is very subtle and silent, but I am sure she is operating behind the scenes. She is playing a hand, but I dont know what kind of role it is. What I heard was that she is disappointed because she was the one who nominated Maithripala Sirisena as the common candidate.
Q Gotabaya Rajapaksa was in the picture of social media in terms of presidency. Now he cannot be seen in the limelight. What is your opinion on the conflict within the Rajapaksa family over their future politics and how do you think it is going to affect the UNP
Rajapaksas will breach their political contract and the promise given to the President. Despite this agreement between Mahinda Rajapaksa and President Sirisena, the Rajapaksas will present their own candidate. The UNP will have our own common candidate. If the President runs for the second term, he will end up with only 10-15% of the votes. He wont break any of the UNP votes, but the votes of the Pohottuwa. However, there is another possibility that Pohottuwa voters might never vote for the President. The person who is going to lose out on this crisis is the President and not us. There is a lot of confusion over their political situation. As the President is also very unpopular, the Rajapaksas will not stick with him.
He acted against the principles of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution. There is no doubt that Maithripala Sirisena is certainly a one-term President. He could have had a better, safer and honourable second-term as a ceremonial President with more powers than the Prime Minister. We had it in our minds.
Q Will the UNP and President Sirisena jointly work again in future
After this crisis, even if there is going to be a reconciliation, it is going to be difficult to create a conducive atmosphere because the trust is lost. However, as we all know, 24 hours is a very long time in politics. There are no permanent friends or enemies in politics, especially in a country like Sri Lanka.
Q In the recent past, we witnessed how executive powers of the President can be used and how the country could be dragged into a political crisis. Now, where does the UNP stand in the abolition of the executive presidency
We are considering the 20th Amendment to abolish the executive presidency and vest the executive powers with the Prime Minister.
Q Reports said money was offered to MPs to crossover to the disputed government. On the other way around, was money offered to stay in the
UNF too
Our party isnt that rich actually. I wish we were. But, we cannot match our party with the disputed government in terms of lavish spending. I know that a lot of money and government positions were offered to my colleagues. We are very happy that they refused those perks and benefits.
Q You have mentioned two people who reportedly tried to buy MPs.
I stand by what I said. Both Dudley Sirisena and Basil Rajapaksa were given the task to buy over MPs. I know Dudley contacted some of our colleagues.
QParliament was recently turned into a battlefield thereby setting a bad example to the younger generation. You were also there. How do you see the behaviour of public representatives
It is such a disgrace to the country. How can such things happen in a civilized country I have never seen anything like that throughout my political career. I hope they will learn a lesson. There are morally flawed politicians who shouldnt be in Parliament.
Q How hopeful are you that action will be taken against the MPs who caused damage to parliamentary property
The committee that was appointed will first observe the video footages of the commotion. Their report will come next. Action will be taken against those who are responsible.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Civic rights could be stripped from Prez: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 09:12 pm
Civic rights could be stripped from Prez: JVP
	
Not only an impeachment brought against President Maithripala Sirisena but his civic rights also could be stripped, as he had violated the Constitution on several occasions, JVP MP Vijitha Herath said today.
He told Parliament that the President had violated the Constitution by removing the Prime Minister, appointing a new Prime Minister and dissolving Parliament and added that he had acted against democratic principles by proroguing Parliament.
He said the President wanted the first clause of the No-Confidence Motion brought against the Government and the Prime Minister removed as it could hold him guilty of violating the Constitution.
"The court has accepted the No-Confidence Motion passed in Parliament whereas the President refused to accept it. The President cannot defy Court decisions. He has already found guilty of violating the Constitution," he said.
He said President Sirisena had got Mahinda Rajapaksa faction to bring in an NCM against former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and now he was using UNP to bring in an NCM against Mahinda Rajapaksa.
"Rajapaksa should at least now realize this situation," he said.
MP Herath said Mahinda Rajapaksa faction was boycotting Parliament to evade their true numbers in Parliament being revealed by making false allegations against the Speaker.
He said the President and the Rajapaksa faction should now admit the defeat and allow the majority to form a Government without further plunging the country into chaos.
He said the situation would lead to the financial crisis from January as a budget could not be passed without a Government.
"There will be issues to pay salaries to Public Sector employees. The Central Bank is unable to obtain even a loan without the approval of the Finance Minister.
The health sector will also face a crisis as even essential medicines cannot be purchased without the approval of the Health Minister," he said.
Rejecting claims that President can approve funds for three months, he said it was not so and said it was possible only if Parliament was dissolved when a budget was not passed.(Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Concessions hampered due to stay order: Bandula
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 01:23 am
Concessions hampered due to stay order: Bandula
	
A number of cabinet papers were to be presented yesterday (4) in order to provide concessions to the public but the process got hampered due to the stay order issued by the court, Minister Bandula Gunawardane said yesterday.
He said a cabinet paper by the Finance Ministry to purchase paddy from farmers for a fixed price was also on the cards.I was to present a paper seeking approval to appoint expert committees to look into providing tax concessions to investors, promoting investments and establishing 5,000 villages dedicated to exports. However, we respected the court order and prevented the cabinet from convening, he said, adding that previous concessions including the fuel price reduction would not be reversed.
Meanwhile, Minister C.B. Ratnayake said they made plans to solve the salary issue of estate workers as well. Because of the court order, we couldnt get Cabinet approval, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Constitution not clay in hands of contesting parties: Counsel
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 05:34 am
Constitution not clay in hands of contesting parties: Counsel
	
Presidents Counsel K. Kanag Iswaran said yesterday the Constitution was not clay in the hands of contesting parties to be moulded as he or she sees fit while the constitutional language sets the limits of interpretation which aspires to give constitutional unity and harmony.
Appearing for MP R.Sampanthan, he made this submission to the 7-judge bench of the Supreme Court at the hearing of the fundamental rights petition against the dissolution of parliament by the President.
Ten FR petitions had been filed against the dissolution of parliament. The SC bench comprised Chief Justice Nalin Perera, Justices Buwaneka Aluwihare, Sisira J de Abrew, Priyantha Jayawardena, Prasanna S. Jayawardena, Vijith K. Malalgoda and Murdu Fernando.
Kanag Iswaran PC said the President may by proclamation, summon, prorogue and dissolve parliament provided the President shall not dissolve Parliament until the expiration of a period of not less than four years and six months from the date of its first meeting unless Parliament requests the President to do so by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of members (including those not present) voting in favour together with the other consequential provisions.
He said this argument was in no manner or form supportive of any contention seeking to give the purported proclamation of dissolution of Parliament constitutional or legal efficacy or validity.
Counsel said Article 70 and the Act of 1981, whether taken individually, collectively or in any other manner whatsoever, did not confer any right, authority or power upon the President to dissolve parliament by proclamation and therefore was a nullity.
He said the parliament consisting of 225 members once elected shall continue for five years from the date of its first meeting and no longer and at the end of the fixed term of five years, parliament stands dissolved automatically without any proclamation being made.
The Counsel said parliament can be dissolved before the expiry of the fixed period of five years as mandated in Article 62(1) by the President by way of a proclamation that too only after the expiration of a period of not less than four years and six months from the date of its first meeting.
He said the Constitution does not permit or countenance any other way in which parliament may be dissolved by the President and as such the purported proclamation of dissolution of Parliament by the President is unconstitutional and is null and void and of no force or effect in law. The petitioners ask Court for a declaration that the decisions and directions in the proclamation is null and void and of no force or effect in law.
The petitions were filed by Kabir Hashim and Akila Viraj Kariyawasam of UNP, Lal Wijenayeke of United Left Front, CPA, Member of the Election Commission Prof. Ratnajeevan. H. Hoole, Attorney-at-Law G.C.T. Perera, Sri Lanka Muslim Congress, All Ceylon Makkal Congress, Mano Ganesan MP.
K.Kanag Iswaran PC, Thilak Marapana PC, Dr Jayampathi Wickremaratne PC, M.A. Sumanthiran PC. Viran Corea, Ikram Mohamed PC, J.C.Weliamuna PC, Ronald Perera PC, Hisbullah Hijaz and Suren Fernando appeared for the petitioners while Gamini Marapane PC with Nalin Marapane, Sanjeeva Jayawardane PC and Ali Sabry PC appeared for the intervenient petitioners opposing the main petitions. (S.S.Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Disclose UNP-TNA agreement: Gammanpila
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 10:02 pm
Disclose UNP-TNA agreement: Gammanpila
	
The United National Party (UNP) and the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) should reveal any agreement between them which had compelled the TNA to back the UNP, Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) Leader Udaya Gammanpila said today.
Addressing a news briefing, he said the TNA had been reiterating in the past that they would not support the UNP to form a Government for more than one month.
All of sudden, the TNA changed its stand and decided to support Ranil Wickremesinghe to be the Prime Minister, Gammanpila said.
What are the promises given by the UNP to the TNA for the TNA to suddenly change its stand People of this country have a right to know the agreement since the people may have to face its disastrous consequences, he said.
During the 2001 Parliamentary election campaign, Mr Gammanpila said, Mangala Samaraweera disclosed a UNP  LTTE agreement.
Although the UNP denied it, they implemented the contents of the agreement after coming to office. Similarly, Tissa Attanayake disclosed an agreement between the UNP and TNA just before the Presidential Election in 2015.
Although the UNP denied it, most of the promises mentioned therein were implemented by the UNP. Hence, we urge both the UNP and TNA to disclose the agreement which compelled the TNA to pledge its support to Mr Wickremesinghe, he said.(Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dried up party fund was a shock to them all!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 December 2018 09:00 am
Dried up party fund was a shock to them all!
	
A political party quite active in the upcountry estate sector had held a grand party the other day. The party chief who is nattily dressed in the usual black suit, his son and other party seniors had attended this party.
All had been quite liberal with the bottle, and even the party chief and his son had found themselves fully soaked a few hours later. Meanwhile, the son had a suffered a serious injury on a hand in an accident.
The son was rushed to a hospital where the doctors had asked them to purchase some very expensive drugs for the patient. The chief who hosted the party found that he did not have enough cash in hand to meet the drug bill and asked a party high-up to settle the bill with monies from theparty fund.
Then only they had discovered that the party fund too had dried up. The news was a shock to all party activists because they could not imagine a party with several Diyawanna members could go bankrupt.
However, later they had raised enough monies from another source to pay the high drug bill, they say.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Hashtag battles
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
Hashtag battles
	
There are political moments  like when President Maithripala Sirisena addressed the media after his defection in November 2014 or Speaker Karu Jayasuriya surrounded by police officers without badges conducting parliament seated on the side next to a wall, an act of defiance as powerful as that of Sirisena, four years back. 
These moments, sometimes choreographed, have been catalysts for political movements in Sri Lanka. The campaigns then get coated with catchphrases, slogans and visuals. With the October 26 political drama, we have seen a new aspect of Sri Lankas political campaigns  Hashtags. 
The first time I noticed a serious traction on political hashtags on social media in Sri Lanka was during 2014-2015 presidential polls. That was when #PresPollSLgained popularity. Before that Mahinda Rajapaksa had somewhat pioneered the use of social media for political campaigns in Sri Lanka with his interactive Facebook and Twitterengagements. He even did live interviews. 
It took till the next political upheaval here to show how between 2015 and 2018 social media had evolved into a pivot for political campaigns from a sideshow. With six million Facebook accounts of Sri Lankan origin and over one billion content points on Facebook and affiliated platforms
It took till the next political upheaval here to show how between 2015 and 2018 social media had evolved into a pivot for political campaigns from a sideshow. With six million Facebook accounts of Sri Lankan origin and over one billion content points on Facebook and affiliated platforms, this was bound to happen. 
There have been a cluster of hashtags that have evolved around the sacking of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe, among which #CoupLK, #ConsitututionalCrisisSriLanka and #ConstitutionalCrisislk have been prominent. 
Take #CoupLK which generated over 70 tweets on December 1 that had the potential to impact over 7.7 million accounts given the reach and engagement of those tweets #ConstututionalCrisisSriLanka was featured in over 90 tweets with a possible impact reach of around 6.6 million accounts. According to researcher Sanjana Hattotuwa there have been over 150,000 tweets with hashtags linked to the October 26 sacking since the event. 
Two of these have had two very interesting evolution = #RiseUpSL and #LetMeVote. The former was the tag line used by civil society groups and others that rose up against the sacking. It had the backing of UNP members, MPs of other parties and various political and civic groups but was not necessarily a creation of any one of them. The latter on the other hand had much more clear political links, it was created by MR supporters who were campaigning for elections. 
A month after the sacking, both campaigns ironically seem to be spearheaded by the same accounts or had merged or one had been hijacked by supporters of the other. By volume #LetMeVote was higher, but several accounts with very clear political biases were among the top most active accounts on both hashtags. 
During the last week of November#RiseUpSL was used in 754 posts while #LetMeVote was used in 692 posts, the former had a potential reach of 331,000 accounts while the latter had around 321,000. What these two movements showed us how easily a political hashtag, for that matter any hashtag, could be taken over or drowned out by another. By the sheer volume of tweets one can overshadow the other. Also, an orgainsed campaign where handles and accounts work in tandem can work far more cohesively than an organic campaign. 
During the last week of November #RiseUpSL was used in 754 posts while #LetMeVote was used in 692 posts, the former had a potential reach of 331,000 accounts while the latter around 321,000. What these two movements showed is how easily a political hashtag, for that matter any hashtag, can be taken over or drowned out by another
Facebook has had a different dynamic since October 26. What was once the unambiguous fiefdom of the Rajapakas and gossip, has seen a significant shift. According to Hattotuwas research the interaction and engagement on UNP and linked posts have shown a significant rise since October 26. 
It is not clear why this shift is taking place, but a safe assumption is that the Rajapaksa-centred Facebook activity was part of a planned, long-term political PR campaign which slotted into the echo-chamber effect like-minded users engaging, while the changes since October 26 possibly show a much more organic shift with users seeking out info on their own. 
Another reason could be the lack of UNP point of view and related news on the main electronic and othernews channels. 
The author is the Asia-Pacific Coordinator for the DART Centre for Journalism and Trauma, a project of Columbia Journalism School. Twitter - @amanthap
 
		
==============================
## Title: INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY
	
(Not by passing arbitrary judgments does a man become wise. A wise man is one who investigates both right and the wrong. He who does not judge others arbitrarily according to the truth, that sagacious man is a guardian of law and is called just. One is not wise because one speaks much. He who is peaceful, friendly and fearless is called wise. A man is not versed in Dhamma because he speaks much. He who, after hearing a little Dhamma, realizes its truth directly - Dhammapada)

Highest Expectations on the Judiciary
Citizens have the highest expectations of the judiciary, and Judges rights are guaranteed by the Supreme Law of the country (Constitution) international conventions and Charter of the United Nations. Therefore States give special emphasis and protection for the judicial independence, Judges and the system of Justice. Independence of the Judges and judiciary should be real and not merely apparent safeguards in which guarantees is jealously guarded by all. 
Judicial independence or independence of the judiciary is the principle that the Judiciary should be politically independent from legislature and Executive Authority. Courts should not be influenced by any political authority or external influence. Are Judges competent Independent learned practical and/or with proper training and judicial temperament are issues raised by the concerned citizens today. Is the Sri Lankan Judiciary independent Is a million dollar question to which the answer is only known to the inner co-conscious of the citizen always in the receiving end who possess the proper answer with no proper mechanism to express their views freely. Judges are no angels and subject to scrutiny in glass boxes in the public eye. 
Citizen should have trust in Judiciary
Judiciary should be acceptable and recognized, for the citizen to have trust or faith on; being the branch of government primarily responsible for the judiciary is interpretation and acting as impartial umpires to the citizen pleading for justice. According to UN guidelines and accepted norms of constitutional law under the doctrine of separation of powers are outlined in details in international instruments and conventions, to be followed by the family of nations which trickles down to national laws in democratic models. It is doubtful how many do follow the guidelines and concepts of good governance in conduct of justice and fair play. 
Judiciary should be politically independent from legislature and Executive Authority
	Country is going through a crisis due to the man-made conflicts created between the Executive and the Legislature
	Judiciary should be acceptable and recognized, for the citizen to have trust or faith on
Ultimate trust
Tenure of the office of the judge are guaranteed and enshrined in the Constitution. No pressure, threat or interference is exerted on the Judges who will act impartially on facts based on legal knowledge, experience and humanity. Judges should be respected and expected to respect the litigants who have entrusted the utmost trust on these human beings learned and trained for this honourable service. Judges always command respect and therefore need not demand. How do Judges show respect and respond 
By treating everyone with dignity, by being polite and courteous, by listening carefully to the testimony presented and arguments of counsel, by being patient, and in general showing that the judges genuinely care about the matters presented, understand that it is an impartial meeting of those involved and convey the attitude that he/she will do the best to decide the case forming objections on the evidence presented and applicable to the law and judges should not be political animals and have any interest in politics, any religion or any activism in any form other than fair and impartial adjudication. 
Country is going through a major Crisis
Country is going through a crisis due to the man-made conflicts created between the Executive and the Legislature which may lead to and entangle the Judiciary too into a crisis situation unless acted with extreme care. Judges should be politically insulated and free to make decisions because they are charged with the ultimate decision over life, properties, rights and duties of the citizen including all kinds of freedoms enshrined in the Constitution and by way of conventions powers and traditions vested with the Executive with great trust to be impartial and should not be undermined overlooked or destroyed. 
Judges and the Judiciary are the guardians of the supreme law and the citizen depending for justice. It is also unfortunate that successive governments and the leaders of the have misused and violated this sacred responsibility entrusted to them as the guardians and temporary trustees of the Temple of Justice, which is the backbone of the freedom and equality exercised through the people to whom the Judiciary is responsible for. 
Constitution is a Living Document
Constitution of a country is a living document and therefore it must be interpreted in a manner it can work and not in a manner it can perish- with the Nation! In this living document sovereignty is with the people embodied in Article 3 of the constitution as follows - Article 3  In the Republic of Sri Lanka Sovereignty is in the People and inalienable. Sovereignty includes the powers of government, fundamental rights and the franchise Judicial power is exercised through legislative power in the Parliament, Executive powers through the President and judicial powers also exercised directly by the people through the Parliament for the citizen waiting and depend on for justice and fair play. Duties of the main three branches of the Government should be performed in harmony, understanding and in the interest of the Nation at large following due process and the constitution with the conventions and good practicesin governance. 
Facts and details of the two crisis situations are well known to the citizen and world over with many distortions exaggerations resulting uncertainty and ambiguity in administration paving the way for international vultures with worldwide reputation of destabilization of sovereign independent states for regime changes and fish in troubled waters for their own benefits and international agenda. Constitution is a mixture of Law and Politics supported by conventions and interpretations. Since Independence Sri Lanka had three main constitutions - in 1946 Saulbury - a Westminster Modelled Constitution - 1972 a Republican and 1978  Gullist Constitution  a mixture of Presidential and Westminster model again when 19A miserably failed to transform it to a Westminster model Prime Minister aiming to make Legislature and the Prime Minister supreme and powerful leaving the President as a figurehead and the admiration and governance into uncertainty. 
The author can be reached onsarath7@hotmail.co.uk
 
		
==============================
## Title: Its time for the leaders to strengthen and prepare their rank and file
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
Its time for the leaders to strengthen and prepare their rank and file
	
We are amidst three nationally and politically very important and serious legal tussles, with the entire country waiting with baited breath, for the final outcome of them. And all three cases are a kind of first in the history and hence nobodys experience at least hints as to what the final outcome of the current political stalemate and the Constitutional conundrum is.
We are witnessing a court case filed by 13 petitioners being heard against the dissolution of the Parliament by President Maithripala Sirisena, while another case had been filed by the ousted Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and 121 Parliamentarians belonging to the UNP, TNA, JVP and the SLMC against Mahinda Rajapaksa and 49 others seeking a declaration from the court preventing the respondents from acting as the Prime Minister and Ministers. 
A third petition has also been filed by former Civil Defence Force head Sarath Weerasekara seeking a declaration preventing the Parliament from meeting in the light of the Stay Order against the dissolution of the Parliament. The three cases have made the situation utterly perplexed even to the learned people in the country, while the difference between the arguments of the legal eagles in the country and those of the ordinary men on the street, on the situation, increasingly thinning.
However, in the coming days we can expect one of four scenarios depending on the final judgments of two of these important cases. One is a situation where dissolution of the Parliament might have been upheld while the legality of the Rajapaksa Government might have also been endorsed by the court. Another situation that might arise is where dissolution is upheld but the legality of the Rajapaksa Government is not. 
Thirdly, the Supreme Court might declare the Gazette notification on the dissolution null and void, while the Rajapaksa regime could be declared legal. Also there is a possibility of both dissolution and the legality of the Rajapaksa Government might be declared invalid. If the second scenario occurred, a smooth transferring of power from one Government to another through an immediate Parliamentary Election would be possible. 
However, depending on some other situations the country might face strange scenarios in the coming days. For instance, if the fourth situation becomes a reality  where both dissolution and the legality of the Rajapaksa Government being legally not acceptable  there would be a situation without a Parliament as well as a Government with a legally accepted Prime Minister and a Cabinet. And there is no provision in the Constitution or any other law for the President to appoint a Prime Minister under that circumstance. Then, the country would have to go for a General Election without a caretaker Government.
We have a populace that is blindly politicized and easily being carried away by the media hypes. We have seen them in the past being emotionally charged by the media hypes, especially with regard to the ethnic issues, ultimately leading to disasters, such as the Aluthgama mayhem. Also we have a media culture which is dishearteningly divided on political party lines. During the current muddle we witness some media outlets irresponsibly echoing the communal references made by the politicians, who have nothing to cling on to. 
At a time when the people are emotionally charged such references might end up in untoward turns of events. We expect the politicians to be responsible and maintain restraint in their words and deeds, in this regard. Needless to say that the solution to the current impasse lies in a Parliament which must be new but considerably tilted towards one of the many political groupings. In other words, the solution lies in a parliament with a stable government and a strong Opposition. Yet, in the light of certain politicians always attempting to take mileage of racism, the involvement of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) in the making or breaking of governments might lead to unfair communal interpretations while unfortunately driving the Tamil coalition away from the mainstream politics.
In the days to come, there might also be scenarios where the heroes of certain groups would inevitably be humiliated by the rulings of the courts or by the real ground situations. It is the duty and responsibility of the leaders to morally strengthen and prepare their rank and file, in order to put up with the reality, without taking the law into their hands.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Jpura medical exhibition at BMICH
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 5 December 2018 11:24 am
Jpura medical exhibition at BMICH
	
A medical exhibition organised by the medical faculty of Sri Jayewardenepura University was launched by President Maithripala Sirisena at the BMICH today. University Vice-Chancellor Sampath Amaratunge was also present at the opening ceremony. The exhibition would be held until Friday. Pix by Kithsiri De Mel
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lotus tower lights up
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 5 December 2018 02:37 am
Lotus tower lights up
	
The lotus tower of Colombo which is nearing completion was seen lit up last night. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana








 
		
==============================
## Title: Make mental check Constitutional: SF
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 04:14 pm
Make mental check Constitutional: SF
	
MP-Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka today proposed that an amendment should be brought in to the Constitution making it compulsory for the Head of State, service chiefs and others who hold important posts in a Government to go through a mental fitness test annually.
Field Marshal Fonseka said Sri Lanka should follow the USA in this regard.
The US President is bound to go through a mental fitness every year, while the others including the Service Chiefs who have the final say in launching nuclear weapons also bound to do the same.
"I suggest that similar laws should be in place in Sri Lanka as well, he said.
He said such laws had become a necessity when considering the repeated accusations made against him with regard to a plot to assassinate the President.
Parliamentarian Field Marshall Fonseka tabled letters written by returning officers of the Anuradhapura and the Matara Districts during the 2010 Presidential Election to IGP complaining that officials in some counting centres were chased away.
The documents which I table today make the final result of 2010 Presidential Election questionable, he added. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)

Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Man shot dead in Mt. Lavinia
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 10:33 pm
Man shot dead in Mt. Lavinia
	
A 30-year-old man was shot dead in Kaldemulla Junction, Mount Lavinia a short while ago, Police said.


Video by D Ruwandi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nalaka De Silva re-remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 01:18 pm
Nalaka De Silva re-remanded
	
Former DIG of the Terrorist Investigation Division (TID) Nalaka de Silva was further remanded till December 11 by the Colombo Fort Magistrates Court today.
He was arrested over the alleged assassination plot on several VIPs. (Yoshitha Perera)
Video by Prasanna

 
		
==============================
## Title: Navy Sampath further remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 02:16 pm
Navy Sampath further remanded
	
Former Lieutenant Commander, Chandana Prasad Hettiarchci alias Navy Sampath, who was arrested over the charges of abduction and disappearance of 11 youths from Colombo in 2008 and 2009, has ordered to be further remanded until December 19 by Colombo Fort Magistrate Court.
When the case was taken up in Courts, filing a further report CIDs Organised Crimes Investigation Unit (OCIU) OIC Inspector Nishantha Silva informed Court that it had identified some other individuals who had been involved in the abduction and threatening to families of missing persons to give ransoms. He informed Court the CID would take necessary measures to arrest these individuals in the near future.
IP Nishantha Silva also informed, Colombo Fort Magistrate Ranga Dissanayake that the CID is currently inquiring about the phone records of persons who were involved in the abduction of 11 youths and asking for ransoms.
Earlier the CID informed Court, Rajiv Naganadan, a victim from 11 missing youths, had contacted his mother after they disappeared and he had informed that they were with the intelligence personnel under former Navy Spokesman Commodore D.K.P. Dassanayake.
The victim had also notified a number of a car was 8987 and later it was revealed that according to the investigations this particular car belonged to former Navy Spokesman Commodore, D.K.P. Dassanayake.
The CID is continuing its investigations into the abduction and disappearance of 11 youths by an unknown group at Dehiwala, Battaramulla and Wattala in 2008 and 2009. Nine other former navy personnel including former Navy Spokesman D.K.P. Dassanayake were arrested in this connection and later released on bail.(Yoshitha Perera and Shehan Chamika Silva)
Video by Prasanna

 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament adjourned until Dec 12
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 11:48 am
Parliament adjourned until Dec 12
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya today adjourned parliament session till 1.00 pm on December 12.
The todays session commenced without the participation of United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) MPs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament session begins sans UPFA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 10:31 am
Parliament session begins sans UPFA
	
The todays parliament session commenced a short while ago without the participation of United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) MPs.


Video by Susantha

 
		
==============================
## Title: Piyasena machang, waren Chandeta: Geetha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 06:49 pm
Piyasena machang, waren Chandeta: Geetha
	
Former MP Geetha Kumarasinghe yesterday accused MP Piyasena Gamage, who has sworn in to fill the vacant position left by her in Parliament, of not allowing her to work at least a month in her constituency.
Addressing a meeting in Elpitiya today she said that she was elected to Parliament as a member after polling the highest number of votes.
These Kaalakanni did not give any chance for me to serve my people at least a month in a free state of mind. He filed a case against me and claimed that I have a dual citizenship. Most of my political life, I was in courts. As a woman, I have never been to any court of law before.
Finally, I had to go to court to protect my Parliament seat so I can serve the people in Benthara and Elpitiya. I must proudly say, this time I took the decision to let go of my Switzerland citizenship because of my people.
Now what you will say Now, I would like to ask Machang Piyasena are you feeling better now Piyasena, come and face the election you thief (Piyasena, machang umbata dan saneepada Piyasena machang, waren chandeta).
Now you cannot say that I have a dual citizenship. Think you can sleep well now. I removed my Switzerland citizenship and I have done my work, she said.

Video by Anuradha Priyadarshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Poised for a somersault 
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 December 2018 09:00 am
Poised for a somersault 
	
One political party leader allied to the Green party-led front was conspicuous by his absence at the recent massive opposition protest in Kandy, they say.
This politico leading a minor party with five or six Diyawanna members had the other day held a lengthy discussion with the party front-liners on their political future. He is also said to be holding hush-hush talks with the big guns of both
rival camps. He is a person who seems to believe that his political career is meaningless without a high office carrying authority and power. The steps he is likely to take shortly could mean either making a government or breaking a government, a political source claimed.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez said if pushed to wall, he will resign & make speech to nation, go back to Polonnaruwa: Mano
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 04:13 pm
Prez said if pushed to wall, he will resign & make speech to nation, go back to Polonnaruwa: Mano
	
President Maithripala Sirisena has said that he would resign from Presidency after making a State of the Nation Address if he was pushed to the wall, MP Mano Ganeshan said.
According to the MP, the President has said this during the meeting which was held with United National Front (UNF) party leaders Monday night.
The President said that if pushed to the wall, he will make a State of the Nation Address, resign from Presidency and get back to his Polonnaruwa farms, he said in a tweet.
National Crisis Today;
President Sirisena, amidst his exclamations on Monday night, with us, the UNF party leaders, also said that if pushed to the wall, he will make a State of the Nation Address, resign from Presidency and get back to his Polonnaruwa farms. #lka pic.twitter.com/iMnCYRCd5K
 Mano Ganesan (@ManoGanesan) December 4, 2018
==============================
## Title: RTI Commission orders disclosure of RWs assets as PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 03:31 pm
RTI Commission orders disclosure of RWs assets as PM
	
The Right to Information Commission (RTIC) has directed the Presidential Secretariat to disclose the declaration of assets and liabilities of Ranil Wickremesinghe in his role as Prime Minister for 2015 and 2016, the Transparency International Sri Lanka (TISL) said on Wednesday.
In a statement, the TISL said the order was made pursuant to an initial request it filed on February 3, 2017. 
This decision would enable TISL to publicly release the asset declaration once received, as it has been obtained under the RTI Act. The RTIC noted that any parts of the declaration relating to third parties may be redacted and determined that the grounds raised by the Presidential Secretariat  including that the information should be private - do not stand, it said. 
While welcoming the order, the TISL encouraged citizens to use asset declarations as a tool to publicly examine allegations of wealth accumulation and to counter corruption.
Meanwhile, on TISLs request for access to the asset declaration of President Maithripala Sirisena for 2015 and 2016, the RTIC held that the Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Law does not include the position of President.
However, the Commission has noted that the increasing trend among Heads of State is to proactively disclose their assets and liabilities to foster a practice of transparency and public accountability.
The RTIC recommended that this lacuna in the law be redressed, as it would advance a culture of public accountability and good governance as envisaged by the RTI Act.
TISL Executive Director Asoka Obeyesekere said this marks a major victory for RTI and the campaign to get asset declarations into the hands of the people.
We expect the Presidential Secretariat to take action to furnish a copy of the Asset Declaration as directed by the RTI Commission, which we will immediately share with the public,he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sampath Bank Ranked One of Countrys Top Ten Corporate Citizens
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 5 December 2018 04:19 pm
Sampath Bank Ranked One of Countrys Top Ten Corporate Citizens
	
Sampath Bank was recognizedas one of Sri Lankas Top Ten Corporate Citizens of the year at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2018held at the Cinnamon Grand, Colombo recently.The Bank was also adjudged the joint winner of the category award for Governance at this forum which seeks to identifyand honor champions of sustainabilityin Sri Lankas corporate sector.
Being held for the 15th consecutive year,the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards are presented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and are regarded as the highest honor that a corporate entity can earn in Sri Lanka for its Higher State of Corporate Excellence.
Mrs. Shashi Kandambi Jassim, Senior Deputy General Manager - Corporate Banking, Sampath Bank PLC and Mr. Aruna Jayasekera, Group Chief Human Resource Officer, Sampath Bank PLC accepted the awards on behalf of the Bankamidst a gathering of 350 distinguished corporate executives.
Right from our inception, we at Sampath Bank havebeen committed to delivering greater value to all our stakeholders. Our focus on customer-centric innovation allows us to better contribute to the economy. It also helps us add value to the environment and to people  employees, customers and the community. We strive to do all this while upholding the highest standards of ethics and governance, said Mr. Nanda Fernando, Managing Director, Sampath Bank PLC.We are honored to see these efforts being recognized at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards. This gives us added impetus to strive harder. I would like to thank and congratulate our Chairman, Board of Directors, shareholders and the over 4,000 members of Team Sampath for making this possible.
The accolades received at this forum are a further testament to Sampath Banks commitment to the principles of triple bottom line and towards extending its support to help the nation achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It continues to deliver greater economic value to all stakeholders through its innovative banking solutions and focus on customers. The Bank also places equal emphasis on people and the planet. It leverages advances in technology to rollout pathbreaking solutions such as Sampath Slipless banking aimed at minimizing the impact on the environment whilst dialing up customer convenience.
Sampath Bank also has a host of community outreach initiatives that cater to the specific needs of different segments of society,touching everyone from students, women and the youth to farmers and SMEs. The Banks Sampath Saviya entrepreneurship development program supports young adults, women and SMEs to reduce poverty and drive economic growth. Restoring tanks in the countrys dry zone, the Sampath Wewata Jeewayak initiative seeks to empower agri-entrepreneurs and thereby, help develop the rural economy.The Bank also nurtures and recognizes buddinggreen inventors from state and private universities and green entrepreneurs involved in the development of sustainable eco-friendly solutions through its national-level, annual Sampath Green Inventorcompetition. Helping underprivileged students better prepare for the Grade 5 Scholarship exams, the Sampath Bank Pahe Shishyathwa seminar series focuses on enhancing the confidence levels of both the children and their parents.
While we will continue to support communities through these initiatives, we are gradually transforming ourselves into a truly sustainable business wherein addressing societal and environmental issues and achieving financial success go hand-in-hand, added Mr. Fernando.
Sampath Bank continues to win several awards and accolades for its commitment to excellence,both locally and around the world. The Bank was rated as one of Sri Lankas best performing companies at the Business Today Top 30 Awards 2017  2018, moving up two places to be ranked fifth this year. It was also recognized as the countrys Best Retail Bank and Best Commercial Bank at the prestigious World Finance Banking Awards for the 5th consecutive year.
Established in 1987, Sampath Bank has become a state-of-the-art financial institution that continues to be a market leader today thanks to its constant innovation and customer focused approach to business. Its unique tailor-made solutions, superior services and convenience of access have allowed Sampath Bank to further differentiate itself from the competition and stand out as the bank of choice for many in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC resumes hearing of petitions: AG makes submissions
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 10:13 am
SC resumes hearing of petitions: AG makes submissions
	
The hearing of the Fundamental Rights (FR) Petitions filed against the dissolution of parliament commenced for the second day today in the Supreme Court a short while ago.
The seven-Judge bench of the Supreme Court commenced hearing of the petitions yesterday.
During todays hearing, the Attorney General made submissions to the Judge bench.
The Supreme Court on November 13 granted leave to proceed with the fundamental rights petitions which sought a court order nullifying the presidential proclamation dissolving parliament and the petitions were fixed for argument on December 4, 5 and 6.
The Chief Justice nominated a fuller Bench comprising Chief Justice Nalin Perera, Justices Buwaneka Aluwihare, Sisira J. de Abrew, Priyantha Jayawardena, Prasanna S. Jayawardena, Vijith K. Malalgoda and Murdu Fernando of the Supreme Court to hear the fundamental rights petitions following a request made by the government.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Set to move from the wings to the centre stage!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 December 2018 02:57 pm
Set to move from the wings to the centre stage!
	
A businessman sibling of a very powerful authority is planning to enter national politics with a big bang.
He has already picked an upcountry electorate as his political base, they say.
This worthy had earlier vowed that he would never take to politics, but lately has not only changed his change but also is rearing to make his appearance in the political scene at the earliest. However, he has to receive the nod of his powerful family member before taking the plunge, they say.
Nevertheless, the man has already begun the spadework to contest the upcoming general poll from the chosen upcountry electorate close to the sacred city.

 
		
==============================
## Title: SLBC, media ministry assure unbiased coverage: Speakers office
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 06:13 pm
SLBC, media ministry assure unbiased coverage: Speakers office
	
Acting Chairman of the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (SLMC) Dr. Somarathna Dissanayake and Secretary to the Ministry of Mass Media and Information Sunil Hettiarachchi have assured that steps would be taken to provide an unbiased coverage of parliamentary sittings and the current political crisis, Speakers Office said. 
A statement released by the Speakers office said the two officials were summoned by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya after several MPs complained that the state media institute reported the current political issue in a biased manner.
The officials were also summoned to discuss the SLBCs decision to halt coverage of parliamentary sessions.
The statement said that while Dr. Dissanayake had apologized for the decision to halt coverage of parliamentary sittings and assured that steps would be taken to rectify the issue, Hettiarchchi had promised to direct media outlets to cover the current crisis in an unbiased manner.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tangalle UC budget defeated
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 03:04 pm
Tangalle UC budget defeated
	
The budget of the Tangalle Urban Council for 2019, has been defeated by three votes.
Seven UNP members including the Chairman of the council voted in favour of the budget, while seven SLPP members, two JVP members and a UPFA member voted against.
One UPFA member abstained. (Aneesha Manage)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tried to please all, but pleased none!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 December 2018 02:56 pm
Tried to please all, but pleased none!
	
There is a departmental head who was elevated to the current office during the ousted regime.
From the time, he took up this high post, the department began capturing unprecedented publicity, not because of a better showing by it, but because of his shenanigans as its head.
During the ousted regime, this high-up had been so loyal to the purohita handling the law and order subject, he is said to have spent more time at the latters office than in his own. The purohita himself had been so kind to him that he had played host to the khaki head whenever the latter paid an official visit to his home turf, they say.The moment the new disputed regime took office, the man not only had begun giving a wide berth to all bigwigs of the ousted regime including his former purohita but also stopped answering telephone calls receiving from them.
However, he has found his ties with the current regime too going awry, they say.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Violence among youth  Where did we go wrong
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
Violence among youth  Where did we go wrong
	
It is only a matter of seconds to take someones life. A life so precious, so dearly brought up. Violence among youth has been a social issue that has emerged over the recent past. The advent of technology, accessibility to violence and triggers in the immediate environment are possible causative factors. Several incidents of violence among youth were reported during the last two weeks.
One was a CCTV footage of a youth being stabbed in Matara and the other a video of a group of youth recording a girl being strangled to death. As much as it is important to educate future generations, it is also important to inculcate moral values within them.
Against this backdrop, Daily Miror took a closer look at why youth are resorting to violence and what needs to be done toprevent crime.
Incidents over the past fortnight
November 21: A school prefect in his A/Levels (maths stream) who got into a brawl with a Grade 9 student after the latter took umbrage at being disciplined by a senior, succumbed to his injuries. The incident took place at a leading school in Dinagoda, Beruwala. The dispute had arisen because the younger student ignored the bell rung by the prefect to get everyone to be silent in class. This triggered an argument which ended with the prefect being shoved backwards by the Grade 9 student causing him to collapse and hit his head on the floor.
The victim, Mohamed Thariq, who complained that he was not feeling well, was admitted to the Beruwala Hospital and subsequently transferred to the Nagoda Hospital in critical condition. He was then transferred to the Colombo National Hospital only to breathe his last on November 27. According to hospital officials, Thariq had suffered a brain injury.
November 24: 19-year-old Rasindu Gimhana was stabbed to death while on his way to a tuition class. The tragedy took place at Alevella Street in Matara. The 17-year-old student who stabbed him had claimed that Rasindus brother has had an argument with his girlfriend. As a result, he was compelled to stab Rasindu -- a resident of Naimbala who was preparing to sit for his A/L exam next year. The main suspect and two others were arrested in connection with this crime and further investigations are being carried out.
November 25: 22-year-old Shiromi Priyadarshani was strangled to death by her boyfriend following a heated argument between the duo over a clandestine affair the girl had. Her body was found near Sumeda Tank in Magandanamulla, Monaragala. Shiromi had been working at a beauty parlour owned by the suspects sister. The suspect, who is a resident of Raththanapitiya in Weliyaya, had already been arrested and produced in the Monaragala Magistrates Court. Giving a new twist to the story, a group of youth had videoed the incident and released it on social media. The Monaragala Police are carrying out investigations to trace them.
November 26: A 22-year-old fruit vendor was killed after he was stabbed with a broken glass bottle by a fellow vendor in Pettah. The suspect had stabbed Kumara Dickson (22) when he had asked to repay the money the suspect owed him.
The Pettah Police are carrying out investigations to arrest the missing suspect who is said to be a resident of Kotahena.
19-year-old Rasindu Gimhana was stabbed to death while on his way to a tuition class. The tragedy took place at Alevella Street in Matara. The 17-year-old student who stabbed him had claimed that Rasindus brother has had an argument with his girlfriend
Society needs a revival: Prof. Dhanapala
There existed a strong social bond among people, but we dont see it anymore, said W.M. Dhanapala, Professor of Criminology at Sri Jayewardenepura University. There was a bond between the family, relatives and even the community. But over the recent past, we have seen these bonds being disrupted. A social bond is important to protect law-abiding behaviours. When moving out of the family, there is a bond among the neighbours and the community you live in.
The bond that existed between relatives and neighbours brought about a control in the community, he continued. But today we see new people settling in villages and the community is not integrated anymore. Hence, there is no control in the community as well. Although violent elements existed, they were never exposed owing to community control. But today, we witness a disconnection and violent elements lead to crimes. In schools, teachers were responsible in inculcating discipline among children. But with circulars going round to end corporal punishment, the teachers responsibility was weakened. This doesnt mean I support corporal punishment, but today, teachers dont even advise children to do the right thing. They are more interested in exam results. Back in the day, children feared teachers and had more respect, but today we hardly see that happening in schools.
Prof. Dhanapala further said deterrence was vital. If not, people will take things for granted similarly to what we see today. The family also doesnt consider social values. In school, there is no value-based education system but more of an exam-oriented knowledge culture. At home, both parents are employed and they dont have time to spend with their children.
When 22-year-old Shiromi Priyadarshani was being strangled to death, a group of youth decided to video the incident without taking action. We also see that the community doesnt seem to take any responsibility when crimes take place, Prof. Dhanapala added. Hence, they resort to videoing the event and uploading it on social media, causing further damage. The society needs a revival. It is important for a society to glue rather than taking on individual roles. In countries such as the United States, crime rate is high as a result of individualisation. There has to be strong communication among family members and children should have people whom they place trust in.
Since private education wasnt regulated, we saw the boom in tuition classes, Prof. Dhanapala said. These are causative factors that contribute to the increase in crime rate.
A tuition master is not bothered about values. He wants his students to secure island rankings so that he could grab more students to augment his income. These processes need to be streamlined. On the other hand, when we look at news reports, sometimes they are extremely exaggerated. Irrespective of the severity of the crime, the media also increases the magnitude of seriousness by screening it on repeat. The media has a huge responsibility in terms of reporting crimes as it also comes with a social responsibility. Thus, it is important that both electronic and print media personnel be trained before reporting or publishing incidents related to crime.
By showing incidents such as youth killing each other, there is a greater tendency of hinting an idea to another person to do the same. People should start respecting human life. A crime could only be prevented as it has no cure. Therefore, social values and responsibilities have to be inculcated in the minds of the people.
22-year-old Shiromi Priyadarshani was strangled to death by her boyfriend following a heated argument between the duo over a clandestine affair the girl had. Her body was found near Sumeda Tank in Monaragala
Adults should reduce risk factors: Dr. Udena Atygalle
Violence among youth is a serious issue the World Health Organisation (WHO) has given guidelines on, said Dr. Udena Atygalle, Consultant Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist at Karapitiya Teaching Hospital. Theres no single reason as to why it happens but its a result of several causative factors. These could be factors related to the individual or family. Some of these include alcohol intake, limited education and even psychological disorders. Exposure to violence is another trigger. If there is violence in the family, chances are that the youth will follow suit. We should also look at access to violence, like where individuals get arms from.
He said adults should reduce risk factors. This includes teaching life skills and at home parents should have regular conversations with their children and discuss how to deal with situations without resorting to violence. Lack of communication is another issue why children behave violently. Schools can have policies on discrimination and conduct bullying prevention programmes. Parents can also extend their support to such initiatives. It is important to build a family network of support as it plays a pivotal role in the early identification of problems.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will amend 19A: Lakshman Yapa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 08:31 pm
Will amend 19A: Lakshman Yapa
	
The 19th Amendment which was the initial cause for the prevailing political turmoil would be amended when they were elected to office, MP Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena said today.
Addressing a news briefing, he said the 19th Amendment had made the county unstable and chaotic.
When the 19th Amendment was brought in, we all voted for it thinking that it would deliver good things in the interest of the people. But what has transpired now consequent to this amendment is absolutely unacceptable, MP Lakshman Yapa said.
He said that they regretted voting in favour of it and thus would take action to amend it no sooner than they elected to office.
We cant fathom what the 19th Amendment contains. It contains complexities that adversely affect the functioning of the Legislature and the Executive. Hence, it is necessary to come up with amendments so that the complexities would be lessened, the MP said.
Meanwhile, MP Gamini Lokuge said Mahinda Rajapaksa did not want to remain in power forcibly.
If Parliament is properly convened, we would like to attend the sessions and are ready to face any challenge under a democratic framework, MP Lokuge said.
What the Speaker and the UNP have done so far cant be condoned because everything has been done in violation to the Constitution and the Standing Orders, he added.(Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: World's first baby born via womb transplant from dead donor
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 December 2018 09:25 am
World's first baby born via womb transplant from dead donor
	
A woman in Brazil who received a womb transplanted from a deceased donor has given birth to a baby girl in the first successful case of its kind, doctors reported.
The case, published in The Lancet medical journal, involved connecting veins from the donor uterus with the recipient's veins, as well as linking arteries, ligaments and vaginal canals.
It comes after 10 previously known cases of uterus transplants from deceased donors - in the United States, the Czech Republic and Turkey - failed to produce a live birth.
The girl born in the Brazilian case was delivered via caesarean section at 35 weeks and three days, and weighed 2.55kg, the case study said.
Dr Dani Ejzenberg, a doctor at Brazil's Sao Paulo University hospital who led the research, said the transplant - carried out in September 2016 when the recipient was 32 - shows the technique is feasible and could offer women with uterine infertility access to a larger pool of potential donors.
The current norm for receiving a womb transplant is that the organ would come from a live family member willing to donate it.
"The numbers of people willing and committed to donate organs upon their own deaths are far larger than those of live donors, offering a much wider potential donor population," Dr Ejzenberg said in a statement about the results.
She added, however, that the outcomes and effects of womb donations from live and deceased donors have yet to be compared, and said the technique could still be refined and optimised.
The first baby born after a live donor womb transplant was in Sweden in 2013. Scientists have so far reported a total of 39 procedures of this kind, resulting in 11 live births.
Experts estimate that infertility affects around 10 to 15 per cent of couples of reproductive age worldwide. Of this group, around one in 500 women have uterine problems.
Before uterus transplants became possible, the only options to have a child were adoption or surrogacy.
In the Brazilian case, the recipient had been born without a uterus due to a condition called Mayer-Rokitansky-Kster-Hauser syndrome. The donor was 45 and died of a stroke.
Five months after the transplant, Dr Ejzenberg's team wrote, the uterus showed no signs of rejection, ultrasound scans were normal, and the recipient was having regular menstruation.
The woman's previously fertilised and frozen eggs were implanted after seven months, and 10 days later, she was confirmed pregnant.
At seven months and 20 days - when the case study report was submitted to The Lancet - the baby girl was continuing to breastfeed and weighed 7.2kg. (Straits Times)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wounding a nations conscience Rajapaksas are not saviours, they are the cause of the crisis
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 December 2018 12:00 am
Wounding a nations conscience Rajapaksas are not saviours, they are the cause of the crisis
	
Politics: the art of using euphemisms, lies, emotionalism and fear-mongering to dupe average people into accepting--or even demanding--their own enslavement.
~Larken Rose
Ever since the substantial breach of our Constitution by the Executive branch, only one political party, the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), has been consistent in its action and speech; only one political party, JVP, has been trying to drive home the point that there is no possible compromise between Constitutionality and non-constitutionality; there is no compromise between treachery and patriotism and there shouldnt be any compromise between right and wrong.
The Executive committed the first sin: firing of one Prime Minister and replacing him with another who did not have a majority in Parliament; then in order to cover up that sin, the Executive committed the other sin: the dissolution of Parliament. As the axiom goes, two wrongs dont make one right. And added to the confusion of circumstances, is the unfortunate status of the polity of Sri Lanka- a looming anarchy replacing the Yahapalanaya.
The Executive committed the first sin..then in order to cover up that, the Executive committedthe other
	The Legislature and Judiciary chose the path of right
	The Executive has a very easy decision to make. Yet it takes humility and courage
A country, whose innermost commitment to a life and governance of majority rule, in other words, Democracy, was being played inside out and upside down to the whims and fancies of just two individuals, the Executive and Mahinda Rajapaksa.
One can understand or rather surmise why Mahinda Rajapaksa is so keen to wrest the Premiership away from the then holder Ranil Wickremesinghe.
When one holds the wheels of power of Government, as was shown during his infamous regime of corruption and greed, Mahinda may have hypothesized that he could approach or even direct the arms of the law in the country not to stretch that far so that he and his family remained unchallenged from that stretch of the law.
Unlimited impunity that he enjoyed in his own regime was the scourge of the decade that spanned from 2005 to 2014.
A whole lot of litigation proceedings are pending against the Rajapaksas. Not even Mahindas powerful siblings and sons are spared. The lap of luxury and the cushions of power have been removed, not by a decree of the Executive; they were removed by a popular vote in the Presidential Elections held on January 8, 2015.
What the voter took away from him and his family, Mahinda Rajapaksa was successful in regaining, this time by the power of the Executive in the fading hours of October 26, 2108. With that Executive order, people may have thought, one nail was driven in on the countrys coffin of democracy and the rule of law. Not so. There was the judiciary, the Supreme Court.
My previous column made an attempt at explaining the supreme power our Supreme Court had and how that three-bench court arrived at a very sane and rational conclusion to stay the dissolution of Parliament which was executed by the Executive of the land on November 9, 2018.
That Stay Order was a slap in the face of the Chief Executive, not his office, but his personal self.
Carrying out the responsible and burdensome office of the Chief Executive is no mean task. It requires a great deal of political understanding, political tact and political discipline.
The Executive committed the first sin: the firing of one Prime Minister... then in order to cover up that, the Executive committed the other sin: the dissolution of Parliament. As the axiom goes, two wrongs dont make one right.
That poise, grace under pressure, as Earnest Hemingway most poetically described, is courage. One cannot be described as courageous when one is seen resorting to desperate measures that are outside the confines of the source of the countrys law, its Constitution.
hese are the real issues that have sprung up from the unprecedented Constitutional impasse that has crippled the countrys lingering journey towards her prestigious goals.
Resolution of the present constitutional gridlock is easy if those who control the switches of power intend to resolve the issues.
As per reports, if the Executive can withdraw the infamous Gazette notification, a definite comeback from the falsely lofty posture the Executive assumed on November 09, the Executive may well be spared the shame of being found wanting by the Supreme Court.
In order to provide a dignified exit for the Executive from the crisis, which the Executive himself created, withdrawal of the said Gazette notification may be cited as an easy and dignified way out.
But what must reign supreme are the national interest and continuation of democratic governance and the rule of law.
Today even in the remotest hamlet in Sri Lanka, whether in the North or deep South, along with the coastline or in the chilly Hill Country of the land, the people are unequivocally concerned about the rule of law.
The rule of law cannot be tampered with, period.
A softening of mind and tempering of blind determination is not a weakness of a human being.
On the contrary, it is conclusively a positive and rational response to an uncertain and volatile circumstance. Moderation, when taken as a weakness, bends to shameless subordination of principles and core philosophy in life. But if moderation is taken as a calm and sublime response to a hard and inflexible condition, it is highly commendable and praiseworthy. Yet, it is a grim test to pass.
It is in this unkind environment that the Appeal Court of Sri Lanka, on December 3, followed her superior, the Supreme Court.
The Appeal Court issued a so-called writ of Quo Warranto on Rajapaksa and his disputed Cabinet of Ministers, requiring him to justify his staying in office in a case to be heard on December 12.
As at now, December 4, while doing the finishing touches to this very column, there is no Prime Minister, no Cabinet of Ministers, and no Government.
The Executive consists of one solitary figure, the President. However, both the Legislature and the Judiciary have chosen the path of right.
The Executive has a very easy decision to make. Yet it takes enormous humility and consequently courage to say Im sorry, I was wrong.
Just six words in English and these words consist of a truly unpretentious and adequate expression of humble submission to the rule of law.
If on the other hand, the Executive wishes to trek a more winding and unbecoming path, the destiny of our democracy could be in grave danger, this time not from a demented set of representatives, but from the Chief Executive himself.
Expression of personal dislike of one individual, in this case, Ranil Wickremesinghe, is most un-Presidential.
That would be a tragic expression of loss of hope in human tolerance and decency. A nasty end to an imprudent judgment made in a different time could still be averted.
A wrong committed under different circumstances could still be righted. Bur resort to delusional processes in a democratic framework is far worse than a well-thought-out grabbing of power by a military leader.
Whilst all this tragicomedy is being enacted before a docile public, the very foundation of the countrys governing framework is trembling.
Seventy years of self-rule is being tested to the hilt. The peoples will is being challenged and their dreams and aspirations are fading. From the mist of this potential doom must rise hope and optimism; from it must rise courage and humility; from this dark cloud must separate a silver lining which is a profound commitment to optimism, to hope and wisdom.
A country, whose innermost commitment to a life and governance of majority rule, in other words, Democracy, was being played inside out and upside down to the whims and fancies of just two individuals, the Executive and Mahinda Rajapaksa.
There may be many a bright person in our midst, but finding a wise one is the most difficult and they are indeed rare and nearing extinction.
Indulgence in an analytical talk is redundant and infertile. We must first learn not to look beyond the obvious. What is palpable is evading us and there is no reason other than the fact that we are refusing to see such palpability.
The Executive has desecrated the nobility of office; it has wounded the hearts and minds of a people who placed immense trust in that office and they are left to the moods of a demonic conduct of political hooligans. And the Executive has wounded the conscience of a nation that craves the rule of law and majority decision called democracy.
That government of the people, by the people and for the people is precariously hanging on a fine yet hitherto unbreakable thread of the Judiciary. Independent judiciary, not because it gave a decision in favour of one party as against another, but by reaffirming the fundamental principle of the rule of law, in its last two judgments expressed the glory of our traditional commitment to democracy and sublime adherence to our Constitution.
The Yahapalanaya, having reached the threshold of anarchy, is still breathing, hopefully not its last. A journey that began with much hope and dreamlike cannot be left to end in tragedy.
The writer can be contacted at vishwamithra1984@gmail.com
 
		
==============================
==============================
