## Title: A RELIGIOUS RESPONSE TO CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE IN NCP
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 December 2018 12:54 am
A RELIGIOUS RESPONSE TO CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE IN NCP
	
he pathetic situation of the people who are becoming victims of the Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) in the North Central Province has drawn the attention of the Consecrated persons  the Religious  ministering in the diocese of Anuradhapura. For the Religious, there are different possible ways of concretising the one vocation to follow Christ. Nevertheless, what is most significant about each is not that which is distinctive but that which they share in common: love of God, living in Christ and serving the people who are in pain and need, with compassionate love.
The Regional Religious Unit (RRU), composed of priests and nuns belonging to ten Religious Congregations, headed by Rev. Fr. Felix Mellawarachchi, SDB, is finding ways and means to provide some relief to those who are prone to this disease (CKD) and also temporary shelter to the relatives who come from distant places to see the sick persons in the government hospital and other medical facilities at Anuradhapura. The decision for such a commitment originated in RRU at a special Day of Prayer held at the Holy Family Convent, Talawa on February 17, 2018.
Knowing more about the Situation
At a workshop organized by the Regional Religious Unit (RRU), on May 9, 2018 at Rajabima Oblate Centre, Anuradhapura, Prof. Channa Jayasumana, MBBS, PhD, FRCP Edin, Head, Dept. of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University, Anuradhapura, said according to Prof. S.A.M. Kularatne who had been a consultant physician in the General Hospital, Anuradhapura in the 1990s, it was only in 1995 that he had come across sporadic cases of CKD inviting his attention.
He had discovered that number of CKD was increasing and in 1996 more than 100 CKD patients were from Medawachchiya, Padaviya and Kebithigollawa in NCP Medical research has proved that this situation has been caused by excessive use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and weedicides for the cultivation of paddy, vegetables and fruits during the past several years and also through occupational exposure of the agricultural communities to herbicides. As a result, many have become victims of CKD. Their findings show that this disease is festering at a frightening speed. According to hospital sources, more than 650 kidney patients visit the main Anuradhapura Hospital OPD daily and about 350 are for dialysis. Dialysis is given to kidney patients in the hospitals but many patients are unable to find financial resources to obtain this help. Many families therefore are compelled to pawn their jewellery and mortgage their property.
According to Prof. Channa Jayasumana there is a dramatic increase of chronic kidney disease and diabetes in NCP. He says that there are 44,000 CKD patients in the district of Anuradhapura and 18,000 in the district of Polonnaruwa (Lankadeepa, Sept., 16, 2018). Recently a team of specialists of the Rajarata University under the leadership of Prof. Jayasumana, had conducted a survey in the schools and had discovered that 10% of the 5000 school children were suffering due to CKD in the district of Anuradhapura. What will be the situation of the children in the future  their survival and livelihood
Prof. Jayasumana says the situation has been aggravated by using multiple chemical fertilisers without proper personal protective equipment, living in areas with low elevation, eating rice, vegetables and fruits and drinking water from the same area and being subjected to dehydration. Non-availability of safe drinking water and for the preparation of food is one of the main problems affecting the vast majority of the people living in the North Central Province (NCP).
Follow-up of workshop: A special Committee
As a follow-up of the workshop conducted by Prof. Jayasumana on May 9, the RRU set up a special committee composed of Rev. Fr. Felix Mellawarachchi,SDB,Rev. Fr. Dileepa Jayamaha, OMI,Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Fernando OMI,Rev. Sr. Alexia P.C. and Rev. Sr. Helen Fernando HF to propose concrete measures. Besides creating awareness among the people in NCP regarding CKD, the special committee decided to raise funds to provide water filters (purifiers) and help control the spread of kidney related disease.
Remedial measures by RRU
a) The Rotary Satellite Club of Pamunugama also responded to the appeal made by RRU chairperson, Rev. Fr. Felix Mellawarachchi SDB, the Parish Priest of St. Anthonys Church, Mihintale, to install a water purifying industrial filter which can provide 5000 litres of clean water each day in the hospital at Mihintale so that the sick who come to the hospital could benefit. Dr. Sisira Kumara, the chief physician of Mihintale hospital, thanked Rev. Fr. Felix profusely who was instrumental in obtaining that water purifying filter, saying that it is only the Mihintale hospital in the NCP, which is situated in the heart of a sacred Buddhist town, is blessed to have such a water purifier at present. He also thanked the members of the Rotary Satellite Club of Pamunugama, who are predominantly from a Catholic area, for coming forward to grant such a very generous gift to the people of Buddhist environment. The filter was installed in the presence of a Buddhist monk, the doctors, nurses and representatives from various Institutions.
Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Fernando OMI and Rev. Sr. Subashini Samaratunga HF were also present with Rev. Fr. Felix. In his speech, Rev. Fr. Felix Mellawarachchi said that Jesus was born to serve the people and people of good will also need to get together to serve the people in need. He thanked the members of the Rotary Satellite Club of Pamunugama for their spirit of unity and of sacrifice.
b) Through the initiative of Rev. Sr. Nilanthi Ranasinghe FMM and through the mediation of Rev. Sr. Lilian Perera FMM of the Polonnaruwa community,Rev. Fr. Rasmi Fernando SJ, the former Parish Priest of Christ the King Church, Hingurakgoda, received financial assistance from a Hungarian couple and the Holy Trinity Foundation to provide water purifiers to Nikapitiya, (48 km from Hingurakgoda), Diyabeduma and Daham Pasala (Minneriya).
c) Mazenod College, West Australia, has very generously supported Rev. Fr. Dileepa Jayamaha, OMI, the Parish Priest of St. Eugene de Mazenod Church,Pothnegama, Anuradhapura, to install a domestic water purifier in the church and also in each house of the 60 families in his parish.
d) Rev. Fr. Roshan Wass OMI, the present Parish Priest of Padaviya, with the financial assistance from generous benefactors, was able to get the big water purifying filter repaired, which had been installed in the church premises at Padaviya by former Parish Priest, Rev. Fr. Kelum Dias OMI for the people. This filter has the capacity to provide 500 litres per day.
Temporary shelter for patients, visitors
The Holy Family Nuns at the Anuradhapura (New Town), who are also members of RRU, have responded to an urgent need in the North Central Province to provide temporary shelter to the patients and to their relatives who come from distant places to the hospital and other medical Centres at Anuradhapura.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Collegial leadership for new UNP-led front
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 08:44 am
Collegial leadership for new UNP-led front
	
A collegial leadership of ten members is proposed for the new political front to be formed by the United National Party (UNP) along with the like-minded parties such as Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC), the Jathika Hela Urumya (JHU) and the Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA), it is learnt.
The constitution of the new alliance called Democratic National Front has already been drafted. It will have a collegial leadership. The UNP will have the chairmanship of this leadership body.
A political source told Daily Mirror that the front would be formed in view of elections pending next year.
There is a body of leaders to take decisions instead of a single individual calling the shots, a political source said.
The political parties are gearing up for elections. The Presidential Election will have to be declared by October 9, next year.
Besides, there are talks along the political parties to pass a resolution in Parliament calling for a snap general election.(Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ecstasy pills worth Rs.3.5 mn meant for NYE party seized
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 11:39 pm
Ecstasy pills worth Rs.3.5 mn meant for NYE party seized
	
A stock of psychedelic drugs also known as Ecstasy pills worth more than Rs.3.5 million meant for a New Years Eve party in Colombo was seized by Colombo Excise Station officials in Thotalanga on Friday.
On information obtained from a private informant, Excise officials contacted a person living at Bopitiya in Pamunugama and seized the narcotics when he was lured into a fake deal.
Nearly 988 Ecstasy pills weighing around 457 grams which were in the suspect's possession were seized. An official said a tablet is usually sold at Rs.3,500 to consumers.
Colombo Excise Station OIC Chief Inspector Chanaka Nanayakkara told Daily Mirror the 24-year-old suspect was acting as a caretaker of a Negombo house belonging to a 40-year-old Sri Lankan identified as Dominic now living in France.
He said they believe that Dominic might have smuggled the pills on his half-yearly visits to Sri Lanka.
The suspect has told Excise officers that his employer gave instructions about distributing the pills to selected buyers and to collect the money. He had also been told to hand over a stock of pills to a certain recipient in Colombo meant for a party, which was to be held on New Years Eve.
Excises sources said the house owner paid the youth lavishly for all for the services rendered apart from looking after the house.
The Ecstasy, which is a psychedelic drug consisted of chemical substance 3,4-Methyl enedioxy methamphetamine (MDMA) and usually consumed by young party goers.
Chief Inspector Nanayakkara is conducting investigations with Excise Inspector Indralal Mahawatte, Excise Sergeant Duhulkumbura, Excise Guards Mohan, Lahiru, Manawadu and Dias on the instructions of Assistant Excise Commissioner B A Dayaratne and Excise Superintendent Vijitha Gamanayake.
The suspect was produced before the Maligakanda Magistrate and ordered to be remanded till today. (Kurulu Koojana Kariyakarawana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Indian arrested with hashish at BIA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 09:04 am
Indian arrested with hashish at BIA
	
An Indian national has been arrested on possession of 1.2 kg of hashish worth Rs. 2 million at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) by the Police Narcotics Bureau (PNB) last night.
Police said the 30-year-old suspect had arrived from Bangalore.
The PNB officials recovered two parcels of hashish hidden in a false bottom in the suspect's baggage.
The Indian national would be produced in the Negombo Magistrate's Court seeking a detention order. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Injured Mathews ruled out of New Zealand ODIs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 06:54 am
Injured Mathews ruled out of New Zealand ODIs
	
Angelo Mathews has been ruled out of the upcoming three-match ODI series against New Zealand and is also doubtful for the subsequent two Tests against Australia due to a hamstring injury.
The 31-year-old was forced to retire hurt after picking up the injury during the afternoon session on the fourth day of his side's second Test against New Zealand, which the latter went on to win by huge 423 runs in Christchurch.
Now, the scans have revealed that a grade two strain in his left hamstring, something which will keep him out of action for at least four weeks.
Mathews was earlier dropped from Sri Lanka's limited-overs squad before Lasith Malinga, who was named the side's skipper for the New Zealand tour, decided to pick him for the three ODIs and lone T20I against the Kane Williamson-led side.
Sri Lanka and New Zealand will lock horns in the ODI series from January 3 at the Bay Oval while they will face Australia in the two-match Test series, beginning January 24 at the Gabba in Brisbane.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Jumbo Cabinets & JRJ Formula: Consistently Inconsistent Somersault Record holders
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 December 2018 01:06 am
Jumbo Cabinets & JRJ Formula: Consistently Inconsistent Somersault Record holders
	
The first Cabinet of independent Ceylon

he term cabinet derives from the name for a small, private room used as a study. In the UK and its colonies, smaller sub-groups of the English Privy Council began in the late 16th century as cabinet counsel, meaning units that gave advice to the King in a private capacity. The first user of Cabinet council as per Oxford Dictionary was none other than Sir Francis Bacon. The controversial Monarch Charles I set in motion a formal Cabinet Council in 1625, as his private council, or the Privy Council, and the first recorded use of cabinet by itself and associates the term with dubious foreign practices. The process has repeated itself in recent times, as leaders have felt the need to have a Kitchen Cabinet or sofa government
Cabinets are naturally the body answerable for the day-to-day running of the government and response to unexpected events, whereas the lawmaking and judicial branches work in a precise pace, in sessions according to prolonged procedures. Officially, under both categories of systems, the Westminster parliamentary system and the Executive presidential system, the Cabinet advises the Head of State: the distinction is that, in a former system, the monarch or Ceremonial Head will always follow this counsel, whereas in a latter system, a president who is also head of government and political head may head off from the Cabinets advice if he disagrees with it. 
The Executive Council of Ceylon
On the recommendations of the Colebrook-Cameron Commission, 185 years ago The Executive Council [the first Cabinet ] was created in British Ceylon by the Colonial administration along with a legislative body, The Legislative Council of Ceylon, on 13th March 1833.
It was headed by the representative of British Monarch, the Governor, along with five members appointed by him. The five appointees were officials who held the posts of Colonial Secretary, Attorney General, Auditor-General, Treasurer and General Officer Commanding the islands forces. The Council implemented executive power and acted as adviser to the Governor. Then came the First Manning Reforms, as a result of which the three non-officials were added to the executive council as elected members.
With the introduction of the new constitution in 1947 following Independence and creation of a Dominion, the Executive Council was substituted by a National Cabinet. There have been over 25 swearing-ins of Cabinets of Ministers of independent Ceylon/Sri Lanka since 1947.
D. S. Senanayakes 1947 Cabinet
The central government of Colonial Ceylon led by Prime Minister D. S. Senanayake [1947 - 1952] was formed in September 1947 after the parliamentary election. His cabinet that was sworn in at Queens House, on September 26, 1947, consisted of 14 members with 11 Parliamentary Secretaries [how the deputies were known until 1972s Republican Constitution]. The same Cabinet was sworn in again on February 4, 1948, when Ceylon obtained Independence; the number of ministers was increased to 18 subsequently over the years until it ended in March 1952 with DSs untimely death.
Every government that came into power since 1977 has clamoured to increase the number of Cabinet Ministers beyond the constitutional provision or the legal limit of 30. Is this permissible when matched up to other nations. Dr. Wijewardene former Deputy Governor Central Bank had worked out the cost of maintaining a Minister at Rs 8.4 million a month which is paid out of funds collected from poor mans indirect taxes. 
The situation today is that Politicians demand Ministerial perks for reasons best known even to any stupid voter who venerate them as their demi-gods. Once appointed they will acquire a team of henchmen as their personal staff paying off handsome allowances for little or no work but would commit to unprecedented corruption, fraud and waste. In order to have a ruling majority intact the leaders who are helpless will create more such Scientific portfolios. 
Proposed JRJ Cabinetof 1977
With the country facing an unprecedented economic disaster under Sirimavo Bandaranaike, J. R. Jayewardene was very much confident of winning in 1977. Months before the polling day, he assigned two competent men, B. J. Fernando a leading civil courts lawyer, a Presidents Counsel and a Permanent Representative for Sri Lanka at the United Nations and Ronnie De Mel former CCS, Parliamentarian and later Finance Minister for eleven years, with the task of drawing up the structure for a scientific cabinet.
Browsing through the well preserved private collection of valuable original documents of our first Executive President at JRJ Centre library, the writer came across a letter addressed to JR by one W. D. Mahawatte on behalf B. J. Fernando [Doc marked- 00275], detailing the committees proposed structure that can undertake the enormous development strategies the political colossus intended to put into practice under an open economy.
This hitherto unpublished document signifying the proposed structure, [for Westminster style Parliamentary system] is copied here for public knowledge and for the benefit of students of politics.
Extracts from 00275/JRJ
1. Prime Minister -- Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs - Three State Ministers to serve under him.
2. Minister of Home Affairs, Local Government, Rural Development and Parliamentary Affairs - 22 State Ministers for 22 Districts under this Minister.
3. Agriculture, Lands and Irrigation - a State Minster for Power and Hydro-power.
4. Food, Internal trade-Co-operatives. a State minister for Prices and Consumer Protection.
5. Finance and External Trade  2 State Ministers for Public Administration and Implementation.
6. Shipping, Aviation and Tourism  one State Minster for Tourism.
7. Education and Cultural Affairs  2 State Ministers each for Higher Education and Religious Affairs.
8. Justice
9. Labour, Social Services, Youth Affairs and Sports -one State Minister for Youth Affairs.
10. Industries and Scientific Affairs- two State Ministers each for Public and Private sector Industries.
11. Health and Fisheries [Alternative-Fisheries under Food or Agriculture]-one State Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Resources.
12. Transport, Highways, Post and Telecommunication  one State Minister for Bus and Rail Transport.
13. Housing, Construction and Public works- one State Minster for Housing.
14. Plantation Industries- one State Minister for Diversification of Plantations.
Strictly; 14 Cabinet and 39 State - only 
Cross over Dramas
Ronnie-Panni was a smart heading coined a decade or two ago by Sinhala editors in reporting cross-over by the reputed Civil servant turned shaky politician in Ronnie de Mel whose acrobatic reverse somersault, he performed for the umpteenth time Six in all. The highly versatile reputation and record he held until recently for the Great grandson of father of nation to break by somersaulting only four times! How come Ronnie did it over one and a half decades, which Wasantha accomplished within 72 hours! Let alone his Grand uncle Dudley, who had the guts and audacity to prematurely dissolve Parliament being appointed as successor to father, but preferring to go before the people for a mandate and after obtaining it, resigned the post and retire after 1  years disregarding appeals by masses over his decisionWasanthas own father, the late Ranjith Senanayake [with whom the writer had the privilege to work for a short time at Colpettys Multinational, Shaw Wallace in early 1970s] an honourable mercantile executive who hastily handed over his resignation on a matter of principle. When I asked him, if he had found a place, he happily said, Yes, my home. 
Mr. Wasantha, it is unethical for me give credit to you, for establishing a Record in the political gymnastics, but you remind me of the other Wasantha who took your place as State Minister along with his brother for the fact that they had a grandfather in politics too. Bernard Aluvihare somersaulted back and forth, he was the first to set this unbreakable record when he first crossed the floor with SWRD in 1951 to the opposition and back to UNP just before 1956 election to lose his seat.
Consistently Inconsistent
The somersault acrobats can do it with impunity, because every time they do so it is into the welcoming arms of the leader of the opposing side. It is a matter of time, history repeats itself, they would leap effortlessly backwards or forward. Dr. Colvin R. De Silva, the Trotskyite leader described this acquired skill as being consistently inconsistent. I doubt if there is any other nation in the planet where such political triple jumpers are tolerated by the electorate as it happens in this island. 
To be principled is to have integrity in the face of adversity. There are only a handful of them in politics today. The two sides are infested with crooks, thieves, rogues and bribe-takers. They both filled the 13-acre Galle Face Green to capacity within a space of 20 months with tens of thousands of brainless supporters. 
It is nothing but the wrong exercise of our sovereign power that created this disastrous situation. This is an instant for the People to wake up from their mindset of acceptance and stand up for their rights. lets give life to Article 3 of Constitution, that Sovereignty is with the People, not only at the cast of vote once in five years, but always.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mano wants inclusion of Tamil language in signboards
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 08:00 pm
Mano wants inclusion of Tamil language in signboards
	
Minister of National Integration, Official Languages and Social Progress Mano Ganesan requested the Chinese Embassy in Sri Lanka to ensure the inclusion of Tamil language in signboards erected at Chinese funded development projects. He said the signboards had been written in Chinese, English and Sinhala only.
Minister Ganesan told Daily Mirror that he decided to explain to the officials of Chinese embassy about the languages used on signboards after seeing the signboard of Metro Colombo Solid Waste Project only in Sinhala, Chinese and in English. This is not the only sign where one or two Sri Lanka languages are missing. I have noticed that there are signboards without Sinhala wordings. Therefore, I decided to explain things to the officials of the Chinese Embassy and tell them that signboards should carry wordings in all three Sri Lankan languages as the Language Act of Sri Lanka.
We are receiving complaints on signboards at Chinese projects using only Mandarin and English ignoring one of the two local languages, the Minister added. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM did not fulfil his promises-Radhakrishnan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 07:41 am
PM did not fulfil his promises-Radhakrishnan
	
UNP MP V. Radhakrishnan yesterday alleged that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe did not keep his promise to appoint him as a Cabinet Minister.
Mr. Radhakrishnan told a news conference that the Prime Minister had agreed to give him a Cabinet post and a deputy minister's post to Badulla District MP S. Aravinth Kumar, but both promises were broken.
He said complications had arisen in the assignment of subjects and responsibilities to the ministers as the Prime Minister and President Sirisena do not see eye to eye.
He said the fate that befell Somalia would befall this country if the rupees continues to depreciate in the manner that it has. "There is a need for someone to step in and mitigate in this war of attrition between the Prime Minister and the President. Otherwise, the present crisis will take a turn for the worse, endangering the future of this country," he said.
Mr. Radhakrishnan said several backbenchers of the government had also expressed discontentment because they did not receive portfolios.( Ranjith Rajapaksa )
 
		
==============================
## Title: R.H.S. Samaratunge appointed Secretary to Finance Ministry
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 11:06 am
R.H.S. Samaratunge appointed Secretary to Finance Ministry
	
Dr. R.H.S. Samaratunge was appointed as the secretary to the Ministry of Finance and Mass Media by President Maithripala Sirisena today, Presidents Media Unit said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Rear Admiral Piyal de Silva appointed 23rd Navy Commander
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 10:36 am
Rear Admiral Piyal de Silva appointed 23rd Navy Commander
	
Rear Admiral Piyal de Silva has been appointed as new Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy with effect from tomorrow (January 1) by President Maitripala Sirisena.
He was the Chief of Staff of the Navy prior to the appointment as Commander.
He was appointed as the 23rd Commander of the Navy following the retirement of Vice Admiral Sirimevan Ranasinghe.
Rear Admiral De Silva received his letter of appointment from the President this morning at the President's house.
President's Secretary Udaya R. Seneviratne and Defence Secretary Hemasiri Fernando were also present at the occasion. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka faces bumpy road in combating rising traffic  accidents
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 December 2018 01:13 am
Sri Lanka faces bumpy road in combating rising traffic  accidents
	

Sri Lanka is experiencing an increasing number of traffic accidents, posing a serious danger to citizens throughout the country. Accidents take place unexpectedly and unintentionally, cause damage, injury, and death, as well as trauma and heartache for victims. 
Accidents also ignite much finger pointing and blaming. Some blame it on bad luck, while others point to negligence or structural lapses. The question of who is responsible for increasing road mishaps remain open. Is it motorists, or pedestrians Could it be bad road design and infrastructure Or is it a combination of these factors
What remains clear is that everyone concerned must take serious note of the problem. A staggering 19,061 traffic-related deaths have been reported since 2012, of which 3,153 occurred last year, which was the highest. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), traffic-related deaths in Sri Lanka in 2017 accounted for 2.80 percent of total deaths that year. The WHO age-adjusted death rate of 16.33 per 100,000 persons ranks Sri Lanka 98 in the world.


Authorities not keen on taking effective steps to address the issue
 Prof. Amal Kumarage
Authorities have been ineffective in controlling increasing road accidents, said Prof. Amal Kumarage of the Moratuwa University. Speaking to Daily Mirror, Prof Kumarage said: The development taking place in the country has not effectively contributed to making mobility and safer travel a priority. Even though priority is given to the accommodation of more vehicles and widening roads, less importance is placed on peoples safety. 
Drivers are often blamed for accidents, but this assumption is not always correct, stresses Prof. Kumarage, who works at the universitys Department of Transport and Logistics Management. There are several other parameters that are equally important when considering road accidents. Minimum standards in roads designing, unsafe junctions, bends and pedestrian crossings, visibility at night, and potential black spots, have not been properly dealt with, he said. 
Prof. Kumarage noted that inadequate safety precautions and more vehicles had directly contributed to more accidents. He added that peoples failure to follow road signs also caused many accidents. Inadequate safety standards in vehicles are another major reason for escalating accidents. Most inexpensive vehicles in
Sri Lanka lack adequate safety modes, resulting in grave harm during accidents, he said. Authorities should ensure that all vehicles are properly equipped, and airbags must be made compulsory, he stressed.
While public transport is the safest mode of transport, authorities ignore this vital sector, the professor noted. When public transport was ignored and neglected, people shifted to three wheelers and motorbikes, which are the most unsafe modes of transport. This has made people more vulnerable to road accidents, the professor said. 
As an initial measure, Prof. Kumarage recommended the continual monitoring of roads. Drivers must be well trained before being allowed to drive, he said, adding that insurance should not focus only on vehicles, but also on passengers. We need to place more value on human life. The public, insurance companies and law enforcement authorities should collaborate and play a more responsible role to minimise road accidents, and place more value on human life, Prof. Kumarage said. I believe that a road safety audit should be conducted on every road to identify road accidents in terms of where, when and why, he noted. The professor emphasized that deaths reported due to road accidents might surpass deaths reported in the three decades of war.

The root cause is peoples lack of discipline on roads
- SP Indika Hapugoda
The lack of discipline of drivers and pedestrians was the root cause for the road accidents, said SP Indika Hapugoda, Director of Traffic Administration and Road Safety. Speaking toDaily Mirror,he said: People mostly use motor bikes and three wheelers, which are 56 percent of all vehicles, and are susceptible to accidents. Some 140-150 accidents occur daily in Sri Lanka, of which eight deaths are reported.
According to the Department of Motor Traffic, in 2008 Sri Lanka had 3,390,993 vehicles, but this more than doubled in 2017 to 7,247,122 - and in 2018 the number exceeded 7.5 million. Despite this, roads had not been widened or increased, but some were upgraded, the SP said. The development of roads was not sufficient to cope with the rise of vehicle numbers. Therefore, what should have been done is to increase the roads as the number of vehicles increased, he said. Most accidents occurred on Friday, Monday and Wednesday, between 4.00 pm to 8.00 pm, he said.

A road accident occurs every 10 minutes
- Dr. Siriwardana
Nationally, a road accident occurs every 10 minutes, and consequently eight deaths are reported, says Dr. Thilak Siriwardana. Speaking toDaily Mirror,Dr. Siriwardana, who is Director of the Non-Communicable Diseases Unit of the Health Ministry, said: A total 3,000 persons die annually due to road accidents. Most victims are men, and its mainly youth between 18-25 years who fall victim to road accidents. The majority of accidents occur due to the negligence of both motorists and pedestrians. 

20 percent of hospital admissions due to road accidents
- Pushpa Ramyani
The Accident Ward of the Colombo National Hospital admits 400-500 of persons daily, of which 20 percent are road accident victims, hospital coordinator Pushpa Ramyani de Soysa said. Speaking toDaily Mirror,Ms. de Soysa said: A total 75 percent of those admitted are male, while 30 percent are female. The majority of admissions are victims of motorbike accidents, and secondly pedestrians. She added that 163 road accidents were reported on December 24 and 25, marking an 18 percent increase from last year.
An Accident may occur:
1. Between a vehicle and another vehicle.
2. Vehicle colliding with a person
3. Vehicle colliding with movable or unmovable property
4. When a vehicle goes off the road
5. A person being knocked down with another person.
6. Due to natural or man-made disaster

Reasons for Accidents
Recklessness of the Driver
	Negligence of the Driver
	Indisciplined driving 
	Lack of knowledge on road rules and regulation, road conditions, weather conditions, conditions of the vehicle, knowledge regarding apparatus, controls, equipment
	Fatigue or stress
	Road infrastructure defects
	Lack of driving experience and skills
	Driving under the influence of alcohol
	Failure to check power
	Excessive speeding 
	Not wearing the safety belt
	Pedestrians not following road rules
	Jumping colour lights
	Driving after taking medication
	Unsatisfactory enforcement by some Police officer
Recommendations to prevent accidents
To educate people on traffic safety 
	Safe driving programmes to be conducted for drivers / riders and also conductors to be educated on safety
	Road infrastructure defects to be identified and rectified 
	Disciplined driving method to be taught, examine driving knowledge skills and also the knowledge of rules and regulations and medical fitness before issuance of driving and riding licence
	Identified risk drivers and to cancel/ suspend / their licences by judiciary or by demerits systems 
	To increase insurance premium of risk drivers
	Deterrent punishment for offenders committing fatal, grievous and serious accidents
	Renewal of driving licence every 3 years having rechecked the knowledge on rules and regulations, health and driving skills and driving records.
	To include traffic road safety as a major in school curriculum
	To have special driving programmes for school leavers
	Advance traffic management and road safety centres on mobile for education / enforcement purpose on highways.
	Improved enforcement by police and other agencies more moving violations to be detected.
==============================
## Title: Sri Lankas largest heroin haul
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 31 December 2018 08:41 pm
Sri Lankas largest heroin haul
	
A mammoth heroin haul of 278 kilos valued at more than Rs. 3,336 million--the largest heroin haul in Sri Lanka--was seized on the New Years eve, from Dehiwala in a joint operation carried out by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) and the Special Task Force (STF). Pix by H.M Dharmapala
 
		
==============================
## Title: The right to slaughter whales - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 December 2018 12:59 am
The right to slaughter whales - EDITORIAL
	

ive days prior to Christmas, Japan announced it was considering to resume commercial whaling. According to reports, Japan is to withdraw from the International Whaling Commission (IWC) and resume commercial whaling next year. 
Australia has protested Japans plan to resume commercial whaling, and it is expected all other nations opposed to commercial whaling and whaling as a whole will speak out against Japans decision to recommence the slaughtering of whalesThe International Whaling Commission (IWC) was created by voluntary agreement among UN member states to function as the sole governing body with authority to act under the InternationalConvention for the Regulation of Whaling, which is an International Environmental Agreement signed in 1946 in order to provide for proper conservation of whales, as, by the late 1930s more than 50,000 whales were killed annually. 
In 1986, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) banned commercial whaling because of the extreme depletion of most of the whale stocks. While the Japanese authorities claim eating whale meat has been part of Japanese culture, Michael Marshal writing in Forbes points out that the reality is, that hardlyanyone in Japan eats whale meat today. 
It used to be a major source of protein in the years after the Second World War, when food was in short supply. But Japan has had no such shortage for decades and most Japanese nowadays are not interested in even trying whale meat...
Japans claims that critics of its whaling are sentimental about whales and disregarding scientific evidence about the sustainability of whaling, were debunked when an International Court ruling stated it did not believe it was necessary for Japan to kill whales in order to study them.
So why then does Japan in the face of evidence that whale populations are in danger of going extinct, want to resume commercial whaling when in fact, its people have no appetite for the meat of this beautiful endangered species. 
Perhaps it is the quest to earn big bucks by multinational companies in the perfumery trade who are pushing Japanese politicians into backing the recommencement of commercial whaling. The ordinary Japanese people the world well knows, are polite to the extreme, extremely law-abiding and peace-loving. They are the only people on earth who have been victims of a nuclear bomb attack and have been in the forefront of anti nuclear campaigns. The Japanese constitution renounces war. It is unique world-wide and Article 9 prohibits the country maintaining military forces. 
Unfortunately today, powerful politicians are voicing support to make changes to Article 9 of Japans unique Constitution of Peace and brings to mind the wartime atrocities committed by the Japanese Imperial Army ranging from China, to Korea, Myanmar and Malaysia etc.
It also brings back memories of how a militarised Japan forced women in the countries which fell prey to its military might into positions euphemistically referred to as Comfort Women - another name for women forced to make their bodies available to satisfy the sexual needs of the Japanese Imperial Army.
In commercial whaling or hunts, whales are killed by a variety of methods. Because they are so huge (minke whales are 11m or 36 ft long, and adult sperm whales can be as large as 20m long) they are difficult to kill and often harpoons with grenades attached are used to kill them. These devices explode inside the whale but do not necessarily kill instantaneously. Sir David Attenborough quoted by the BBC, has said in the past that there is no humane way to kill a whale at sea. The untold misery and suffering caused to these majestic creatures via commercial whaling brings to mind the horrors of wartime atrocities.
However, Japan is not alone in the pursuit of whaling, Norway, Iceland, and Greenland too refuse to abide by the IWC ruling. We can only hope the focus on Japans insistence on its right to commercial whaling is not because of the difference in the colour of skin of the people of these nations.
Small communities such as the Inuits and other indigenous people in United States and Canada continue small-scale whaling as part of their food chain. But this activity does not contribute to the endangering of these magnificent mammals. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two Bangladeshis arrested with heroin worth Rs.3.3bn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 31 December 2018 04:25 pm
Two Bangladeshis arrested with heroin worth Rs.3.3bn
	
Sri Lankas largest-ever heroin haul, weighing 278 kg and worth Rs.3,336 million, was detected in Dehiwala today, in a New Years Eve raid conducted jointly by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) and the Special Task Force (STF).
The operation uncovered the country's main safe-house for heroin distribution. Police had initially arrested two Bangladeshi nationals, aged 44 and 30, from a housing complex in Templers Road, Mount Lavinia, with nine kg of heroin, spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekara said.
The heroin was packed in cake boxes. One suspect had a remote controller for a roller gate and other keys. We found that the keys belonged to a two-storey house on Kawdana Road, Dehiwala. During the raid, the PNB and STF found heroin-filled packets, containers and luggage items everywhere in the house," SP Gunasekara said.
The house had been rented out by foreign drug smugglers, and had been used as a safe-house for drug distribution throughout the country, he added.
On December 14, two suspects were arrested at Pagoda Road, Nugegoda, with one kg of heroin concealed in a cake box. On December 15, a Bangladeshi woman was arrested in Dehiwala with another cake box of heroin. Later, 31 kg of heroin was discovered in a building in Ratmalana, rented out by the suspect woman, SP Gunasekara said.
"We believe these heroin detections are part of the latest haul, as they have the same packaging. The safe-house had been used to weigh and repack expired drugs. We also found a haul of cocaine weighing 5 kg worth Rs.75 million, he said, speaking to journalists at the safe-house.
SP Gunasekara said the two Bangladeshi nationals had arrived in Sri Lanka on December 23. They will be produced in courts to obtain a detention order. So far there is no evidence of any Sri Lankan being involved in the racket. We believe the drugs were transported by sea and air," he said.
The previous largest heroin haul, weighing 261 kg and stored in grease tins, was detected in Orugodawatte in 2013. (Sanath Desmond)
Video by Sanath Desmond, Janaka
 
		
==============================
## Title: World leader of the year 2018
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 31 December 2018 01:02 am
World leader of the year 2018
	

orld leaders -- whether they come from the US, North Korea or even from Sri Lanka -- are not like us, the ordinary people. They wine and dine on the best of fare, travel in luxury and to some degree are immune from prosecution for the actions they take... quite unlike lesser mortals like you and me. As we come to years end, it is time to look back, not necessarily in anger, to check out whos been naughty and whos been nice and whom you and I would like being adjudged as Person of the Year.
After all, it is We the People who put these leaders in the seats of power they now enjoy holding. Yes, through our mighty vote, We the People, elected certain men and women to rule the societies from which they come. Among the pack of world leaders in line choice as World Leader of the Year, is President Donald Trump of the US, the country which continues to be at war in far-flung parts of the world from Afghanistan, to Syria, to Libya, to Iraq and to Palestine.
In Palestine, the US proxy -- Israel -- continues to illegally occupy Palestinian lands, uses live ammunition against unarmed Palestinian men, women and children who only seek the right to return to the lands from which Israel has evicted them. Using a variety of tactics ranging from armed attacks by Israeli citizens occupying Palestinian fields, lands and homes to outright armed incursions into supposed areas under the control of Palestinian authorities Israel continues its policy of grabbing Palestinian land, demolishing homes and incarcerating Palestinian civillians.
To date, the Israeli-Palestine conflict, which commenced with the setting up of the State of Israel in what was the land of Palestine in 1946, continues unabated. The struggle has resulted in millions of Palestinians living as refugees in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Thousands of Palestinians have been killed and large areas of Palestine have been ethnically cleansed while others have been thrown out of their homes in the Israeli-occupied territories.
The UN, the organisation which set up the State of Israel on Palestinian soil, declared Jerusalem (a holy city to Christians, Jews and Muslims) as an international city under UN protection. Today the Israelis illegally occupy Jerusalem and claim it as the capital of Israel. The Christian and Muslim clergy who travel to their places of worship in religious dress are spat upon by young Israeli children and abused by adult Israeli fundamentalist sects.
President Trump backs the Israeli claims to the holy city of Jerusalem, recognises Jerusalem as the Israeli capital, has moved the US embassy into that city and has decided to close his eyes, ears and mouth to ongoing Israeli atrocities against Palestinians. The US-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War saw the US invasion and military occupation of portions of Syria, in support of Syrian opposition forces.
According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR), US-led coalition airstrikes have resulted in the killing of 12,596 people across Syria. In 2016, from an estimated pre-war population of 22 million, the United Nations (UN) identified 13.5 million Syrians requiring humanitarian assistance, of whom more than six million were internally displaced within Syria, and around five million remain refugees outside of Syria.
However, despite protests from the US military-industrial complex and shrill screams from its media, President Trump has called time on the American military adventure in Syria. To give credit where it is due, Trump had the courage to defy his generals and the munitions industry to bring to an end US intervention in Syria.
On October 7, 2001, supported by its close allies the US invaded Afghanistan in the aftermath of Al-Qaeda attack on the US on September 11, 2001. The stated aim of the mission was to dismantle Al-Qaeda and its secondary aim was to remove the Taliban from power in revenge for its refusal to hand Osama bin Laden over to US authorities for his role in the 9/11 attack.
Today, seven years later, the Al-Qaeda leader has been killed, and US forces have overthrown the Taliban from power. Yet, the US forces still remain in that country. It is widely believed, however, the US presence in Afghanistan continues because the country is a veritable treasure trove of minerals, precious metals and rare earths which US multinationals lust after.

"President Trump backs the Israeli claims to the holy city of Jerusalem, recognises Jerusalem as the Israeli capital, has moved the US embassy into that city and has decided to close his eyes, ears and mouth to ongoing Israeli atrocities against Palestinians"
According to surveys carried out by US authorities, Afghanistan may hold 60 million tons of copper, 2.2 billion tons of iron ore, 1.4 million tons of rare earth elements such as lanthanum, cerium and neodymium, and loads of aluminum, gold, silver, zinc, mercury and lithium. For instance, the Khanneshin carbonatite deposit in Afghanistans Helmand province is valued at $89 billion, full as it is with rare earth elements. Afghanistans mineral resources have been valued at $908 billion, by the US task force, while the Afghan governments estimate is $3 trillion. Not surprisingly all US Presidents are loath to leave Afghanistan.
UN figures reveal 3,179 children were killed or wounded in 2017, accounting for almost one-third of the total civilian casualties for the year. During the war in Afghanistan (2001present), over 31,000 civilian deaths due to war-related violence have been documented; 29,900 civilians have been wounded. Over 111,000 Afghans, including civilians, soldiers and militants, are estimated to have been killed in the conflict.
Recognising the injustice of the Afghan war former President Obama campaigned on a ticket to end the war and pull US troops out of Afghanistan. But he was unable to stand up to the military and armaments industry. President Trump is not only in the process of pulling troops out of Syria, but has called for immediate withdrawal of2,000 troops from Afghanistan, seen by many as a first step toward a full draw down of US troops from that country.
The withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan will be the first step towards reconciliation between the different factions fighting to drive the invaders out of that country and Trumps gesture for whatever his reasons, for getting US troops out of that country needs to appreciated.
In March 2003, the US invaded Iraq on a blatantly false accusation of Iraq possessing Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). US troops still remain in Iraq and the US continues to treat Iraq with the contempt colonial rulers treat its colonial minions. We saw proof of this when President Trump visited US forces in Iraq without so much as by-your-leave from the Iraqi government or without even paying common courtesy of visiting the Iraqi head of State. The Iraq Body Count project (IBC) puts documented civilian deaths resulting from violence as between 173,686  193,965 as at April 2017.
Trump has been a controversial figure in his own country. His speeches exacerbating race differences and tensions between coloured and white Americans. He demonises migrants, referring to them as rapists and underworld characters. He calls for his political opponents to be locked up and continues attacking the media. Most shocking has been his absolute disrespect towards women. Trump has also withdrawn the US from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and made the world a less safe place to live in through his unilateral withdrawal from the Seven-Nation Iran Nuclear Agreement and slapping unilateral sanctions on Iran.
The Person of the Year was originally selected by the Time Magazine . Time features and profiles a person, a group, an idea, or an object that for better or for worse... has done the most to influence the events of the year.

"President Xi has shown the imperial powers that Asians are vassal states no longer. He has also led China on the road to making it the second strongest economy and third strongest military power behind the US and Russia"
So is Donald Trump a suitable candidate for the World Leader of the Year Award Germanys Angela Merkel is a strong candidate. She is considered the leader of European Union (EU). Her focus and determination is believed to have saved the Eurozone from collapse after bailouts were organised three times for Greece, Cyprus, Portugal and Ireland. She has come under intense criticism for her handling of the European migrants crisis through the opening of Germanys borders to a million or more refugees from Libya, Syria and Iraq in 2015. But has maintained she would do it all over again if she had to.
Merkels leadership helped calm and stabilise the situation in Central Europe after Russia annexed Crimea and subsequent crises following tensions with the Ukraine in the aftermath of Russias annexation. She has also been a firm supporter of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and has effectively countered anti-NATO rhetoric from President Trump. It is expected she will continue to play key role in deciding Britains transition and Brexit deal when it (Britain) exits the EU in March 2019.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a charismatic politician who came to power after his party won the 2014 general election with an outright majority securing 282 seats in the 543-strong parliament. His main election pledge was to transform Indias economy. A corruption-free regime, an inclusive India, clean governance, 10 million new jobs per year and increasing farm income by 2022.
But the promises remain a distant dream. According to Sudha Pai, a political scientist, the agriculture sector has suffered, unemployment rate has spiked, fiscal deficit is increasing, and Indian society is more polarized than ever. 
The Financial Express of June 2017 quoting official figures said India witnessed more than 700 outbreaks of communal violence last year that killed 86 and injured 2,321 people. The actual number, however, could be higher as many cases go unreported.
A report by the data-based news organisation India Spend found that Muslims were the target of 51% of violence centred on bovine issues over nearly eight years (2010 to 2017). They comprised 84% of 25 Indians killed in 60 incidents. As many as 97% of these attacks were reported after Modis government came to power in May 2014.
The UN report of June 2018 regarding Kashmir is damning, it accuses Indias security forces of using excessive force that led to unlawful killings and a very high number of injuries. It highlights the use of pellet firing shotguns as a means of crowd control. According to official figures, 17 people were killed by shotgun pellets between July 2016 and August 2017, and 6,221 people were injured by the metal pellets between 2016 and March 2017. Civil society organizations believe that many of them have been partially or completely blinded.
The question we must ask ourselves is: Can premier Modi be your choice and mine as World Leader of the Year keeping in mind that the person of the year, is a person, a group, an idea, or an object that for better or for worse... done the most to influence the events of the year.
Though small in size, Sri Lanka, the land described as the Pearl of the Indian Ocean has been in the international limelight since October 2018 for all the wrong reasons. President Maithripala Sirisena, the man who joined hands with his erstwhile Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe, to defeat the charismatic Mahinda Rajapaksa at the 2015 Presidential election brought into being the 19th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution. The amendment effectively divested the executive presidency of most of its executive powers, including the presidents ability to sack a prime minister or to dissolve parliament! An excellent choice one may not be blamed for thinking for World Leader of the Year.

"PM Modis main election pledge was to transform Indias economy. A corruption-free regime, an inclusive India, clean governance, 10 million new jobs per year and increasing farm income by 2022"
But hark, when none was stirring... not even a mouse so-to-say Maithri as he was fondly referred to, surprised a nation preparing for its nightly slumber, when he announced, he had pulled his Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) out of the ruling coalition; sacked PM Wickremesinghe and appointed former President Rajapaksa as PM. For better for worse Sirisena had plunged the country into its first Constitutional crisis.
Premier Wickremesinghe rejected the presidents actions, accused the president of engineering a constitutional coup, and claimed he was the lawful prime minister as he enjoyed the confidence of the House. When Wickremesinghe proved his majority in Parliament, President Sirisena without much ado ordered the dissolution of parliament and called for fresh elections.The disturbed president had forgotten that he had shorn himself of his executive powers and had no power to either dissolve parliament or call for snap elections. From one constitutional mess the president had thrown himself and the country into the next constitutional imbroglio.
Challenged in the Courts of law for acting ultra vires of the Constitution, Sirisena had to eat humble pie when the Supreme Courts held his actions were unconstitutional. Sirisena was forced to swear-in the very Prime Minister he had, but 50-days earlier outed. The wheels of justice as Charles Dickens was wont to say, grind slowly but surely.
The islanders it is said, tend to see themselves as the centrepiece on any stage they enter, and so it is, little Sri Lanka has thrown up four possible candidates for a choice of World Leader of the year. Its safe to bet no single individual has influenced events in Sri Lanka more than ex-President Rajapaksa - conqueror of the LTTE, a one-term premier, two-term President, reduced to a simple Member of Parliament and most recently a 50-day Premier.
MP Rajapaksa now awaits news of whether his days in parliament are numbered for leaving the political coalition from which he was elected to parliament, for an entity he himself created while remaining a member of that coalition of parties. What must be kept in mind is that despite his present setbacks, the former president has had the ability to influence events in the country... even if that influence seems to be fading since the events of October 26, 2018 unfolded.

"Challenged in the Courts of law for acting ultra vires of the Constitution, Sirisena had to eat humble pie when the Supreme Courts held his actions were unconstitutional. Sirisena was forced to swear-in the very PM he had, but 50-days earlier outed"
Then we have Speaker Karu Jayasuriya who prior to the constitutional crisis overtaking the country, was probably best remembered for his cross-over from the opposition United National Party (UNP) to the ruling SLFP. Only to cross the rubicon when he rejoined the UNP once again. Sri Lankans today remember Speaker Jayasuriya as the man who upheld the dignity and office of the Speaker of the House in the face of physical threats and abuse from President Sirisenas allies.
And last, but not least, Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe, though tarnished by the central bank bond scam among other misdemeanours, today holds sway as the Prime Minister once more. He has to his credit the capping of the powers of the once all-powerful Executive President of Sri Lanka.
We have not included Chinese President Xi Jingping, or Russian President Vladimir Putin as they operate from a political system quite different to ours and it is difficult to judge when we do not understand. Suffice to say President Xi has shown the imperial powers that Asians are vassal states no longer. He has also led China on the road to making it the second strongest economy and third strongest military power behind the US and Russia.
President Putin has brought Russia which was reduced to a non-entity status in the wake of Boris Yeltsins runious era to one of the worlds foremost powers and into a position where it has faced the combined sanctions of the EU and the US untrammelled.
So, which one of these great leaders if any would we wish to name as World Leader of the Year
 
		
==============================
## Title: Yasmin Jaldins Short Stories: Depicting her Stories in Contemporary Milieu
## Section: News Features
## Date: 31 December 2018 01:11 am
Yasmin Jaldins Short Stories: Depicting her Stories in Contemporary Milieu
	
One of the consistent writers in English is Yasmin Jaldin, a Lankan Malay lady. She writes poetry and short stories. Sarasaviya Publishers have recently brought out a collection of 38 stories she has written over the years. This 113-page book is priced at Rs.350/-
Reading her stories, I find that they are true to life and interesting. She has gained a lot of experience in life and therefore depicting her stories in the contemporary milieu comes easy to her. Her writing is polished in style. The stories cover a wide spectrum of her observations and felt experiences of life she has encountered.
As a critical reader and critic, I found that Yasmin Jaldin writes her stories just as she has done in her poetry book already published in an acceptable manner that stands out amidst a heap of short stories I have read by Lankan writers in English This is because her stories are very simple and carry meat that covers both the urban and rural scene in Lanka.
Therefore, in a country where English is not understood by the vast majority of people in Lanka at present, her book is a profitable and productive achievement that benefits young readers to improve their knowledge of English, if used as additional reading material in schools particularly in the provinces.
The title of the book is Was shy to Tell without a noun or subject.
I just want to describe and say something about the title story only to show as a sample of the stories found in this collection.
The opening begins like this:
Ray and Jamie were cousins, children of two sisters. Their maternal grandparents had built two similar houses for the two daughters and these were handed over to them as a dowry when they married. So, the families lived in the same compound
Second paragraph says how the two children behaved good like affectionate brother and sister. One day both were cycling and the girl trying to overtake the boy fell down and for that he was reprimanded by his parents.
Even when she was sick it was Ray who comforted her says the narrator. The two sisters were happy in terms of the third paragraph.
Fourth para describes how Ray is never rude to Jamie. But when she cheats him in a game of carom, Ray would call her by nicknames, a fool and cheat. Then she would burst into tears.
When they grew up, Ray went abroad to study architecture while Jamie worked in a firm here, they were in touch with each other. Janie understood that Ray had a soft corner for him, but again she thought, why is he treating me as a friend, he is a mutt thought she, smiling to herself relates the narrator.
After a few years through a marriage proposal Jamie was betrothed. Ray was disheartened. She too felt the same way but she did her best not to show it. Two years after her marriage she was now in the family way and in another two weeks she would be mother.
But she had a very difficult pregnancy, both mother and child could not be saved. Ray was very sad to lose his only cousin. He was heartbroken.
Why I wrote the story so far is to point out the economy of words the writer in relating her story.
Now comes the turning point in the story.
It may sound an incest relationship for Jamie
Please read this:
When everything was returning to normalcy, her cupboards and almirah were rummaged. Among her books, the family found an old diary and many letters she had written kept in a bundle tied with a white ribbon in a tin box. It was all for Ray.
The narrator says:
A day before her going away, she had written a final letter which said. I am getting married to another, I saw him wipe away a tear when the nuptial knots were tied, did he feel the same way as I did. Did I too mess up by not disclosing my feelings, how could I take the initiative, was it not his duty to Tell me. Now it is too late I shall begone, I have lost my fond cousin forever 
Ray in the final paragraph says, Oh! it is this shyness that led to this disaster thought he.. The narrator adds:
After sometime, many marriage proposals came his way but he opted never to say yes. Ray never married remaining a bachelor all his life. The story ends.
I think the writer has written this story cleverly without showing any disgust to anyone.
Though they were cousins, both characters loved each other without revealing themselves to each other. 
sivakumaranks55@gmail.com
 
		
==============================
==============================
