## Title: Black July: Thirty-fifth Anniversary of 1983 Anti-Tamil Violence
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:01 am
Black July: Thirty-fifth Anniversary of 1983 Anti-Tamil Violence
	

It is correct that the perpetrators were Sinhala and the victims Tamils. But it was by no means a mass uprising of the entire Sinhala race against Tamils.

With the pre-dominantly Sinhala armed forces engaging in full  scale war there was no need for lesser forces to act on their own

All people of Sri Lanka striving for a decent and humane future would hope that the July 1983 pogrom was only an aberration. But as eternal vigilance is a prerequisite for maintaining perennial liberty
The majority of the Sinhala people were against what happened then. It cannot be forgotten that a large number of Sinhalese protected and saved Tamils at great personal risk

By
D.B.S.Jeyaraj
One of the darkest chapters in the sphere of Sri Lankan ethnic relations was the widespread anti-Tamil violence that occurred thirty-five years ago during the fourth week of July in 1983.

Although the tragic history of post-independence Sri Lanka records that the Tamils of Sri Lanka were subjected to mass scale mob violence in the years 1956, 1958, 1977, 1981 and 1983, the anti-Tamil violence of July 1983 was the most horrible of them all.
It remains etched in memory even after 35 years as Black July 1983. I have written about the dark happenings of July 1983 extensively in the past. However, I intend re-visiting the events of Black July briefly in these columns to denote the 35th anniversary of the terrible pogrom.
When writing about Black July one is conscious of the negative connotations in using the colour black to describe something bad and evil and the colour white for pure and good. In this age of political Correctness, these usages have been challenged and debunked as insidious vestiges of racism. Wittingly and unwittingly these usages keep promoting racist stereotypes of colour.
Nevertheless, it is difficult to adopt such a politically correct stance in the Sri Lankan context as the description Black July has pervaded national consciousness. Avoiding such references to Black July would be particularly impossible in writing about the violent events of July 1983.
The incident that seemingly sparked off the Island-wide anti-Tamil violence was an attack on the Sri Lanka Army Soldiers by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in the North. Thirty-five years ago on the night of 23rd of July, members of the Tigers led by Veluppillai Prabhakaran and his deputy Sellakkili Ammaan ambushed an Army patrol at the Post Box Junction area in Thirunelvely in Jaffna and killed Lt. Vaas Gunawardena of the Sri Lanka Light Infantry and 12 other soldiers.
Troops went berserk in Jaffna in the hours that followed and shot dead 51 innocent civilians at various places in the Jaffna Peninsula on Sunday. This included seven passengers and driver of a minivan at Manipay.

In Colombo, the Govt. had already decided to publish, broadcast and televise the news about 13 soldiers being killed by the Tigers while blacking out news of reprisals by the armed forces.

W.D. Rajaguru the DIG in charge of the north informed the then IGP Rudra Rajasingham that the Army was running riot and that the Police were unable to control the situation.
When this was communicated to President J.R. Jayewardene he immediately sent his nephew Gen Bull Weeratunga, the then Army Commander to Jaffna. The situation was yet volatile when President Jayewardene instructed the then Defence Secretary Gen. Sepala Attygalle to instruct the Army Commander to bury the 13 bodies with full military honours within the Palaly Military Complex. When told this Bull Weeratunga retorted by telling the Defence Secretary If I tried to do that they (Army) will bury me also here and recommended that the bodies of the dead soldiers be sent as early as possible to their own villages.
Thereupon the National Security Council met and decided that the 13 bodies would be flown to the Air Force base in Katunayakeand embalmed.

The majority of Sinhala people was horrified at what happened and were helpless onlookers, while a minority of their ethnicity unleashed havoc in the name of their race and country

Thereafter the bodies would be sent separately to their families in their native places where the last rites would be observed and funerals held.
The Police were instructed to have 13 air-conditioned vans in readiness to transport the bodies.
Initially, this plan was approved by President Jayewardene. But suddenly the plan was cancelled. The 13 bodies were brought to Ratmalana by air and then to Kanatte for a joint funeral and burial.
It was learnt later that Jayewardene had changed his mind after a meeting with the then Industries and Scientific Affairs minister Cyril Mathew dubbed as the Industrious Minister ofAnti-Tamil Affairs.
In Colombo, the Govt. had already decided to publish, broadcast and televise the news about 13 soldiers being killed by the Tigers while blacking out news of reprisals by thearmed forces.
Now, in an even more inflammatory move, it was decided to stage a mass funeral for the dead soldiers at Kanatte. As large crowds gathered at Kanatte with people being transported in Govt. vehicles for the funeral the mood beganturning ugly.
This situation was exacerbated by the speeches of prominent Buddhist monks. IGP Rudra Rajasingham along with DIGs Ernie Perera and R. Sundaralingam went to Kanatte and realised that the situation wasvery fragile.
The IGP then went personally to Ward Place and asked President Jayewardene to declare a Curfew on Sunday night. This was not done.

Esala Full Moon
The situation took a violent turn around dusk on Sunday. Mobs began moving in the direction of Borella and Thimbirigasaya from Kanatte. Tamil homes and businesses were attacked and set on fire. As the Esala full moon shone brightly from a not so cloudy sky, clouds of smoke from burning Tamil establishments spiralled upwards.
The following Monday 25th saw anti-Tamil violence spreading like wildfire. The plantation Tamil Patriarch Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman known for his pithy comments later described the violence that followed Poya on Sunday as  Sunday Sil, Monday Kill.
Despite repeated entreaties by the then IGP Rudra Rajasingham to declare a curfew, President Jayewardene delayed imposing one until the followingMonday evening.
Even after a curfew was in force, the violence went on for three days peaking on Wednesday 27th and ebbing on Thursday 28th the day that Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi sent then Indian Foreign Minister P. Narasimha Rao as her Special Emissaryto Colombo.
Friday 29th, saw Colombo and suburbs being terrified by the rumour that the Tigers had come to town. The afternoon of that fateful Koti Dawasa (Tiger day) saw the goon squads massacring Tamils again after being sure that no tigers were in town.
30th and 31st July saw the violence diminish gradually. By August the violence had ceased as International opinion and pressure compelled the J.R. Jayewardene regime to Normalise the situation. President Jayewardene and other members of the ruling United National Party (UNP) sought to explain the Black July violence as the spontaneous reaction of the Sinhala people to the LTTE attack in Jaffna.
The Sinhala people were collectively blamed for the violence by the President and his Government. This was done to deflect blame falling on the Govt.

The majority of the Sinhala people were against what happened then. It cannot be forgotten that a large number of Sinhalese protected and saved Tamils often at great personal risk. Many Muslim people too gave shelter and protection to their Tamil neighbours in those dark days.

There is, however, a major flaw in attributing the dark events of Black July 83 to the Sinhala people on the whole. It is correct that the perpetrators were Sinhala and the victims Tamils. But it was by no means a mass uprising of the entire Sinhala race against Tamils.
If that had happened no Tamil would have been left to tell the tale

Sinhala People Horrified
The majority of Sinhala people was horrified at what happened and were helpless onlookers, while a minority of their ethnicity unleashed havoc in the name of their race and country.The mobs on a burning spree went in search of fuel chanting the slogan Rata Jathiya Bera Ganna, Petrol Thel Tikkak Dhenna (To save the race and country give a little petrol and oil)
It is possible that a section of the people who were non participants may have been supportive of the antiTamil violence and sanctioned it by their silence.
But the majority of the Sinhala people were against what happened then. It cannot be forgotten that a large number of Sinhalese protected and saved Tamils often at great personal risk. Many Muslim people too gave shelter and protection to their Tamil neighbours in those dark days.
Another important point to note is that the July 1983 violence was not spontaneous in its entirety. It was basically an organized act. Several persons may have engaged in the violence on their own but there were core groups at different locations that planned and executed it. As is the case in mob violence these core groups were joined by others.
These groups had absolute impunity and had the protection of important members of the United National Party (UNP) Government thenin power.
The mobs had lists of Tamil owned houses and businesses. They also knew the details of ownership. Wherever premises were owned by Sinhalese, only furniture and goods belonging to Tamil tenants were destroyed and set on fire. The buildings were not burnt or damaged.
Many of the mobs were led by functionaries of the UNP trade union Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya (JSS). Several UNP Municipal and Urban councillors were involved. Many prominent supporters and strong-arm men of cabinet ministers were involved. The Police were ordered by UNP politicians not to arrest the violent elements.

Thugs and Goondas
In most instances, the large groups of thugs and goondas were transported in Government-owned Transport Board vehicles or in vehicles owned by semi-govt corporations. Even food parcels and liquor were distributed systematically to these elements.
When some decent UNP leaders like Shelton Ranarajah and Renuka Herath Ranasinghe got goons locked up by the Police in Kandy and Nuwara  Eliya respectively their release was secured by Cyril Mathew andGamini Dissanayake.
The roles of Cyril Mathew and his political lackeys in the violence are well known. Some of those involved are still in politics and holding high office.
What happened in July 1983 was not a spontaneous riot but a planned pogrom. A Pogrom is defined as a form of violent riot, a mob attack, either approved or condoned by Government or military authorities, directed against a particular group, whether ethnic, religious, or other, and characterized by killings and destruction of their homes, businesses, property and religious centres.
The word pogrom is of Russian origin and means to destroy, to wreak havoc, to demolish violently in the language. Pogrom became commonly used in English after a large-scale wave of anti-Jewish riots swept through south-western Imperial Russia encompassing present-day Ukraine and Poland from 1881-1884. Later bloodier waves of pogroms broke out from 19031906, leaving thousands of Jews dead and wounded.

Pre-planned Conspiracy
The anti-Tamil violence of July 1983 was not a spontaneous mass uprising against Tamils. Prior to the outbreak of violence, there existed a pre-planned conspiracy to launch a widespread attack against Tamil life, limb and property on a massive scale. All it required was a powerful incident to be the provocative pretext to justify such an attack.
The Thirunelvely attack by the LTTE killing 13 soldiers, provided such an excuse for being the flashpoint of tension. It is also noteworthy that violence against Tamils had preceded July 83 in Vavuniya, Trincomalee and the University at Peradeniya. July 83 in that sense was a grand finale or culmination of an ongoing process.
Notwithstanding the efforts of then President Jayewardene to tarnish the Sinhala people as being collectively responsible for this carnage, respected observers such as Paul Sieghart of the International Commission of Jurists exposed the real state of affairs.
As Sieghart himself pointed out in his report (Sri Lanka: A Mounting Tragedy of Errors) Clearly this (July 1983 attack) was no spontaneous upsurge of communal hatred among the Sinhala people  nor was it as has been suggested in some quarters, a popular response to the killing of 13 soldiers in an ambush the previous day by Tamil Tigers, which was not even reported in the newspapers until the riots began. It was a series of deliberate acts, executed in accordance with a concerted plan, conceived and organized well in advance. L.Piyadasa/C.R.Hensman
One of the best books that came out in the aftermath of the July 83 violence was Sri Lanka The Holocaust and After. It was written by an unknown author L. Piyadasa. It was known that L. Piyadasa was a pseudonym. Who then was L. Piyadasa I personally thought it was Regi Siriwardene. I asked him about this later but Regi denied he was the author.

Shops, Banks, Offices and Restaurants in the Capitals crowded City Centre and Main Streets being burnt while the Police looked on. Thousands of houses ransacked and burnt, sometimes with women and children inside.
The mystery about this remarkable book was cleared up for me when the well  known writer, researcher and Social activist C.R. Hensman passed away. I had read some of Hensmans books and had met him in the eighties on a few occasions in Colombo at the International Centre for Ethnic Studies, Marga Institute and Centre for Society and Religion. It was after his demise that Hensmans daughter Rohini informed me that her father was L.Piyadasa.CR Hensman writing as L.Piyadasa describes the July 1983 violence as a pogrom and makes a solid case against the JR Jayewardene regime for it. The introductory paragraph in the book encapsulates July 83 perfectly.
Shops, Banks, Offices and Restaurants in the Capitals crowded City Centre and Main Streets being burnt while the Police looked on. Thousands of houses ransacked and burnt, sometimes with women and children inside. Goon squads battering passengers to death in trains and on station platforms and, without hindrance, publicly burning men and women to death on the streets! Remand prisoners and political detainees in the countrys top prison being massacred. The armed forces joining in and sometimes organizing this pogrom against members of Sri Lankas two Sri Lankan minority communities. The nations President and top ranking cabinet members publicly justifying the pogrom! It is clear therefore that in spite of the attempts to rationalise the July 1983 anti-Tamil violence as a Sinhala backlash to 13 Soldiers being killed by Tamil Tigers evidence uncovered during the past years have proved conclusively that Black July 1983 was a definite Pogrom and not a spontaneous reaction of the Sinhalese.

Abominable Response
One of the lamentable features of that Pogrom was the abominable response of JRJ and senior ministers on television. Not even one word was uttered in sympathy for the victims of the violence.
JR indirectly blamed the Sinhala people and said it was a natural reaction. Instead of reaching out to the victimised Tamil people the President announced that legislation would be brought to forbid secessionism.
State Minister Anandatissa de Alwis spoke about a hidden hand, a foreign hand being responsible. He said there was a conspiracy to provoke clashes between the Sinhalese and Tamils, the Sinhalese and Muslims and Buddhists and Christians.
Lands and Mahaweli Development Minister Gamini Dissanayake warned Tamils that it would require 14 hours for Indian troops to come and rescue them but the Sinhalese could destroy them in 14 minutes if they wanted to.
Trade and Shipping Minister Lalith Athulathmudali was sorry that people had to queue up again for essentials as a result of the violence. Finance Minister Ronnie de Mel gave a lecture in history about Sena and Guttiga.
Cyril Mathew the Industries and Scientific Affairs minister raised the Indian bogey and saw an alien hand behind the conspiracy that led to the July 83 violence. His cabinet colleague Rural Industrial Development minister Saumiyamoorthy Thondaman refuted it and said elements inside or close to the Govt were responsible
Black July 83 saw over 4,000 Tamils and some Muslims -mistaken for Tamils-being killed. Thousands were injured. Some of the injured were killed in hospitals. There were over 200,000 displaced persons as a result. 130,000 were housed in makeshift refugee camps. More than 2500 business enterprises ranging from factories to petty boutiques were damaged or destroyed. The number of houses and dwellings damaged or destroyed is not fully estimated.

Lands and Mahaweli Development Minister Gamini Dissanayake warned Tamils that it would require 14 hours for Indian troops to come and rescue them but the Sinhalese could destroy them in 14 minutes if they wanted to.


Tamil Homeland
The rationale behind the Tamil homeland demand was demonstrated as justifiable once again. While it was emphasised that Sri Lanka belongs to all her people and no community could claim exclusive rights to any part of the country, July 1983 resulted in the Tamils being cruelly denied existence in the Southern Provinces.
The victimised Tamils were sent to the North and East for safety thus proving the necessity for a safe haven in the North and East.
This is what impelled former Opposition Leader Appapillai Amirthalingam to state that the uppermost issues for Tamils then were the security of our people and integrity of our homeland.
The same Amirthalingam was asked by the Ven. Walpola Rahula Thera at the all-party conference what problems were faced by the Tamils in Sri Lanka. Amirthalingam responded sorrowfully How can you ask this question even after July 1983
The mass scale deaths, destruction, displacement, deprivation and despair suffered by the Tamils both Sri Lankan and Indian made them characterise those days in July as a dark period in their lives.
The extent to which the Tamils were diminished in that month made them call it Black July. The Tamil people were at a nadir of despondency. The only ray of hope then was Mother India in the form of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the spontaneous show of sympathy and empathy by the people of India in general and the Tamil Nadu state in particular.
Black July also denoted a decisive shift in the politics of the Island. The bulk of the people affected in the violence were Tamils living outside the Northern and Eastern Provinces. With their hopes of living peacefully amidst the Sinhala people being blasted their future seemed bleak.
Two trends started. One group of Tamils started relocating to the North and East. Another group migrated abroad mainly as refugees. As the war escalated, expanded and enveloped the North and East Tamil People started moving out of the Island in even greater numbers.

Indias Locus Standi
The July 1983 pogrom saw more than a hundred thousand people fleeing to India as refugees thereby providing that Country with the necessary locus standi to intervene politically in Sri Lankan affairs.
India also encouraged the training and arming of Tamil youths. Thousands of youngsters flocked to the different militant movements.
Thanks to the 6th amendment the Tamil Parliamentarians of the Tamil United Liberation Front also kept away thereby losing their seats.
The political leadership began passing slowly and surely into the militant youth hands. The economy of Sri Lankan was affected badly. The good name of the country was sullied irreparably.
Black July 83 was a watershed in the contemporary history of the Island. Black July 83 aroused the conscience of many Sinhala people. Indeed it cannot be forgotten that a great deal of Tamils escaped danger only because of the courageous protection extended by their Sinhala friends. There were well-meaning efforts by several persons to make amends and reach out to Tamils. Notable among which were the initiatives taken by the Anglican Bishop of Kurunegala. Rt. Rev. Lakshman Wickremasinghe and Methodist Church President Rev. Soma Perera.
But as time progressed the ruling elite was able to prosecute the war against the Tamils further. Anti-Tamil violence became legitimized and institutionalised as a military effort.
The brutalisation of the war, as well as some of the reprehensibly inhuman acts by the Tamil militant groups, helped reduce the moral superiority of the Tamil cause and predicament. Gradually the pangs of remorse and guilt felt by Sinhala public opinion about July 83 became lesser and lesser.

The extent to which the Tamils were diminished in that month made them call it Black July.. Tamil people were at a nadir of despondency. The only ray of hope then was Mother India in the form of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the spontaneous show of sympathy and empathy

It is also noteworthy that the nature of anti  Tamil violence was transformed after July 83. Incidents of massive mob violence ceased although isolated sporadic incidents did occur but were quickly crushed by the authorities.
It has been often said that the mob violence of 1983 has not been repeated which indicates that the Sinhala people who perpetrated those acts have learnt their lessons. There are many references to the tolerance and greatness of the Sinhala people in not enacting another July 1983 in this discourse.

Norm and Exception
What should have been the norm was being depicted as the exception. Some strongly emphasise that Black July 83 will never ever happen again. Not all Tamil victims of that violent spree are convinced and many do have apprehensions of a repeat performance.
The main if not the only reason for the absence of large-scale mob violence after 1983 was the escalation of the war. Anti  Tamil violence was institutionalised and legitimised as an integral component of the war. With the pre-dominantly Sinhala armed forces engaging in full  scale war there was no need for lesser forces to act on their own.
Also, the events of July 83 paled into insignificance as incidents of a more terrible nature proliferated in the North and East under the aegis of war. If July 83 was a week-long episode, the war was constant and continuous victimising and displacing the Tamil people in their historical habitat for nearly 25 years.
The War, however, ended with the LTTE military debacle of May 2009 and the situation is now transformed.

India also encouraged the training and arming of Tamil youths. Thousands of youngsters flocked to the different militant movements. Thanks to the 6th amendment the Tamil Parliamentarians of the Tamil United Liberation Front also kept away thereby losing their seats.


The Tamil focus now is more on the loss of life in May 2009 as opposed to the earlier emphasis on July 1983. There were thousands of Tamils who were killed, injured or disappeared in that month. So to a large number of Tamil people, May 2009 is Black May like Black July 1983. Under these circumstances, there is a possibility that the significance of Black July may decrease gradually. The July 1983 anti  Tamil pogrom is fading into distant memory.
The inherent danger in the pogrom of July 1983 being forgotten is that it may very well happen again. As the truism goes those who do not remember the lessons of history are condemned to relive it again.
Arguably had the memory of 1958 anti  Tamil violence been frequently re-visited and condemned the incidents of 1977 and 1983 may not have recurred.

Demographic Change
A major demographic change of vast political significance is the phenomenon of about a million Tamils relocating to the areas outside the North and East in recent times. Politically this was a major obstacle to the Tamil separatist cause. Here were people electing to live in enemy areas even as a bitter armed struggle was being launched in the North and East on the rationale that coexistence was not possible. Today more Tamils live in the seven Sinhala majority provinces than the Tamil majority North - Eastern provinces.
But this point is lost on the new spectre that is emerging in the South. The ugly head of neo-fascism masquerading as patriotism is being raised. The minorities, in general, are being pilloried as aliens and visitors. The purveyors of racial hatred are spreading their evil gospel and irresponsible sections of the media are peddling it regularly. Communalist propaganda in the garb of pseudo-nationalism is gaining ground.
The LTTE is no more but the Tamil population remains. They are seen as being relatively well-off or enjoying better standards of living compared to the lumpen elements in urban, semi-urban areas.
Also, the economic peace dividends expected by the ordinary people are yet to percolate downwards.
Against that backdrop, a communal conflagration cannot be ruled out decisively. Neo-fascism and pseudo-nationalism require the discovery of new enemies constantly.
After the Holocaust of the Hitlerian era and its impact on the European collective psyche, few would have expected fascism or neo-Nazism to resurface. Yet many European Nations including Germany are experiencing it now.

Eternal Vigilance
All people of Sri Lanka striving for a decent and humane future would hope that the July 1983 pogrom was only an aberration. But as in the case of eternal vigilance is a prerequisite for maintaining perennial liberty, the constant rekindling of the tragic memories of Black July 1983 is very necessary to prevent repetition.
D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com


 
		
==============================
## Title: Buddhist Temporalities, Theravadi Bhikkhu Kathikawath Bills presented
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:02 pm
Buddhist Temporalities, Theravadi Bhikkhu Kathikawath Bills presented
	
Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe said yesterday the government had presented the Buddhist Temporalities (Amendment) Bill and Theravadi Bhikkhu Kathikawath (Registration) Bill in Parliament on a request made by the Maha Sanga since 1956 to maintain discipline among Buddhist monks.
However, he said Ven. Medagoda Abayatissa Thera had requested MPs not to support these bills as it was a great sin.
"These two bills were long pending, even from the time of Sirimavo Bandaranaike in 1972. Former President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga appointed a presidential commission in 1999 and obtained recommendations in 2001, he said.
However, the minister said these bills needed to be introduced forthwith because several Buddhist monks had acted indecently during the recent past.
It was reported that a novice monk of the Ruhunu University had been stripped and beaten by fellow monks. In another incident, a police sergeant had been killed by a Buddhist monk, he said. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Did Trump in Moscow give away the store 
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:00 am
Did Trump in Moscow give away the store 
	
There is a strong case for supporting Trumps foreign policy


Russian President Vladimir Putin has been in a benign mood after a perfectly organized World Cup which gave Russians and foreigners the rare freedom to mass in the street.
In response, the world TV audience has looked at Russia with new eyes. Maybe theres a new Russia coming to the boil which, if the West could seize the chance, could help the two countries make a pot of very tasty and good tea! Maybe.
The Donald Trump/Vladimir Putin encounter is as convoluted as they come.
There seem to be two American policies towards Russia- one led by the president, the second led by his advisers. On nearly every issue, bar two, Trump appears to be more dovish than his Administration. He never criticizes Putin publically.

Hes congratulated Putin on winning re-election. Hes taken the word of Putin that his Government has had nothing to do with the hacking of the election that partly helped bring Trump to power

Trump hasnt made a great fuss about the Russian presence in Syria, nor its cosiness with Iran and China. He hasnt criticized the crackdown on some leaders of the opposition in Russia.
Hes congratulated Putin on winning re-election. Hes taken the word of Putin that his Government has had nothing to do with the hacking of the election that partly helped bring Trump to power.
He regularly says NATO is obsolete which implies he doesnt believe NATO expansion up to Russian borders was a good move since it has provoked Russia more than any other single issue.

Trump, to the dismay of his advisers, the leadership in Congress, the intelligence services and significant parts of the press and academia, has taken his own path.


Only on Ukraine and Germany has he taken an anti-Russian line. Hes sent in sophisticated weapons to be used by the Ukrainian Army against Russian-supported militias. Hes criticized Germany for depending on Russian gas. But could these latter two moves be smokescreens to provide cover for his overall pro-Russian direction
Trump, to the dismay of his advisers, the leadership in Congress, the intelligence services and significant parts of the press and academia, has taken his own path.
Theyve raised the alarm about Trumps unilateral behaviour in insisting in meeting Putin one to one with no one else in the room, apart fromtwo interpreters.
Was Putin dangling Trump like a marionette
Has Putin got the goods on Trump from the days long ago when, while organizing the Miss World beauty contest in Moscow, Trump hired prostitutes and was filmed in bed with them (I have to say from personal experience- I dont succumb- that beautiful prostitutes in Moscow know how to play the seduction game.)

Its all rather bazaar. Trump is the elected President of America. Isnt he the boss in foreign affairs, as is customary Cant he impose his will

Has Putin also got inside knowledge of the shady part of Trumps property dealing in Russia
Maybe he has, maybe he hasnt. The fact is, as Ive argued long before either Obama or Trump came to power, the supposed unilateral policies by Trump are the right ones. Its all rather bazaar. Trump is the elected President of America. Isnt he the boss in foreign affairs, as is customary Cant he impose his will Cant he fire the advisers who try to fashion an alternative, neo-conservative, hard-line, foreign policy and replace them with those who are sympathetic with his policies- like the Harvard Professor of international affairs Stephen Walt, who is about to publish a scathing attack on the Blob in his new book, The Hell of Good Intentions
Is Trump intimidated by this Blob, the marvellous word dreamt up by Ben Rhodes, Obamas chief speechwriter, to describe the foreign policy establishment Is he held back by knowing that the FBI and the special counsel have got the goods on him too- on his under-the-counter business ties with Russia After all, during his campaign, he did make a speech advocating that Russia should break into his opponent, Hilary Clintons e-mail.
We dont yet know the answer to these questions. But we do know from the well-informed Walt that there is a strong case for supporting Trumps foreign policy while scorning his erratic behaviour, his lies (as recently in London), his misogynistic and racist behaviour, his treatment of the arrested migrant children and his policies on climate change and the environment etc.
Walt argues that since the end of the Cold War successive Administrations have embraced a policy of liberal hegemony and that it has been a costly failure.

Maybe he has, maybe he hasnt. The fact is, as Ive argued long before either Obama or Trump came to power, the supposed unilateral policies by Trump are the right ones.


The populace has not supported it but the Blob has. Foreign policy types, if they admit it and some have felt pressured to conform for fear of losing status and authority. It has cost the US a lot, not least in unnecessary foreign wars. Walt and we, the people, wait to see what Trump will do to defeat their influence. Copyright
Ex: Jonathan Power. (For 17 years Jonathan Power was a foreign affairs columnist and commentator for the International Herald Tribune/New York Times. See: www. jonathanpowerjournalist.com)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hotel Show-Colombo at BMICH
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 July 2018 01:02 pm
Hotel Show-Colombo at BMICH
	
The Hotel Show-Colomboexhibition was launched by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and Tourism Development Minister John Amaratunga at the BMICH yesterday. Southern Development Minister Sagala Ratnayake was also present at the event. The exhibition is being held under the theme "Future of Hospitality Today" and will showcase all needs of the future of the Hospitality industry. It will be held on Saturday 21st and Sunday 22nd as well. Pix by Kithsiri de Mel
 
		
==============================
## Title: Import-Export Controller remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 02:17 pm
Import-Export Controller remanded
	
The Controller of the Import and Export Control Department, who was arrested while soliciting a bribe of Rs.200,000 from a businessman, was remanded till July 30.
He was arrested by the Bribery Commission officials at a restaurant in Battaramulla yesterday while soliciting the bribe.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Indian nabbed with Ice worth 9.6 mn at BIA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:01 am
Indian nabbed with Ice worth 9.6 mn at BIA
	
A 50- year-old Indian was taken into custody with Methamphetamine (Ice) worth Rs 9.6 million in his possession by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) this evening.
A PNB officer told the Daily Mirror, the suspect had arrived in the country from Bangalore while concealing 806 grammes of Methamphetamine in his luggage.
Ice is one of the most destructive drugs in the illicit market, in its physical, mental and behavioural effects and is a popular drug among foreign tourists.
However, the drug has frequently been detected in low quantities by drug prevention agencies in Sri Lanka during several recent raids.
The PNB is conducting further investigations over the suspect. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Malaysia to release report on missing flight MH370
## Section: International
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:00 am
Malaysia to release report on missing flight MH370
	

KUALA LUMPUR REUTERS, July 20 2018- Malaysia will release on July 30 a long-awaited report into the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, the transport minister said on Friday. 
In May, Malaysia called off a privately-funded underwater search for the aircraft, which became one of the worlds greatest aviation mysteries when it vanished with 239 aboard en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur on March 8, 2014. 
The investigation team would brief families of those aboard on the report at the transport ministry on July 30, said the minister, Anthony Loke. 
Every word recorded by the investigation team will be tabled in this report, he told reporters, adding that a news conference would follow the closed-door briefing. 
We are committed to the transparency of this report, Loke added. It will be tabled fully, without any editing, additions,
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mandela and the Trump Degeneration Syndrome
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:00 am
Mandela and the Trump Degeneration Syndrome
	
With the United States (US) President Donald Trump turning the world order downside up and behaving in a dangerously unpredictable manner that one US Intelligence Chief describes as treason, the United Nations on Wednesday celebrated the 100th birthday of the legendary South African Statesman Nelson Mandela.
The UN in a statement says the Centenary is an occasion to reflect on his life, legacy, and to follow his vision to make the world a better place. The Nelson Mandela Foundation is dedicating this years Mandela Day to action against poverty, honouring Nelson Mandelas Leadership and devotion to fighting poverty and promoting social justicefor all.
Every year on July 18 the UN invites the people to mark Nelson Mandela International Day by making a difference in their communities. It says everyone has the ability and the responsibility to change the world for the better. Mandela Day is an occasion for all to take action and inspire change.
Mr Mandela devoted his life to the service of humanity  as a Human Rights Lawyer, a prisoner of conscience, an international peacemaker and the first democratically elected President of a free South Africa. He served only one term from 1994 to 1999 though a majority of the people would have liked him to go on for two or three terms. This is in contrast to Russias dictator Vladimir Putin, Chinas President Xi Jin Ping, North Koreas Kim Jong Un, Turkeys Recep Tayyip Erdogan and others, who show a desire to rule for life. Some analysts believe Mr Trump, especially after the crisis summit in Helsinki on Monday, praised Mr Putin so much apparently because he also maybe liking to be the President for life, though the US Constitution does not allow more than two four-year terms.
Other analysts believe Mr Trump, who has had business deals in Russia since the 1980s, maybe saying and doing such outrageous things because he is under some form of blackmail from Russia. All US intelligence agencies say they have substantial evidence that Mr Putins Russia interfered with the US presidential election in 2016 and did it in a manner that enabled him to defeat his Democratic Party rival, Hillary Clinton. The US intelligence services also say Russia is continuing its cyber war against the US and other European Democratic countries, with access even to the power grids in those countries.
After Mondays Helsinki summit, where Mr Trump and Mr Putin met one  to  one for more than two hours, the two leaders held a news conference, where the US President went out of his way to defend the Russian Leader from charges that he interfered with the 2016 elections. Instead, the US leader accused his own intelligence services and the Justice Department of indulging in a witch-hunt against him. This led to one of the biggest outcries, in recent US history, with even Mr Trumps Republican Party leaders hitting out strongly against him.
Amid the crisis, Mr Trump, as usual, made a virtual U-turn. On Wednesday he issued a statement saying he had misspoken in defending the Russian leader and that he agreed with the US intelligence services that Russia had launched a cyber war against the US. Mr Trump came to office, with or without Russias help on the basis that he wanted to put America First. This evoked a response from the forces of populism, nationalism or extremism. Essentially it is a policy of selfishness or self  centeredness and history have shown that such a policy is self-destructive.
In contrast, Nelson Mandela was selfless, sincere and sacrificial in his lifetime of service and suffering to the people of South Africa and the world. On building Peace he said, Peace is not just the absence of conflict; peace is the creation of an environment where all can flourish, regardless of race, colour, creed, religion, gender, class, caste, or any other social markers of difference. Religion, ethnicity, language, social and cultural practices are elements which enrich human civilization, adding to the wealth of our diversity. Why should they be allowed to become a cause of division, and violence We demean our common humanity by allowing that to happen....
Sri Lankas leaders and indeed world leaders need to be influenced by great men such as Nelson Mandela instead of allowing themselves come under what some analysts are describing as the Trump Degeneration Syndrome.
 
		
==============================
## Title: No constructive engagement between Govt. officials: Aluthgamage
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 06:05 am
No constructive engagement between Govt. officials: Aluthgamage
	
We have never witnessed President Maithripala Sirisena, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and MPs sitting together and taking decisions in support of the government, UNP backbench MP Ananda Aluthgamage said yesterday.
Mr. Aluthgamage said this during the parliamentary debate on the Bribery (Amendment) Bill.
This government was elected for the benefit of the people. Therefore, it is important that the President, Prime Minister and MPs of the ruling party sit together to discuss and take decisions. However, we have not witnessed such a thing, he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Opinion Thoughts on the death penalty and criminals
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:02 am
Opinion Thoughts on the death penalty and criminals
	
Those who argue that implementing the death penalty for serious crimes would act as a deterrent against others who might want to commit such crimes are almost certainly mistaken. The reality is that a person who wants to commit a premeditated crime does so after careful study and in the belief that he would be able to do things in such a meticulously planned manner that he will not get caught. Thus the question of being deterred by the possibility of being apprehended and executed doesnt arise. 
When it comes to considering the implementation of the death sentence, there are those whose religious beliefs like not taking anothers life compelling them to oppose the ultimate penalty without any reference to its deterrent effect or otherwise. However, their position is more often than not self-contradictory regarding this question because most of them would not hesitate to cheer on their armed forces to shoot, bomb or otherwise destroy enemies in order to support the State. This being so, the cries we make that we have no right to take anothers life, even after the most stringent investigational and judicial processes have been employed, is just plain hypocritical. One cannot help speculating as to whether their solicitousness for the condemned is not motivated, in the final analysis, by their anxiety to make certain of their own paths to heaven, paradise, moksha, nirvana or whatever else might be their goal. 

Those who deal intensively in the import, distribution and sale of drugs would not have the faintest wish to be reformed

Separate politics from religion
Religion is a personal matter and it must be kept well separated from politics. Decisions taken for the maintenance of law and order, the integrity of the country and other matters of State should be done on the basis of day to day practicalities and keeping in mind the fundamental and human rights of individuals. If we are foolish enough to bring religion into it, what are the religious norms that would have to be followed Surely, it would not be democratic to force the views of anyones religion on the followers of other faiths The simple answer is to have a strongly secular Constitution and let legislators practice their respective religions in their own time and at their own expense without trying to tie down the State unilaterally. If this neutrality is attained, the question of hanging criminals or not can be taken without allowing callous, opportunistic politicians to exploit the support of bigots and extremists of the varying types who seem to flourish particularly well at present. 
Having regard to Sri Lankas alleged majoritarian commitment to safeguard the sanctity of life, one is reminded of the story, where centuries ago, the Maha Sangha had assured a Buddhist prince that it was no sin to kill Tamil enemies because Tamils were not human! Why not add murderers, rapists and drug-traffickers to this classification and perhaps get the Tamils out of it 
Right at the outset, its necessary to accept that, quite apart from the pressure from our own liberal intellectuals, countries such as Canada, the EU, Norway, UK and several others would strongly oppose Sri Lanka carrying out judicial killings. They are already pressurizing us by their quite open threat of the withdrawal of the financial and other types of assistance that they extend to us from time to time. However, this does not mean that independent citizens of this country have to leave their considered opinions and rational thoughts on this subject unexpressed. 

An interesting thing to remember regarding this issue is that these liberal countries took more or less one or two centuries to give up on their reliance on the death penalty to keep criminals under control

Over the period of many years, the informal opinions that have been sought by Citizens Movement for Good Governance (CIMOGG) on this subject have been overwhelmingly in favour of implementing the death penalty for rape, murder or being a member of an organisation that smuggles in hard drugs and gets the young and impressionable part of the population addicted. In reaching their goals, criminals of these types dont hesitate to resort to personal violence, killings and seeking the protection of powerful politicians and the law-enforcement authorities to get their vile businesses flourishing. 
It is our firm conviction that with the rarest of exceptions those who deal intensively in the import, distribution and sale of drugs would not have the faintest wish to be reformed because what they do is so lucrative that they cannot see themselves doing anything else equally attractive. The possibility that there may have been one drug lord somewhere, who has now been redeemed and has become a good citizen, is so far from being real that it must be taken as an axiom that any leader who has been running a drug operation or who has been an integral part of such an operation for more than a few years is too far gone in the business of building up and protecting such operations as to be incapable of adjusting to a law-abiding life. 

Masters in prison
We are informed periodically by our rightfully apprehensive media that certain powerful gangsters not only run their operations from overseas, but also from within prisons where a few of their senior executive assistants are now held after being convicted. The real masters of those in prison not only ensure that the families of these executive assistants are handsomely looked after, but also bribe and simultaneously threaten the prison authorities to provide forbidden facilities to these inmates such as communication equipment, special foods, drinks and secretly arranged leave to go outside once in a while. From their cells, these executive assistants continue to control the lower levels of the organizations of drug lords, which usually remain substantially intact and are invariably used to threaten the parents, siblings, spouses and children of prison officials to get whatever favourable treatment is sought by these privileged prisoners. 
Its one thing to show some consideration for a man, who has committed murder under severe provocation, but to equate to this recklessness the activities of a ruthless gang-leader, who routinely and cold-bloodedly kills his competitors personnel, informants, their family members and law-enforcement personnel, is not even remotely acceptable. Why should the average citizens taxes be consumed for long years to house, feed, clothe and medically look after totally unscrupulous and incorrigible criminals during long periods of imprisonment Why should society incur huge infrastructural and administrative expenditures to prevent their escape instead of saving these moneys and spending them on helping the victims of these criminals It is, of course, essential that lawful procedures have been followed, with thorough oversight measures in place, before one decides that a particular criminal has been properly convicted of such grave, premeditated crimes as to deserve the death sentence. To maintain a measure of balanced judgment, we should ask ourselves whether these criminals would have shown any mercy at all to anyone that opposed their felonious activities. Surely not. 

We should ask ourselves whether these criminals would have shown any mercy at all to anyone that opposed their felonious activities

We need to remember that the death penalty is being implemented even today in many countries such as China, India, Russia and the USA. They do not care two hoots about what Canada, the EU, Norway, UK and other liberal countries have to say. An interesting thing to remember regarding this issue is that these liberal countries took more or less one or two centuries to give up on their reliance on the death penalty to keep criminals under control. It is only as they became steadily richer that their affluence enabled them to have more efficient crime detection and control. In this connection, we may mention that Holland has been closing down some of its prisons because the amount of crime has been reduced progressively by the efficient enforcement of the law. This is a luxury that Sri Lanka will not be able to afford for a few decades more so as to be able to do away with the death penalty altogether; but certainly not just yet. The Government must argue that desperate situations require desperate remedies and ask for more time from our donor countries to improve on our crime prevention and detection systems and allow us meanwhile to get rid of the really hardened criminals who are running their drug-dealing empires with the present intolerable degree of impunity. 
The write is the President of CIMOGG and can be reached on
www.cimogg-srilanka.orgacvisva@gmail.com 
 
		
==============================
## Title: "PC polls on Jan. 5 if final decision taken by October end"
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 08:15 am
"PC polls on Jan. 5 if final decision taken by October end"
	
Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya and Delimitation Commission Chairman K. Thavalingam have informed party leaders that Provincial Council elections could be held on January 5 if a final decision on the polls was taken before the end of October.
A statement from the Speakers office said the two chairmen had come up with this notion at meeting held between them and leaders of political parties representing Parliament.
Meanwhile, it was reported that party leaders would meet on December 26 to decide under which system the polls should be held. A majority have preferred the proportional representation system while the Provincial Councils Minister favours the new mixed system. He has said even President Maithripala Sirisena was of the opinion that the election should be held under the mixed system.
It was reported that the Speaker would appoint a committee as per the Provincial Councils Election (Amendment) Bill. This committee will include Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, opposition leader R. Sampanthan, Ministers Rauff Hakeem and Nimal Siripala De Silva, Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya and Delimitation Commission Chairman K. Thavalingam. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PC polls: Party leaders to meet again on July 26
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 10:25 am
PC polls: Party leaders to meet again on July 26
	
Party leaders who failed to arrive at a decision on whether Provincial Council elections should be held under the proportional representation system or the new mixed system have decided to meet again on July 26, Parliamentary sources said yesterday.
Nevertheless, they have decided to hold the election by the end of this year or beginning of next year.
Although, a majority including Minister Rauff Hakeem and JO parliamentary group leader Dinesh Gunawardane have stated that the election should be held under the proportional representation system, the Provincial Councils Minister is of the opinion that polls should be held under the new mixed system. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL-Japan to boost military ties to ensure maritime safety
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 07:13 pm
SL-Japan to boost military ties to ensure maritime safety
	
Sri Lanka and Japan had agreed to enhance collaboration between the Japan Maritime Self Defence Forces and the Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force and Sri Lanka Coast Guard, the Foreign Affairs Ministry said on Friday.
The delegations of the two nations discussed about military ties and maritime safety at the 3rd Sri Lanka Japan Dialogue on Maritime Security, Safety and Oceanic Issues which was held on July 19 at the Foreign Affairs Ministry, Colombo
In a statement, the ministry said the discussion at the Dialogue centred on the areas of the situation in the Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean region, cooperation on ports and shipping, cooperation in the areas of maritime safety and security and regional multilateral initiatives.
Sri Lanka expressed appreciation for the extensive support extended by Japan to improve the maritime safety capabilities of the Sri Lanka Coast Guard including through the provision of two patrol vessels and numerous training opportunities. The two sides also discussed augmented cooperation in multilateral frameworks including the ASEAN Regional Forum and the Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP) recognizing the importance of increased engagement in these fora, it said.
The ministry said the Dialogue forms an important pillar of cooperation envisaged in the Joint Declaration on Comprehensive Partnership between the two countries concluded during the official visit of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to Japan in 2015.
The Sri Lanka delegation to the Dialogue was led by Sashikala Premawardhane, Director General, Ocean Affairs and Climate Change division of the Foreign Affairs Ministry and the delegation of Japan was headed by Shogo Yoshitake, Director, Southwest Asia Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SPC conceals details of Knuckles other projects: MONLAR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 06:14 pm
SPC conceals details of Knuckles other projects: MONLAR
	
The Movement for Land and Agriculture Reform (MONLAR) yesterday said the State Plantations Corporation (SPC) was attempting to conceal the details of other projects attached to the Knuckles mountain range, though two such projects had already been scrapped.
The Corporation last week said it had withdrawn some projects attached to the mountain range after finding out that the land set aside for those projects were located within the Knuckles conservation area.
MONLAR member and environmentalist Sajeewa Chamikara told Daily Mirror that the allegations made by them, on the move to give 21,000 acres of land in the mountain range to some investors, had been proven with the revelation made by the Corporation Chairman.
It was revealed that the Corporation has withdrawn two projects about to begin encompassing the Midlands Estate and Hare Park Estate after they found out that these lands were located in a conservation area. It was also mentioned that Cabinet approval has been given for another 46 projects to begin on lands within the mountain range, he said.
The claims made by Public Enterprise and Kandy City Development Minister Lakshman Kiriella, that no land had been given to any investor to carry out any project in the mountain range, has also been proven wrong with this revelation, he added.
He said the government was attempting to conceal their moves in order to give away these valuable lands to some companies and added that legislations and policies with regard to these lands had also being amended to proceed with the said move.
The MONLAR earlier claimed that these lands, managed by the State Plantations Corporation and Elkaduwa Plantation Limited, had been given to close associates and relatives of two powerful ministers.
Mr. Chamikara said 6,192 of the 9,675 hectares belonged to the Corporation while 2,363 of the 3,693 hectares belonged to Elkaduwa Plantation Limited from the lands attached to the boundary of the Knuckles Forest - a total of 21,400 acres. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The loss of a veteran banker
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 July 2018 12:00 am
The loss of a veteran banker
	
Appreciation on Ramanathan Nadarajah
It was with profound shock and grief that the banking community, his friends and relatives received the sad news of the untimely demise of Ramanathan Nadarajah on 24 June 2018. He was 74 at the time of his death.
Born in Thirunelveli, North of Jaffna, he had his primary and secondary education at Parameshwara College Jaffna, one of the leading colleges, in Jaffna. As a student he excelled in studies and graduated from the University of Ceylon (Peradeniya) with a degree in double Mathematics and Physics with a Second Class Upper.
Nada as he was fondly called by his friends, started his banking career by joining Bank of Ceylon as a Staff Assistant Grade  II. He obtained extensive experience in almost all areas of banking which made him a complete banker. He received the widest possible exposure. His hard work, dedication and commitment earned him lots of respect and admiration from all. He was well-known for Paying attention to detail, and added value in no uncertain terms to the banks credit evaluation process. He was a much sought after resource person for seminars, especially on Bank Lending. 

Achievements and studies
He kept on moving up the banks hierarchy to be a Deputy General Manager of Bank of Ceylon. He passed the Diploma in Banking Examination conducted by the Chartered Institute of Bankers London and was awarded with its Associateship. He then went on to be elected as a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, London (FCIB) in recognition of his services to the banking industry. He also completed his Masters in Business Administration from the University of Colombo. 
After his retirement from Bank of Ceylon, he joined Pan Asia Bank and was appointed as its Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer within a short period of time. Thereafter, his services were sought to help Seylan Bank to come out of the crisis it was in at that time. He was appointed an Executive Director and was placed in charge of the Banks Operations. He helped the bank out of the crisis situation it was in and put it on a more stable footing. He also functioned as the Chairman of its subsidiary Seylan Developments PLC at that time.
He was the inaugural President of the Primary Dealers Association in Sri Lanka, a Past President of Banks Hindu & Tamil Literary Association, Past President of Association of Professional Bankers Sri Lanka (APB) and a member of the APB Fund Management Committee. He was awarded with the Honorary Life Membership of the APB in recognition of his contribution to the APB. He was a member of the Council of Advisors of APB and a member of the Forum of the Organisation of Professional Associations of Sri Lanka for several years where he served in the Panel of Industrial Experts, for the Annual Report Awards Competition conducted by the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 

Man of integrity
He was a man of undoubted integrity and a fountain of knowledge. He had a very wide circle of friends in very many specialized fields. Among them were Sinhalese, Tamils, Muslims and others. For him race or religion of a person didnt matter. The ringing tones on his mobile phone was always a popular Sinhala Song. He was the absolute role model for persons believing in communal harmony. A number of people made it a habit to seek his advice as he gave them sound and sincere advice. Nada was a gentleman of the highest order. He was an epitome of simplicity humility and modesty. He was always wearing a broad smile and greeted everyone by saying God Bless You. He was keen to help anyone who needed assistance. His friends, relations, colleagues, superiors, subordinates and all loved and respected him.
Our association with Nada dates back to many years. I had the privilege and pleasure of having been a close friend and colleague of his for a number of years at Bank of Ceylon and later at the APB. His demise is not only a loss to his family, friends and fellow bankers, but also to Sri Lankas banking industry.
Nada was very fortunate to have Umayal as his wife. She was always there to support him and never grumbled about his late hours at the bank. They were a happy couple and were always together except when he was away on duty. He leaves behind his devoted wife, two daughters Mathangini and Ajahini and three loving grandchildren. Everybody will miss him forever.

May his soul attain Moksha.
(Parama Dharmawardene, Former DGM, Sampath Bank, 
A. Kathiravelupillai  Former DGM, Bank of Ceylon and
Guy de Silva, Former Senior DGM, Bank of Ceylon)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three trials-at-bar: Rent out building if no space- JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 04:01 pm
Three trials-at-bar: Rent out building if no space- JVP
	
The government should set up the proposed three permanent trials-at-bar at least by renting out a building, JVP MP Vijitha Herath told Parliament yesterday.
He said the excuse made by the government for the delay in setting up these special courts was limited building space.
"If the government was unable to find building space, how can it govern the country, develop the economy and prevent crime If it can rent out buildings for millions of rupees to house ministries, then why cant it do the same thing for a worthy cause The government should take immediate steps to prevent fraud and corruption. There is political intervention when it comes to taking action against wrongdoers. The former Director General of the Bribery Commission, who acted impartially, had to resign due to political interference. The DG had to pack her bags while she was taking action against three powerful government ministers," he said. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNESCO threatens to withdraw world heritage status of three SL sites
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 05:22 pm
UNESCO threatens to withdraw world heritage status of three SL sites
	
UNESCO has warned that it will remove the world heritage status given to Sinharaja, Dambulla and Galle Fort if they are not preserved properly, National Heritage Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe told Parliament.
The minister made this statement during a heated argument on the proposed demolition of the Mahinda Rajapaksa pavilion at the International Cricket Stadium in Galle.
We have decided to demolish the pavilion because UNESCO has mentioned that unauthorised structures in the Galle Fort are not removed. However, we will not demolish the entire stadium, he said.
Opposition MP Chandima Weerakkody who raised this issue in Parliament said the century-old stadium would be demolished, and that construction work of the proposed stadium in Koggala had not got off the ground though such a decision was taken years ago.
Meanwhile, MP Dinesh Gunawardene said the previous regime devised a plan to preserve the stadium as a world heritage site.
Petroleum Resources Minister Arjuna Ranatunga said the pavilion at the Galle stadium, which was an unauthorised construction, was built despite warnings from SLC officials that it was illegal.
It was decided to demolish the pavilion soon after it was constructed, but relevant officials named it after the former President making this task impossible, he said.
On a different note, Mr. Ranatunga said the Sri Lankan cricket team performed well whenever they played in this stadium.
Meanwhile, Sports Minister Faiszer Musthapha charged that some MPs were attempting to politicise the issue. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Vehicle importers to start getting down only 'Euro 4' vehicles
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 11:16 am
Vehicle importers to start getting down only 'Euro 4' vehicles
	
The Vehicle Importers Association of Sri Lanka (VIASL) yesterday said it will only import vehicles which are compatible with Euro Four Emission standards in keeping with the governments decision to switch the import of vehicles with Euro 4 by July 1.
VIASL Chairman Ranjan Peiris told the media that as a leading association, it was thankful to the government over the step it had taken to introduce the Euro Four Emission standards while turning a new page on vehicle imports.
This move will help protect the environment. Also, we would request the government to put our vehicle imports under the brand new category as the government used to label us as used vehicle importers though we import brand new vehicles. We are the oldest association in the country which imports brand new vehicles as well as used vehicles. Most of the vehicles we import are brand new with zero mileage, he said.
According to the rules and regulation of the vehicle manufacturing countries such as Japan, the association would have to register and de-register zero mileage vehicles before exporting.
Though the vehicles are in zero mileage our government consider them as used vehicles, he said.
Also, he said the Association is willing to request the Finance Ministry to introduce a separate method to calculate customs duty over used vehicles when importing. This could be included in the budget 2019, he said.
Presently, all brand new and used vehicles get the same tax calculation based on the engine capacity and there should have to be a way to calculate separate taxes, Mr. Peiris said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Won't change decision to implement death penalty: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 July 2018 03:12 pm
Won't change decision to implement death penalty: President
	
President Maithripala Sirisena today assured that he would not change the decision taken to implement the death penalty, despite the objections raised by some factions against the move.
He expressed these views while addressing a ceremony held in Polonnaruwa to commence the construction works of the National Nephrology Hospital.
The President said he would summon the heads of the fields of judiciary, prisons and law and order next Tuesday to appoint a committee in this regard.
"This committee, which will consist of representatives of all the relevant fields, would make decisions about the convicted personnel who should be executed," he said.
Related article
SL risks losing GSP+ if death penalty implemented 
 
		
==============================
==============================
