## Title: Distribution of uniform vouchers: Action against errant principals
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 03:55 pm
Distribution of uniform vouchers: Action against errant principals
	
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam yesterday directed the officials to take stern disciplinary action against school principals who were having commercial motives in the process of distributing school uniform vouchers, without offering them to the students.
Education Ministry Media Secretary Kalpa Gunaratne said that Minister Kariyawasam had directed that action be taken against school principals who were intervening in this process, including giving school uniforms instead of vouchers.
It was reported in several areas that school uniforms have been distributed instead of vouchers and the approval stamp of the school development society has been placed in the column specified for the sellers, he added.
He also said that school principals are not authorised to promote any commercial institute, or to motivate students to get their school uniforms from any specific shop. (Kalathma Jayawardhane and Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dont miss satire at its best: Picket Republic at the Lionel Wendt this weekend
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 December 2017 12:04 am
Dont miss satire at its best: Picket Republic at the Lionel Wendt this weekend
	
With a cast of more than 40 of Sri Lankas best young actors and actresses, this original play is a hilarious, thought provoking satire presented in English and Sinhala that looks at one of the most intriguing aspects of recent Sri Lankan life: our protest culture. 
The issues may be real, exaggerated or twisted for political ends, but not a day goes by without some sort of protest taking place in Sri Lanka. From violent outbursts by university students on the streets, to union action that halt buses, trains and shut down petrol distribution, to politicians smashing coconuts at various devales if there were a country that got creative in protesting, Sri Lanka is it. 
Picket Republic gives this Protest this phenomenon an excellent depiction on stage. Loosely inspired by L. Frank Baums The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, the play follows the journey of an orphan boy from Sri Lanka who lands in an eerily similar country in an alternate universe-the Republic. 

"Picket Republic is a fresh new comedy by Ananda Drama, the theatre company behind such hits as Grease Yaka, Dracula!, Affair at Ward Place Hotel and Alice in Wonderland, goes on the boards of the Lionel Wendt stage this weekend"
Imprisoned on suspicion of being responsible for the mysterious disappearance of the Republics ruler, Her Goodness Madam Mihipali, the boy and his cellmate, the philosophical Arul, are sprung from prison by a former soldier who now serves as a prison guard. Together with Keshari, an intrepid female tuk-tuk driver, they travel across the Republic, trying to help the boy find his way back home. 
Along the way, the group encounters various groups of picketers including the Communal Party affiliates who are opposed to the new wave of privatisation happening in the Republic; students who protest against the influx of private educational institutes; the Janatha Jathi Jathi Party that does not want any outsiders in the Republic; and the Coffee Shop Liberals, who just want to get along. 
And, as always, pulling the strings behind the scenes are politicians, including Her Poshness, who has taken over the Republic after Her Goodness vanished and the former ruler, Her Proudness, who desires nothing more than to get back into power. Dont miss the final play of the year at the Lionel Wendt!
 
		
==============================
## Title: Majestic tusker
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 16 December 2017 10:44 am
Majestic tusker
	
Our photojournalist Kushan Pathiraja captured on film, the 'Nedungamuwa Raja' while it was being escorted along Kandy-Colombo Road under military protection last morning. The tusker is currently bearer of the main relics casket at the Kandy Esala Peraheara.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MEP condemns Sriyani's decision to join Govt.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 07:05 am
MEP condemns Sriyani's decision to join Govt.
	
The Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP) yesterday denounced the decision taken by its MP Sriyani Wijewickrama in joining the anti-people government led by the United National Party.
Ms. Wijewickrama's decision to join the Unity Government, which is in the process of plunging the sovereignty, freedom, democracy and economy of the country into a huge abyss can only be condemned," the MEP said.
It said her decision was prompted by the arbitrary and arrogant action of Digamdulla District MP Wimalaweera Dissanayake during the process of preparing nominations for the local government elections.
"By parliamentarian Wimalaweera Dissanayakes chronic failure to participate in the party leaders discussions to finalise nominations for local authorities in the Digamadulla District, not only Sriyani Wijewickrama, but also all the party leaders who took part in the nominations committee, were put into great difficulty," the MEP said. "The MEP Central Committee declares that the people of Amaparai District know the true facts, that throughout the Amparai District, from the inauguration in 1957 of the development activities in the Gal Oya Valley to the present, the MEP has participated in active politics at various levels, and with many workers representatives and that trade unions and trade union leaders affiliated to the MEP have been active."
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mist in some areas
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 09:15 am
Mist in some areas
	
Mist is likely at some places in the Western, North-Western, Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces during the morning, the Department of Meteorology said yesterday.
Duty Meteorologist Janaka Kumara said could be brought about by rainfall at night making the atmosphere cooler.
He said rains were likely in the Northern, North-Central, Eastern and Uva Provinces with fairly heavy rains of about 75mm accompanied by strong winds of up to 50kmph at some places in the Western, Northern, North-Central, Central and the Sabaragamuwa Provinces and in the Galle and Matara districts. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Musthapha condemns racist attitude of two ministers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 01:40 pm
Musthapha condemns racist attitude of two ministers
	
Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Musthapha yesterday castigated two Muslim ministers for what he described as their racist attitude by not being present at the voting on the local government electoral amendments.
He told a news conference the two Muslim party leaders and ministers kept away because they did not have a guts to support or oppose the amendments.
They may tell their people that they did not vote for the LG electoral amendments because it will affect the Muslims. Their action is selfish and detrimental to the larger interests of the people, the minister said.
Introducing late Soma Edirisinghe's daughter Deepa Edirisinghe as a UPFA candidate for the Colombo Municipal Council the minister said he was able to persuade her to contest the elections because the new law that requires a minimum of 25% women candidates.
Another policy adopted by the SLFP was not to include two candidates from the same family. We asked them to adhere to the policy of nominating only one member from one family. This policy will put an end to nepotism in the SLFP, the minister said. Since the independence, all political parties, the UNP and the SLFP in particular have given opportunities to political families to thrive. It is extremely difficult to win a seat in a LG body, a provincial council or Parliament without powerful political connections. That is how political power was handed down from father to son, husband to wife, father-in-law to son-in-law and from brother to sister. This undemocratic practice must end. Ms. Edirisinghe also addressed the media. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: New interface of an evolving tourism industry
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 December 2017 12:12 am
New interface of an evolving tourism industry
	

When traced the routes of the tourism industry, it could be found that it was mostly the residents of European countries who had the passion to travel the world. The industry has supposedly evolved in European countries where national and international tourism originated by travelling from one place to another. The people at the time had travelled short distances before moving on to see the sights in neighbouring destinations. There were and there still are a thousand reasons to travel the world. The purpose of travelling is for leisure, to embark on new business ventures, in search of education opportunities or greener pastures, to visit the loved ones or sometimes for religious purposes. After 1950s, people residing outside European nations were encouraged to travel the world with the development of air transportation. This widened world travel and tourism activities. Tourism related businesses started flourishing and today has become the worlds largest and fastest growing service industry.

It is noteworthy that Sri Lanka is one of the South Asian countries that has been reviewed by the World Tourism Council. Tourism in Sri Lanka has created its own brand. The creation of niche tourism products like eco-tourism, ayurvedic tourism, adventure tourism, cultural tourism, wildlife tourism and nature tourism widen the net of this service sector. Inbound tourism is booming and the country is going all out to lure more foreign tourists. Contrary to perceptions across the world that tourism in Sri Lanka is still confined to traditions, the country is opening up with trendy tour packages and at affordable air travel deals to inbound visitors from every segment.

The industry provides cultural, medical and business services. It is expected that the sectors contribution to the national gross domestic product will soar in the upcoming years. The local tourism sector has been flourishing in recent years with the improved and enhanced connectivity to and from the country. Better accommodation facilities at tourist destinations have contributed to augment the number of foreign tourist arrivals. The policies, rules and regulations implemented by the government have also been instrumental in providing the much-needed boost to the industry. Sri Lanka is able to offer a plethora of tourism options due to its rich bio-diversity. The country boasts of natural resources like sandy beaches, mountains, rivers and rainforests.

However, for the booming industry to further contribute to the national economy, focus should be paid on increasing the average spent on per tourist in addition to boosting the arrivals. Sri Lanka tourism is the third large export earner in the country after remittances, textiles and garments. Hence, we have an opportunity to attract more tourists. To achieve this target, we have to identify our strategic potentials to vie with our main competitors, especially those in South Asia. The sluggish progress made by the tourism industry due to poor planning, mismanagement and limited diversity in tourism markets and products, contributes to a lack of value adding opportunities and limiting per capita visitor expenditure.
As a tourist destination, Sri Lanka can compete with other destinations partly because of its unique natural and cultural resources. Therefore, if the tourism industry were to make a significant contribution to the national economy, Sri Lanka has to focus on promoting new sustainable tourism markets. We need a fresh approach to promote sustainable tourism market segments such as eco-tourism, community-based tourism and green tourism, as they could minimise adverse impacts.

The basement of the tourism industry, mass tourism, has itself become a massive threat to the country. In a bid to recover damaged environments, most of the countries including Sri Lanka have lately turned to sustainable tourism concepts.
Sri Lankas sustainable tourism strategies however may bring significant socio-economic benefits to host communities such as job opportunities, cultural identity, preservation of cultural sites, expansion of educational opportunities, development of infrastructure facilities and so forth. Therefore, it could be surmised that sustainable tourism is by far the best concept in new tourism market products.
It fulfils a countrys foreign exchange need, conserves its culture, environment and economy and encourages safe travelling. Sri Lanka claims a competitive edge due to its rich culture, climate and the lifestyle and hospitality of its people. It is however necessary to set up legislation for the government, tour operators, developers, travel agents, workers, host communities and tourists themselves.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Nominations -- Some parties can't even file error-free lists: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 11:27 am
Nominations -- Some parties can't even file error-free lists: JVP
	
Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) General Secretary Tilvin Silva said his party was in a victorious position even prior to the election on the basis of having all its nomination lists accepted by the returning officers unlike some of the other political parties.
He said it was an act of irresponsibility by those in power or those seeking power to have failed to prepare error-free nomination lists.
The nomination lists submitted by the JVP so far have all been accepted. We prepared them well in advance to ensure they were error-free, Mr. Silva said and added that they were already preparing the next batch of nomination lists.
He said local government bodies had been riddled with fraud and corruption in the past and added that they had fielded candidates untainted with fraud or corruption charges so as to render a people-friendly service if elected.
Mr. Silva said the JVP had convened a national convention to be attended by all its candidates where they would pledge to provide a honest service to the people and for this purpose the party would also introduce a code of ethics for their candidates. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Plea of remanded Navy officers daughter to meet UN members turned down
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 12:14 pm
Plea of remanded Navy officers daughter to meet UN members turned down
	
Former Navy Spokesperson Commander D.K.P Dassanayakes daughter told the media yesterday that her request to meet and lodge a complaint about her fathers detention by the Sri Lankan law enforcement authority, to the visiting three-member UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, had been turned down, claiming it was not a case about the LTTE.
She said she tried to explain the matter to the visiting UN member at the end of the media conference by the visiting UN delegation in Colombo.
I was told that since the matter was not connected to an LTTE case, they cant meet her, she told the media after her failed attempt to meet them soon after the press conference. She said she came to learn that the delegation members would not come out until she left the place.
She also said that the delegation visited LTTE detainees during last eleven days, but never visited her father at the Welikada Prison Hospital.
Authorities are detaining my father for almost five months without any charges. I just want to complain about this to the UN, but they did not even let me to meet them, she said.
The three-member UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention which was in Sri Lanka from December 4, yesterday at the media conference urged the government to introduce urgent reforms to the 'outdated' legal framework to end arbitrary detention in the country.
The delegation comprised Working Group Members Jos Antonio Guevara Bermdez, Leigh Toomey and Elina Steinerte.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Split in dravidian movement  And the decline of Tamil separatism
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 16 December 2017 12:01 am
Split in dravidian movement  And the decline of Tamil separatism
	

By D.B.S.Jeyaraj
India gained freedom from Britain at midnight on August 15th 1947. At the time of Indian independence there was a separatist movement in South India spearheaded by the Dravidar Kazhagham (DK) or Dravidian Association led by E.V. Ramaswamy Naicker popularly known as Periyar(Great Person).
As stated in an earlier article the DK demand was for a separate state in South India comprising areas where the Dravidian languages Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada and Tulu were pre-dominantly spoken. The envisaged state was called Dravida Nadu(Dravidian State).
Although the agitation for a Dravida Nadu had been conducted intermittently from 1940 onwards the chances of Britain partitioning South India too and creating a Dravidastan/Dravida Nadu on the lines of the proposed Pakistan were extremely remote. India was on the verge of Independence from the British in 1946/47 but Dravida Nadu was not on the agenda.

As political stakes were raised and India/Pakistan partition became inevitable the question of Dravida Nadu was totally eclipsed.
Periyaar himself had contributed to this situation in 1941 by suspending all agitation for Dravida Nadu so as to not hinder British war efforts. It was off the political radar for many years during world war two. In retrospect this was a blunder as no effective campaign had been mounted for Dravida Nadu.
If Periyaar had expected the British to hand over Dravida Nadu on a platter as reward for his cooperation during the war the rationalist patriarch was sadly mistaken.
Periyaar had also relied on Muhammad Ali Jinnah and thought that the Muslim League leader would extend support for Dravidstan like Pakistan as promised at the decisive stage. But Jinna found it politically practical to espouse the case for a theocratic state of Pakistan on the basis of a Hindu-Islam divide rather than cloud his case with the caste and ethnicity based demand for Dravidastan.

"IMalayalam speakers wanted the Kanniyakumari District bordering the new Kerala; Telugu speakers wanted Madras city and the Thiruthani area. Kannada speakers wanted Hosur in the Dharmapuri District of Tamil Nadu. Sivagnanam spearheaded political resistance to these moves."
The greatest weakness of the Dravida Nadu demand lay in the inability of its proponents to gather support among the non-Tamil Dravidian people inhabiting the envisaged state. Though Tamils were the single-largest ethnicity in the old Madras presidency the non-Tamils taken together were the majority. Support for Dravida Nadu was virtually nil among those non-Tamils. Besides the majority of Tamils too were against a Dravida state at that juncture and treated it as a joke then. Freedom from the British was the dominant line of thought among most Tamils in India at that time. Thus Dravida Nadu was a non-starter at the dawn of Independence. Periyaar found himself let down by the British and betrayed by Jinna, discarded by non Tamil Dravidians and rejected by the bulk of Tamils.
In his anger at this turn of events, Periyaar took up an extremely hardline against Independence and urged Tamils to declare Freedom day on August 15th 1947 as a day of mourning. He said that independence was only a change of masters for Dravidians. But his deputy C.N. Annadurai known as Anna(elder brother) sharply differed in this. Annadurai took up the position that the Dravidians had been oppressed by both, the British and Aryan/ Brahmins. Now one set of oppressors were departing. This by itself was most welcome. So Dravidians should rejoice at independence from the British and launch a struggle for secession from India thereafter was Annadurais position.
EVR Per iyar and CN Annadurai
These contrary perspectives led to further tension between both factions. The divergent views were articulated by both factions in the media controlled by both groups. Post-Independence saw both groups engaged in an undeclared power struggle within the DK. There were however more deep-seated reasons for the differences between EVR Periyaar and CN Annadurai.
Firstly Periyaar was a virtual autocrat. He ran the party like a dictator having been appointed life time president. Most of the property and finances belonging to the party were under his personal control. Periyaar being a rich man in his own right had also spent a lot of his own funds for the party. So there was a very thin line demarcating personal and party-owned property.
Within the party there was very little true democracy. Those whom Periyaar selected were automatically elected to posts without contest. It was a virtual appointment. There was practically no inner party discussion or debate on important decisions. What Periyaar decided and announced was party policy.
Annadurai on the other hand was of a more liberal democratic disposition. His vision was of a full-fledged democratic party with well established procedures for inner-party polls. He was also for a consultative, consensual approach within party folds in policy formulation and implementation.

Annadurai had outgrown Periyaar and had to break free of autocratic shackles.
Secondly Periyaar and Annadurai had diametrically opposite views on the future of the Dravidian Movement. Periyaar was firmly against any kind of participation in democratic elections. He derided participatory democracy in an Aryan-Brahmin-North Indian dominated India as a sham. He wanted the DK to remain aloof of electoral politics and concentrate instead on social reform and eradication of caste oppression. Periyaar also feared that entering hurly-burly politics would corrupt the idealist purity of the party. He felt that the partys ideology would be diluted in the long run to garner more votes and that the DK may compromise its policies for electoral success.
Annadurai however had opposite views. He opined that the party could realise its ideals and objectives through participatory democracy also rather than rely alone on agitational tactics and confrontational demonstrations as propounded by Periyaar.
Annadurai felt that it was better to capture the structures of power and engineer social reform from inside rather than try to bring about reform by influencing or pressurising from outside.

The politically astute Annadurai realised that with the passage of time, political power through democratic elections would pass into the hands of the non-Brahmins as they vastly outnumbered the Brahmins who were a microscopic minority in numbers. Annadurais thoughts on this issue were well expressed by his disciple Muttuvel Karunanidhi who succeeded Anna as chief minister of Tamil Nadu. Karunanidhi a famous script writer for films once wrote the following dialogue for a Tamil movie. Arohara endra makkal kural Aandavanai ettinaal pothaathu. Arasaangathai etta vaendum (It is not enough for the voice of the people chanting Harohara to reach God. It must reach the Government)
Medium was the Message
Thirdly Periyaar was to some extent old-fashioned and conservative in his attitude towards the arts, literature and cinema. He despised films and had the uttermost contempt for those in cinema and drama except perhaps M.R. Radha the famous actor, who was politically on the same wavelength as Periyaar and articulated his policies through film and stage.
But Annadurai recognized the vast potential for mass-communication and the electoral revolution it could bring about if adroitly exploited or handled. Long before Marshall Mcluhan , Annadurai subscribed to the dictum that the medium was the message. Annadurai had once referred to famous cine idol MG Ramachandran (MGR) in this way. Avar Vaakkukku pathulatcham. Avar mugathukku muppathu latcham (Ten lakhs (one million) for what he says; thirty lakhs (three million) for his face.
What Annadurai was driving at was the vote-getting capacity of MGR. His attractive countenance would gain more votes than his speech.

Annadurai himself was involved in cinema and had written story, screenplay and dialogue for many films. He was also a playwright and stage actor. So too was Karunanidhi. There were other Dravidian stalwarts who wrote story and dialogue for films like AVP Aasaithamby, CB Sittarasu, Naanchil Manoharan, Rama Arangannal, Kannadasan and Murasoli Maaran. There were also actors like NS Krishnan, KR Ramaswamy, TV Narayanaswamy, SS Rajendran, Sivaji Ganesan and MGR. Under these circumstances Annadurai felt that Periyaars harsh attitude towards cinema and drama would hamper his plans of utilising them for politicisation and political mobilisation. Periyaar was a constraint in this respect.
Annadurai also differed with Periyaar over the questions of substance and style. Periyaar believed in substance alone and that the message should be told simply in a straightforward manner. Annadurai however relied on form more than content in delivering his message. While Periyaar wrote and spoke in a dry, terse direct manner, Annadurai had evolved an attractive, flowery, alliterative style (Adukku mozhi) in oratory and writing.Against this backdrop it was apparent that Annadurai was biding his time to break away from the DMK and form his own party. Tension was increasing between both factions. Annadurai himself waited patiently for the right reason and opportune moment to break away. That moment soon arrived. The reason for the split was covertly political and overtly personal.

"The Tiruppathy area in Andhra Pradesh, The Kolar area of Karnataka and Devikulam-Peermedhu areas of Kerala were all claimed by Sivagnanam as being integral to the Tamil state of Madras."
Periyaar lost his wife Naahammai in 1933. Being sick and old he required someone to nurse him. There was an ardent DK supporter in Vellore called Kanagasabhai. He had a daughter called Kaanthimathy. She was an ardent follower of Periyaars ideals and highly politicised. Kaanthimathy changed her name to arasiyalmani (political gem) and refused to marry spurning the institution of marriage. When her father Kanagasabhai passed away suddenly Kaanthimathy/Arasiyalmani was bereft of support. Periyaar then brought her to his residence. The young woman became a nurse and maid to the veteran leader. Periyaar himself called her Mani or Maniyamma (mother mani) Gradually she began running the lonely, childless widowers household and even attended to the tight-fisted Periyaars personal and party financial accounts. She had studied up to grade ten. Slowly party faithfuls got used to her as a permanent fixture and began addressing her as Maniyammai (Mani Madam).

Paradoxically Periyaars chief political rival was also his close personal friend. This was Congress leader C. Rajagopalachari known as Rajaji who was then the Governor-General of India. Rajaji visited Thiruvannaamalai in Madras state on May 14th 1949. Periyaar accompanied by Maniyammai paid a sudden visit and had a discussion for 75 minutes with the Brahmin Governor-General. When news broke about the private discussion, DK party members were aghast. The DK membership had been brainwashed into hating Brahmins. Rajaji was more or less a Brahmin symbol. Now their leader had had a clandestine discussion with him. The rank and file was in a state of revolt.
Rising Tide Of Discontent
Annadurai gauged the rising tide of discontent against Periyaar. He decided to give voice to this resentment openly. Shortly thereafter a conference on Muthamizh (Triple Thamizh) was held in Coimbatore. Annadurai and Periyaar were both speakers. It was then that Annadurai challenged Periyaar openly by asking him bluntly on stage Why did you meet Rajaji What did you discuss with him The people demand disclosure. Periyaar exploded on stage Thats my personal matter. It is not to be aired in public.
This duel percolated downwards to the rank and file. Periyaar himself wrote in his newspaper Viduthalai (Liberation) that he had met with Rajaji to discuss a trustworthy heir to his wealth and political legacy. This revelation added more fuel to the raging controversy.
Then came another shock
Periyaar announced that he was going to marry Maniyammai. He felt that she was a trustworthy heir and would manage party affairs well after he was gone. The law did not permit him to adopt a woman as heir. So he would register his marriage with her thus enabling her to be his legal heir. Notice of intended marriage was given on June 18th 1949. Periyaar was nearing seventy. Maniyammai was thirty-one. The Dravidian movement was ripped asunder. How could their leader marry a woman less than half his age Moreover a rumour spread that she was a Brahmin (Incorrect). It was also speculated that Rajaji had advised Periyaar to follow this course. While the DK became the laughing stock of Tamils the party itself split vertically. Only a formal break had to be accomplished. Annadurai realised his time had come and struck. He met with his supporters and drafted an open letter to his leader.

In that missive , Annadurai issued an ultimatum. Periyaar marrying Maniammai was an insult to the party. He should refrain from going through with his plan. Otherwise party members would be compelled to criticise his action and oppose it. Periyaar remained adamant. On July 9th 1949 EV Ramaswamy married Maniyammai at a marriage registrars office in Thiyagarayanagar, Madras (Now Chennai).The next day Viduthalai newspaper announced that Maniyammai would henceforth be known as EVR Maniyammai. There followed a war of words but Periyaar remained unfazed. He felt that things would normalise after some party members let off steam. Some Loyalists remained faithful to Periyaar defending and justifying his conduct.

Annadurai was waiting for September. The 15th was his fortieth birthday. The 17th was Periyaars 70th birthday. While Periyaar loyalists conducted Birthday celebrations for the newly-wed septuagenarian, Annadurai in his capacity as DK general-secretary summoned an executive committee meeting on the same day.
Twenty-three of the forty-six ex-co members attended. Annadurai stated unambiguously that he had no intention of gaining control of the party. Instead he and his followers will go out with sorrow and form a new party he said. Annadurai had been waiting long for this chance. Now he was going out claiming moral high ground. An organizing committee for the party in formation was appointed. Events moved at a hectic pace. The new organizing committee met at a house in Pavalakkaaran street, Chennai and drafted the party constitution. The party was to be the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham (DMK) or Dravidian Progressive Association. Annadurai was elected organizing secretary.
Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham
On the next day (Sep 19th) the newly formed Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham held its first public meeting at Robinsons park in Chennai. Annadurai said that there will not be a Party president post as the only Thalaiver (leader) he had ever known and will ever acknowledge was Periyaar himself.Until Periyaar himself came and occupied the presidents chair the party would not have a President. He also revealed that the policies and ideals of the DMK would be the same as that of the DK. Thikavum Thimukavum Irattai Kuzhal Thuppakki (The DK and DMK are double-barrels of a gun) he announced. Annadurai said that the party was formed with kanneer thuligal meaning tear drops.

	How the Dravida Nadu for Dravidians demand suffered a massive setback due to State re-organization.
	
	
	No longer was it possible to demand a Dravidian state for all the Dravidian linguistic nationalities
	
Thereafter Periyaar used to refer derisively to the DMK as tear drops. When all these political convulsions were on within the Dravidian movement the key demand of a separate Dravida Nadu state had been put on the backburner.The Dravidian movement had been unable to cope with the reality of Indian independence and plan out political strategy due to intra-party conflict and dissension. Now the crisis was over and a new configuration had emerged, There were two political parties espousing secessionism within newly independent India. The stage was being set for a long , intense struggle for a break-away separate state from the Indian Union. The Dravida Nadu for Dravidians slogan changed to Thamizh Naadu for Thamizhians.The coming years was to see Tamil secessionism rise to considerable heights and then rapidly fall into decline in Independent India.

After the tryst with destiny on August 15th 1947 Independent India embarked on its historic journey. In what was then the Southern state of Madras the double-barreled Dravidian movement comprising the Dravida Kazhagham (DK) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham (DMK) commenced its own march towards the goal of Dravida Naadu.
Initially both the DK and DMK focused more on social reform rather than political emancipation from New Delhi. Both remained steadfastly opposed to Hindi imposition, North Indian domination and Brahmin supremacy. As time progressed it became apparent that an unplanned division of labour was emerging. The DK spurned participatory democracy and relied more and more on extra-Parliamentary agitational politics. The DK priority was the re-structuring of society through socio-cultural reform.

The DMK also espoused these goals but the emphasis was more on reform through political means. The DMK leader CN Annadurai known popularly as Anna (elder brother) was veering around to the view that the DMK policies could be implemented from the inside by capturing state power rather than agit-prop from outside.
Though the DK and DMK were of the view that a Dravidian state was most desirable there were practical difficulties. Chief among them was the fact that the majority of Tamils in the state were not enamoured of secession. Another problem of equal dimension was the total apathy and even antipathy of the other non-Tamil Dravidian ethnicities towards the Dravida Nadu ideal.
While the DK and DMK strove together to keep the flames of Dravida Nadu demand flickering new developments in Free India began changing the political landscape.
Cry For a New Telugu Speaking State
Tamils were the single largest ethnic group in the Madras state of that time. But the Telugu speaking people were a close second. They were not very happy to play second fiddle to Tamils within Madras state. The cry for a new Telugu Speaking state being carved out of Madras state was raised. There were also Telugu speaking people in the princely state of Hyderabad ruled by the Nizam.
The Hyderabad Nizam had resisted being absorbed into the Indian union and Iron man Sardar Vallabhai Patel had to send in the armed forces to annex it. With this annexation the numerical strength of Telugu people in the Indian union increased. Telugu people in the Telengana regions of the erstwhile Hyderabad princely state along with those in the northern Telugu districts of Madras state made up a population numerically larger than the Tamils themselves.

"India gained freedom from Britain at midnight on August 15th 1947. At the time of Indian independence there was a separatist movement in South India spearheaded by the Dravidar Kazhagham (DK) or Dravidian Association led by E.V. Ramaswamy Naicker popularly known as Periyar(Great Person)."

So, Telugu nationalism grew. The demand was for a greater Telugu State comprising both segments. The new state within the Indian union was to be called Andhra Pradesh. Telugu nationalists began agitating for Andhra Pradesh and also wanted the Madras city to be the new capital. Madras namadhe (madras is ours) was the Telugu cry.
The demand for Madras by Telugu nationalists was resented by Tamils of Madras state. The commonality of Dravidian affinity was shattered by the Telugu-Tamil rivalry.
The Telugu demand for Andhra Pradesh increased momentum when a Telugu political leader Potti Sree Ramulu went on a fast unto death and died after 66 days. The Indian government of Jawarhalal Nehru gave in to the demand and created the new state of Andhra Pradesh in 1953. It consisted of 16 Telugu-majority districts in the north of Madras state. Initially the Telengana regions of Hyderabad were not included in the new Andhra Pradesh State. Madras city too remained within the old Madras state.

Jawarhalal Nehru being an enlightened leader saw that linguistic nationalism within Indian borders could tear the fabric apart unless it was contained through appropriate adjustments. He decided to re-structure Indian states on a linguistic basis. Nehru appointed the States Reorganization Commission in December 1953 under Justice Fazal Ali to recommend how states should be formed on linguistic lines. The Home minister Govind Ballabh Pant oversaw the commissions functions. The Fazal Ali commission submitted a report in 1955 with recommendations. On the basis of that report, Nehru got the States Reorganization Act of 1956 passed. It came into effect from Nov 1st 1956.
Myth of a United Dravidian State
Madras state out of which the new Andhra Pradesh had been carved out in 1953 suffered further truncation as a result of state re-organization. The Malayalam speaking Malabar districts were absorbed into the new Kerala state. The Tulu speaking regions were incorporated within Kerala (Kasargod)and the newly re-demarcated Mysore state (Dakshina Kannada and Udupi) Mysore state was renamed Karnataka later just as Madras state was renamed Tamil Nadu (Tamil Country) . Andhra Pradesh formed in 1953 was further enhanced with the incorporation of Telugu speaking regions including Hyderabad.(In 2014 these regions were formed into the new Telengana State).With the re-organization and creation of states the residual Madras state was now preponderantly Tamil-speaking but territorially reduced.
In a single, decisive move the territorial basis for a Dravida Nadu had been undermined. With the Telugu, Malayalee and Kannada ethnicities having states of their own the demand for the erstwhile Madras state becoming an independent Dravida Nadu had lost its validity and power. Furthermore cracks and fissures within the Dravidian communities were clearly visible. There was much conflict among the states-in-formation over the borders. Each demanded greater real estate. This bickering further exposed the myth of a united Dravidian state.

	The Madras state was now predominantly Tamil and therefore more susceptible to Tamil or ultra-Tamil nationalism
	
	
	When asked What constitutes Dravida Nadu now by the press, Periyaar replied bluntly Whatever that remains of the old Madras State is the new Dravida Nadu now
	
This inter-state strife caused much unease among the ruling Congress as well as the Dravidian parties. The Congress stood for an all-embracing Pan-Indian identity and this fighting for territory on the basis of linguistic states was frowned upon. The Dravidian movements espousing a greater Dravidian homeland were embarrassed by this intra-Dravidian competition.
It was left to a veteran Congress stalwart and freedom fighter Mylapore Ponnuswamy Sivagnanam to take up the cause of Tamils. Ma. Po. Si as Sivagnanam was known started a movement to protect the territory of Madras state. He was expelled from the Congress for his parochial politics. Sivagnanam formed the Thamizharasu Kazhagham (Tamil State Association).

Malayalam speakers wanted the Kanniyakumari District bordering the new Kerala; Telugu speakers wanted Madras city and the Thiruthani area.
Kannada speakers wanted Hosur in the Dharmapuri District of Tamil Nadu. Sivagnanam spearheaded political resistance to these moves. At the same time he led the agitation for some other border areas to be merged with Madras State.
The Tiruppathy area in Andhra Pradesh, The Kolar area of Karnataka and Devikulam-Peermedhu areas of Kerala were all claimed by Sivagnanam as being integral to the Tamil state of Madras.
Ellaik Kaavalar(Guardian of the Borders)
Maposi did not succeed in getting the territory he asked for but the movement claimed success in protecting the Kanniyakumari District, Madras city, Thiruthani and Hosur.
Sivagnanam upstaged the Congress and Dravidian parties in preserving the territory of the Tamils in Madras state. He was dubbed Ellaik Kaavalar (Guardian of the borders).
The Dravida Nadu for Dravidians demand suffered a massive setback due to State re-organization. No longer was it possible to demand a Dravidian state for all the Dravidian linguistic nationalities.

On the other hand the Madras state was now predominantly Tamil and therefore more susceptible to Tamil or ultra-Tamil nationalism. The plain speaking Periyaar was the first to acknowledge the changed situation. When asked What constitutes Dravida Nadu now by the press, Periyaar replied bluntly Whatever that remains of the old Madras State is the new Dravida Nadu now.



D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: SriLankan Chairman says union claims contradictory
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 16 December 2017 01:30 pm
SriLankan Chairman says union claims contradictory
	
SriLankan Airlines Chairman Ajith Dias yesterday said acommuniquforwarded by the Alliance of Unions  SriLankan Airlines, was contradictory and not at all consistent with the assurances or the spirit of co-operation given at the awareness meeting, held between the airline and union representatives on December 6.
In a letter to the five unions, Mr. Dias said that at the meeting your confirmation and assurance to make it a success was very encouraging and we kept all staff members informed in this respect. However your subsequent letter to us and copied to the Press is contradictory and not at all consistent with the assurances or the spirit of co-operation given at the meeting.
However, the Chairman also stated that, irrespective of what is reported in the Press and Social media, we are confident that with the buy-in of a majority of our associates we can turn this Company around to a positive situation.
The full letter is as follows

15th December 2017
To:
The President
The Airline Pilots Guild of Sri Lanka

The President
Association of SriLankan Airlines Licensed Aircraft Engineers

The President
Executive Association of SriLankan Airlines BIA

The President
Flight Attendants Union

The President
SriLankan Airlines Aircraft Technicians Association

We refer to the recent Press and social media reports in respect of a communique forwarded by Alliance of Unions  SriLankan Airlines.
As most of you would know, representatives of the Unions were invited to an awareness meeting on the way forward for the airline on 6th December 2017 where it was explained in detail the position in respect of the proposed restructuring program for SriLankan Airlines. At the meeting your confirmation and assurance to make it a success was very encouraging and we kept all staff informed in this respect. However your subsequent letter to us and copied to the Press is contradictory and not at all consistent with the assurances or the spirit of co-operation given at the Meeting.
The current Board of Directors took office in 2015 of a Company with considerable losses, aircraft leases at unworkable rates and unjustifiable and unproductive Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs).  In the last financial year, the SriLankan Airlines Group recorded a healthy operating profit and it is due to the provision of finance charges on the previous debts brought forward and the one-off costs paid for the cancellation of unnecessary A350 aircraft ordered by the previous Government and the cancellation of 600 flights due to the closure of the runway at BIA, that caused the final loss to the Group.
Owing to the Government of Sri Lankas financial and other constrains; the Board did not receive approval for implementation of the several restructuring plans put forward with the advice sought from the three foreign consultancy firms, who worked with the management and the Board on these initiatives.

With the pressures of international lending agencies towards re-organizing and restructuring several State Owned Enterprises, the Government of Sri Lanka has appointed an Officials Committee reporting to the Ministerial Committee under the leadership of the Hon. Prime Minister, to come up with the necessary plans to make the Company a viable Entity and thereafter, to find a suitable Partner to drive the airline to the next level.

We are working closely with the Officials Committee to see, how best the debt could be taken off from the Balance Sheet, receive jet fuel at international market prices and right-sizing the Company. The success in these areas will ensure a viable airline.

We have also clearly indicated, the Consultants and the Management will engage with the Unions in the implementation of the Plan on the Restructure of the Company.

We are very mindful of the fact that due to the downturn of the global Airline Industry, there is little demand now especially in the Middle East for our trained and competent staff and as such the closure of the Airline is a concern to all and not in anybodys interest.

Information requested by one of the Unions under the RIT Act cannot be disclosed due to its personal nature and as stipulated so in the Right to Information Act. It is to be noted that the total remuneration of the Senior Management team of SriLankan Airlines amounts to less than 1% of the total wage cost of the Company. SriLankan Airlines is a USD 950 MN (LKR 140 BN) Company in terms of revenue and needs highly skilled and experienced management, employed at market rates in keeping with specialized companies both here and abroad. The Chairman and the Directors are not paid a salary nor any allowances.
A corporate restructure presents the company and employees with formidable challenges. It will be a difficult period but has to be done in the interest of the Airline and its employees. Irrespective of what is reported in the Press and Social media, we are confident that with the buy-in of a majority of our associates we can turn this Company around to a positive situation.

Yours faithfully,

A.N. Dias
Chairman

cc.    
H.E Maithripala Sirisena  President of Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka
Hon. Ranil Wickremesinghe  Prime Minister of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Hon. Mangala Samaraweera  Minister of Finance and Mass Media
Hon. Kabir Hashim  Minister of Public Enterprise Development
Hon. (Dr.) Sarath Amunugama  Minister of Special Assignments
Hon. Nimal Siripala de Silva  Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation
Hon. Malik Samarawickrema  Minister of Development Strategies and
International Trade
Dr. R. H. Samaratunga  Secretary to the Ministry of Treasury
Mr. Ravindra Hewavitharana  Secretary, Ministry of Public Enterprise Development
Mr. Thilan Wijesinghe
Mr. Mano Tittawela
 
		
==============================
## Title: The mistress when angry would hit me with anything
## Section: News Features
## Date: 16 December 2017 12:09 am
The mistress when angry would hit me with anything
	
The story of Kanchana who went to Saudi because she was poor
A mother who left for Saudi from her home in Galewela in search of a good source of income has returned to the country not only empty handed but with many injuries sustained after been beaten by her employers during her three months service as house-maid in Damam, Saudi Arabia. 
After her arrival at home from abroad on Saturday (18)her husband Saman Kumara Bandara was preparing to take her to hospital when we visited them. 
W.D. Kanchana Kumari (33), a mother of the then four-year-old child left for Saudi on September 5, 2016 through a job agency in Kurunegala on faked documents prepared by the agency for her. 

In Saudi she had been employed in domestic service in Damam. For this period she had not been paid a salary but given basic food and scant clothing, harassed and beaten. 
She was still suffering from pain from cuts and bruises that were the result of the assaults she underwent while in Saudi Arabia. Still there were severe wounds on her legs and back and she is unable to walk; only limped. 
She was able to return when her husband and relations made complaints about the harassment she was facing in Saudi. 
Finally one day, her employer had dumped her at the airport wearing only in piece of black cloth. She had not been paid for her services either. However she had received a skirt and blouse to wear from a Sri Lankan woman at the airport. 
Her husband Saman Kumara said she was so weak physically and was suffering mentally and that she needed immediate relief. 
W.M. Muthumenika her mother- in- law said the pretty looking daughter who left for Saudi happily was fortunate to have been able to return home. 
Kanchana disclosed the painful happening she experienced in Saudi, the country through which she expected solutions to the burning economical problems of her family. 
I had the chance to go to Saudi Arabia through a Job Agency in Kurunegala with the assistance of an uncle. Then my daughter was only four years old. However this hurdle was overcome as the agency provided me with faked documents for a payment
of Rs.25,000. 

In Saudi I worked two months without any problems. But they started when I asked for my wages after two months. The mistress of the house was very cruel. When angry she would hit me with anything in sight She crushed my nails and fingers and often beat me on my head with iron spoons; there are some injuries on my head even today. Once they hit me on my face and I nearly lost my sight because of it. Often I was left to stay hungry and thirsty. Whenever I ask for food they pushed me to the ground and trampled my abdomen. I was often beaten by both the master and the mistress of the house. There had been another Sri Lankan woman working in this house before me and nobody knows what had happened to her. 
When I wanted to phone home they get my mothers number and threaten me with a knife to tell them I was treated well and living happily. I could not tell them the real situation I was in. Later I was not allowed to talk to my mother; instead the madam began to speak to my mother directly as my mother had some knowledge of their language. However my mother had sensed something bad was happening to me and had informed the job agency and arranged to bring me back to Sri Lanka through the Foreign Employment Bureau and
the Embassy. 

She said the employer had paid for her air ticket but that she was not paid her wages. 
They removed my clothes and gave me a black cloak and dumped me at the airport even without a pair of slippers. Kanchana said. 
Two Sri Lankan women had given her a skirt and a blouse and slippers to wear. When asked about this incident the head of Uni-Lanka Job Agency in Kurunegala, Mohamed Nawaz said he was unable to tell anything without perusing the relevant documents.

 
		
==============================
==============================
