## Title: Blessing of New Grotto and Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes on Feb.3
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
Blessing of New Grotto and Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes on Feb.3
	

A new Chapel and Grotto was built according to the vision of Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith. This newly built church and grotto will be blessed on February 3, 2018 at 4.30 p.m. This chapel and grotto resemble the grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes in France. The grotto and the Chapel will give the opportunity for the faithful to pray and meditate in peace. 
This whole project had been planned by Rev. Fr. Darrel Coonghe, who is the director of Supuwath Arana and the construction was supervised by Mr. Joseph Palawatte. This entire project was completed at an estimated cost of Rs.100 million and made possible by a donation by Mclarens Ltd., CEO Rohan De Silva and his wife. 
The purpose of this project is to help the faithful, who would then gather there to pray in peace and to promote the devotion to Mother Mary and to emulate the values of Mother Mary in their lives. The lighting and the landscaping has been done in such a way that everyone who comes there may not be distracted from their prayers. There are confessionals made so that faithful who wish to make their confessions can do so easily. A stream adds more beauty and meaning as one crosses it as a symbol of cleansing after they have made their confessions. This reminds us of Rosa Mystica where there is a stream through which the faithful are invited to cross over. 
The Cardinal has requested the deans of the deaneries to organize a liturgical service on the first Saturday of every month with the faithful and the priests. A candle-light procession with bucket lanterns and the recitation of the rosary will also help to create a prayerful atmosphere. The Mysteries of the rosary have been painted on walls to add more serenity to the place. A group of volunteers have been organized to facilitate the faithful who come there for prayers. 
The building of the grotto and the chapel dedicated to Our Lady of Lourdes at Tewatte in Ragama and the spiritual renewal of the faithful who gather there to ponder and emulate the life of Mother Mary, will help to bring back an answer to those groups who leave out the Marian devotion from their lives.

 
		
==============================
## Title: BOC Ran Kekulu launches special gift scheme for Grade 1, preschool entrants
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
BOC Ran Kekulu launches special gift scheme for Grade 1, preschool entrants
	
Bank of Ceylon (BOC) shares the joy of a new beginning with a special gift scheme for BOC Ran Kekulu Grade 1 and preschool entrants to boost enthusiasm as they step into school.
The offer will be open till end of March 2018 to allow more children the opportunity. If your child is entering preschool or Grade 1 this year, you can visit any BOC branch to open a new account with Rs.250 as the initial deposit from the bank and the gift pack of two drawing books and a box of colour pastel.
For all existing Ran Kekulu account holding children who have entered preschool or Grade 1 this year, the bank will offer this gift pack to the existing balance.
This offer is yet another benefit that comes along with an array of benefits that are attached to the Ran Kekulu account. Ran Kekulu accounts always carry an additional 1 percent above the normal rate. This account is also linked with a free life insurance cover for the parent or guardian to a maximum of Rs.500,000 (minimum balance of Rs.5000 should be maintained for a period of six months or more prior to the incident).
Any parent or guardian who opens Ran Kekulu accounts for more than one child will be covered up to a maximum of Rs.1 million. The child will also get a free medical insurance cover up to Rs.100,000 per annum in the event of an accident or 10 specified critical illnesses requiring hospitalization in a private hospital for more than one night (minimum balance of Rs.5000 should be maintained for a period of six months prior to the incident/illness).
In case of being admitted to a government hospital requiring hospitalization for more than three nights the insurance cover would be Rs.600 per day, for a maximum period of 30 days (conditions apply).
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bond Comm. report absolved UNP, its leader: Ajith
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 08:55 am
Bond Comm. report absolved UNP, its leader: Ajith
	
Power and Renewable Energy Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera said yesterday even though the bond issue was a minor issue for the United National Party, the Bond Commission report had clearly stated that no one from the UNP, including its leader, had done anything wrong.
The Bond Commission report clearly proves the innocence of UNP members and its leader. Even parents would not give us a character certificate such as this, he said.
He said the case against Perpetual Treasuries Ltd (PTL) owner Arjun Aloysius would be taken up as the first case before a 3-judge-bench as a trial-at-bar to be established next March.
Aloysius has damaged our reputation and has done a great injustice to the country. He cannot go anywhere in the world to hide from his sins. If he is hiding anywhere in the world, we can bring him back as we can request for INTERPOL help. Justice will prevail, he said.
Mr. Perera said the money acquired by Aloysius could be recovered as his assets were frozen.It is possible to recover the money looted by him. Unlike what happened during the previous regime, Aloysius's money is in our country not in other countries, he said. (Ajith Siriwardana)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: CA interim order on Basil extended
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 11:00 am
CA interim order on Basil extended
	
The Court of Appeal today extended the interim order till March 16 staying further proceedings of the Colombo High Court against former minister Basil Rajapakse. (SSS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ceylinco Life urges Sri Lankans to put Children First, Education Next
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
Ceylinco Life urges Sri Lankans to put Children First, Education Next
	
Ceylinco Lifes continuing emphasis on the importance of families spending quality time together has found new expression in the latest communication campaign launched by Sri Lankas life insurance market leader.
Building up to another mega family fun event conceptualised, organised and funded by the company, the two-month long campaign seeks to create wider awareness of the harmful effects of parents and children being obsessed with education to the extent where the well-being of the children becomes secondary.
Themed Children First, Education Next, the awareness campaign is to be carried out in print, electronic, social and digital media throughout February and March and will underscore the importance of giving children the time, space and freedom to think freely, spend time with family and to enjoy their precious childhood.
Going beyond mere messaging, Ceylinco Life has announced it will back the campaign up with a signature event for 300 families in Colombo in August to demonstrate the value of wholesome family fun.
As a company that is engaged in a relationship for life with close to a million families, Ceylinco Life has an insight into societys pressing issues, the companys Managing Director R. Renganathan explained.
One issue that is of increasing concern is the intense pressure on children to perform at examinations. This is depriving them of the chance to be children and to spend time with their parents and siblings. The Children First, Education Next campaign is designed to address this issue.
In order to select families for the Mega Family Fun Day in Colombo in August, Ceylinco Life will conduct a draw for all new policyholders who purchase life insurance between February 1 and April 30, 2018, the company said.
The event will comprise of magic shows, rides and slides, bouncers, a merry-go-round, trampolines, face painting, games and many other fun activities for the entire family.
One of the highlights of the event will be a draw at which one participating family will win a visit to Universal Studios Singapore courtesy of Ceylinco Life and four other families will win weekend packages to a star-class hotel in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Debate on bond, PRECIFAC reports a gimmick: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 05:58 am
Debate on bond, PRECIFAC reports a gimmick: President
	
The one-day Parliamentary debate on the Bond Commissions report and the PRECIFAC report scheduled on February 6, is simply a gimmick instead of a fruitful one, President Maithripala Sirisena said yesterday.
In an interview with media personnel at his official residence, the President said this was a debate which should have taken place days ago and continued for days without a disruption.
The debate was arranged even for a day prior to the local government election on February 10 because of the challenge I threw, he said.
He also said the United National Party (UNP) should take the responsibility of failure to take action against the Rajapaksas over the charges levelled against them.
When ministerial portfolios were allocated in the unity government, the portfolios which have an impact on taking legal action against wrongdoers were given to UNP Ministers. Therefore, the ministers who are in charge of the Law and Order, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and the Attorney Generals Department should take the responsibility, he said.
Im the one who told to hold the debate prior to February 10. My request grew into a public opinion. Therefore, they had to take this up for a debate before 10. However, Im not certain to which extent this debate will be successful. It is impossible to debate the contents of two reports within mere hours. On the other hand, I dont believe at least 90 percent of MPs will show up for the debate. The debate should have been held before. Election propaganda activities will come to an end on February 7. All ministers and MPs will be engaged in propaganda activities in their respective wards on February 6 and 7. From that, how many will turn up for the debate Even if they turned up, how many will engage in the debate productively For how long one person will talk This is not a debate which can be done in 5 to 10 minutes. This is deeper than that and complicated. The debate had been arranged in a hurried manner as a mere show to the country only because I made a challenge. The complete responsibility of not taking legal action against the Rajapaksas, should be taken by the Ministers who are holding the Police, the CID, the AGs Department under their purview. I have told this before as well. Then, one may ask whether the same thing will happen to these commissions. It wont because Im the one who appointed Presidential Commissions. All the other things happened from 2015 were done by the respective ministries. The Anti-Corruption Secretariat office was at Temple Trees. (Ajantha Kumara Agalakada)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Election awareness
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
Election awareness
	

The tension of elections once again pervades the air. With 15.8 million Sri Lankans eligible to elect their representatives across 341 local government authorities, this years local government elections are to be conducted under a mixed electoral system. The new system will see 60% of candidates elected via the first-past-the-post voting system, where the voter would cast his or her vote for the representative of their choice. The remaining 40% of the process would be via a closed list proportional representation, where voters cast their vote for the preferred political parties as opposed to individual representatives. The Dailymirror took to the streets to gauge public understanding and awareness of the new electoral system. Interestingly many individuals we spoke to had little or no faith in the upcoming election and revealed that they are not looking forward to cast their vote on February 10. Meanwhile many others pointed to several weaknesses in the new system highlighting the need for more such reforms, including an aptitude assessment of candidates.
Pix by Kushan Pathiraja

The treasury doesnt have a cent left
- Suranga(43) Kalutara
The new electoral system is better than the previous outdated one. But I dont agree with the number of candidates that will be taking charge of local government bodies as this is a huge sum to be paid in terms of salaries alone. The word on the streets is that the treasury doesnt have a cent left. Given such a backdrop the only way this system would succeed is if these representatives forgo their benefits at least until the economy turns for the better. Otherwise there will be no change in the local government system. I dont believe a change would be made with the mandatory quota for womens representation either. The problems in the system run far deeper than this.

System should focus on qualityof candidates
-Dilrukshi(23) Nikaweratiya
The new electoral reforms are born out of a good initiative. But there are some major flaws in it. For instance, the system should focus more on the quality of the candidates who are being represented by parties. Their education and aptitude should be assessed, but there is no mechanism to ensure that we get a quality candidate to vote for. Some representatives have not even passed their O/Levels and we select them to govern the country. This should change and that is why I believe the JVP deserves
my vote.



The problem is not in the system alone
- Retired officer speaking on condition of anonymity
The system appears to be good, but the problem is not in the system alone. For instance, officers in local government bodies go through years of examinations and possess various qualifications but are forced to work under a politician who has not even passed A/Level exams. This is unfair on the voters of this country and therefore educational requirements are a must. Excluding such factors reflect grave errors of the system.

The new system facilitates better voter representation
Hansini Kaushalya(24) Colombo

With my limited knowledge of the subject I think the new system is better as it facilitates better representation of the voter. Additionally there will also be less rivalry among candidates and there is more opportunity given for young voices. Womens representation is encouraged by every party and independent group, therefore I think the new system has been successful.

With no preferential system there is no tension
- Darshana(40) Horana
The new system has decreased rivalry between parties as well as candidates, which we can witness already during the campaign period. With the preferential system gone, there is no tension in the air. I have some faith that the new candidates will take their duties seriously and serve the voters.

I have complete faithin the government
- Susantha Weerasinghe(43) Kaduwela
Im aware of the new electoral system but I dont expect to see a great change with the local government election. As per my understanding, the local government authorities must function as the consensus government which is in power at present. I have complete faith in the government and I believe their good work will reflect in election results. I think 95 out of 100 votes will be cast for the United National Party and ensure its victory.


Better is about to take place
- T. Wanigasekara (53) Maharagama
The new system is good as it downplays the chances of rivalry between parties. I also saw that new candidates have been given the opportunity to contest. Even though, I dont have a complete understanding of this system but I have faith that change for the better is about to take place. 

I dont have faithin any change inthe political arena
- A.G. Jagath(45) Kaduwela
With the elimination of the preferential vote based rivalry with the new system, we are ensured a peaceful election day. This is a very good sign. I dont think there will be any drastic changes either in the lead up to the election or following the election. Its a commendable aspect of the new system that young candidates have been encouraged to contest. But I dont have faith in a significant change in the political arena.


Elected candidates forget voters when they take office
Gamini Peters Payagala

The new system is good as it instills increased responsibility on the parties who field candidates for the local government bodies. Selection of representatives through wards is the correct way to proceed as opposed to the former system, where the elected candidates forget voters as soon as they take office.


We need the preferential vote system
- Anton Perera(71) Kelaniya

I see both positive and negative aspects of the new electoral system. The party is represented by the people therefore I think we need the preferential vote system to see those who really work towards the development of their voter, being elected to office. On the other hand the inclusion of womens representation is certainly encouraging.


We need to seenew faces representing us
- P.J. Dodawatte(67) Malabe

What we need is not just a new electoral system but an entirely new party comprising new political candidates. I think I speak for a majority when I say that we need to see new faces representing us. Looking at the personalities, behaviour and actions of the new candidates, I have no faith that they will do us any good even if elected. We need intelligent and educated candidates to represent us and for that a completely new party must be formed.

Doubling candidates is a waste of our money
Janaka Perera(35) Kohuwala

I dont believe the new system will cause significant change in this country. I think youth representation has failed too. Electing double the number of candidates to office with this new system is a complete waste of our money. The effectiveness of the mandatory quota for womens representation is yet to be seen. Female candidates have a task of testing the waters with this experience as the current political environment is not created to encourage them. Therefore its impact is yet to be witnessed.


We want to see politicians engage in real work
- Chinthaka(53) Weligama
I have understood the new election system well but I have decided not to cast my vote. I think its a futile exercise because I dont want to vote for people who engage in debates about who swindled public funds first. We the voters wish to see real development in Sri Lanka. We want to see politicians engage in real work. The new electoral system is good, but with the number of candidates almost doubled, it is the voter who has to ultimately foot the bill. Why should we do that when politicians repeatedly fail to resolve persistent issues All we ask of them is to help uplift our livelihoods and improve our lifestyles. Surely a majority of the voters feel the same way. The results of this election are not apparent yet.

The new system will discourage rivalry for preferential votes
- Priyantha Jayarathne(47) Kandy
In my opinion, the new electoral system is a good one. It will discourage rivalry for preferential votes among candidates which usually plague elections. I dont think the increase in representatives in local government bodies is a cost to the nation, it is more of a requirement to serve the people. However I think when it comes to women, they will face difficulty in contesting, given the current set-up.


Elections are useless in propagating change this country desperately needs
- Abeygunawardana(65) Minuwangoda
Elections are completely useless in propagating change this country desperately needs. The new mixed electoral system I believe is good in theory. It is much better than the previous system as we are sure to witness less clashes between parties and candidates. But as long as we dont select educated people to be our representatives, no amount of changes will warrant the solution to persistent issues in the local government level.

Lethargy in govt. servants hasnt changed
Weerasiri, (83) Enderamulla
The people in this country do not engage in productive work. I have been employed in 27 different places and worked with many people during my 50-year employment period. But one thing that hasnt changed all these years is the lethargy especially in government servants. The same applies for the local government elections. Even though the new electoral system is good, 90% of these representatives are likely to ignore serving their wards. They must serve their people and for this they should have a deeper understanding of the voters needs. Until they have this understanding, elections will be a futile exercise.


Happy that women have the opportunity to contest
- Sifayaah(42) Slave Island
I dont have much awareness of the new electoral system to comment on it. However I have seen a number of young candidates being fielded by parties and I believe this is what we need. I intend to cast my vote and Im happy that women have also been given the opportunity to contest. We would like to see new faces and young people serving their wards.
Candidates should have their own views
- Iresha Maduwanthi(21) Kiribathgoda

 dont keep track of current events and therefore I dont have a great understanding of the new electoral system. I personally believe that each candidate should have their own views, morale and discipline. If these election reforms can ensure that kind of development in our politicians, then it is a good sign.


Im positive that we need change
- W. Kumuduni(54)Nugegoda

Im not aware of the new electoral system a great deal but Im positive that we need change. We need more and more womens representatives to voice our issues and to fight for our issues. Its a positive sign of change that the role of women has been deliberated and we have been provided an inclusive environment in the forthcoming election.

System may notelect voters preferred candidate
- Tissa Jayathilaka(49) Rajagiriya
The mixed electoral system is a good standard to abide by. When representatives are elected through wards, the voter is better represented and the candidate is more accountable. The only issue I see is that this system may not elect the preferred candidate of the voter. But this is for future to tell. The elected candidate may not be the preferred one but could be the best one for a particular ward. There are also certain faults in the candidates fielded by parties but overall the new system has the ability to develop the villages and rural areas which need attention of the lawmakers.






 
		
==============================
## Title: Enjoying a break
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:15 pm
Enjoying a break
	







Chinese expatriate labourers attached to a mega development project facing the Galle Face Green were seen taking time off their busy schedule yesterday to enjoy the parade of the tri-forces who were busy rehearsing for the 70th Independence Day celebrations on Feb. 4. Pics by Kushan Pathiraja
 
		
==============================
## Title: GOvt. has shown they arent  capable of delivering -Sharmila Gonawela
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:06 am
GOvt. has shown they arent  capable of delivering -Sharmila Gonawela
	

The battle for Local Government Elections is heating up. An election should benefit the people, irrespective of symbols like the Pohottuwas, Beetle leaves or Elephants through which they come into power. Several decades down the line, people are still hoping for a better country. Sharmila Gonawela is contesting from the Bambalapitiya Ward for the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) under the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) ticket.
Speaking to theDailymirror, Gonawela spoke about the challenges she faced being a Municipal Councillor back in 2002 and what she is planning to do if elected. 
Excerpts : 
QYou were a member of the CMC before. What made you contest again
I was a member back in 2002 and I won under the UNP ticket. I was the only woman sitting with 52 other men. I have fought corruption and malpractices, but I never got the support that I needed from the party. Thereafter I went to the Bribery Commission, the CID and other Presidential Commissions with documentation to complain about all these issues. Eventually I stepped down from politics after four years. But in 2010 after the war concluded I voted for Mahinda because I thought it was the duty of all Sri Lankans. He invited me this time and I therefore decided to contest under the SLPP ticket. 

If I can be the Mayor of Colombo who has worked for the city after 60 years, who has built up a greener, healthier and an IT-friendly city and if people say that all this was done by a woman, I would be the happiest. Im also sure that I can be that person as well

QBack in 2002, women were rarely involved in the political scene when compared to the present time. What challenges did you faceback then
There were some men who were very supportive. But when I went in I was the only woman sitting there. Some would bring in bottles and get drunk at official meetings and then I requested for a private area. I even refused to use the toilets there because they were in a row with just one door. Although I requested for a separate room, neither the party nor the councilors backed me. They feared that I would get more power if I went in to a separate room. So my requests were more often than not, turned down. 

QWhat are your views on operationalizing the 25% quota for women in politics
Its an excellent move. Women have to be encouraged to be in politics. They are more sensitive towards issues and we also want to change the political culture. We need to be more transparent and ensure a corruption-free society. We have 5% of Parliamentarians who are women, but what have they really spoken about There was an issue of a 14-year-old girl who was raped in Down South and she then took her life. We also have the incident where the Uva Province Chief Minister made a teacher kneel down. But has any female Parliamentarian made any statement with regard to these issues When my opponent candidate Rosy was in the Womens and Childrens Affairs ministry, there was a complaint made regarding the rape of an underaged girl by a powerful cabinet ministers son. But was any action taken With regard to the Bond Issue, Rosy was in the COPE committee and during the 100 days inquiry a vote was called for and she didnt come and vote. The son was accused of it. But she went and sat with Sujeewa Senasinghe when he launched the book. So aiding and abetting is equal to being corrupt.


QHow challenging is the political game today with the implementation of the Mixed Electoral System
Im on the National List and looking after the Bambalapitiya Ward. Just because womens representation was increased, if the number of councillors is being increased from 53 to 113, we are still placing the burden on the people. As at now, we dont see any service being rendered to the people. We are adding to the 53 who are already available, so its the rate payer who will be deprived of their services which they should be getting. I feel its not very practical. With the increase the general council meetings have been shifted elsewhere and Rs. 25 lakhs is being charged per sitting. In addition to that the existing members room is being renovated to accommodate 113 members, but what if this system is a failure What will they do with 113 seats

I must say that I have received good feedback, especially from Muslim ladies. People in Colombo have come to realise that they get nothing out of the rates they have been paying for 60 long years. The Government has shown that they arent capable of delivering anything. I feel that theres a big swing

QWhat are your plans for Colombo
In 2003 I spoke of a greener Colombo. I also spoke of a separate bus line for women in the city. We need to implement these things. Also with regard to the traffic congestion in Colombo we can only talk of sky trains and a good city bus service run by the private sector. The transport system comes under the Central Government and the city bus service is the only thing we can depend on. Garbage is another issue. Way back we had the Kunu mola watte in Kirulapona and Central Colombo. Garbage was brought here and burnt. Today this Kunu mola watte is called Nagaswatte and has been turned into a low-income housing area. People made a living at Kunu mola watte by segregating plastic, cardboard and other materials which were eventually sold. The segregation was done free-of-charge because people had an interest in collecting them. This has come to a halt as well. 
It was the UNP that led the CMC for 60 years. During those 60 years they had no plan. Of course Gotabhaya Rajapaksa had a good plan for garbage, but as they came in, it was stopped due to political reasons. But I believe that we have to stop thinking politically and look at result-oriented approaches for the people. If they continued what Gota started, people would have said this is Gotas project, but this garbage problem wouldnt have emerged today. Dengue is another result of this garbage problem. The rate payer pays rates for garbage collection and disposal. If the council has no proper plan for garbage they also cannot penalise the rate payer. Today we have over 100 engineers in the Council and we privatise garbage collection and disposal. 
The low-income houses are another aspect Im considering. If every district has officials looking after the area, then under whose advice or assistance do these unauthorised structures come up daily Its all politically motivated. If you are from a low income family I would encourage you to build a separate house because Im sure of your vote. But after a few years you need to be fed, provided with basic amenities such as roofing sheets and also with pin padi (A dole)  which is received by 13,000 people in the city. This is just a political hub of one party and the rate payers are maintaining Colombo for this party to win. 

QDoes it mean that the UNP has not found any practical solution for the past 60 years
Yes. Im directly challenging the partys Mayoral Candidate. She is talking about a greener Colombo, but her answer to mitigate the mosquito menace is to cut down huge trees. Who would have a heart to cut trees How can you run a city like that We have 13,000 people receiving pin padi so cant we get them to plant a tree each We also have maternity centres and medicine clinics. We also have one laboratory and Ayurveda clinic as well in addition to all the staff that is required. If we can strengthen these establishments Im sure we can stop the traffic congestion near the general hospitals. We have the money and the infrastructure, but the priority has been on politically
motivated issues. 

QBut the majority of the people have always supported the UNP. Do you still think that after all these years, they would vote for the your party this time
It was a UNP hub. But in my area I have walked into every house unlike my opponent candidate who goes round throwing leaflets into every house.
The response has been very good. The UNP was confident that the minorities were with them. I must say that I have received good feedback, especially from Muslim ladies. People in Colombo have come to realise that they get nothing out of the rates they have been paying for 60 long years. The Government has shown that they arent capable of delivering anything. I feel that theres a big swing. 
QThe past regime carried out various city beautification projects and they appeared to be practical in front of the citizens. But why do you think people voted for the present regime instead
I wasnt politically involved when it happened, but I believe that they trusted a lot of wrong people. I think Mahinda Rajapaksa (MR) didnt take appropriate actions when he had to take them. The correct message wasnt conveyed to him, at times. 

QAs you said earlier, you have voiced out on corruption and malpractices. The present regime has appointed various commissions to probe into these matters. What are your views
The Government appointed commissions one month before the elections. Thajudeen or Lasantha cannot be brought back. They started investigations, but it was stuck somewhere. The people who were rumoured to be involved in these cases were never questioned to begin with. MR and Namal were accused of having accounts in Dubai and so on. So why cant they question the accused The opposition now has enough evidence to probe into corrupt practices that have been taking place for the past three years. 

QHow confident are you that you will win
Im 100% confident. Im challenging my opponent and Im going to defeat her in her own Ward. If she doesnt win her own Ward she cant be Mayor. I as a woman I would like to be a woman Mayor of Colombo, but I wouldnt just want to be the first woman Mayor of Colombo. If I can be the Mayor of Colombo who has worked for the city after 60 years, who has built up a greener, healthier and an IT-friendly city and if people say that all this was done by a woman, I would be the happiest. Im also sure that I can be that person as well. I strongly feel that a Mayor is not just an administrator. We have a staff comprising highly educated engineers and also those people who collect garbage. We have a very strong political wing which is represented by different political parties. The Mayor has to be someone who is good in administration and also someone who has a political background.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heavy traffic in Kollupitiya
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 09:40 am
Heavy traffic in Kollupitiya
	
Heavy traffic was reported in Kollupitiya Junction and surrounding areas this morning due to the rehearsals of 70th Independence Day celebration.
Police said that the vehicular movement towards Galle Face via Galle Road and other entrances had been restricted.
Passenger buses and all heavy vehicles were advice to use Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha and move towards Slave Island.
The Independence Day celebration rehearsals would be held from 9 am to 12 pm until Sturday(3). (TK)
 
		
==============================
## Title: His films and storylines are never random affairs
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:16 am
His films and storylines are never random affairs
	

In Ran Diya Dahara, Udayakantha Warnasuriya alludes to his advertising career: he gets a graphic designer to crop Geetha Kumarasinghe on a photo of Kamal Addaraarachchi, to make it appear as though the two of them were secretly married. Kamal, a crippled soldier, cant talk, and in the first few sequences of these two together he is as confused as we are. His parents, played by Anula Karunatilake and Henry Jayasinghe (in a rare outing, since neither of them took to the cinema that often after the eighties), are on the other hand convinced of Geethas feelings of tenderness and empathy, and they readily accept her for who she passes herself to be. In reality, though, shes married to a lowlife scumbag (Jackson Anthony) who swears vengeance on her when he discovers her whereabouts; its a terse encounter that ends with the soldier revealing his affections for her by chasing the lowlife with his crutches, and this ending, though less than satisfactorily edited, nevertheless embodies the Udayakantha Warnasuriya package: an unashamed, almost spontaneous, tongue-in-cheek combination of art and entertainment. 
Udayakantha, in film after film, turns cripples, robbers, and even low-lives into the heroes that we want them to be. Sometimes, as with Le Kiri Kandulu, he turns towards the middle class and declares his sympathies for them, committed as they are to a life of ease, love, and comfort. Le Kiri Kandulu, however, is too short to be the film it tries to be: it ends abruptly, though movingly, and it never takes Nilmini Tennakoons anger towards the man who crashes into her car and causes her to give birth to a still born child beyond a few sequences that dwell on a technicality we already know (that the foetus is not considered as a live human being by the law) and a reconciliation between her, her husband, and that elderly man by the beach. But then it pokes fun at the middle class (which is why we are hinted at a possible affair on the part of the mans son-in-law, played by Sanath Gunatilake), which is another typical Warnasuriya trademark: his ability to be irreverent without the usual blasts of emotions that precede it. While many of his movies leave much to be desired on this count, therefore, I genuinely like them. 

Because we arent really a big country (we arent even a SMALL country: England is, and so is the Maldives; in that sense we are vague and indefinable), the gap between the storytellers and the serious artists remains impossibly hard to bridge

Because we arent really a big country (we arent even a SMALL country: England is, and so is the Maldives; in that sense we are vague and indefinable), the gap between the storytellers and the serious artists remains impossibly hard to bridge, especially in the movies. At one level this means that the entertainers call the shots. At another level this also means that the artist has to do with being part of a small, esoteric circle, so he becomes a minoritarian the same way the entertainers become majoritarians: the one rebels against the conventional wisdom, the latter accepts it for what he thinks it to be. The fact that, decades after Parithyagaya and Deveni Gamana and Visidela, we still insist on terming H. D. Premaratne as a middle-of-the-road director speaks volumes about whether we want to continue with this pathetic rift. (For the record, we do want to.) 
A few of these entertainers have, by extraordinary resolve, tried to reach the ranks of the masters, but they have failed. In the early days, Robin Tampoe tried his hand at the serious and the unfunny with Sudo Sudu. It was a financial flop. K. A.W. Pereras first few forays into the industry tried to channel serious plotlines (especially with Senasuma Kothenada) before he moved into adaptations of T. B. Ilangaratne (Nadayo) and puerile love stories (Wasana, Lasanda, Duleeka, Janaka Saha Manju) that transformed the unreality of their experiences into the hysterics they compelled from popular audiences (one of my neighbours swears by Janaka Saha Manju even now, and apparently it still makes him and his mother cry). Its tough placing Udayakantha among these past veterans, as tough as placing him in the mould of H. D. Premaratne, because he fits into neither category. The truth is that Warnasuriya is much more than a comparison with such veterans. He entertains, yes, but neither yields nor defies the artificiality of his stories and characters. He teeters between two worlds. And he succeeds, in part. 
When I asked Chandran Rutnam as to what he thought constituted a good film, he gave the following reply: Three words. A. Good. Story. Udayakanthas films dont lack stories. They dont even lack plotlines (at one point I struggled to make sense of the multiple plotlines in Ran Diya Dahara and Ran Kevita and Bahuboothayo). They sometimes, if not often, lack the cohesion that would have kept them together (like in Bahuboothayo, which for the first 20 minutes presents an interesting premise  what if your local temple houses a she-devil  but then deteriorates to a series of altercations with random bystanders: Srinath Maddumage, the local busybody, and Vijaya Nandasiri, the cowardly god), and this at the end of the day becomes their descent. He tries to make up for what he lacks in this respect with emotional outbursts  which is why, despite my confusion, people laugh at even the most crudely conceived sequences in Ran Kevita and Ran Kevita 2  but he never properly succeeds, because those outbursts, while appealing to our instincts, are nevertheless edited so jerkily that they stand apart, on their own, outside the narrative. These are the titbits that keep the movie alive to those instincts, but they arent as convincing as the storylines and characters we have been following. 
Directors love taking chances; those chances make up the sequences that seem almost accidentally conceived to us. But Udayakantha doesnt quite work like that. His films, and their storylines, even the most arbitrarily inserted and edited ones, are never random affairs: they are always carefully calculated, shot to evoke a specific response from his audience. If the sequence of the two boys in Ran Kevita conjecturing as to whether the kevita they have will bring to life the statue of the Buddha seems rather puerile and primitive, its because Udayakantha the film maker becomes, for a few seconds, Udayakantha the moralist, daring his audience into believing the unbelievable until the heresies this may compel (try telling children that a kevita can materialise religious figures and then looking at their parents shocked faces!) are defied: we never question as to how blasphemous he is. So hes won it on both counts, entrancing the wonderers in us and the zealots in our elders. The responses he evokes, thus, try to keep everyone happy. 
The man is a magician but then magicians are illusionists, and are as careful and efficient as the believers in reason and science. The entertainers in this country thus work from the premise that audiences are gullible enough to believe anything. Some of Sunil Soma Peiriss films are so hastily put together that I wonder who in their right minds would go watch Tennyson Cooray fighting the digitalised lion from George of the Jungle in Wada Bari Tarzan. (Peiris, like those other entertainers, work with recycled parody, as I pointed out in this newspaper many months ago.) But then there are people who want to escape the banality of tomorrow, and to escape that banality they need to be convinced by directors that artists can convince them of anything. How else would the Tennyson Cooray and Bandu Samarasinghe vehicles rake up rupees at the box office Thats why Udayakantha is so special: while he seems to work from the same premise of audiences-being-gullible, he trumps his own expectations of them by testing their intelligence. What if Kamal in Ran Diya Dahara really loves Geetha What if the two boys in Ran Kevita leave their frolicking and listen to Vijaya Nandasiri and recite the multiplication table properly What if Rodney Warnasuriya in Gindari chooses to marry the she-devil 
How does he succeed with these scenes The entertainers who give us Wada Bari Tarzan and Doctor Nawariyan confuse visual slapstick for visual diarrhoea in much the same way that art house director confuse visual profundity for visual constipation (that is, the one works with excess and the other with economy). Udayakantha neither sacrifices nor privileges the image this way. Simple to a fault, salty at times, the dialogues and monologues in his films are never the insult to audiences that dialogues and monologues from those other mainstream movies are. They dont condescend to audiences, despite the manifest failings of their plotlines; they celebrate our act of condescending to them. 
In the end that may be Udayakanthas secret formula. Does it work
Almost always. 
UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM  
 
		
==============================
## Title: IASL says Life Insurance Sales Awards will raise industry standards
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
IASL says Life Insurance Sales Awards will raise industry standards
	

By Harshana Sellahewa
The Insurance Association of Sri Lanka (IASL) declared the lunch of Life Insurance Sales Awards 2018 at a press briefing held this week.
The idea for this awards scheme was initiated in 2017 and implemented in 2018, with the aim of improving and raising the bar in insurance sales professionalism by recognising and rewarding insurance sales professionals based on their performance and potential to purportedly improve the penetration level of the life insurance market in Sri Lanka.
Explaining in detail about the criteria and conditions of the competition, IASL Marketing and Sales Forum Chairman Hashra Weerawardena said, This year, the annual awards, Life Insurance Industry Sales Awards 2018, was themed as Celebrating Lifes Superheroes by the Marketing and Sales Forum of the IASL. This is the first year we are having this annual awards ceremony for the life insurance industry and we hope it will be a major success.
The Life Insurance Industry Sales Awards will go for a period of one year, starting from January this year, Weerawardena
further stated.
Weerawardena went on to explain that there are two main award categories, namely Category level and National level.
Under the Category level, the 15 total companies that specialise in life insurance will be divided into three sub-categories, which count five Large Category companies, five Medium Category companies and five Small Category companies. This separation of participants is done in accordance to each companys gross written premium (GWP) as per 3Q17.
The National level category differs by individuality, as: Any person who wins a normal category, even someone from a small category, can aspire to become a national level winner provided he/she achieves or meets the Large Category criteria.
Under Category level as well as National level, we would be honouring and awarding Gold, Silver and Bronze in all three categories and honouring the best sales advisor in each category, the best supervisor and also the best branch manager, said Weerawardena.
The three key value drivers of the whole competition are:
1. Quantity - The number of policies sold (NOP).
2. MCFP - The value of the insurance premium production (Monthly Converted First Premium).
3. Quality - The continuity of the business.
Reviewed under several benchmarks, the awards will give an opportunity for nominees to be highlighted in their careers and build a strong professional personality, which will enable them to perform better.
The IASLs eventual aim is to make not only 2018 a success but to ensure that our industry wins. If our industry wins, eventually the country wins, said IASL President
Deepthi Lokuarachchi.
 
		
==============================
## Title: India wary of Chinas plans in Sri Lanka
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 05:07 pm
India wary of Chinas plans in Sri Lanka
	
Hinting at security concerns over Sri Lanka handing over Hambantota Port to China, Indian Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has raised doubts whether China would confine itself only to port activitiesin Sri Lanka, the Hindu reported today.
Whether China will confine itself to only port activities in Hambantota port is a question and I do not want to say anything further, she has told reporters after a meeting on the implementation on New India vision 2022 at the Collectorate in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.
She said the Sri Lankan government had handed over the port to China on a 99-year lease after having failed to repay a loan. On whether China setting up its base in Hambantota port posed security threat to the country and whether India was prepared to face the threat, she said, whether China will use the port only for port activities is a question mark and my reply answers all your queries.
Responding to the failure to identify the killers of Rameswaram fisherman K. Britjo, she said it was taking time as it was an international issue and the Centre was following it up. We will not give it up, she added.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 26 letters of the alphabet arranged to make something wonderful
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:18 am
26 letters of the alphabet arranged to make something wonderful
	

....Lamps and flowers and incense for sale. The women at the stalls snap the stalks off the flowers with impressive speed and hand them to the devotees. Its like an assembly line. Everything is a little business, sprung up around the god.
- The Dancers, Names and Numbers (page 9)
perhaps he had a way of leaving his voice switched on while the rest of him went to sleep
- The Journey, Names and Number (page 41)
This is a complex story with vignettes of familiar scenarios: who has not experienced the plea of someone to fill out a form Or the cold, soullessness of the visa officer What story could a visa officer tell, I wonder
- Somasiri Devendra, speaking at the launch of Names and Numbers
The first thing that catches the eye is the cover of the book. Its a vivid eye catching blue and yellow. A bright blue banner on a yellow background. The first impulse is to look a little closer at the yellow background what exactly does it show 
A cool balmy evening in Colombo recently saw the launch of Names and Numbers, Chiranthi Rajapakses debut collection of short stories. Published by Perera Hussein publishers, the collection consists of fourteen short stories. 
BOOK LAUNCH- Namesand Numbers

The evening started with introductions by publisher Ameena Hussein. Somasiri Devendra and Ramya Chamalie Jirasinghe commented on the book, followed by a reading by the author. 
Somasiri Devendra in his comments gave a skillful analysis of the stories. He divided the stories into three groups; story telling stories, fragments and conflict driven pieces. He noted that the first story in the collection, The dancers, was an exercise in sustained suspense. At the end you wonder - has he sold his soul
Of the story Going home he observed It keeps you guessing where the action is. And it brings up the question, what does going home mean Or home for that matter Describing the short piece Leaving as a fragment, capable of expansion, he pointed to some evocative phrases used Cool green of mango leaves Dark, musty smelling places that must be avoided. 
He noted, A whole drama is being enacted but the focus is on the girl and the cat. What does the cat think about it all, I wonder
The talks were followed by a reading and remarks by the author. Describing the process that went in to the writing of the collection she observed, I wrote things down because I was trying to describe something that interested me. And then I came back to it and rewrote it. And then I wondered if I change this word here and that one there --- does it say what Im trying to describe And you remember books that youve read and admire and you think how did those writers do it How did they arrange words in a particular way to make you feel things There are 26 letters in the alphabet. And thats all a book is. But depending on how you arrange those letters you can sometimes make something wonderful. And its this process of writing something that is interesting.

Chiranthi came to writing by a rather roundabout route - soon after school she joined Wijeya newspapers as a journalist. After leaving Wijeya she qualified as a dentist and worked for a while at Badulla hospital. She commented, I knew I liked words and I liked to write things down. This eventually led to a degree in law. And all the time I looked for writing workshops, groups, anything which would give me a community. She notes Lawyers, doctors, dentists, all have a community. Writers have no natural community  you have to find one 
Ramya Chamalie Jirasinghe in her remarks commented on some of the stories and talked about how she met the author at a writing workshop organized by writers lab. 

A fine collection of stories, slightly sour, slightly sweet and a little hard to capture

And the yellow cover Look a little closer. On closer inspection the slightly strange yellow things turn out to be lunudehi  that classically Sri Lankan treat. Slightly sour, slightly sweet, a little hard to capture exactly. Like the stories themselves.
Names and Numbers is available at the Perera Hussein website https://pererahussein.com/index.php/books/short-stories/names-numbers-phph.html, Barefoot, Vijitha Yapa and other selected bookstores.
Names and Numbers
by Chiranthi Rajapakse
Published by Perera Hussein publishers
 
		
==============================
## Title: LOLC Insurance promotes healthy lifestyles
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
LOLC Insurance promotes healthy lifestyles
	

The insurance arm of the LOLC group is actively promoting health and wellness amongst its staff as well as amongst the public. Both LOLC Life Assurance and LOLC General Insurance joined hands to organise Walk for health 2018, which commenced from the LOLC Insurance head office premises located at No. 481, T.B. Jaya Mawatha (Darley Road), Colombo 10.
The walk proceeded towards the Nelum Pokuna Theatre and concluded by returning to the head office. The two entities stepped into the new year with the Walk for Health campaign and throughout the walk displayed key health tips to encourage and promote healthy living.
Healthy living is not just about losing weight. Its a combination of good nutrition, regular exercise and having a positive mental attitude. As a responsible corporate citizen, we, at LOLC Insurance, felt the need to encourage our staff as well as the public to lead healthy lifestyles, said LOLC Insurance COO Nilanga Wickramasinghe.
Wickramasinghe added, Today, physical inactivity has been identified as the fourth leading risk factor for global mortality, causing an estimated 3.2 million deaths globally. Sitting for long periods at work can cause numerous health implications such as increased risk for cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and even cancer. This is why we have come to the forefront to promote healthy lifestyles because it ensures a healthy workforce, a healthy workplace and ultimately a healthy society.
LOLC Insurance Walk for Health 2018 concluded with a health camp for staff, offering free eye check-ups conducted by Vision Care and health check-ups by Browns Hospitals. Free of charge instructions on different types of workouts as well as introduction to Yoga and Zumba were also provided at the health camp.
Furthermore, the staff members were given the opportunity to discover and experience a range of spa treatments by expert therapists at the Siddhalepa Spa. The health camp also consisted of various healthy food stalls to encourage and educate the staff on consuming healthy food.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MAGA NEGUMA GOING ASTRAY
## Section: Expose
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:38 am
MAGA NEGUMA GOING ASTRAY
	

The necessity to have a national policy for every sector is the requirement for the development of the country and a matter that has been discussed for a long time. But what happens is just
the opposite! 
For example Maga Neguma was a project that was given prominence during the previous regime. This coveted project is now in the doldrums. Ignoring the stipulations of the Committee on Public Enterprises its actions have earned the wrath of the Ministry of Highways. Today in this exposure the fate of Maga Neguma is discussed at length.
The Road Planning and Development Company which was under the Road Development Authority was closed on 31st March 2004 by the then UNP Government. This was following a decision taken by the Cabinet. Rs 1400 million was set aside to compensate the employees who served at this company. A change of Government took place at that time. The UPFA Government that took over and Mahinda Rajapaksa became the Minister of Highways. On 3rd August he presented a cabinet paper to form three companies in place of Road Planning and Development Company. They were the Maga Neguma Emulsion Private Company, Maga Neguma Road Construction Equipment Company and Maga Neguma Planning Private Company. However the Maga Neguma Road Construction Company had been registered under Company Registration number N9PVS) 37844 with the Registrar of Companies on 11th June, two months before the presentation of the Cabinet Paper. Later with Rajapaksa becoming President of the country the Maga Neguma Project became a prime stake holder in the Government construction sector. 
Issues regarding Maga Neguma surfaced from far back as 2009. The then Government expressed contradictory views regarding this project at various forums. Maga Neguma Road Construction Equipment Company was again registered on 16th November 2009 with the Registrar of Companies. When the opposition at that time raised questions regarding corruption at Maga Neguma, former Minister Mahindananda Aluthgamage replied that it was a private company and therefore it does not come under the purview of COPE. At the time of his statement the Attorney Generals Department had already declared that the three companies came under the purview of COPE. This was in fact a reply made regarding an inquiry made by the Secretary to the Ministry of Highways, dated 09th May 2012. 

Cabinet Memorandum 
Maga Neguma commenced by Mahinda Rajapaksa during his premiership, while holding the post of Minister of Highways, received most of the projects with the intervention of the Former President. A directive was sent to all ministry secretaries that it was necessary to involve Maga Neguma in all state constructions. The primary aim was to ensure that contractors, Provincial Councils, local bodies and other companies obtain their machinery and equipment through Maga Neguma. This company was tasked with the supply of equipment, sale, leasing out or renting out operations. The Cabinet Memorandum issued by Rajapaksa, the then President and Minister of Finance and Plan Implementation, on 18th February 2013 is of paramount importance. 
This memorandum states, The Road Development Authority is a fully fledged Government owned institute. The companies listed hereunder have been provided with the required capital provided under the consolidated fund of the Government. The consolidated fund had infused funds to the Road Construction and Development Company (RC &DC) from its assets. The ownership of these companies lies with the state. Therefore a larger share of income should be made to the treasury and the balance to the Road Development Authority. Therefore I recommend that the Capital structure of these companies to be restructured and necessary amendments to the companies constitution to be made. 
In addition the companies by operating under the regulations of the Companies Act and as per the directions of State Enterprises Department could satisfy the proposals 11 and 111 of the Cabinet Memorandum. As proposed by the Cabinet Memorandum there is no objection against Maga Neguma Construction Equipment (PVT) Company undertaking contracts, but in consideration of the fact that the Road Development Authority, when offering contracts under direct allocations to this company, could create an injustice to the small contractors in the private sector. And the Road Development authority being unable to obtain a competitive price and the authority not been able to complete the tasks during the agreed period could entail difficulties and as such this company, when allocating contracts by the Road Development Authority, should only be used for carrying out maintenance work and with regard to other type of construction work while adopting strategies and proper planning and make use of the direct contract
under limitations. 
It is prudent to strengthen the Maga Neguma Consultation Services and Management (PVT) Company so that the authorities will depend only on consultation services if the broadening activities of the Road Development Authority are not profitable at anygiven time 

Does it belong tothe state 
From such a foregoing it is apparent that from time to time unspecific information regarding the ownership of the companies under Maga Neguma had surfaced. It is not clear why Maga Neguma Road Construction Equipment Company was established as a private company, when the Maga Neguma Project was in operation under a Government policy. Does it now belong to the state or not As these companies had been established with funds provided using the assets of RC &DC and funds of Road Development Authority from the allocations of the consolidated fund it is questionable how and why Government funds had been used to establish a private company. 

True position
Those who had obtained sub-contracts at that time are calling over and demanding payment. This has become a nuisance. He declined to take responsibility for a company of this nature. But it is pertinent to state that two board directors of the company were appointed on his recommendations. 
In accordance with the establishment of Maga Neguma, 60% of its earnings are to be given to the General Treasury and the balance 40% to the Road Development Authority. Despite these regulations this hasnt been done since 2004. MNRCE Chairman said that the present board of directors act in the same manner. But the Ministry of Highways does not appear to be making inquiries. If it is so Maga Neguma even today has no future plan. The Minister insists that contracts for road development should not be given without calling for tenders. But Contracts awarded by Maga Neguma to outside companies had never been following a tender procedure. There is a list of 228 such companies. Inquiries were made regarding randomly selected companies. They were able to secure these contracts through political affiliations. Maga Neguma owes them several thousands of rupees for contracts offered in 2017. The amounts payable to these individuals are in the region of over Rs 5 million.
Refuting the claim made by MNRCE Chairman the workers says that the number of vehicles left abandoned at work sites exceed 400. Most of them have corroded and can only be sold as scrap, the chairman said. But the photos and reports appearing in this article clearly portray the true position. 
Udukawa was once acclaimed for being so productive and won an award for the best administered work site. Today it has become a site with overgrown bushes. 
The COPE generally summons officials when the ministries concerned are not investigating. The irregularities, frauds, acts of Corruption and wastage are investigated into with the assistance of the Auditor General and information is passed down for necessary corrective action. When Maga Neguma came under the eyes of investigations, it was revealed that it shot to fame in the construction industry through irregular means. This was an issue concerning the political and administrative sectors. There are many questions which remain unanswered. These are public funds and the authorities are answerable to the people for their misuse. 
99.98% of the institute owned by RDA
Following are excerpts of an interview done with Maga Neguma Consultancy Services Company Chairman Janaka Herath.
QWhat is the present position of the Maga Neguma Consultancy Services Company 
At the time of its establishment Rs 1 million had been invested by the Road Development Authority. This had been converted into shares. Now RDA owns 10.001 Maga Neguma Emulsion and Construction one share each. That is to say that 99.98% of the shares are owned by Road
Development Authority.
Q Is there a move to take over the Kundasalework site
I am hopeful that Kundasale can be made a profit earning concern in six months time. A proposal in that respect has already been forwarded. The employees would be taken to our company if they are willing and vacancies would be filled. 
QIs this company being regulated by the RDA 
This is a private company, with seven members on its board. Five directors including the chairman are appointed by the RDA. The other two are appointed based on the share holdings. 
QWhat are the activities of your company 
This company was registered for consultancy services on appraisals and construction. At the beginning RDA did not give any work to us. Before the change of Government there had been some allocation of work to the value of Rs 4 Billion. It had been a system of handing over sub contracts and earning a commission. We do not get any projects from the RDA now. 
QWhat about the profits and losses 
By 31 December 2015 we had settled the loans due to our suppliers and also recovered amounts due to us. Following the ideals of S5 we are ready to advance. 

Total mess 
The following is a Q & A done with Maga Neguma Road Construction Machinery Enterprises Chairman Rajiv Senevirathne. 
QWhat is the present position of the MNRCE Company
I took over on 18th March 2015 and since then the annual profits have been increasing. Though under the Ministry of Highways this a private limited liability company. The former Board of Directors never allowed a Government Audit. Maga Neguma was never under the Government Audit, but was audited by private companies. It was I who brought this under a Government Audit in 2016, and accordingly in 2016 there was a Nett profit of Rs 274 million.

QDid the General Treasury provide funds to establish Maga Neguma 
No. At that time there was the RCDC which was making a loss and the then Minister of Highways of the UNP Government Thilak Marapona abolished it and presented a cabinet paper to create Maga Neguma Institute. Thereafter he instructed RCDC to handover the machinery to the three companies of Maga Neguma. With the fall of the UNP Government and UPFA Government being established these companies were solely under the charge of Basil Rajapaksa. According to the Cabinet regulations 60% had to be paid to the Treasury and 40 % to the Road Development Authority. However from 2004 up to now this has not been done. 
QNow what happens to the profits earned
We do not send the 60% to the Treasury and the 40% to the RDA, though it is stated in the Cabinet Paper. 
QHow many are there in the board
There are seven. Two from the Road Development Authority, one from the Ministry and four others appointed on a political basis. I was appointed by the chairman of the authority. There is no record anywhere to say that he has power. Dealing with this subject invites trouble. 
QWith the new Government assuming power it was highlighted through Mass media that vehicles and machinery belonging to Maga Neguma being left to rot. 
At the time I took over they had been there for eleven months. These cannot be repaired and have to be sent back to RDA. Maga Neguma was established in 2004 and RCDC was established when we were in school. These are not roadworthy and have to be sold as scrap. There are more than 100 such vehicles and we pay the lease only if they run. Even the machinery and Plants are dealt with in the same manner. 
QDuring the previous Government there were many projects where Maga Neguma was involved in. Now it is not so. Why
We also can do projects like Mahinda Rajapaksa did, using the phone. He instructed the chairman using the phone to do things. There were no estimates. Goods and workers were taken and work got started. Now it is not so. Engineers visit the place. Work will commence only if the RDA gives approval. We dont act without an order. That is
the difference. 
Q Kundasale school and other institutes belonging to you are to be vested in the Maga Neguma Consultancy Company 
Kundasale school does not belong to us. It was used to repair vehicles belonging to the RDA. In 2012 they had also undertaken to repair other vehicles. This is not in our constitution. The loss amounts to millions since 2012. Therefore it was suggested to transfer the 51 employees to other stations and close the school down. They did not agree to the closure and are hoping to start something new.

QThe Secretary of the JSS U.K Ranjith accused you at the progress review meeting held in March 2016 saying that since you took over this institute is incurring losses. 
He connived with a former chairman and continued stealing. He got caught and I dismissed him. When the Auditor General says that we are earning profits how can he say it is not true 
QYou said that there are debts to be settled. What is the total 
We paid 300 Million as VAT to the Inland Revenue Department. We owe 270 million to the Petroleum Corporation. The Economic development Ministry of Former Minister Basil Rajapakse owes us Rs 575 million. 


THERE ARE COMPANIES WITH MINIMUM PRICE LEVELS
Following is a Q & A done with RDA Chairman NIhal Suriyaarachchi.
QAfter the change of Government why is the RDA not giving projects to the companies under
Maga Neguma
Now we call for tenders and some are given to them. Some of them are obtained by them on application. Keeping them for instant construction work and keeping it open for the public in other projects
are our wishes. 
QThe workers of Maga Neguma charge that the company is now dying a natural death. Your comments. 
When tenders are called there are those who quote low. We hope to get the maximum revenue for the Government. If we go on giving projects as a habit they will never improve efficiency.  
QWhy are projects taken by them given to outside parties
That is a matter for the directors of those companies to address. That is a company established by the RDA. Our directors
are there.   
 
		
==============================
## Title: Marapana Committee: Report to be submitted to UNP working committee
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 01:06 am
Marapana Committee: Report to be submitted to UNP working committee
	
UNP General Secretary Kabir Hashim said in a statement yesterday that the Tilak Marapana headed Committee report on the PCoI findings will be handed over to the Working Committee in February.
The statement said:
"In the Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the issuance of Treasury Bonds, there are no findings against any member of the United National Party including MP Ravi Karunanayake in regard to the issuance of Treasury Bonds. But, however, the Commission of Inquiry has decided that the Attorney General and the Bribery Commission should determine whether action should be taken against MP Karunanayake under the Bribery Act or other appropriate legislation in respect of their findings that he had derived a substantial benefit from the lease payments made by Walt and Row Associates (Pvt) Ltd., which is an associate company of Perpetual Treasuries Ltd., owned and controlled by the same persons who owned and controlled Perpetual Treasuries Ltd.
The Commission has also stated that the Attorney General or other appropriate authorities could also consider whether the evidence given by MP Karunanayake is shown to have been incorrect and in that case whether there are grounds for prosecution under Section 179 and or under Section 188 of the Penal Code or other relevant provisions of the law, read with Section 9 of the Commission of Inquiry Act No. 17 of 1948.
In view of this, the Committee appointed by the United National Party Leader has recommended that until a finality is reached by the Attorney General or the Bribery Commission that no legal action is to be filed against MP Karunanayake or if such action is instituted, until the conclusion of such action, steps should be taken to ensure that he should not exercise any duties as an assistant leader of the United National Party."
 
		
==============================
## Title: NDB Salary Max provides salary advance in 15 minutes
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
NDB Salary Max provides salary advance in 15 minutes
	
Urgent monetary requirements come unplanned and often, we find ourselves in need of quick cash. National Development Bank PLC (NDB) now provides you with the opportunity of receiving a salary advance in just 15 minutes via a simple phone call.
The customers who earn a salary of Rs.75,000 or more can now contact the NDB 24-hour call centre at 011 2448 888 and obtain a salary advance with a repayment period of up to 12 months. The salary advance will be available at any time  all throughout the day and night  to tide through any such emergency or urgent monetary requirement, such as hospitalizations or payments that require
immediate attention.
One of the salient features that make the salary advance feature, which no other bank offers, is that a client can request for the salary advance even on-the-go, via their mobile phones without the hassle of having to visit any of the banks branches. In addition to obtaining a salary advance in just 15 minutes, NDB Salary Max account holders will also have access to a host of added benefits.
All Salary Max account holders  regardless of their salary amount  will be eligible for a Salary Max loan facility equal to the net salary remitted to the Salary Max account at the completion of three monthly salary remittances.
Furthermore, the option to obtain a NDB Dream Maker personal loan and a Viyana home loan at preferential interest rates and the option to obtain a credit card with seasonal benefits are also included among the Salary
Max features.
Additionally, the mobile banking app, e-statements, a free financial guide with opportune advice on savings, borrowing and investments, along with free setting up of the first standing order from the account and other benefits are
further included.
NDB remains dedicated to bringing its customers one step closer to accomplishing their lifelong ambitions through the range of services that are accessible through its growing
branch network.
 
		
==============================
## Title: New Foreign Exchange Management Act makes cross-border transactions easier: PABC official
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:00 am
New Foreign Exchange Management Act makes cross-border transactions easier: PABC official
	

Sri Lankans living both locally and abroad should use the relaxation of foreign transactions through the new Foreign Exchange Management Act for investment and financing requirements, a banker said recently.
Now its easier to do inward and outward foreign exchange transactions for both individuals and companies. Previously, some were put off by the requirements to get permission from the Central Bank for foreign transactions but its more relaxed now, Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC (PABC) Private Banking and Wealth Management Chief Manager Thilani Peiris said.
She said that many Sri Lankans in the past had attempted to find other means of remitting funds out since they were scared of running afoul of the Exchange Control Department but with the new Foreign Exchange Management Act, seeking to facilitate foreign transactions instead of controlling them, most payment methods are now regulated.
For Sri Lankan migrants who hold permanent residency in other countries, initially, they did not allow you to take loans from Sri Lanka because youre overseas employees. Now they have allowed permanent resident holders and dual citizenship holders to obtain foreign currency loans from Sri Lanka by showing your foreign income, she said.
Financing residential property both abroad and in Sri Lanka has become easier for Sri Lankan migrants due to the new laws, she said, adding that PABCs Private Banking and Wealth Management would help to manage portfolio, property and direct investments in Sri Lanka for botha migrants and foreigners.The 20 foreign currency account types, which were available previously, have been rationalized to five account types to promote simplicity, Peiris added.
Sri Lankans who have identified portfolio investments abroad could invest up to US $ 200,000 per annum on an individual capacity, while the limit is US $ 300,000 for partnerships, US $ 500,000 for unlisted companies and US $ 2 million for listed companies, while a company or partnership could invest US $ 300,000 per annum to open overseas offices.
This law came into effect in November but many people are not aware of the opportunities the new act provides, Peiris said.
Parents of students studying abroad could also remit funds in an easy and legal manner, she added.
The Central Bank has delegated the responsibility of monitoring the legality of transactions through know your customer (KYC) and other procedures, Peiris said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament debate won't be concluded on Feb 6 - Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 09:12 pm
Parliament debate won't be concluded on Feb 6 - Speaker
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya today stressed that though Parliament would take the bond report and the PRECIFAC report for debate next Tuesday (6) as decided by party leaders, that does not mean that the debate would be concluded the same day.
Mr. Jayasuriya in an announcement pointed out that it was up to the party leaders to allocate more dates to debate the two reports if they so desired and added it was pertinent to clarify on the comments made by certain media institutions on the Parliamentary debate on two reports on February 6.
February 6 was marked as the date of the debate on the Central Bank bond scam and PRECIFAC report by party leaders at the party leaders meeting held last Tuesday with the objective of not to disrupting the LG election campaign. But that does not mean that the debate would be concluded the same day. Prior to this meeting, the Elections Commission had pointed out that the date that had been proposed by the Prime Minister for the debate was not practical considering the ongoing LG polls campaign and the members of the joint opposition and JVP had proposed February 6th as an alternative date for the debate. Subsequently, the representatives of the SLFP and TNA also agreed to have the debate on the 6th. Accordingly, the Prime Minister was informed of the collective decision and under the standing order 14, Prime Minister made a request to Speaker to convene Parliament on the 6th. Therefore, party leaders are free to have a discussion after the conclusion of the debate on the 6th and decide on future dates to continue the debate further if necessary, Speaker Jaysuriya stressed. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rare 'super blue blood moon'
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 February 2018 08:11 am
Rare 'super blue blood moon'
	
A rare super blue blood moon that has not been seen by much of the world for more than 150 years has been gracing the world's skies.
A 'super blue blood moon' is the result of a blue moon  the second full moon in a calendar month  occurring at the same time as a super moon, when the moon is at perigee and about 14 per cent brighter than usual.
It also combines with a blood moon  the moment during a lunar eclipse when the moon, which is in the Earth's shadow, takes on a reddish hue.
While people in the eastern Hemisphere saw their last Blue Moon total lunar eclipse in 1982, for the Western Hemisphere, the eclipse was the first blue moon total eclipse since 1866. (dailymail)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The way the council is run needs a facelift -Jerusha Crossette
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 1 February 2018 12:01 am
The way the council is run needs a facelift -Jerusha Crossette
	

The new system adopted for the Local Government Elections has provided opportunities for new faces to make a change. Contesting under the UNP ticket from the National List is Jerusha Crossette- Thambiah, an Attorney-At-Law currently in private practice and also a lecturer at the University of London  External Programme. Speaking to the Dailymirror, Jerusha shared her views regarding the upcoming polls and what areas need to be focused on:
Excerpts:
QWhy did you want to support the UNP
I dont like the word politics, so I would like to call this entering public service. Why I chose to get involved this time around is because its the first time since the inception of municipal councils that women (52% of the population ) have been afforded 25% mandatory representation and it is about time. 
It is also the first time that a woman has been nominated as the mayoral candidate for Colombo. So taking this into account and the change that can be made at the Local Government levels, leave alone the great strides made in regards to womenss representation, I accepted the invitation to be on the list and hope that some serious work can be done. 

I can honestly say that there is inclusion for all minorities in this party and I have never been made to feel like I am a part of the minority. Its important to note that I am a part of a privileged few who were raised in Colombo and have not felt the divide and discrimination as much as some others have

QDo you believe that Rosy Senanayake is an apt nomination for Mayor
YES! I have watched her work for a long time and I know she is hard working, passionate and always rallies together the people who are suitable for the job. This was especially true in the case of the National Child Protection Authority during her stint as state minister. 

QAs a lawyer, what issues do you see in the present political system
One of the major drawbacks in the old system is that it left little or no room for professionals to come forward and even less of an opportunity for women. This then in turn affects key stakeholders (the women) as there are men making decisions with regards to womens issues. 
The old system also made it difficult for professionals to come forward as there were campaign costs and the sacrifice of ones profession etc. These have been addressed through the introduction of the joint system of first past the post and proportional representation systems. So making a complete change from the local level will definitely change the game and hopefully take Our Colombo to
greater heights. 

I have to make special mention of the fact that another marginalized group Id like to represent is women and a lot of work has to be done in terms of the daily plague known as street harassment. Strict complaint procedures and hotlines need to be in place

QWhat are the main issues you have identified in Colombo
Our election manifesto focuses on five of the main issues in a long list of things to be improved. 
Garbage collection is a critical issue. An alternate disposal site in Puttalam has been identified and regular, efficient garbage collection systems are to be implemented. 
With regard to traffic there are proposals to build flyovers to ease traffic, maintain existing roads and flyovers and launch water taxis on the canals to ease traffic on the main roads. 
Digitalize the Municipal council. This will help the public with their day to day interactions with the council so complaints, payment of bills , obtaining applications and licences etc can be done online. 
Council members will also have a website each to enable transparency and have direct access to your members. 
Community centres- More than 25 community centres are to be established in Colombo with preschools, libraries, career guidance units, internet cafes, counselling, recreational facilities etc to serve the community better. 
Participatory Citizenship  This will help provide stakeholders and residents with an opportunity to have quarterly meetings with the CMC, so that residents can have a direct influence on their respective budgets and address issues in their area in a timely and methodical manner. 

QAs a contestant representing a minority, what challenges do you face
I can honestly say that there is inclusion for all minorities in this party and I have never been made to feel like I am a part of the minority. 
Its important to note that I am a part of a privileged few who were raised in Colombo and have not felt the divide and discrimination as much as some others have. It is therefore my duty to be a voice for those who have been marginalized on grounds of their race as I speak all three languages and endeavour to bridge the unnecessary gap created on racial lines even in the year 2018. 

I hope the city will support this new era and the change that we are trying to make from the LG level upwards. The support from the Central Government in achieving these will also be of great value

I have to make special mention of the fact that another marginalized group Id like to represent is women and a lot of work has to be done in terms of the daily plague known as street harassment.

Strict complaint procedures and hotlines need to be in place, CCTVs on public transport etc have to be immediately set up, equal opportunity must be given to female vendors and entrepreneurs at the market place, feeding and changing rooms must be established in public areas and efforts must be taken to get women involved in the budgetary process. These are a few things that I would like to support and see happen. 

QColombo is mainly a UNP voter base, but while the UNP was in power limited development took place. What are your views
I wont deny that there is much to do. It is my belief that through this new system, capable and honest people have been put forward and with a former member of parliament and a power house woman at the helm it will definitely make the much needed change. The council and the way it is run have to be given a complete facelift and that is what we want to do. I hope the city will support this new era and the change that we are trying to make from the Local Government level upwards. The support from the Central Government in achieving these objectives for building the city of Colombo this time around after many years, will also be of great value. 

QWathu or low-income households are an essential part of the city. How will the party ensure a better city for these people
The people in underserved settlements live in bad conditions and sometimes lack basic facilities such as electricity and clean water. The new flats they are being given are inclusive of all these basic facilities and a secure area to raise their children. Another problem affecting these settlements is the use of drugs and the setting allows for the distribution of such without much intervention. Doing away with this sorry excuse they call housing and introducing the new housing flats will improve living conditions and also reduce the distribution of narcotics. 
Another development focused on these residents is the community centres. In many homes both spouses work. In some homes the breadwinner is a female and most often she is faced with having to manage work and raising children, hence the facilities these centres provide will hopefully support these breadwinners. These centres include daycare facilities, provide after school classes and a library and most importantly serve as safe spaces for their children to be at when their parents are at work. 

QHow confident are you that the UNP will win
I think it is important this time to vote for the person as much as it is for the party. I have been working closely with the young blood introduced by the UNP for this election and I can safely say they are all hardworking, professionals and have only come forward to do some serious work. 
I think we can all agree as much as we complain that there is no place like this city. It is my favourite city in the world and also home, not only to me, but more importantly to you as well. So if it is change in the system and unblemished candidates, with a vision and strong leadership, that the city is looking for then find out about your options and go out and vote. I am confident that if this is done our Colombo is in for a big win and some exciting times. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: TNA wants solution on par with Oslo Declaration
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 07:45 am
TNA wants solution on par with Oslo Declaration
	
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) in its manifesto for the forthcoming local government election said that that the solution it seeks with regard to the ethnic problem in Sri Lanka was similar to what was in the Oslo Declaration. This was the joint declaration by the representatives of the then UNF government and the LTTE at the third round of peace talks between the two parties in 2002.
The UNF delegation headed by Professor G. L. Peiris and the LTTE delegation led by its political wing head S. P. Thamilchelvan agreed in the Norwegian Capital Oslo in November/December, 2002 to "explore a political solution founded on internal self-determination based on a federal structure within a united Sri Lanka."
The TNA manifesto said that the same policy framework was placed before the people at the 2013 Northern Provincial Council election and the Parliamentary election in August 2015.
It further said that one of the significant objectives of the forthcoming LG elections was to show the people of this country as well as the international community on whom the people in the North as well as the South have reposed their trust.
Criticizing the opposition to the interim report of the Steering Committee of the Constitutional Assembly by groups in the North and the South, the Tamil coalition says that it was not a final solution, rather it was a document to be discussed.
While pointing to the extent of lands that had been released by the army after the new government came to power as a result of the pressure it had exerted, the TNA says it would continue to exert more pressure on the government with the assistance of the international community to get the remaining lands under the control of the army released as well. (M.S.M.Ayub)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Too late for Ravi to resign; damage already done: Ranjan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 08:37 pm
Too late for Ravi to resign; damage already done: Ranjan
	
Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake, the film-star-turned politician, said today it was too late for UNP assistant leader Ravi Karunanayake to step down because the damage had already been done to the party.
He said what the Bond Commission said in its report about Mr. Karunanayake had tarnished the image of the UNP and this would result in the party losing the floating votes.
However, the deputy minister said he would extol the party leadership for initiating action to remove Mr. Karunanayake from the post of assistant leader.
I welcome the move by the UNP leadership to request Mr. Karunanayake to resign even though it is late in the day. It may bring some credit to the party even at this late stage, he said.
The deputy minister said the former finance minister should have resigned from the post of UNP Assistant Leader as soon as soon as his association with Arjuna Aloysius was revealed.
Many politicians in other countries resign as soon as corruption allegations are made against them and will do a world of good for Sri Lankan politicians to also follow this practice, the deputy minister said and added that SLFP ministers, who are facing allegations should also resign from their portfolios.
Some of the SLFP ministers faced corruption allegations during their tenure in the previous government and they too should resign from their portfolios to ensure good governance.(Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Traffic plans for Independence Day announced
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 04:05 pm
Traffic plans for Independence Day announced
	
Traffic will be restricted on roads along Galle Road near Galle Face in Colombo on February due to the Independence Day ceremony, Police said.

The vehicle plan is as follows on February 4, 2018
From 5 Am till 12. Noon- Roads completely closed
Galle Road- from the Galle Face Roundabout to the Old Parliament Roundabout
Chaithya Road
Roads closed from 7.AM to 12 noon
From Colpettey junbction to the Galle Face Roundabout
Entrance to Galle road from the St. Michaels roundaboout
Entrance to Galle Road from the Rotunda Gardens roundabouy
Entrance toward old parliament from Ceramic junction
( All of the above will be opened to occupants)
Entrance from York Street to Bank of Ceylon
Entrance from Ceynor junction to Fort CTO junction
Entrance to Ceramic Junction from the CTO junction
Entrance from the Khan roundabout towards Fort
Entrance to Galle Face from Marcan Marker- Uththarananda Mawatha junction
Roads closed from 8.AM to 12 PM
Entrance to D. R. Wijeywardena Mawatha from Gamini Roundabout
Entrance to Eagle Junction from the Slave Island Police Roundbaout
 
		
==============================
## Title: US will help SL fulfill its vision of democracy
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 02:15 pm
US will help SL fulfill its vision of democracy
	
The United States will help Sri Lanka fulfill its vision of making the country a democracy that could stand as a beacon of tolerance and prosperity in the region, US Ambassador in Sri Lanka Atul Keshap said.
Issuing a statement ahead of the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the United States and Sri Lanka, he said Our #USASL70 campaign is about more than looking back at our shared history; its about a vision of Sri Lankas future as a stable democracy that could stand as a beacon of tolerance and prosperity in the region. For another 70 years and beyond, the United States is here to help make that vision a reality,"
He said in honor of this milestone, the U.S. Embassy in Colombo would launch a series of programs over the course of the next twelve months.
Encompassing cultural events, educational opportunities and community engagements that will involve Sri Lankans from all backgrounds and regions of the country, the #USASL70 campaign underscores the seven decades of respect and partnership that have characterized the U.S.-Sri Lanka relationship, he said.
Our Embassy community is delighted to celebrate this wonderful anniversary with our Sri Lankan friends and partners. For seven decades, the United States has stood shoulder to shoulder with Sri Lanka, whether as one of the largest donors of foreign assistance or as Sri Lankas largest trading partner.
Celebrated New York City jazz artist Wycliffe Gordon will travel to Sri Lanka and premiere a special composition commissioned by the U.S. Embassy commemorating the 70th anniversary in February. 
Gordon will perform at a gala concert in addition to informal shows around Colombo that will be open to the public, he said.
He said #USASL70 would also highlight new significant bilateral initiatives, such as the signing of the Peace Corps bilateral agreement to return to Sri Lanka and during the campaign, exercises between the two countries militaries will enhance disaster response capabilities and expand interoperability.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Uva CM before HRC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 10:40 am
Uva CM before HRC
	
Uva Province Chief Minister Chamara Sampath Dassanayake today reported to the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka (HRCSL) for an inquiry into the incident where he is alleged to have forced the Badulla Tamil Girls School Principal to kneel in his presence.
The HRCSL launched the inquiry based on two complaints -- one lodged by Centre for Human Rights and Research (CHR) Executive Director Keerthi Tennakoon and the other by Ceylon Teachers' Union (CTU) President Joseph Stalin.
HRCSL had earlier recorded statements from the Uva Province education authorities and the school Principal on the incident.
Mr. Tennakoon told the media that Chief Minister Dassanayake, who had forced the principal to kneel, had today knelt before the peoples court.
The Chief Minister attempted to dodge the HRCSL summons. This incident which has become a national issue saw many protests staged against the unacceptable action of Mr. Dassanayake. Protests will continue until justice is meted out, he said. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Whats said at election time shouldnt be taken seriously: Ravi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 February 2018 06:48 pm
Whats said at election time shouldnt be taken seriously: Ravi
	
United National Party (UNP) MP Ravi Karunanayake said yesterday whatever the President or the Prime Minister said during this election period should not be taken seriously.
He said that was a matter to be considered after the election.
What is said by the President or the Prime Minister during election time should not be taken seriously. We will have to consider these matters in the future, he told journalists during an election campaign at Bloemendhal.
He said this in response to a question about the Marapana Committee recommendations about assistant leadership of the UNP. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
==============================
