## Title: Amana Bank opens first self-banking centre at Slave Island
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 3 January 2018 10:20 am
Amana Bank opens first self-banking centre at Slave Island
	
Amana Bank inaugurated its first self-banking centre at Slave Island under the patronage of Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Azmeer alongside the banks Director Jazri Magdon Ismail and members of the management committee.
The self-banking centre, which is one of many to be launched, currently houses a Cash Deposit Machine and a Cheque Deposit Box to facilitate 24x7 transactions
for customers.
Commenting on the banks initiative to introduce self-banking centres, Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Azmeer stated: While customers have 24x7 access to over 4000 ATMs through the LankaPay network for withdrawals, their access to deposits was limited to only standard banking hours at our branches. With the introduction of our self-banking centre, customers now have the convenience of making deposits round the clock. We intend to expand this initiative to many more regions, thereby providing greater reach and access to our valued customers.
The Slave Island self-banking centre is centrally located at No.113, Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 02.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bond Commission recommends legal action against Ravi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 06:30 pm
Bond Commission recommends legal action against Ravi
	
The PCoI report has recommended that necessary action should be taken against former Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake under the section of bribery and corruption as he was responsible for the allegation against him regarding the payment of rent for the penthouse apartment belongs to the Aloysius Family and their Walt and Rowe Company.
It also said further legal action should be taken against Mr. Karunanayake under the penal codes for giving false evidence at the Commission.


President's statement
May the Triple Gem Bless You
First of all, I offer my best wishes for the New Year.
As the people of the country are very eagerly waiting with high interest, I wish to make a statement on the final report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) into the Bond Issuance of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, which was appointed by me taking into considerations the opinion of the people regarding allegations of corrupt practices and misdeed during the period 2015 and 2016. This report was handed over to me on December 30, 2017.
The Commission was mandated to inquire into the period from 1st February 2015 to 31st March 2016 to find out actual facts and to make recommendation with regard to the steps to be implemented in the future.
I thank the Supreme Court Judges and former Auditor General who functioned as members of the Commission and its Secretary and the staff, and those who assisted the work of the Commission, Attorney Generals Department, Police Department and other relevant organizations and individuals.
The Commission is of the opinion that similar incidents as revealed in the Commission Report had happened even in 2008. The Commission recommends that the Central Bank of Sri Lanka should first conduct a forensic audit with regard to the alleged fraud and corrupt practices from 2008 and based on such findings legal steps should be taken.
Commission states that funds of the Employment Provident Fund (EPF) were lost mostly during that period.
The Commission has submitted a full report covering the period 2015 and 2016, comprising 1257 pages and it is not an interim report. The Commission has taken 10 months for this task.
I have already submitted this report to the Attorney General and the Commission recommends that the criminal and civil court action must be taken through the Criminal Investigations Department and the Bribery or Corruption Commission.
The Commission has clearly stated the structure of the Central Bank, Public Debt Department, direct issuance of bonds and the pros and cons of the system of bond issues and bond auctions. The report stated that the Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made profits through illegal means with the involvement of Mr Arjuna Mahendran, Bank officials and some outside individuals.
In the auction held on 27th February 2015 alone the Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made a minimum benefit of over Rs 688 million. The Commission is of the opinion that further investigations could reveal that this amount could even be more than that. As revealed during the investigations Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made undue profit of Rs 11,145 millions in the secondary market. In this Employees Provident Fund and other government institutions had lost more than Rs 8,524 million or Rs 8.5 billion.
It is stated that senior officials of the Central Bank were inactive before the former Governor of Central Bank, Arjuna Mahendran. It is believed that because they had not questioned about these and had become inactive, such incorrect decisions were made. Mr Mahendran has made interference into bond auctions through a system of incorrect and unconventional methods and he was responsible for providing internal information to outsiders. One party has used such information to obtain undue monetary profits.
The Commission report said that the honorable Prime Ministers responsibility in the appointment of Mr. Arjuna Mahendren as the governor to the Central Bank was proper. The Commission is of the opinion that the Prime Minister made his statement in Parliament regarding the appointment of Mr Mahendran believing in the facts presented by Mr. Mahendran and Mr.Samarasiri, especially the promises made by Mr Mahendran. The Report also says that the Prime Minister should not have done that.
The Commission stated that moreover these facts were before the COPE committee and the Prime Minister had not stated that because of that he had not taken the proper action against Mr. Mahendern.
The Commission report refers to the allegation against former Finance Minister Mr Ravi Karunanayake regarding the payment of rent for the penthouse apartment belongs to the Aloysius Family and their Walt and Rowe Company and stated that Mr Karunanayake was responsible for that and recommended that the government should to take necessary action against Mr. Ravi Karunanayake under the section of bribery and corruption and further legal action under the penal codes for giving false evidence at the Commission.
The Commission stated to the misuse of funds of the Employees Provident Fund and stated that EPF should be investigated under the forensic audit examination to find out the amount of losses. The repot has recognized that, the dishonesty of a particular party had lead to this kind of malpractice on EPF funds. The people responsible for these frauds have been identified and the Commission recommends legal action against them.
The report recommends that, the legal action against relevant persons and officials who are responsible for the fraud including Perpetual Treasuries Limited, Arjun Aloysius and Kasun Palihena should be taken. Accordingly, the government is in consultation with the legal authorities.
Recommendation
*Considering the recommendations of the Commission, the government recommends adapting a new Monetary Law Act in order to avoid this kind of malpractices in the Central Bank in future. The existing legal provisions are old and need replacement.
*It is also recommended that the Registered Share Market Act must be replaced by a new legal act.
*Members of Monetary Board and Central Bank Governor must be appointed by the Constitutional Council in concurrence of the members. The regulations must be amended accordingly.
*The report recommends that there should be utmost supervision over the State Credit Department. As auditing at the Central Bank has not been conducted in a proper manner, the Commission recommended that the Audit Department must be reconstituted completely. A Legal Department must be established in the Central Bank and ensure that the Legal Department functions efficiently.
*As the Commission did not have the mandate to inquire into treasury bond issues from 2008 to 2015, the Commission had not done that. However, Commission recommends that there should be an investigation into that period too.
*The Commission recommends that the dealings with the Pan Asia Bank and the conduct of Chairman must be investigated unto.
*The recommends that activities of the EPF must be looked into and in order to bring the ETF into a proper order, steps must be taken to restructure the ETF.
*A code of conduct for the officials of the Central Bank must be introduced. The code of conduct for Primary Dealers must be revised and updated.
*The Commission has stated that the Attorney General and the Bribery or Corruption Commission must take the legal actions to implement the recommendations of the Commission.
*Under normal circumstances, recovery of money is done through civil legal action. However, it is a time consuming method. As an alternative, the Commission recommend that a Parliamentary Legislation could be passed and the money could be recovered in a speedy manner through a Parliamentary procedure. We agree to that recommendation.
*The recommendation of te Commission is that all the expenditure occurred for the Commission must be recovered from the Perpetual Treasuries Limited.
*I have already submitted a copy of the Commission Report to the Attorney General and he will identify the persons against who the legal action must be taken and initiate necessary criminal or civil legal action to implement the recommendations of the Commission.
*I wish to clarify here, that a minor amendment to the Bribery or Corruption Commission Act must be enacted to take legal action on the recommendations of the Commission. For this purpose, already experts at the legal draughtsman are working on the required amendment.
*The steps needed to make Bribery or Corruption Commission more active and efficient should have been done long time ago, and now we are taking required steps for that purpose.
The confidentiality, astuteness and auditing methods of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka were extremely weak. There were no tele-recording systems, electronic monitoring or even CCTVs. The current Governor of the Central bank has already taken steps to remove weaknesses and rectify these errors.
The Governor has informed that he has suspended some employees of the Central Bank after their malpractices were revealed in the investigations in the Commission and disciplinary actions are being taken against those officers.
I expect the Governor to make a statement in the near future regarding the shortcomings in the Central bank as revealed in the Commission Report.
I urge the Justice Ministry and the Attorney General to take early steps to draft the three bills proposed by the Commission present them to Parliament, in order to make required changes at the Central Bank to ensure such corrupt practices, frauds and malpractices would not take place in the future.
I have informed my Secretary to hold monthly review meetings with the heads of relevant departments and institutions to examine the progress in implementations of the recommendations of the Commission to take legal steps against those individuals and take other required steps in an efficient and speedy manner.
I would like to specifically state here that I would not hesitate to take steps to recover the loss of Rs 11,145 million and take legal action against the offenders and punish them.
The sum of Rs 8529 million of the total losses Rs 11,145 million was the funds of the Employees Provident Fund, Mahapola Scholarship Fund, National Savings Bank and Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation. The balance was from private institutions. Hence the loss to the public sector  EPF, Mahapola, NDB and SLIC was over Rs 8.5 billion. The Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made this profit of Rs 11,145 million within a short period of 5 months.
Finally, especially I would like to mention that this final report must be presented to the Parliament and through this initiative the report must be open to the public. In the future, necessary as well as legal steps in this regard will be taken expeditiously according to the advice from the Attorney General. I kindly request to consider the openness of the facts of this Commission Report and I assure that any hesitation would not occur in filing cases against the offenders. Furthermore, I wish to state that this is the final report of the Commission.
I have previously appointed a Commission and the report of that has been handed over to me. It is the final report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry to investigate and inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources and Privileges (PRECIFAC).
This Commission carried out their respective duties during the past two and half years. I extend my gratitude to the staff of the Commission and all the institutions including the Secretary and High Court judges for giving their support in this task. Already, 34 reports of that Commission had been handed over to me and recently 17 reports have been handed over and another 17 previously, the 17 reports handed over previously I have submitted to the Attorney General to take necessary actions through relevant institutions.
By now, the Fraud and Corruption Commission, institutions, departments and Police have taken actions to file cases based on the facts of these reports. The report which was handed over to me before two days I will submit to Attorney General within this week to take appropriate actions. Especially I have to mention the actions on this report will be taken in the near future.
The Presidential Commission of Inquiry to investigate and inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources and Privileges has presented several major facts and it is the responsibility of the Government to implement facts presented at the Commission. I will explain to you regarding those facts for the general public information. Training and appointment of suitable officials as there is lack for skilled well-trained officials to carry out investigation regarding fraud and corruptions. This Commission emphasized that people without required qualifications had been appointed and only the qualified persons should be appointed to essential positions including the State institutions, Authorities and Constitutional Boards.
The Commission revealed that the money spent by the Government for the establishment of this Commission has already been recovered through the cases initiated through the findings of this Commission. A system must be implemented to hearing the cases in the courts in other areas as holding these cases only in Courts in Colombo is causing difficulties for those who travel from distances.
I must states a special thing, before I conclude the facts of these two reports, I saw a great eagerness and inquiring trend among the general public regarding these Commissions. At the same time when the Commissions were appointed, especially before the appointment of the Bond Commission, some people commented, even in Parliament that nothing had happened to previous commissions and the same fate would happen to this commission too. They also said the intention of appointment of a commission was to cover up the wrong doings.
But all of us must be very pleased regarding the fulfillment of duties of these Commissions and again I must thank the judges and all those who contributed in this regard for their great service rendered while wining the confidence of the general public.
Finally, I must state regarding the allegations leveled against me by some political parties for appointing these Commissions. I never appointed these commissions targeting any political party. I must specially mention in future when the cases are filed in accordance with the investigations and the recommendations and information of these Commissions, individuals belongs to two main political parties will be among the defendants in the legal process. We must be happy over our independent and impartial Judiciary. I must state all of us will provide our maximum support for this process.
Thank You
 
		
==============================
## Title: CH shocked over Yoshitha criticism
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 03:40 pm
CH shocked over Yoshitha criticism
	
CH & FC have been left fuming over unfair criticism on flanker Yoshitha Rajapaksa especially in social media, following a brawl that broke out at the end of their Dialog Inter-Club League Rugby Tournament match against Navy Sports Club at Welisara on Saturday (30).
The former Sri Lanka forward has been related to a photograph on which he appears to have his hands around Navy SC second row forward Lahiru Wishwajith, but a club spokesman revealed that the incident has largely been misinterpreted.
People have misunderstood the situation. There was certainly a brawl between the players from both the teams which is not right. But sometimes in a very physical game like rugby, things like this could happen. However, the club is shocked over the unfair criticism on Yoshitha because he was hardly involved in this. There was no fight between him and Lahiru, said the spokesman.
In fact Lahiru Wishwajith himself cooled the situation claiming these things are normal in rugby.
On December 30, I took part in the Navy SC versus CH & FC rugby match, and Im personally happy about Navy SC winning the match. After the game there were some little problems, but these things are normal in rugby match situations. But some people are trying to use this as a political point. Personally, I dont have any problems with any of my opponents. I personally dont appreciate people trying to involve me on political matters with regard to the situation. If I made a mistake after the match, I personally apologise on my behalf and I dont like to involve myself in any political issues under any circumstances, the Navy SC second row forward posted on social media. Meanwhile, CH & FC have directly put the blame on Navy SC Skipper Danushka Perera (nicknamed Gertha) over the incident.
Gertha ran in towards our bench and started shouting with indecent words. We kept our calmness for some time and told him to go away, but he did not stop, and it was only after that the players got involved in it, said a source close to the CH & FC Team.
In fact, more than half of the current CH & FC players represented Navy SC last season, and it is revealed that CH & FC contacted most of them through Yoshitha Rajapaksas best friend once upon time - Danushka Gertha Perera.
However, the source further claimed that Perera opted to remain at the club after his salary demands were refused by the CH & FC.
Gertha and Yoshitha were great mates, and some of the players were introduced to CH & FC by Gertha. However, when negotiating his salary, he demanded a salary of Rs. 800,000 which is certainly too much for a player in his mid 30s. May be he is still upset over that, claimed the source.
Meanwhile, Daily Mirror also learns that Perera decided against joining the Maitland Crescent Club due to the fact that he was unwilling to play alongside a certain back division player in the CH camp over a personal issue.
Navy head coach Mothilal Jayasekara and team manager Menaka Suranga refused to comment when contacted by Daily Mirror. (Harsha Amarasinghe)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fmr. Divulapitiya OIC arrested over inmates death
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 02:24 pm
Fmr. Divulapitiya OIC arrested over inmates death
	
Former OIC of the Divulapitiya Police, IP Sumith Premakumara had been arrested by the CID in connection with the death of a suspect in detention at the Negombo Prison.
An investigation was launched after the 50-year-old prisoner at the Negombo Prisons died after being admitted to Hospital in October last year.
The OIC has been arrested on the charges that the prisoner had been assaulted, while he was detained by the Divulapitiya Police.
Earlier, the Police arrested the Acting Crimes OIC of the Divulapitiya Police, IP Saman Priyanka also over the death of the prisoner.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 'Foreigners Only' hotels to be prosecuted
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 09:23 am
'Foreigners Only' hotels to be prosecuted
	
The Tourist Police with the assistance of the Local Government bodies, the Tourism Development Authority and the Tourist Board will conduct raids on restaurants, villas and tourist lodges in the southern tourist belt that cater only to foreigners and discriminate against Sri Lankans under the directive of the Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Musthapha.
The Management of tourist facilities who were found discriminative on Sri Lankans during the raids will be prosecuted under the common law and Tourist Promotion law and their trade permits will be withdrawn.
A crucial discussion was held at the Local Government and Provincial Councils Ministry chaired by Minister Musthapha, took this decision to prevent what he described as the outcome of a slavish or colonial mentality.
Minister Musthapha pointed out that a large number of villas, restaurants and tourist lodges from Wadduwa to Tangalle have put up boards Tourist Only in front of their facilities on the Southern Coast and restricted access to Sri Lankans which is a violation of the Constitution, human rights and confronts the dignity and self respect of Sri Lankans.
This cannot be accepted. We have experienced second hand treatment on us at some times at certain countries as Sri Lankans. It is impossible to keep exclusive areas for tourists alone and bar Sri Lankans which is an affront to our national dignity, Minister Musthapha stressed.
Officials of the Tourist Board and Tourism Development Authority pointed out that many of these establishments had not been duly registered with the Tourist Board and run on a Trade License obtained from the local government authority which is also illegal.
Officers from the Tourist Police pointed out that the management of these establishments tell when questioned that local tourists behave indecently and harass tourists and therefore they have barred Sri Lankan tourists from their facilities.
However, it was revealed at the discussion that those excuses were a ruse to prove their point and this kind of incidents happen rarely.
The villas, lodges and restaurants discriminative on Sri Lankans were run mainly in Wadduwa, Hikkaduwa, Galle, Mirissa, Weligama, Habaraduwa and Unawatuna, it was revealed. Raids will be started from tomorrow (4) and continue until all those tourist facilities discriminative against Sri Lanka tourists are apprehended and prosecuted. Officials of the Tourist Police will carry out raids with the help of officials of the respective local government body, Tourism Promotion Authority and Sri Lanka Tourist Board.
The programme to eliminate this discrimination against Sri Lankans will be expanded to tourist areas in other parts of the country with the experience gained from these raids, Minister Musthapha added.
It was also revealed at the discussion that some tourist facilities with Foreigners Only tag are owned by foreigners and they do not pay taxes and income is taken out of the country without any contribution to the tourist industry or to the economy.
It was also revealed that there are 14 tourist villas and restaurants at Weligama alone that cater only to foreigners.
A senior police officer pointed out that a person or establishment that discriminates against a Sri Lankan can be prosecuted under the provisions of the Constitution and Criminal Code.
The discussion was attended by Secretary of the Tourism Development and Christian Affairs Ministry Esala Weerakone, Secretary, Local Government and Provincial Councils Kamal Pathmasiri, Chief Secretary of the Southern Provincial Council, R.C.De Soyza, representatives of the Tourist Hotel Association, Sri Lanka Tourist Board and Tourism Promotion Authority. (Sandun A Jayasekera)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gay population in SL now tops 7500
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 07:26 am
Gay population in SL now tops 7500
	
In a report by the National Venereal Diseases and Prevention of AIDS project it is stated that there are 7500 persons identified as gays in Sri Lanka.
Blood samples of about 1.2 million suspected persons had been examined and 280 persons among them had been identified as victims of AIDS, stated the Director of National Venereal Diseases and Prevention of AIDS Dr Sisira Liyanage. Among this group there had been Women, Men and Children as victims and a majority had been Gay persons, Dr Liyanage states further.
He also said in engaging sex without using condoms had been the main cause of the spread of Venereal Diseases, and they had also detected patients suffering from Syphilis and Gonorrhoea during their examinations.
The report also indicated that a large number of patients suffering from AIDS and Venereal Diseases were found in Colombo, Gampaha, Galle, Kalutara and Kurunegala Districts. (Reka Tharangani Fonseka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Honesty and Exprertise The Crucial Needs in 2018
## Section: News Features
## Date: 3 January 2018 12:22 am
Honesty and Exprertise The Crucial Needs in 2018
	
WhileSri Lankans have welcomed 2018 with much hopes, the Daily Mirror spoke to experts in various fields, including areas such as politics, economics, law, health, education and environment, to find out what realities lie ahead during the new year. 
Sri Lanka shouldnt compromise on the value of its eco systems
- Gunawardene
Adding his comments with regard to the environmental sector, Environmental Lawyer Jagath Gunawardene said that whenever there is a problem pertaining to the environment, the issue has been addressed immediately. Also, he said that currently he is focusing on biodiversity related issues. 
Commenting on what needs to be done for environmental conservation in Sri Lanka, he had the following to share with the Daily Mirror. 
Meanwhile,, there are certain development schemes that have been proposed which would compromise on the integrity of certain ecosystems which needs to be prevented
When you make an assessment of the past year, one may observe certain successes as well as failures. We have succeeded in bringing regulations pertaining to the use of polythene, but have failed in terms of asbestos where the ban on it has been revoked. So we want a stronger country, which can withstand the pressures put by other countries who have their own vested interests. So that is one area I expect the country to be stronger. Also, it is important for the country to be aware of its own vulnerabilities, not only in the environmental sector, but in a much broader scale. However, since some vulnerabilities end up as environmental issues, we should know where our vulnerabilities lie and how to overcome them, he said. 
Secondly, Gunawardene added that as a country, Sri Lanka has been successful in getting certain areas declared as protected while opining that there are so many other areas that needs to be protected likewise. Meanwhile, there are certain development schemes that have been proposed which would compromise on the integrity of certain ecosystems which needs to be prevented. We should take remedial action when and where necessary and prevent such unwanted activities from taking place under the guise of development; that is destroying or compromising on the value of our eco systems. Thats one of the areas that we have been currently working on and this might continue into the future he added. 
When inquired about the laws that need to be reformed or renewed in the environmental sector, Gunawardene added that it was a long process. Currently the Environment Act is in the process of being revamped for the past several years and so is the Forest Conservation Ordinance and the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance. We need to wait and see how things would progress into the future. More than amending the laws, I believe that we need to have regulations. There is a need for two more new Acts which are pending for too long. These are; the proposed Act on Biosafety and proposed Act on controlling alien organisms. These are the things we expect to happen in the near future, he said. 
I hope treatment will be offered at a low cost or no cost- Dr. Wijewickrema
Speaking to the , Consultant Physician of the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) Dr. Ananda Wijewickrema opined that he expects the health sector would further improve its standards in order to offer a good service to the public. Adding his New Year wish for 2018, he said that he expected the prevalence of diseases to be low this year. I hope that those in need of treatment would have the opportunity to receive it at a low cost or no cost. I also wish that the people will be healthy. At present there are many plans underway in the health sector. While some plans are already being implemented and are progressing, some are still in the listing. These plans will be useful for the betterment of the health sector. There are many development plans in the health sector in terms of the infrastructure, improving of facilities, staff training and etc, Dr. Wijewickrema said. 
There are many development plans in the health sector in terms of the infrastructure, improving of facilities, staff training and etc
When inquired about the progress of the dengue vaccine, he said that currently a group of consultants had been appointed to look into the matter. A group of experts has been appointed to make recommendations regarding the dengue vaccine on whether to use the vaccine in Sri Lanka. However, the committee decided to wait for more evidence to emerge; a decision that was taken about four months ago. And we are glad that we made that decision with new evidence surfacing recently, he added. These evidences will be taken into account prior to arriving at a final conclusion, he said. 
Procedural and institutional reform needed to overcome backlog of cases
- Palitha Fernando, PC
One of the major issues confronting the judicial system of this country is the severe backlog of cases. This applies to both civil and criminal cases. A civil case takes a long time before it is taken up for hearing. If all those formalities are attended to by a roll court specially established for that purpose and the cases are taken up only when they are ready for hearing as in some other countries, the hearing of cases could be expedited to a very high degree. Experts in the area of Civil law should be consulted in cutting short the procedural aspects to ensure the expeditious disposal of cases. 
There is no use pressurizing judicial officers to expedite disposal when they have a heavy load of cases. That would not serve the interests of justice. Deciding upon the rights of the people is not an easy task. You cannot rush through cases. Getting judicial officers to sit till 4.00 p.m and getting them to hear cases is counterproductive. It is humanly impossible to concentrate and hear complicated legal issues when you are exhausted. A judge needs to do research, consider the evidence he has heard and write the judgment with a lot of care. I do not think the judges of today work in such an environment. Increasing the number of judges is one of the most important steps that should be taken immediately. 
Judges and officers of the Attorney Generals Department are very badly under paid. But increasing their salaries isnt the solution. None of them have delayed work because they are underpaid. Even if their salaries are increased they will not be able to do better than what they are doing now as they are stretched to capacity and it is humanly impossible to do more. 
If the judges are to concentrate upon the backlog of cases, then the new cases would get stagnated. As I have suggested even before, it would be appropriate to appoint retired judges on contract basis for a period of one year and set them a target to conclude a reasonable number of cases. I would even suggest to have a system where a judge sits from 9.30 a.m to 1.30 p.m with a break of 20 minutes as we did during those days and for a retired judge to sit from 2.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m to conclude the backlog. We need to obtain the services of a different staff comprising workers like stenographers to sit with the retired judge. I know of judges who sat till 6.30 p.m. thinking that they were giving their best. But the poor court staff were extremely unhappy and worked under tremendous pressure. A person must be happy at work. It is only then that he would offer his maximum. 
There is no use pressurizing judicial officers to expedite disposal when they have a heavy load of cases. That would not serve the interests of justice. Deciding upon the rights of the people is not an easy task
The situation in criminal cases is disastrous to say the least. People are punished for offences committed by them, over 15 years ago. By the present time some of them have rehabilitated themselves completely. The judicial system awakens after a deep slumber and destroys their lives and that of their families totally. Though we do not see this it is a great social problem today. Children are made to suffer due to no fault of theirs. They suddenly find their father missing at home. We need to conclude criminal cases as expeditiously as possible. I designed a scheme for the early disposal of cases related to child abuse. The scheme was funded by UNICEF. The Sri Lankan rep having read the report regarding my scheme said that if the scheme is successful it would be presented with a world award. However, to my utter disappointment it never got off ground. 
I would recommend that we reduce the number of cases in each court house. After the 13th amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka we have two High Courts. The High Court of Sri Lanka and the High Court of the Provinces. Both functions are performed by the same court. This I think should stop as early as possible. A criminal trial court should hear only criminal trials. Bail applications calling matters and any other matter should go before a separate court. 
Forthcoming LG Elections a milestone for the country- Purasinghe
After the establishment of the present Government back in 2015, it is praiseworthy that democratic traditions are gradually being reset in the country. There is freedom to politically criticize any person or any party. We can have hopes that the forthcoming Local Government Elections will be held fairly and transparently, said Terrance Purasinghe Senior Lecturer in Political Science at Sri Jayawardanapura University.
What makes all of us wonder about is the much confused and complicated political situation prevailing in the country. The main political forces the UNP and the SLFP that have joined hands in the unity Government are having contradictory agendas, views and opinions. When the UNP suggests abolishing the executive presidency, the SLFP wants it to remain. This kind of situation poses a question on the stability of this Government as there is no consensus between the two political parties. 
At this rate, it can be predicted that the UNP will smoothly win and have the ability to consolidate power of a majority of the LG bodies.
One of the the major obstacles the Government is confronting is uncontrollable and unhealthy party politics. When making nationally important decisions the Cabinet of ministers, comprising both UNP and SLFP members, act in a bias manner to suit the agendas of their own political parties. This is not healthy for the common good of the country. This clearly showcases the immaturity of the Sri Lankan political system. President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe have failed to maintain a single consensus among the cabinet of ministers. 
However, the forthcoming Local Government Elections will be a milestone for the country. As a result of the split in the SLFP, undoubtedly the benefit goes to the UNP. The vote base of the UNP is certain and unshakable. 
If someone says that the Central Bank Bond issue, where names of several UNP ministers were mentioned, would be an issue for the UNP to secure more votes, I dont think so. People in rural areas are not really concerned about this bond issue. It is the urban middle class people who are concerned about the bond issue. What the people in rural areas care about is their welfare. 
At this rate, it can be predicted that the UNP will smoothly win and have the ability to consolidate power of a majority of the LG bodies. If the UNP gains power in the majority of LG bodies, President Sirisena will be compelled to face a very decisive situation where he will have to decide with whom he should be politically united thereafter. I think Maithripala Sirisenas political future will be a success only if he continues the accord with the UNP. 
The practice of the Joint Opposition members in spreading racism and separatism among the people cant be accepted. The unwavering efforts of the Joint Opposition will be futile because the SLFP Maithri fraction is much stronger than the JO members. If the split in the SLFP continues or worsens, the benefit at the next Presidential Elections goes to nobody else, but the Prime Minister and UNP Leader Ranil Wickeremesinghe.
Razor sharp thinking needed
In areas like education, nature and economy

We need one clean, educated and honest Government- Dr. Senanayake

In his comments, Chairman of Rainforest Rescue International and Systems ecologist Dr. Ranil Senanayake said he believes that the biggest perpetrators are those in the Government. As professionals they are a set of ill-educated and irresponsible politicians who should be responsible for this situation. Therefore they dont understand the long term repercussions. One of the major issues was giving away lands from the elephant corridors,said Dr. Senanayake. 
The year 2017 was not good for elephants. With the inhumane killing of the Galgamuwa cross-tusker and the gradual deaths of several other elephants, the Subject Minister proposed the use of GPS collars to track elephants. While many wildlife experts disagreed with this move, a practical solution to the save remaining tuskers and elephants in the wild is yet to be proposed. Speaking with regards to using collars, Dr. Senanayake further said that collaring is not a practical solution.
Issues pertaining to wildlife should be taken as part of the national development plan
Issues pertaining to wildlife should be taken as part of the national development plan. We need to have one clean, educated and honest Government in moving forward. Until we have an intelligent bunch of politicians these issues will aggravate in time to come,he said. 
Education Reforms Introduced sans analysis of root cause Dr. Nirmal Ranjith Dewasiri
Asked about anticipated changes in the education sector in 2018, Former President of the Federation of University Teachers Association (FUTA), Dr. Nirmal Ranjith Dewasiri said while there were a number of measures undertaken by the Government to reform education, they are likely to result in futility. 
The Government has introduced various reforms in education, but personally I dont see these measures serving any purpose. For instance, they introduced the Langama Pasala, Hondama Pasala (Nearest School is the Best School) concept. This concept has been introduced without analysis of the root cause. One has to admit that certain schools may receive some benefits through this project. But this is not a suitable solution to the overall concerns, Dr. Dewasiri said. 
Authorities are deliberating reducing the number of subjects offered at the O/L exam to six subjects
The Government introduced the programme in 2016, after identifying development of all schools as a priority need. This was also done with the objective of providing equal educational opportunities to all children. However according to Dr. Dewasiri, this is not the optimum solution to the issue of admitting students to popular schools in urban areas.  The issues arise as a result of the race to admit children to popular schools in urban areas. It is a problem born out of competition and this project will not address it. The pressure encountered in performing during the O/L and A/L examinations too weighs in on this problem. Therefore this is a far more complex matter that cant be addressed with a simple policy. This solution will not have any impact on rivalry and competition among students, he said. 
The former president of FUTA opined that during a recent meeting held to discuss the education policy framework, this subject was extensively discussed. Many experts had opined that this effort will not solve persistent issues in education. Experts present at the meeting believed that the approach to solve the issues was itself erroneous, as they had not understood the subject. 
Authorities are deliberating reducing the number of subjects offered at the O/L exam to six subjects. What they dont understand is such a move will not decrease the pressure or the competition among students. The change of subjects too will have no impact. The system of examination needs to change, he stressed. 
The entire education system is full of issues. Unfortunately those in the offices of the World Bank have a hand in the formulation of these policies, as they seem to be more knowledgeable on these issues than local experts, he added. 
In December Premier Ranil Wickremesinghe instructed Vice-Chancellors of all Universities to upgrade the quality of higher education instead of prioritizing construction of university buildings. Responding to this statement Dr. Dewasiri said it was easy for politicians to make such statements. 
What are the indicators to measure the quality of education he countered. The quality of education in universities is dependent on many other areas. The primary and secondary education must be of good quality. First of all issues in the secondary education system must be resolved, before we can attempt to better the quality of education in universities, Dr. Dewasiri said. 
Slowing down of growth a major challenge
- Prof. Abeyratne

The Sri Lankan economy has faced various fluctuations during the previous year. While many industries are contributing to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), its crucial that Sri Lanka has a stable economy in moving forward, said Professor of Economics at University of Colombo Sirimal Abeyratne. 
Prof. Abeyratne added that when reviewing last year there was a slowing down of growth. This situation has been present for a few years. This slow down is mostly in the tradable sector including the export growth. This is a major challenge. Other macro problems such as interest, inflation and the exchange rate are accelerating growth. Particularly accelerating growth in the tradable sector should be the policy focus this year,he underscored. 
While many industries are contributing to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), its crucial that Sri Lanka has a stable economy in moving forward
When asked how each sector could contribute to the GDP, Prof. Abeyratne said that the Government can promote any sector. When the right environment is provided the investors will find the right sector,he opined. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: JO says Cabinet unconstitutional, illegal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 08:43 pm
JO says Cabinet unconstitutional, illegal
	
The extra set of Cabinet and non-Cabinet ministers appointed by the National Government has become unconstitutional and illegal today, the Joint Opposition (JO) said today.
It said the number of Cabinet and non-Cabinet ministers had been determined by the 19th Amendment to the Constitution and that number stands at 70.
According to the clause 46 (a) and (b) of the Constitution, the number of Cabinet ministers shouldnt exceed 30 and non-Cabinet ministers 40. However, it says in an event where a National Government was formed, the number of ministers could be increased. Hence, we have 100 ministers, 30 extra, today, JO National Organiser and MP Dullas Alahapperuma told a news briefing.
He said with the expiration of the agreement between the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and the United National Party (UNP) for a National Government on December 31, the functioning of excess 30 ministers was unconstitutional and illegal.
Continuing to maintain these excess ministers on public funds was a a blatant waste, he said.
The MP said the SLFP belittles concerns raised by others to the effect of the expiry of the agreement for a National Government. Perhaps the two parties already have an agreement in secret, he said.
When asked about the action the JO was mulling to take over the unconstitutionality of the Cabinet, he said they will have to wait till Parliament convenes on January 23 or Supreme Court on January 6.
However, we will take all necessary action, he said.
Meanwhile, he said everyone who is against the government should vote for the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna at the Local Government election on February 10.
Make us victorious and before the National New Year in April, we will show how to change the government, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: LG election win is important for the government: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 09:43 pm
LG election win is important for the government: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe told the UNP candidates contesting for the February 10 local government election that this poll is of importance for the government if it is to return to power in the year 2020.
The Prime Minister had come up with these sentiments while addressing the candidates at UNP Headquarters in Sirikotha last morning. A candidate who attended the meeting which was held by the Prime Minister said the latter stressed the importance of winning the local government poll citing that a victory will help the present government to return to power.
He told us to work hard and win the elections while stressing that a victory for the government at the local government is important if it is to return to power in 2020, this candidate said.
Also he said the Prime Minister informed them that the intention of the government is to allow the local government bodies to play a role in development.
Meanwhile, Minister Finance Mangala Samaraweera who had also spoken during the meeting had said the completion of the investigation of the bond issue is a victory for the government. It was this government which appointed the commission to look into the bond issue and the completion of it is a victory for the government, Mr Samaraweera has said.
This government did not influence the investigation, he has also said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran responsible: Bond report
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 06:22 pm
Mahendran responsible: Bond report
	
Former Central Bank (CB) governor Arjuna Mahendran was responsible forproviding internal information to outsiders and has interfered into bond auctions through a system of incorrect and unconventional methods, PresidentMaithripala Sirisena today said quoting the Bond report.
In his special statement on the report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry into CB Bond issuance, the President said senior officials of the Central Bank were inactive before former governor Mahendran.
It is believed that because they had not questioned about these and had become inactive, such incorrect decisions were made. Mr. Mahendran has made interference into bond auctions through a system of incorrect and unconventional methods and he was responsible for providing internal information to outsiders. One party has used such information to obtain undue monetary profits, he said. 
He said the Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made a minimum benefit of over Rs.688 million in the auction held on February 27, 2015.
The Commission is of the opinion that further investigations could reveal that this amount could even be more than that. As revealed during the investigations, Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made undue profit of Rs.11,145 millions in the secondary market. In this, the Employees Provident Fund and other government institutions had lost more than Rs. 8.5 billion, the President said.


 
		
==============================
## Title: Most of my ministerial colleagues call me chairman of cleaning services: Arjuna
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 10:33 am
Most of my ministerial colleagues call me chairman of cleaning services: Arjuna
	
Minister of Petroleum Resources Development Arjuna Ranatunga stated that most of his ministerial colleagues call him the chairman of cleaning services.
He made this comment during a function to celebrate the New Year held at the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) yesterday, the ministry said in a statement.
Minister Ranatunga further stated that he hoped to reduce corruption as well as initiate development projects within last 6 months.Earlier, Lanka OIC was a part of oil distribution. Some people are trying to be a third or fourth party to this. We dont prefer privatization and the responsibility of protecting this institution falls on us. Our workers have completed 99.9% out of the work. We commenced a project to construct oil tanks after 40 years. We expect to commence the construction of another 6 in six months time. No one wanted to construct a refinery system. But we expect to construct it soon. Some people are attempting to stop this project while suggesting that we import oil at higher prices. I dont intend to stick around if they are not allowing me to work, the minister said.
I always take decisions which are favorable for the country. When the President and the Prime Minister handed over this ministry they requested me to solve all the issues which existed in this ministry. Most of my colleagues jokingly call me the chairman of cleaning services. I have already worked hard and made institutions profitable, Minister Ranatunga stated.
 
		
==============================
## Title: National Savings Bank begins new year on high note
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 3 January 2018 10:23 am
National Savings Bank begins new year on high note
	
National Savings Bank commenced the first working day of the new year, 2018, by a ceremonious event held at the Head Office Premises of NSB in Kollupitiya, on January 2nd 2018, in the morning hours.
The proceedings of the event began with the chanting of Pirith and Anushasana by the members of Maha Sangarathne, which continued with invoking of blessings by the clergies of Christian, Hindu and Islamic religions. The occasion was graced by the GM/CEO Dhammika Perera, SDGM Jagath Gamanayake, DGMMs,
consultants, whilst it was attended by the AGMM, and Senior Management and the entire staff of the head office.
GM/CEO Dhammika Perera, addressed the staff and he stressed, in one voice, the need for the collective effort of the staff for the betterment of the bank and the country, in future.
The staff of the bank , commenced work for the new year by giving an oath to serve the people efficiently, productively with firm determination, utmost commitment, honesty, dedication and loyalty to the people.
The National Savings Bank wishes its valued customers and all Sri Lankans a happy and prosperous new year.
 
		
==============================
## Title: NPC could have done better: Sampanthan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 01:42 pm
NPC could have done better: Sampanthan
	
OppositionLeader R. Sampanthanhas said the Northern Provincial Council(NPC)should have addressed peoples issues in a much more constructive way than they have done.
In an interview with the Hindu, he said from all reports that hereceived and which heread,perhaps,the NPC could have done better.
The 13th Amendment has its shortcomings, but more could have been done within its framework. Initially, the governor was being difficult, he was a military person, but since 2015 there have been new governors who are quite liberal and progressive, he said.
The full interview is as follows:
It is three years since Sri Lankas national unity government came to power with the overwhelming support of ethnic and religious minorities, including the Tamils. How do you reflect on that moment and your decision to support President Sirisena
I have not the slightest doubt that we made the correct decision in backing Mr. Sirisena. We were sick of the Rajapaksa government which had been particularly unjust and unfair to the Tamil civilians.
President Sirisena had been involved with Tamil politics even before he stood for election. He was one of the strongest supporters of a just and reasonable solution to the Tamil question. He supported the constitutional proposals put forward by President Chandrika Bandaranaike, between 1994 and 2000. That, no doubt, influenced our decision. We were also influenced in our decision by the fact that Mr. Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe were willing to work together. For the first time, this provided an opportunity for the emergence of a multi-party consensus, particularly between the two main political parties, on the Tamil question.
I have no regrets about the decision we made, though the Tamil people, and consequently those of us who represent them, expected greater performance from the government.
Assessing this governments record, especially in relation to a political solution to the Tamil question and constitutional reform, what are the substantial gains made by the Tamils
The Constitution process commenced in 2016 to evolve a reasonable political solution to the national question and considerable work has been done.
The steering committee [appointed with 21 members under the chairmanship of the PM] met regularly for discussions and submitted an interim report, which has been debated in Parliament. After the local authority elections [in February], we expect the Constitution process to move forward more rapidly. The process has been somewhat delayed because of certain positions taken by certain political parties.
The issues that have been of concern to the Tamil civilian population are the release of [civilians] land held by the armed forces, the question of continued detention of political detenues and missing persons. I will not say that nothing has been done. I would certainly say that much more could have been done.
Some of the lands [previously held by the military] have been released both in the north and east, after we exerted much pressure on the government. Release of land is a continuing phenomenon. It is not easy, but it is happening. Even a few days ago, 133 acres was released at Keppapilavu in Mullaitivu. I worked very assiduously on that.
In regard to persons detained, about 40-50% of them have come out of jail. On the question of missing persons  apparently there have been about 20,000 complaints  it is a very large number. What their families fundamentally require is some information on their missing relatives. Some conclusion about whether that person is alive or not. There must be some solace, reparation, and some forms of assistance that will enable them to come to terms with reality and be able to pick up their lives and proceed.
The government has not yet addressed its commitments on the question of accountability adopted by the UN Human Rights Council, and co-sponsored by the Government of Sri Lanka in 2015. The Tamil civilian population is bitterly disappointed about the delay.
The constitutional reform process that the TNA is supporting, even prioritising it over war crimes accountability mechanisms, has slowed down with the many deadlines set by the government having lapsed. The debate is mostly stuck on abolishing the executive presidency, according Buddhism the foremost place and initiating electoral reforms, and little on devolution itself. Do you feel that the coalition government is letting down the Tamil people
We are not able to come to any conclusion on what would eventually happen. But if there has been no serious debate on a certain matter, it can also be for the reason that there is not much disagreement on it. I will not go into the nuances of the issue now, for it is well known that the Chief Ministers of all the provinces of this country, particularly those from outside the north and east, have been very strongly supportive of extensive sharing of power between the centre and the provinces. But of course, I will hold my breath until we see the final formulations.
Are you optimistic
I am not pessimistic. This country needs a political solution to embark on a journey towards genuine development and progress, based on the equality of all its people. In these circumstances, what we can do is to remain steadfast in the pursuit of these processes, towards an early and successful conclusion. We cant despair, we cant abandon things.
Those of us entrusted with the responsibility have a duty to continue to repose at least a measure of trust in the process. We have to play a role that is responsible, pragmatic and oriented towards achievement of what is important for the Tamil people, rather than make a noise about everything and be a source of disruption and disturbance.
What is the alternative Do the people want the return of the Mahinda Rajapaksa government I am not saying that is a good enough reason for nothing to happen, but one must realise that under this government, the rule of law is maintained, we dont have the culture of impunity that prevailed earlier, and the independence of the judiciary and civilian institutions has been restored.
When you take an overall picture of the situation, this is an environment conducive to the resolution of the issues pertaining to the Tamil people.
As Leader of the official Opposition, in what ways do you think you have been able to represent the concerns of Sri Lankans of other ethnicities and in other regions
I have not ignored that aspect completely, but it may be that there is an expectation from some people that I could play a more constructive role. I will not disagree with that view, but at the same time, I think the most critical issue facing the country is the national question. If this country has not been able to get to where it should, it has been largely on account of this failure. I think the role that I am playing in that effort is probably not appreciated sufficiently by persons who think differently.
The countrys ethnic conflict was provoked and intensified by competing nationalisms  though arguably unequal  of the Sinhalese and Tamils. Even today, the dominant discourse of Tamil politics continues to be nationalist and ethnically polarising. How do you see Tamil nationalist politics, often evoking the LTTE and its relevance to the post-war context Can it speak to the apparent religious intolerance and caste discrimination within Tamil society
There are no doubts that there are certain fissures within Tamil society. These exist, I suppose, in every society.
The Tamil people need to come out of this sense of them being second class citizens in this country and not equal citizens. They dont have the same rights that the others in the majority community have. The war was fought for that reason. The fact that the war has ended does not mean that the conflict itself has been resolved.
While I do think that there must be a greater appreciation of the need for balance and a cautious approach to different issues, there is a basic root cause that also needs to be addressed. If the new Constitution is able to provide the Tamil people with some belief in their future, these issues can probably be better addressed at that point of time than now.
The historic Northern Provincial Council (NPC) elections of 2013 gave the TNA its first opportunity in regional government. Despite the known limitations of inadequate power devolution, in what ways has the NPC served the people of the north There is an accusation that much of the funds allocated remainS under-utilised, with the provincial administration not passing necessary statutes.
From all reports that I received and which I read perhaps the NPC could have done better. The 13th Amendment has its shortcomings, but more could have been done within its framework. Initially, the governor was being difficult, he was a military person, but since 2015 there have been new governors who are quite liberal and progressive. The NPC should have addressed issues pertaining to the people, their daily needs, in a much more constructive way than they have done.
Tensions within the TNA keep surfacing frequently, with some constituents accusing your party, the ITAK (Illankai Tamil Arasu Kachchi), of dominating the alliance. Could you comment on how the imminent local elections may impact Tamil politics and national politics
Local government elections are held at the lowest level of the society and it is possible that under the new Constitution there will be a list of local government functions, like a list of national functions and a list of provincial subjects. If the provisions contemplated under the new Constitution are adopted, local government institutions can become reasonably important.
At present, I see people raising national issues at the electorate. I would think that a majority of the people would be supportive of the politics of the TNA, as of now comprising the ITAK, the PLOTE (Peoples Liberation Organization of Tamil Eelam) and the TELO (Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization). Only the EPRLF (Eelam Peoples Revolutionary Liberation Front) has gone out. I am reasonably confident that the people in their wisdom will appreciate the policies being pursued by the TNA.
And nationally
We dont know what is going to happen. There are three main players in the south, SLFP (Sri Lanka Freedom Party), the party of the President, the UNF (United National Front) of the Prime Minister and the SLPP (Sri Lanka Peoples Front) led by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. I dont think one is able to yet discern the trends. We have to wait to see how it turns out.
Have you thought of succession plans for the TNA leadership
I have not been really planning anything or having any definite focus on anyone or any particular course of action. I think it must play out over a period of time, as early as possible. Let us see what happens as we go along. I cannot be there forever, we need to have someone take over. It is not easy  you have to be cautious, you have to be patient and you need not be answering everybody, that is not possible.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pan Asia Bank welcomes 2018
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 3 January 2018 10:22 am
Pan Asia Bank welcomes 2018
	
The Chairman, the senior management and the staff of Pan Asia Bank ceremonially welcomed the year 2018 at its Head Office in Colpetty on the 2nd January, the first working day for theyear 2018.
The Chairman G.A.R.D. Prasanna addressing the staff at this special occasion acknowledged the continued support and untiring efforts rendered by all staff members during year 2017 and further added that he look forward for the same support during the year2018 as well.
Director/CEO Nimal Tillekeratne also addressing the gathering stated: I have immense confidence in the spirit of team Pan Asia and look forward to reaching greater heights in the year ahead.
The staff of all Pan Asia Bank branches islandwide also held religious ceremonies to mark the dawn of the new year.
The Pan Asia Bank while offering the best of financial services takes this opportunity to wish all its valued customers across the country and all Sri Lankans a happy and a prosperous new year 2018.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pay hike for Judges -- Mangala says not just yet
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 01:09 am
Pay hike for Judges -- Mangala says not just yet
	
The Finance Ministry, in its observations on the proposed pay hike for judges and those working in the Attorney Generals Department, said yesterday such a hike would impact on the salary scales of public servants in other categories.
As a result, Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera cited practical difficulties in granting permission for salary increases at this time.
It had been proposed that the salary and allowances of High Court Judges be increased to Rs.180, 000, the salary of a district judge to be increased from Rs.71,941 to Rs.165,000 and the salary and allowance of a magistrate to be increased from Rs.49,079 to Rs.129,750 while the salary of the Attorney General be increased from Rs.95,800 to Rs.240,000.
Under these circumstances, the Cabinet had decided to discuss the salary proposals further. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Phone calls to import rice, fertilizer: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 04:23 am
Phone calls to import rice, fertilizer: MR
	
Former president and MP Mahinda Rajapaksasaid yesterday the country was self-sufficient under his tenure but phone calls are being made today when there are shortages of fertilizer or rice.
People have to wait at Galle Face Green till a shipment of rice or other food arrive, he said.
He made these remarks at the launch of the election campaign of the Joint Peoples Front (JPF), the coalition formed by Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) and other political parties of the Joint Opposition.
It waslaunched by Mr. Rajapaksa at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium in Colombo yesterday.
SLPP Chairman G.L. Peiris, leaders of other political parties and MPs of the Joint Opposition attended the launch. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PLC conferred multiple awards at Annual Report Awards 2017
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 3 January 2018 10:25 am
PLC conferred multiple awards at Annual Report Awards 2017
	
Peoples Leasing and Finance PLC (PLC), the leading non-bank finance company in Sri Lanka was conferred with two coveted Gold awards, a Silver award and a Bronze award at the 53rd edition of the CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2017 held at the BMICH, recently.
At this gala ceremony organised annually by the premier accounting body in the country, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, PLCs Annual Report for the financial year 2016/17 themed Collecting Moments was recognised.
Cream of around 140 Sri Lankas leading companies took part for this years awards.
PLCs untiring and consistent efforts on integrated reporting were honored with a Gold award in the Best Disclosure on Business Model category.
The companys noble CSR initiatives were recognised with a Gold award in the Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting category.
PLC Annual Report secured the Silver award in a highly competitive category in the competition, the Finance Companies and Leasing Companies (Total Assets above LKR 20 Billion) category.
The Management Discussion and Analysis of the Annual Report being the core of the Annual Report clinched the Bronze award in the Overall Management Commentary Award category.
With these awards PLC excelled as the finance company that clinched the highest number of awards in this years CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards competition.
PLC CEO/General Manager Sabry Ibrahim voicing his thoughts on the recognition bestowed upon the company commented: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka with its CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards inspires companies to benchmark with best practices in effectively communicating with stakeholders.
He added: PLC is committed to create value for its stakeholders. These prestigious awards won by PLC at the CA Sri Lanka Annual Report Awards 2017 are an endorsement on PLCs reporting and communicating capabilities and good governance. This recognition thus is testament to our dedication towards accountability and transparency.
Peoples Leasing Company was incorporated in 1995 as a wholly owned subsidiary of one of the largest state banks in Sri Lanka, the Peoples Bank. The company has maintained its market leader states for 15 consecutive years in the non-bank finance sector in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Presidents special statement
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 3 January 2018 07:13 pm
Presidents special statement
	
 
		
==============================
## Title: Presidents statement on PCoI report at 6 pm
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 04:23 pm
Presidents statement on PCoI report at 6 pm
	
President Maithripala Sirisenas special statement on the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) report on the Central Bank bond issue will be aired at 6 pm this evening.

President's statement
May the Triple Gem Bless You
First of all, I offer my best wishes for the New Year.
As the people of the country are very eagerly waiting with high interest, I wish to make a statement on the final report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) into the Bond Issuance of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, which was appointed by me taking into considerations the opinion of the people regarding allegations of corrupt practices and misdeed during the period 2015 and 2016. This report was handed over to me on December 30, 2017.
The Commission was mandated to inquire into the period from 1st February 2015 to 31st March 2016 to find out actual facts and to make recommendation with regard to the steps to be implemented in the future.
I thank the Supreme Court Judges and former Auditor General who functioned as members of the Commission and its Secretary and the staff, and those who assisted the work of the Commission, Attorney Generals Department, Police Department and other relevant organizations and individuals.
The Commission is of the opinion that similar incidents as revealed in the Commission Report had happened even in 2008. The Commission recommends that the Central Bank of Sri Lanka should first conduct a forensic audit with regard to the alleged fraud and corrupt practices from 2008 and based on such findings legal steps should be taken.
Commission states that funds of the Employment Provident Fund (EPF) were lost mostly during that period.
The Commission has submitted a full report covering the period 2015 and 2016, comprising 1257 pages and it is not an interim report. The Commission has taken 10 months for this task.
I have already submitted this report to the Attorney General and the Commission recommends that the criminal and civil court action must be taken through the Criminal Investigations Department and the Bribery or Corruption Commission.
The Commission has clearly stated the structure of the Central Bank, Public Debt Department, direct issuance of bonds and the pros and cons of the system of bond issues and bond auctions. The report stated that the Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made profits through illegal means with the involvement of Mr Arjuna Mahendran, Bank officials and some outside individuals.
In the auction held on 27th February 2015 alone the Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made a minimum benefit of over Rs 688 million. The Commission is of the opinion that further investigations could reveal that this amount could even be more than that. As revealed during the investigations Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made undue profit of Rs 11,145 millions in the secondary market. In this Employees Provident Fund and other government institutions had lost more than Rs 8,524 million or Rs 8.5 billion.
It is stated that senior officials of the Central Bank were inactive before the former Governor of Central Bank, Arjuna Mahendran. It is believed that because they had not questioned about these and had become inactive, such incorrect decisions were made. Mr Mahendran has made interference into bond auctions through a system of incorrect and unconventional methods and he was responsible for providing internal information to outsiders. One party has used such information to obtain undue monetary profits.
The Commission report said that the honorable Prime Ministers responsibility in the appointment of Mr. Arjuna Mahendren as the governor to the Central Bank was proper. The Commission is of the opinion that the Prime Minister made his statement in Parliament regarding the appointment of Mr Mahendran believing in the facts presented by Mr. Mahendran and Mr.Samarasiri, especially the promises made by Mr Mahendran. The Report also says that the Prime Minister should not have done that.
The Commission stated that moreover these facts were before the COPE committee and the Prime Minister had not stated that because of that he had not taken the proper action against Mr. Mahendern.
The Commission report refers to the allegation against former Finance Minister Mr Ravi Karunanayake regarding the payment of rent for the penthouse apartment belongs to the Aloysius Family and their Walt and Rowe Company and stated that Mr Karunanayake was responsible for that and recommended that the government should to take necessary action against Mr. Ravi Karunanayake under the section of bribery and corruption and further legal action under the penal codes for giving false evidence at the Commission.
The Commission stated to the misuse of funds of the Employees Provident Fund and stated that EPF should be investigated under the forensic audit examination to find out the amount of losses. The repot has recognized that, the dishonesty of a particular party had lead to this kind of malpractice on EPF funds. The people responsible for these frauds have been identified and the Commission recommends legal action against them.
The report recommends that, the legal action against relevant persons and officials who are responsible for the fraud including Perpetual Treasuries Limited, Arjun Aloysius and Kasun Palihena should be taken. Accordingly, the government is in consultation with the legal authorities.
Recommendation
*Considering the recommendations of the Commission, the government recommends adapting a new Monetary Law Act in order to avoid this kind of malpractices in the Central Bank in future. The existing legal provisions are old and need replacement.
*It is also recommended that the Registered Share Market Act must be replaced by a new legal act.
*Members of Monetary Board and Central Bank Governor must be appointed by the Constitutional Council in concurrence of the members. The regulations must be amended accordingly.
*The report recommends that there should be utmost supervision over the State Credit Department. As auditing at the Central Bank has not been conducted in a proper manner, the Commission recommended that the Audit Department must be reconstituted completely. A Legal Department must be established in the Central Bank and ensure that the Legal Department functions efficiently.
*As the Commission did not have the mandate to inquire into treasury bond issues from 2008 to 2015, the Commission had not done that. However, Commission recommends that there should be an investigation into that period too.
*The Commission recommends that the dealings with the Pan Asia Bank and the conduct of Chairman must be investigated unto.
*The recommends that activities of the EPF must be looked into and in order to bring the ETF into a proper order, steps must be taken to restructure the ETF.
*A code of conduct for the officials of the Central Bank must be introduced. The code of conduct for Primary Dealers must be revised and updated.
*The Commission has stated that the Attorney General and the Bribery or Corruption Commission must take the legal actions to implement the recommendations of the Commission.
*Under normal circumstances, recovery of money is done through civil legal action. However, it is a time consuming method. As an alternative, the Commission recommend that a Parliamentary Legislation could be passed and the money could be recovered in a speedy manner through a Parliamentary procedure. We agree to that recommendation.
*The recommendation of te Commission is that all the expenditure occurred for the Commission must be recovered from the Perpetual Treasuries Limited.
*I have already submitted a copy of the Commission Report to the Attorney General and he will identify the persons against who the legal action must be taken and initiate necessary criminal or civil legal action to implement the recommendations of the Commission.
*I wish to clarify here, that a minor amendment to the Bribery or Corruption Commission Act must be enacted to take legal action on the recommendations of the Commission. For this purpose, already experts at the legal draughtsman are working on the required amendment.
*The steps needed to make Bribery or Corruption Commission more active and efficient should have been done long time ago, and now we are taking required steps for that purpose.
The confidentiality, astuteness and auditing methods of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka were extremely weak. There were no tele-recording systems, electronic monitoring or even CCTVs. The current Governor of the Central bank has already taken steps to remove weaknesses and rectify these errors.
The Governor has informed that he has suspended some employees of the Central Bank after their malpractices were revealed in the investigations in the Commission and disciplinary actions are being taken against those officers.
I expect the Governor to make a statement in the near future regarding the shortcomings in the Central bank as revealed in the Commission Report.
I urge the Justice Ministry and the Attorney General to take early steps to draft the three bills proposed by the Commission present them to Parliament, in order to make required changes at the Central Bank to ensure such corrupt practices, frauds and malpractices would not take place in the future.
I have informed my Secretary to hold monthly review meetings with the heads of relevant departments and institutions to examine the progress in implementations of the recommendations of the Commission to take legal steps against those individuals and take other required steps in an efficient and speedy manner.
I would like to specifically state here that I would not hesitate to take steps to recover the loss of Rs 11,145 million and take legal action against the offenders and punish them.
The sum of Rs 8529 million of the total losses Rs 11,145 million was the funds of the Employees Provident Fund, Mahapola Scholarship Fund, National Savings Bank and Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation. The balance was from private institutions. Hence the loss to the public sector  EPF, Mahapola, NDB and SLIC was over Rs 8.5 billion. The Perpetual Treasuries Limited has made this profit of Rs 11,145 million within a short period of 5 months.
Finally, especially I would like to mention that this final report must be presented to the Parliament and through this initiative the report must be open to the public. In the future, necessary as well as legal steps in this regard will be taken expeditiously according to the advice from the Attorney General. I kindly request to consider the openness of the facts of this Commission Report and I assure that any hesitation would not occur in filing cases against the offenders. Furthermore, I wish to state that this is the final report of the Commission.
I have previously appointed a Commission and the report of that has been handed over to me. It is the final report of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry to investigate and inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources and Privileges (PRECIFAC).
This Commission carried out their respective duties during the past two and half years. I extend my gratitude to the staff of the Commission and all the institutions including the Secretary and High Court judges for giving their support in this task. Already, 34 reports of that Commission had been handed over to me and recently 17 reports have been handed over and another 17 previously, the 17 reports handed over previously I have submitted to the Attorney General to take necessary actions through relevant institutions.
By now, the Fraud and Corruption Commission, institutions, departments and Police have taken actions to file cases based on the facts of these reports. The report which was handed over to me before two days I will submit to Attorney General within this week to take appropriate actions. Especially I have to mention the actions on this report will be taken in the near future.
The Presidential Commission of Inquiry to investigate and inquire into Serious Acts of Fraud, Corruption and Abuse of Power, State Resources and Privileges has presented several major facts and it is the responsibility of the Government to implement facts presented at the Commission. I will explain to you regarding those facts for the general public information. Training and appointment of suitable officials as there is lack for skilled well-trained officials to carry out investigation regarding fraud and corruptions. This Commission emphasized that people without required qualifications had been appointed and only the qualified persons should be appointed to essential positions including the State institutions, Authorities and Constitutional Boards.
The Commission revealed that the money spent by the Government for the establishment of this Commission has already been recovered through the cases initiated through the findings of this Commission. A system must be implemented to hearing the cases in the courts in other areas as holding these cases only in Courts in Colombo is causing difficulties for those who travel from distances.
I must states a special thing, before I conclude the facts of these two reports, I saw a great eagerness and inquiring trend among the general public regarding these Commissions. At the same time when the Commissions were appointed, especially before the appointment of the Bond Commission, some people commented, even in Parliament that nothing had happened to previous commissions and the same fate would happen to this commission too. They also said the intention of appointment of a commission was to cover up the wrong doings.
But all of us must be very pleased regarding the fulfillment of duties of these Commissions and again I must thank the judges and all those who contributed in this regard for their great service rendered while wining the confidence of the general public.
Finally, I must state regarding the allegations leveled against me by some political parties for appointing these Commissions. I never appointed these commissions targeting any political party. I must specially mention in future when the cases are filed in accordance with the investigations and the recommendations and information of these Commissions, individuals belongs to two main political parties will be among the defendants in the legal process. We must be happy over our independent and impartial Judiciary. I must state all of us will provide our maximum support for this process.
Thank You
 
		
==============================
## Title: Road Map 2018 launched
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 3 January 2018 04:04 pm
Road Map 2018 launched
	
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka today launched its Road Map 2018: The Monetary and Financial Sector Policies for 2018 and Beyond in the presence of the cream of the countrys banking and finance sector. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rs.3.8 mn worth bite!
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 3 January 2018 05:51 pm
Rs.3.8 mn worth bite!
	
Marry Me, an artisanal dessert by Master Chef Viraj Jayaratne valued at Rs. 3.8 million, was presented to star cricketer Kumar Sangakkara today. The dessert, created to mark 25 years of Chef Jayaratnes culinary journey was prepared using expensive imported ingredients. The Grand Hotel team including the Master Chef took this bold step in an attempt to explore new avenues in the hospitality industry. Tourism Minister John Amarathunga was present at the event. Pix by Shelton Hettiarachchi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Some Jpura nurses on strike
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 11:29 am
Some Jpura nurses on strike
	
Around 150 nursing staff attached to the Sri Jayewardenepura General Hospital (SJGH) had refused to report to duty today in protest of a newly introduced fingerprint machine, SJGH Director Dr. Susitha Senaratne said.
Dr. Senaratne said the group of nurses staying at the nurses quarters had refused to report to duty until the fingerprint machine was removed.
He said that earlier discussions had been held with the nurses trade union regarding the matter, but were not successful.
However, hospital authorities will discuss the matter with Government Nursing Officers Union (GNOU) President Ven. Muruththettuwe Ananda Thera in a short while, he said.
Dr. Senaratne said the protest however had not impacted hospital services. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: TUFP will contest only in the Batticaloa District this time
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 3 January 2018 12:00 am
TUFP will contest only in the Batticaloa District this time
	
Former MP VinayagamurthiMuralitharan alias Karuna Amman in an interview with the Daily Mirror spoke about the current political situation and his aspirations. Muralitharan, LTTEs one-time Eastern Province military leader, said that he regrets past violence and looks to the future. He has now formed a new political party called Tamil United Freedom Party (TUFP). Following are excerpts of the interview donewith Muralitharan. 
Tamil leaders should be held responsible for the development disparities in Tamil and Muslim areas in East
	Tamil parties should cooperate with Govt. and get things done for people
	I never blame Muslim leaders for development in their areas
	Its the duty of Tamil leaders to work for Tamil people
	Current Chief Minister favours Muslims
	We want a Tamil Chief Minister in East
	I regret past violence during LTTE times
	Land issue between Tamils and Muslims very serious
	The TNA only talks about nationalism. Thats it. But, nothing happens.
	India cannot do anything here


Q You were with the LTTE. Afterwards you joined the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP). Now, you have formed your own party. Why is this
Actually, I waited for the correct time. Today, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) is seen as the sole representative of Tamil people. In fact, they are not. We formed our party last year. The TNA is now scattered. They give false promises to the people. They have not done anything for the people. Its representatives are in Parliament. But, there is no benefit for the people either in terms of a political solution nor development. Before setting up this party, I had discussions with all the leaders- President Maithripala Sirisena, former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and others. I informed all of them. We are not against anybody. We do not advocate racism. The TNA isspreading terrorism. 
Q Why did you decide to form your party rather than align with amain party
There is misunderstanding among the Tamil people. After the eradication of terrorism, Tamil people think the former Government killed Tamil people. The TNA banks its political fortune on this situation. They are carrying out propaganda. If we want to counter the TNA, we need yet another Tamil party. The national political parties cannot do it. Tamil people need strong political leaders. There are several parties under the TNA banner. They are taking on each other. 
Q What is your policy regarding the ethnic problem
We ask for the merger of the north and the east. That is good for the Tamil people. That is our motherland. 
Q At that time, you were so particular about the identity of Eastern Tamils. Why is this sudden change
Now too, we give priority to the Eastern Province. We are encountering a lot of problems in the east unlike in the north. In the Northern Province, it is overwhelmingly Tamil speaking. As for the ethnic composition here, the percentages of Muslims and Tamils are more or less equal. There are Sinhalese too. We dont have any problem with the Sinhala community.
We face problems not from ordinary Muslims, but their leaders. They try to exercise their control over the Tamils. They inflame racism. In the last Eastern Provincial Council, the TNA had 11 seats, but Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) had only seven or eight seats. Yet, the TNA ceded the chief ministers post to a Muslim. During the period of Chief Minister Nazir Ahamed, the Tamil people werent benefited. More than 4000 jobs were given to the Muslims. We have to pay extra attention on the Tamils in the east. We have to be considerate about the Tamils in the north. 
Our party advocates pluralism. We shun racism. Whatever party is in power at the centre, we want to coordinate with it and get development work done for the Tamil people. 
However, my ultimate aim is to have a Tamil as a Chief Minister in the east. That is what I aim at. We are checking the ground situation with regard to the upcoming election. If the Tamils vote for one party overwhelmingly at a provincial councils election here, we can obtain 11 or 12 seats
Q How do you view the disproportionate development inthe east
I do not blame the Muslims for that. In fact, they have made use of the situation. Only the Tamil leaders have to be taken to task. When I was in Parliament, I did a lot of development work in the area covering all the sectors such as health, education, farming etc. Today, the TNA supports the Government. The TNA even votes for the Budget. They did not accept any ministry nor other benefits. They do not know anything about the people. Why are they supporting the Government then 
However, the Muslim leaders joined the Government, took up responsibilities and worked for their people. The TNA should be held responsible. 
There is racial discrimination here. During the war, the Sinhalese and the Tamils fought against each other. But, the Muslims survived both the Government and the LTTE. They built their economy. Today, they command economic power. They are now encroaching our land. It is a big issue here. 
Q You said that the Muslims survived with the Government and the LTTE. In fact, you were the LTTEs Eastern Commander at that time. Does it mean they dealt with you
(Laughs) Yes. Our policy was like that. Some incidents happened. There was violence between the communities. We controlled the situation. We did not do anything to them. We allowed them to do business and all. I do not want to blame the innocent Muslim community. They (Muslims) are innocent people. They are misled by their leaders. 
Q Did you have contacts with these Muslim leaders at that time
Yes, I had contacts with them. When any violence would erupt, we had to control
such situations. 
Q How do you find the ground support for your party now
It is good. We contest only in the Batticaloa District this time. We want to prove our support base this time. At the Provincial Council Elections next time, we will contest in the north and the east. We can win many seats because people are fed-up with the TNA. We are the only alternative here to the TNA. 
Q How do you view the performance of the Unity Government
People believed in it earlier. Yet, the Government did not do anything for the people. Their concentration was to defeat former President Mahinda Rajapaksa. They were not concerned about the development of the country and bringing a solution to the Tamil national question. President Sirisena promised the TNA that all army camps would be withdrawn within 100 days after assuming power. Nothing happened. Two years have passed. Economically, the country is on a downward spiral. For example, the price of a coconut is Rs.130 in Batticaloa. A kilo of rice is Rs.160 in Batticaloa. 
Q In the past, the Tamil people used to vote demanding political rights and these demands werent related to economic issues. How can you bring about a change
That is the problem. We need the political solution. There is no difference in this regard. At the same time, people need development too. The TNA only talks about nationalism. Thats it. But, nothing happens. That is the difference between Tamils and Muslims. Muslims develop their areas. Tamil people are left with nothing. 
Q As for the Muslims, they have a serious land problem. They are concentrated in a tiny area whereas Tamils are scattered all over the district. How do you look at this
Their (Muslims) population is high now. They live in narrow strips of land. That is not a problem. If they take land through proper means, there will be no problem. But, they are encroaching the lands. They work out fake deeds. A lot of things are going on here. They are violating the law. If they buy land and settle properly, it is alright. 
Most Tamil people do not like to sell land to the Muslims. The Muslims identify themselves as Tamil speaking individuals. But, they behave as if they have come from the land of the Arabs. That is the problem. They speak Tamil. But, if you go to Kattankudy, you would see some sign boards where there is Arabic characters. 
Q You were put behind bars. Who do you hold responsible for it
I do not blame anyone. There are no allegations against me. The case came to an end accordingly. However, the Government should have looked at the matter in an analytical manner and taken action. Whatever said and done, I am part and parcel of the peace this country is enjoying now. 
Q What is the kind of role you played to bring peace
If I remained with the LTTE, the war could not have been won. Neither the Government nor the LTTE would have been able to win. Fighting would have continued up to this very day. It was only after I broke ranks with the LTTE that the Government got the opportunity to defeat the LTTE. That has to be appreciated. 
Q What is the role you played against the LTTE after defecting from the organization
I did not do anything. I tried to bring peace to Sri Lanka. I along with others went to Norway and other places for peace talks. We had several rounds of talks. Prabhakaran did not like it. So, I came out. Cadres from the east were the strength of the LTTE. After I left, their strength was reduced. I was the LTTE commander at that time. I commanded the war on behalf of the LTTE. 
President Sirisena promised the TNA that all army camps would be withdrawn within 100 days after assuming power. Nothing happened. Two years have passed. Economically, the country is on a downward spiral.

Q Did you fight against the LTTE militarily after the defection
I did not do anything. I did not fight against the Government. I joined the Government to build the rapport between the two communities. 
Q How did your departure from the LTTE happen
It was after the six rounds of peace talks. We were in Oslo at that time. Nothing had happened during the talks held before. However we enjoyed the various foods that were served and returned. The Scandinavian facilitators asked us to make a breakthrough. We were asked to initiate some agreement in this regard. They gave a paper to both sides asking for a commitment towards a Federal solution. The LTTE delegation did not like to sign the paper. Anton Balasingham, as the Chief Negotiator of the LTTE, did not want to sign it without permission from Prabhakaran.
I encouraged him to sign it. After the LTTE killed Rajiv Gandhi, India banned the outfit as a terrorist organization. Then, 26 other countries followed suit. Alongside, the September 11 attack took place. Then, the entire world decided to destroy all forms of terrorism. I wanted to save the LTTE under these developments in the global arena. After that, Anton Balasingham signed it. On the other side, Prof. G.L. Peiris signed it. He is alive even today. Therefore, you can get it verified from him. Once we returned to Wanni, Prabhakaran did not agree to it. He scolded us saying that we betrayed those who were fighting the war. 
I tried to tell him that we did not agree to a Federal solution. We agreed only to consider it. Then, I asked him to proceed with the war if he wanted. Afterwards, I broke ranks with him. 
Q How did you escape the LTTE
I knew Prabhakaran very well. I knew how he operated. That is why, he could not target me at any time. I returned to Batticaloa and disbanded my cadres. I sent 6000 cadres to their parents. I went to Colombo along with then MP Ali Zahir Moulana. We stayed ten days at Hilton Hotel. I had talks with the Government and went into hiding. 
Q How important are the forthcoming local polls
It is very important. However, my ultimate aim is to have a Tamil as a Chief Minister in the east. That is what I aim at. We are checking the ground situation with regard to the upcoming election. If the Tamils vote for one party overwhelmingly at a provincial councils election here, we can obtain 11 or 12 seats. The Muslims can obtain less than nine seats. The Sinhalese can obtain eight seats. If we obtain 11 seats, we can form the council in cooperation with the Sinhalese members. Earlier, Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan alias Pilleyan was appointed the Chief Minister following my request. When I was in India, former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa came to meet me and discussed these matters. 
They are carrying out propaganda. If we want to counter the TNA, we need yet another Tamil party. The national political parties cannot do it. Tamil people need strong political leaders
Q Are you in touch with India
We have some contacts with the High Commission of India here. India cannot do anything here. Tamil Nadu politicians talk about Sri Lankan Tamils only during their elections. We have to maintain links with our
Governments here. 
Q You are held responsible for some atrocities committed by the LTTE at that time. These include the massacre of Bhikkhus in Arantalwa, Muslim devotees in Kattankudy etc. What isyour response
Many incidents happened during those days. Both sides were responsible for them. Many Tamil people were also killed. The LTTE also killed many people. We have to admit that too. I did not personally get involved. The LTTE intelligence units carried out bomb blasts and all. I regret all these things. We do not want to dig into the past. The past is the past. We lost a lot. I also lost my brother. I cannot get him back. I ask all the communities not to dig into the past. We have to live in harmony with each other.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Welikada Prison escape attempt foiled
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 03:02 pm
Welikada Prison escape attempt foiled
	
An attempt by four inmates of the Welikada Prison to escape had been foiled by jailors this morning, Prisons Spokesman said.
Spokesman Thushara Upuldeniya said the inmates, who were detained in Y-O Ward had broken the locks and attempted to escape, however were caught by the prison guards.
The convicts, who were reported to be younger than 22- were serving 6- 10 year sentences for robberies.
Mr. Upuldeniya said that one of them, who was sentenced to narcotics related crime, had attempted to escape on an earlier occasion as well.
Prison Guards had also recovered a few iron bars from the inmates.
Mr. Upuldeniya said the Prisons Department was conducting an internal investigation over the incident. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Youth allegedly kills 16-year-old girl friend
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 3 January 2018 05:15 pm
Youth allegedly kills 16-year-old girl friend
	
A 26-year-old youth is reported to have killed his 16-year-old girl friend by slitting her throat and had allegedly committed suicide by cutting his own throat.
The girl is said to be a resident of Pannala and the boy a resident of Chilaw. (Hemalatha D. Hewage)

Video by Hemalatha Rajapaksha 
 
		
==============================
==============================
