## Title: Another drama by Ranjan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 08:22 am
Another drama by Ranjan
	
Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake yesterday played another drama by getting his uncle Prof. Carlo Fonseka to mention that the latter had given him money for his election campaign.
 Ranjan is my sisters grandson. Therefore I always come for his help whenever he falls in trouble or whenever he is facing a court case. He belongs to a political party and I belong to another political party. However I am happy about the stand he took with regard to the Bond scam and on the SAITM issue, Prof. Fonseka said.
Uncle please tell the media that you have given money for my campaign, Mr. Ramanayake told Prof. Fonseka.
 That is just a small sum of money, Prof. Fonseka answered. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bond Report annexure handed over to Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 11:35 am
Bond Report annexure handed over to Speaker
	
Sections C350 to C360 of the Bond Commission Report were handed over to Speaker Karu Jayasuriya by Presidential Secretariat a short while ago.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Changing mandate of UN peacekeeping and South Asias role in it
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:05 am
Changing mandate of UN peacekeeping and South Asias role in it
	
The UN Peacekeeping Force (UNPKF for short) came into being during the Arab-Israeli war in 1948. Subsequently, in 1988, by dint of its immense contribution to the maintenance of peace in trouble spots across the world, it bagged the Nobel Peace Prize from the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
The Peacekeeping Forces of the United Nations have, under extremely difficult conditions, contributed to reducing tensions where an armistice has been negotiated but a peace treaty has yet to be established. In situations of this kind, the UN forces represent the manifest will of the community of nations to achieve peace through negotiations, and the forces have, by their presence, made a decisive contribution towards the initiation of actual peace negotiations, the Norwegian Nobel Peace Prize Committee said on its decision to give the award to UNPKF. 
Since 1948, the UNPKF has been involved in 71 UN operations, 57 of them since 1988. Today, a little more than 110,000 military, police and civilian staff serve in 14 peacekeeping missions. 
So far, more than 3326 peacekeepers from 120 countries have laid down their lives in the cause of peace on behalf of the UN. However, there has been a decrease in both personnel and peacekeeping missions recently, as a result of peaceful transitions and the redevelopment of troubled States . 
Role changes with contextual changes
The context for UN peacekeeping missions had changed dramatically after the end of the US-USSR Cold War in the 1990s.
This is what a UN document says about the new context and role of the UNPKF: The UN shifted and expanded its field operations from traditional missions involving observational tasks performed by military personnel to complex multidimensional enterprises.
These multidimensional missions were designed to ensure the implementation of comprehensive peace agreements and assist in laying the foundations for sustainable peace.
The nature of conflicts also changed over the years. UN Peacekeeping, originally developed as a means of dealing with inter-State conflict, was increasingly being applied to intra-State conflicts and civil wars.
UN Peacekeepers are now increasingly asked to undertake a wide variety of complex tasks, from helping to build sustainable institutions of governance, to human rights monitoring, to security sector reform, to the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of former combatants. 
However, the military has remained the UNPKFs backbone and its main instrument. But the militarys main tasks now include: administration; economic advice; policing; legal advice; de-mining; electoral monitoring; human rights monitoring; humanitarian aid; and advice on governance. 
After the Cold War ended, there was a rapid increase in the number of peacekeeping operations. Between 1989 and 1994, there were 20 new operations involving 11,000 to 75,000 peacekeepers.
There were peacekeeping operations in Angola, Cambodia and Namibia, to implement complex peace agreements; stabilize the security situation; re-organize the military and police; elect new governments and build democratic institutions. And of course there were military operations in former Yugoslavia and Somalia.

For instance, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal together contributed over 30% of the total number of UN peacekeepers worldwide in 2014. Western states by comparison contributed a mere five percent. But US is the single largest donor accounting for 28% of financial contributions 
Setbacks and reforms
However, there were setbacks in the early 1990s which led to an inquiry into the operations in Rwanda, Srebrenica and Somalia. The UNPKF was withdrawn from Somalia. 
But in the second half of 1990s, new operations were approved in Angola, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Croatia, Macedonia, Guatemala and Haiti.
In 1999 the UN served as the administrator of both Kosovo in the former Yugoslavia, and in East Timor (now Timor-Leste), which broke away from Indonesia. Later, the UNPKF was sent to Burundi, Chad, Central African Republic, Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Darfur and Syria.
Many of these operations have now completed their mandates as in Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi and Sierra Leone, Eritrea and Ivory Coast.
But multi-tasking is the order of the day. Today the UNPKFs role is truly multidimensional. They assist in civilian care, demobilization and re-integration, electoral processes and ensuring human rights and Rule of Law.
Troops mostly from poorer countries
A closer look at UN peacekeeping reveals that troops from relatively poor, populous countries - mostly from Africa and South Asia - account for a huge proportion of the peacekeeping forces worldwide. 
For instance, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal together contributed over 30% of the total number of UN peacekeepers worldwide in 2014. Western states by comparison contributed a mere five percent. But US is the single largest donor accounting for 28% of financial contributions 
There are several reasons for the greater participation of South Asian nations in the UNPKF. One is emoluments. An average soldier here would earn about US$ 200 per month but in the UNPKF he would earn US$ 1,000.
Personnel from these countries learn to use new technology and get experience of working with personnel from other armies, learn new languages all of which help in furthering their careers. Last but not the least, South Asia barring Sri Lanka, has traditionally had surplus military manpower and had supplied troops to the colonial powers from the 16th.Century onwards. 
This was so until the end of World War II in 1945.
From cultures of compassion
According to the Bangladesh High Commissioner in Sri Lanka, Riaz Hamidullah, troops from the South Asian countries are ideal for peacekeeping operations for a cultural reason. 
Explaining the success of the Bangladeshi personnel in the UNPKF,Hamidullah said that the conduct of the Bangladeshi peacekeepers stems from their native culture nurtured over centuries. 
It is founded on an innate South Asian propensity to show compassion beyond the call of duty and to share what little one has with ones fellow beings, the envoy said.
He went on to give an example from a troubled and indigent African country in which the Bangladeshi peace keepers shared their rations with the starving population around their camps. 
It was all beyond the rule book. In another case of creative magnanimity, seeds of an edible plant which had been brought down from Bangladesh for the troops consumption, were distributed by the troops to the people around so that they could cultivate the crop. And the population did, Hamidullah recalled.
The Bangladeshi peace keepers not only maintain law and order but also sow the seeds of friendship, he said. 

There are several reasons for the greater participation of South Asian nations in the UNPKF. One is emoluments. An average soldier here would earn about US$ 200 per month but in the UNPKF he would earn US$ 1,000
Bangladeshi engineers serving with the UN mission in South Sudan are leading efforts to improve a 78-km stretch of road between Gumbo and Mangalla, on the artery between Juba and Bor. The road connects local communities, allowing them to more easily bring goods to the market.
In the last three decades, as many as 150,647 Bangladeshi peacekeepers, from the armed forces and the police, have worked in 54 UN missions in 40 countries. Of them, 135 have sacrificed their lives to establish peace, with more than 200 others suffering injuries. 
Currently, some 7,636 Bangladeshi peacekeepers, comprising 6,636 from the armed forces and the rest from police, are working in UN missions, according to UN peacekeeping statistics up to August 31, 2017. Bangladesh now accounts for 6.5% of the total UN peacekeeping force across the world. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Forced to give up Sil programme to play cheer squad
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 June 2018 10:20 am
Forced to give up Sil programme to play cheer squad
	

There is a certain unit in the main office of a security service that conducts a special religious programme every Pun-Poya Day. And the organizers were not able to conduct this programme on Poya day due to the interference of a sidekick of a high political authority, they say.

The sidekick had brought pressure on the authorities concerned to release 25 personnel from each division in the head office to attend a competition event held at an institution related to youth affairs on the Poya day leading to the cancellation of the regular Poya Day religious programme.
So, the security personnel who were keen on participating in the Poya Day programme had to attend the youth competition just to make up a big audience for the occasion. The only job they were required to do was to applaud loud when signaled to do so, they say.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gamini D.K.S Gunasekera  (05.04.1951  05.06.2017) Tribute  to the  first man We ever loved
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:55 am
Gamini D.K.S Gunasekera  (05.04.1951  05.06.2017) Tribute  to the  first man We ever loved
	
Its been a year, I dont know how,
Where did the time go, please come back to us now
Youre always in our thoughts and in our hearts,
Wish we could go back to the start
An empty house, your empty chair,
Your loving presence, no longer there
Broken hearts, tears in our eyes,
A year gone without you, how did we get by
Happy memories in our mind,
But the day you left us, how much we have cried
The times we shared, the laughs we had together,
Things that we miss and always will remember
A beautiful soul, no one can compare,
Why did you leave us, why is life so unfair
Missing your laugh that we will never hear again,
Our worlds have changed, nothing has been the same
We miss that sweet smile on your face
And the warmth of your loving embrace
Thats all we have to hold on to,
Sweet memories that are of you
To have one last hug and one last kiss
That would be our greatest wish
And to have you here with us today,
Why did you leave your daughters this way
A fathers touch, a fathers kiss,
A grieving daughter, youre greatly missed.
Theres a place in our hearts no one can fill,
We miss you sweet GG and always will.


Ashanti & Namaya
 
		
==============================
## Title: Go-getter-driver: Classic case of tail wagging the dog
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 June 2018 10:22 am
Go-getter-driver: Classic case of tail wagging the dog
	

A story that has gone viral in public service refers to a driver of a woman purohita who is said to be wielding more power and authority than the Ministrys topmost white-collar high-up himself.

His exploits range from manipulating marks scored by job aspirants at top level interviews to providing jobs in various establishments coming under the purview of the Ministry, they say.
The number of people calling on this driver to get their needs attended to is much higher than those seeking an audience with the purohita herself.
People from the purohitas electorate calling at the Ministry openly admit that this driver is much more helpful in getting their problems solved than the white-collar high-ups or the purohita herself.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hema Nalin passes away
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 02:28 pm
Hema Nalin passes away
	
Veteran journalist, compere and TV presenter Hema Nalin Karunaratne passed away at the age of 55 today.

Video by Damith


 
		
==============================
## Title: How resourceful Sri Lanka became a teardrop  
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:45 am
How resourceful Sri Lanka became a teardrop  
	

At the time of Independence Ceylon was one of the most prosperous countries of South East Asia
	Our Politicians converted the country from a prosperous nation to a 3rd World Country between the period 1959  1977
	The opportunity lost by Ceylon was gained by Singapore
	Now our politicians are trying to build their paradises in Singapore and Malaysia
	Year in and year out, as per records, 5  6 billion rupees are spent as disaster relief
	News channels covering villages dont show prosperous healthy people

There is an old English saying Fools Learn by Mistake, Wise from Others. 
This country is known as Serendib and Taprobane and sometimes by pet names such as Teardrop of The Indian Ocean, Pearl of The Indian Ocean and Paradise. The name for this island was registered by The British as Ceylon under its Empire. Foreign rulers converted this island from a rise growing farmer country to one that grows export potential crops such as spices, tea, rubber and coconut, which is still a lifeline for the country. At the time of Independence Ceylon was one of the most prosperous countries of South East Asia. Certain politicians still talk about this. Ceylon gradually moved away from prosperity after Independence. The change of name from Ceylon to Sri Lanka, which came in 1972, took away the lustre the country had. The prosperity associated with old Ceylon was linked to export crops like tea, cinnamon and sapphires, just to name a few. The high standard of service offered in trains, buses, education and in the administrative system helped Ceylon stand out in Asia. Our Politicians converted the country from a prosperous nation to a 3rd World Country between the period 1959  1977, a span of just 18 years! 
From 1977 we started reentering the race, but by that time countries which were lagging behind us such as India, Malaysia, Singapore, Korea and China had started experiencing rapid growth after following Open Economic Policies. China became a Communist Economic Power and a knowledge factory while India, Malaysia and Singapore emerged as Economic Powers on the lines of Production and Technology. Singapore is the country it is today due to economic bungling by political forces of Sri Lanka since 1957. The islands officials nationalizing prosperous local assets as well as foreign businesses forced the latter to look for greener pastures. The Government of Singapore didnt have to do much other than invite all displaced business from the then Ceylon to set up business in Singapore. The opportunity lost by Ceylon was gained by Singapore. Senior Citizen Governance of Singapore still thanks and appreciates the service provided by our politicians that helped Singapore to be what it is today. After nationalization, the politicians endeavored to replace imported products by setting up Industries to manufacture products through state corporations. This was a good move. Politicisation and poor management were witnessed in state corporations due to the presence of unqualified appointees. Although the Government created a monopoly by banning imports it couldnt produce goods which cost 50% less than the imported products. This encouraged smuggling. Razor blades,cement, tyres and various products manufactured by state corporations were below par. Although many efforts were made to grow our own food these attempts could not succeed due to political bungling and mismanagement. Food scarcity and other economic factors drove the country to poverty. All good ideas couldnt be made use of due to mismanagement and bureaucracy. The start of State Corporations and efforts to industrialise the country by replacing imports and campaigns to grow more food did not improve the living standards of the people. In fact their lives became worse. 
Economic disaster
The Open Door Policy saved the country from economic disaster. Both programmes like grow more food and the Industrial Corporations Act are criticized by some. But this is what has helped our neighbours to overtake us. Now our politicians are trying to build their paradises in Singapore and Malaysia. Sri Lanka cant be on par with countries like India, China, Korea and even Bangladesh. Sri Lanka is still ahead of them in terms of literacy and health care which are nothing much to talk about. This writer poses the question whether Sri Lankans are educated and healthy News channels covering villages dont show prosperous healthy people. They have the same problems or are worse off than they were ten years ago. Kolambata Kiri, Gamata Kakiri (An old saying which underscores the fact that Colombo gets the best while those in the village get a raw deal). Some old issues or problems still remain. Some places still have no roads, bridges, water, transport, teachers and doctors. Some farmer cant sell their produce even at cost, during a harvest. Administrators are asleep! 
Returning to the saying Fools learn by mistakes, wise from others, one of the hot topics these days is floods. Our administrators know that floods and the drought are common occurrences each year. Politicians boast that all action has been taken to cater to disaster victims by providing temporary shelter, food and health care. Year in and year out, as per records, 5  6 billion rupees are spent as disaster relief. All these expenses can be channelled for better use if our administrators at least now start advancing funds to clean all inland waterways and water retention areas in and around major cities. It is said that there are around 20,000 rain water retention tanks around the country. The larger ones were built by kings, medium ones by local administrations and the smaller ones were built by village administrators. Have our administrators taken any action to clean water waterways other than indulge in big talk We are yet to Walk the Talk. Some action was taken by UDA and SLLRDC in the recent past which is now producing results. The Parliament surroundings, Colombo and suburbs are not submerged by water this time despite rivers such as Kelani and Kalu overflowing. 
Kings and the past
Millions of acre-feet of water reaching rivers could have been reduced if internal tanks had been dredged. During the times of the kings, animals and man power were used over long periods of time. Now machinery and technology can be used to speed up the process. Kings and past administrators used their own technology to seal the bottoms of tanks against seepage. When the tanks are dredged, they must be done in such a way that heavy vibrator rollers and then heavy rollers are used to compact the bottoms of the tanks to prevent seepage. Just dredging with back hoe and dozers will damage the technology used by our ancestors to prevent seepage. When instructions to rebuild tanks are given by authorities of higher administration, the Irrigation Engineers and Civil Engineers must ensure to see that their education is put in to good use. 
Sluice gates of tanks too are not controlled intelligently. When rain is expected, which leads to the expectation of water, gates must be opened in series. We are famous for opening sluice gates suddenly and this results in many people being washed away by gushing water, resulting in flooding. There was a report that all 20 sluice gates of a tank were opened at once causing a massive flood downstream. What happened to the intelligence of the irrigation engineer and other administrators responsible for water control Will they take responsibility 
During the past few days many politicians said that rain is good and will increase GDP. Only one person said that we should not allow water to go a waste, and make plans to retain it; stopping it from seeping back into the sea.
I assume that most people didnt realize the amount of mud in rivers and waterfalls. This shows that a large quantity of mud is being washed away from hills and surroundings. This is a result of forest felling on mountains and riverbanks. One bright spark might say that this will increase the amount of sand being deposited at the bottom of rivers. Millions of Acre-feet of water flowed into the sea during the past few days instead of being saved for prosperity! 
Will our administrators at least now allocate funds and resources and call for offers to dredge the many tanks and waterways to be ready for the next drought period This will help save at least 20% of the water lost this year which is a better option than boasting about disaster relief and wasting contributions received as disaster relief.
Lets learn from our mistake! 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hunduwe bungalawa
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 5 June 2018 10:23 am
Hunduwe bungalawa
	
A house in a city suburb has been bought for Rs.30 million for the official residence of a provincial white-collar high-up, they say.
A certain politico is said to be behind the purchase of this obviously overvalued house when there was the possibility of buying a suitable house located close to the office of the white-collar high-up.
Employees have already begun calling this official residence hunduwe bungalawa to emphasize its smallness in relation to its cost to the exchequer. Hunduwa is a small tin used in rural households to measure rice for cooking.
 
		
==============================
## Title: IP Rangajeewa and Lamahewa re-remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 11:08 am
IP Rangajeewa and Lamahewa re-remanded
	
Police Narcotic Bureau Inspector Neomal Rangajeewa and Prisons Department Commissioner Emil Ranjan Lamahewa, who were in remand custody over the Welikada Prison riots in 2012, were further remanded till June 19 by Colombo Additional Magistrate Priyantha Liyanage today.
The CID arrested IP Rangajeewa and former Magazine Prisons Superintendent Emil Ranjan Lamahewa on March 28. (Yoshitha Perera)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lester, the man
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:02 am
Lester, the man
	

Someone who had an identity of his own
	Lester told Malinda that the cinema salvaged him'
	He remained Lester, until that last day
	The three brothers and in particular Lester had been very mischievous as children

In his memoir Pin Athi Sarasavi Waramak Denna, Ediriweera Sarachchandra dwells on the intricate link between a cultural resurgence and the identities of those who take part in and eventually get to lead that resurgence. Taking a rather puritanical stance, he contends that while the Japanese cinema gave birth to Akira Kurosawa and the Bengali cinema gave birth to Satyajit Ray, the Sri Lankan, specifically the Sinhalese cinema, gave birth to Lester James Peries. They had Kurosawa and Ray, in keeping with the names their cultures had forged. We, on the other hand, continued with our colonial past was the gist of his argument. When I pointed this out to Lester years ago, he had one answer to give: No one can take away my name. To my last day, I will remain Lester James Peries.
Lester did well on that pledge. He remained Lester, until that last day. But while he remained who he was, he gave back to the country of his birth, and the culture of the majority of that country, in ways which surpass the contributions of those other cultural revolutionaries. This is not to belittle Amaradeva, Chitrasena, and Sarachchandra. But their cultural impediments were minor compared with those which bedevilled Lester. As the man himself put it to Malinda Seneviratne around 15 years ago, Cinema salvaged me. It brought me to my roots. I had a Western education. I was born into a staunch Roman Catholic family. That was two removes from the heartbeat of my people. By the time he completed his last work, Ammawarune, had got closer to that heartbeat. And why Because he did a better job at delving into the sentiments of the same community which had bred chauvinists and charlatans in the form of spokespersons. He was an outsider looking in. And he did a better job at looking in than those spokespersons.

While he remained who he was, he gave back to the country of his birth, and the culture of the majority of that country, in ways which surpass the contributions of those other cultural revolutionaries
All this came to me last Monday, the 28th of May, at St Marys Church in Lauries Road, Bambalapitiya, where Lesters family held a memorial service for the man. A quiet, largely family affair, it was nevertheless attended by outsiders, i.e. those who had known him throughout the better part of their lives and even those who had known him for a couple or so years (like this writer). Contained though it was, it fascinated me, not so much owing to the facts I came across with respect to Lesters fidelity and adherence to his faith, but more pertinently owing to my understanding that he was that rare man: someone who had an identity of his own, far removed from the identity which he had helped resuscitate through the arts, and one which he never let go even when he was (as he continues to be) lambasted for moving into a specific, limited milieu and canvas.
Where should I begin Most probably at the end of the service, with two remarks made by the two individuals who delivered the memorial address and the eulogy to the man being commemorated, Nirasha Perera (Lesters grand niece and the original singer of Ran Tikiri Sina) and the inimitable Professor Carlo Fonseka. Ill start with Nirasha.
She brought up several anecdotes. Humorous anecdotes. Lester was very, very close to his two brothers and sister, and was especially close to Ivan, whom he stood by when the latter suffered a nervous breakdown in London. Their bond remained all through their lives, and Uncle (Lester), who was fond of his brother, always argued that he had been the favoured son and that Ivan was the more gifted sibling. Apparently the three brothers and in particular Lester had been very mischievous as children, getting into all sorts of trouble at home. He used to climb the tree at their residence in Dehiwela, and his grandmother, who was of a very ill temperament, got up into such a fit out of concern that she would shout at him to get down. These entreaties would work only if he was given the five cents he almost always asked for to buy some comics. The grandmother had been a benign influence, moreover: Contrary to what many people think, Uncle was never really removed from the Sinhalese culture. She was the link he had between his anglicised upbringing and that culture, since she spoke virtually no English at home.

Lester and Sena did not hail from the same milieu (the latter came from the Anglican elite), but in terms of class origins they reckoned with the same basic problem: economic privilege on the one hand and a lack of rootedness on the other
Lesters run-ins with accepted officialdom were a given the moment he rebelled against the priest at St Peters who taught his class apologetics. He was insistent on me joining a seminary, he once recalled for me, And when I told him, Father, you need a vocation to become a priest, he would retort, Nonsense! You decide to become a priest and you become a priest, just as you decide to be a doctor and you become a doctor. Later on, these run-ins continued, especially throughout his years in journalism (Twice my facts were challenged, twice I was under threat of dismissal, he recounted to the late A. J. Gunawardena) and at the Government Film Unit (especially that incident where, having seen him brilliantly edit a documentary, he had to defend Titus Thotawatte against his England born Supervising Editor, to no less a figure than the Director of Information), and this interplay of rebelliousness and placidity continued with his film career as well. He was no joker, but his wit (a characteristic sample: I drink so much Nestomalt that I might as well call it Lestermalt) was, as Nirasha aptly noted, subtle and also sharp. Even the most cynical of human beings, like me, could not fail being swayed by it.
Professor Carlo Fonseka has a way with words and he quite probably gets to his points the same way he gets to his diagnoses as a medicine man: gradually, painstakingly, but with purpose and resolve. While the eulogy at the service more or less reflected the eulogy he had written and got published for the mans 93rd birthday back in 2012, it nevertheless seemed to ring even more sincere and contained within itself a fresh lease of life the second time around. Let us recall that he belonged to a special subgroup of gifted people in this country, he informed us, as he proceeded to class Lester alongside James Peiris and his son Charles Jacob Peiris, better known today as that great singer and cultural renovator, Devar Surya Sena, who composed a Sinhala liturgy based on the Gajaba Vannama. Lester and Sena did not hail from the same milieu (the latter came from the Anglican elite), but in terms of class origins they reckoned with the same basic problem: economic privilege on the one hand and a lack of rootedness on the other. (His paternal grandmother hailed from the Jayawardena family, who owned half of Dehiwela.) When Lester told Malinda that the cinema salvaged him, he was echoing what Devar Surya Sena felt, years before the man even conceived the story of Rekava, when, in 1929, he organised a concert at the Royal College Hall which featured, for the first time in the history of the hall and the country, a selection from our folk songs, ballads, and vannams.
Surya Senas forays into those vannams were reflected several years later in Lesters forays into films which depicted the identity that had produced those vannams. Here I quote Tissa Abeysekara (whom as Professor Fonseka noted would have been, were he alive, the person delivering the eulogy) and a critique he made of those who, like Surya Sena, seemingly transcended their uprooted lives in an effort to reclaim their cultural heritage: None of these artists, however successful they have been in their chosen fields, have attempted to turn this conflict within themselves (between their lives and their art) into the source of their creative passions. His indictment, incidentally, was that within the socio-cultural crisis of the anglicised upper crust of colonial Ceylon there was a Great Theme, much like the theme of familial bonds in Lesters films, which could have been turned into a veritable motif for the cultural sphere of postcolonial, independent Sri Lanka. This begs a pertinent question: how did Lester resolve this crisis within himself

The man destined to be the father of the Sinhalese cinema, in other words, came from a background which had historically been at loggerheads with the Sinhalese
He was, admittedly, two removes from the heartbeat of his people. If so, how close was he to his own identity, and how did he bring about a reconciliation between that identity and the identity he reached out to Uncle Lester said that while he did not pray openly and loudly, he prayed every night, softly, but devoutly, Nirasha told us, and I wasnt surprised. When it was suggested that a movie was made of Dona Catherina, the Queen of Kandy whose reputation remains controversial owing to her Catholicised upbringing, Lester shot down the idea, arguing that to go ahead would be to offend the same people, and public, he had helped discover themselves through his work. The man destined to be the father of the Sinhalese cinema, in other words, came from a background which had historically been at loggerheads with the Sinhalese. Whether he transcended this conflict is for another article. For now, though, Id like to end by paraphrasing what the Bishop of Chilaw, the Right Reverend Father Dr Valence Mendis, contended by way of summing up that link between identity and art which Sarachchandra alluded to in his memoirs:
Years ago, when I was young, I watched Akkara Paha. Later, I watched Yuganthaya and Desa Nisa. Akkara Paha is about a bright student neglecting his scholarship and later returning, broken, to his family, who accept him. In it I felt the story of the prodigal son. Yuganthaya is about the inevitability of revolution in the face of intense oppression and exploitation. In it I felt the parable about living and dying by the sword, and the injustices of the world. And in Desa Nisa, I came across love and compassion, and this love and compassion struck the student of theology in me. They were markedly about Sinhalese Buddhists, yes, but they were also about the fervent, devout Catholic that Lester was.

The good Father, it seems to me, got it right. All the way.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mangala Vice Chairman UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 02:40 pm
Mangala Vice Chairman UNP
	
Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera had been appointed Vice Chairman of the United National Party (UNP) by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
The Letter of Appointment was dated on April 26, 2018.
The appointment was effective April 26, 2018.
The Minister Tweeted that as his first appointment, he was appointed as the SLFP Organiser for Matara district 30 years ago.
I didn't even, in my wildest dreams thought that I would get such a position in the grand old party, he Tweeted
The letter said the appointment was made in terms of Article 7.1(1) of the Party Constitution as a member of the Working Committee. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mount Elizabeth Hospital Receives Award for third Consecutive Year
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:55 am
Mount Elizabeth Hospital Receives Award for third Consecutive Year
	
Asia Pacific Healthcare and Medical Tourism Awards
Hospital of the Year (APAC) Award for 2018
Parkway Hospitals Singapore Flagships Garner Record Breaking 10 Awards

Mount Elizabeth Hospital along with Gleneagles Hospital Singapore, flagship brands of Parkway Hospitals Singapore, have broken their 2017 record, winning 10 awards at the 2018 Asia Pacific Healthcare and Medical Tourism Awards held on May 4 2018 at Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. 
Mount Elizabeth Hospitals Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific award, marks its third consecutive win, a milestone in the category. The hospital also garnered the Cardiology Service Provider of the Year for the third time, as well as awards in other specialties including Neurology, Gastroenterology, ENT and Best Health Screening Provider. Gleneagles Hospitals, Singapore took home the Transplant Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific (second consecutive year) and SMART Hospitals of the Year in Asia Pacific. 
Mount Elizabeth Hospitals Chief Executive Officer Dr Noel Yeo attributes the hospitals success, to continuous commitment to medical and service excellence for patients. Mount Elizabeth has more than 40 years of track record and reputation for going the extra mile for international patients; providing dedicated medical evacuation, concierge services and multi-lingual interpretation. 
Receiving the trust of our patients and partners is very important as it is a testament of our reputation as the leading private healthcare provider in Singapore and Asia Pacific. Our patients are our strongest advocates as many of them seek treatment at Mount Elizabeth Hospitals through word-of-mouth recommendation, Dr Noel Yeo said. 
Mount Elizabeth Hospital and Gleneagles Hospital, Singapore, were presented the following awards: 
Mount Elizabeth Hospital Singapore
1. Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific (third consecutive year) 
2. Cardiology Service Provider of the Year (third consecutive year) 
3. Hospital of the Year in Singapore 
4. Neurology Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific 
5. ENT Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific 
6. Gastroenterology Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific 
7. Best Health Screening Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific 
Gleneagles Hospital Singapore
1. Transplant Service Provider of the Year in Asia Pacific 
2. SMART Hospital of the Year in Asia Pacific 
The 2018 Asia Pacific Healthcare & Medical Tourism Awards recognises companies in healthcare and medical tourism across Asia Pacific who have delivered and maintained high levels of services to healthcare seekers from all around the world. 
Parkway Pantai
Parkway Pantai is one of Asias largest integrated private healthcare groups operating in Singapore, Malaysia, India, China, Brunei and United Arab Emirates. For over 40 years, its Mount Elizabeth, Gleneagles, Pantai and Parkway brands have established themselves as the regions best known brands in private healthcare, synonymous with best-in-class patient experience and outcomes. 
Leveraging its global track record for medical excellence and managing world-class hospitals, Parkway Pantai is committed to making a difference in peoples lives through excellent patient care, steadily expanding its reach in markets where demand for quality care is strong and growing. 
Parkway Pantai is a leading healthcare player in its home markets of Singapore, Malaysia and India and key growth markets of China and Hong Kong. 
It is part of IHH Healthcare, the worlds second largest healthcare group by market capitalisation. IHH operates more than 10,000 licensed beds across 50 hospitals in 10 countries worldwide, offering the full spectrum of integrated healthcare services from clinics to hospitals to quartinary care and a wide range of ancillary services including medical education. 
In Singapore, Parkway Pantai is the largest private healthcare operator with four JCI-accredited, multi-specialty tertiary hospitals - Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Mount Elizabeth Novena Hospital, Gleneagles Hospital and Parkway East Hospital. It also owns Parkway Shenton, a large network of primary healthcare clinics and services, Parkway Health Radiology, Parkway Health Laboratory and Parkway College. 

Mount Elizabeth Hospitals Chief Executive Officer Dr Noel Yeo attributes the hospitals success, to continuous commitment to medical and service excellence for patients
In Malaysia, Parkway Pantai is the second largest private healthcare provider operating ten Pantai Hospitals, four Gleneagles Hospitals and ancillary healthcare services including Pantai Integrated Rehab and Pantai Premier Pathology. 
India is now its third home market following the acquisition of Continental and Global Hospitals in 2015. Today, Parkway Pantai has a network of 7 hospitals and 3 feeder centres in the key cities of Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai. 
Parkway Pantai also has more than 20 patient assistance centres across the globe, providing patients with seamless patient care and a one-stop referral source to its hospitals and services. 
In Sri Lanka Parkway patient assistance centre located at 389, High Level Road, Nugegoda, is dedicated to provide patients with seamless experience in Singapore for their healthcare. They could be reached on +94 773460000. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: NCPA cries foul over political interference Appointing of Divisional Child Protection Officers
## Section: Expose
## Date: 5 June 2018 01:00 am
NCPA cries foul over political interference Appointing of Divisional Child Protection Officers
	
It was revealed in a recent investigative newspaper article that the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA) is facing a crisis. Up to now a Director Board hasnt been appointed and this boils down to the fact that this institute is affected by corrupt practices of politicians. And all pointers indicate that the issue extends beyond an administrative crisis. In short this investigation is connected with a political hand in the submitting of a list of names for a recruitment purpose. 



A public press notice appeared on 28th May 2017 calling for applications from Graduates to be appointed as Divisional Child Protection Officers (MA 03-111Grade) of the National Child Protection Authority. Formal interviews were held during the course of a month commencin October 12. This was in order to assess the suitability of eligible applicants. On December 14, exactly one month after these interviews, 116 applicants, who obtained highest marks, were informed in writing of their selections. These letters, drafted using the letterhead of the authority, had been signed by the then Chairperson of the NCPA Marini De Livera. The recipients of these letters were then anxiously awaiting their appointment letters. However even after the lapse of five and half months they havent received their appointment
letters yet. 
It was alleged that this inordinate delay was the result of the then Chairperson De Livera and the subject Minister Chandrani Bandara being at loggerheads. Tension existed at the time the interviews were in progress. The best example is a letter written by De Livera alleging that Minister Bandara had ordered her to sign a document on November 13. In the letter De Livera states that she had to approve the recruitment of a group of individuals for the posts of Divisional Child Protection officers. When I visited the cubicle of the Minister, she scolded me and threatened me saying that I had to approve a list that contained the names of individuals who were to be recruited as protection officers. As it was illegal I refused to sign it. My refusal, which was made in a high pitched tone, had driven fear into the female officer, who accompanied me to the room of the Minister. She had then attempted to enter the room De Livera states in the letter. These facts are included in a writ application WRIT/39/2018 filed before the Appeal Court. According to the writ petition the Minister is alleged to have made this request after the interviews concluded and before the letters to the selected 116 individuals had been sent. 
116 applicants, who obtained highest marks, were informed in writing of their selections
The Divisional Child Protection officer hopefuls were ignorant of the disagreement between the Minister and the Chairperson of the NCPA.
Therefore the delay in receiving their appointment letters dragging from weeks to months and the growing anxiety in them forced the graduates to make inquiries from the authorities. Their first letters of grievances were sent to the Womens and Child Affairs Ministry on March 20 addressed to the Ministry Secretary Chandrani Senarathne and to the Chairperson of the NCPA. The letter addressed to the Ministry Secretary had been accepted by Ranjith Kulasinghe, a private secretary to the Minister, and the letter addressed to the Child Protection Authority had been accepted by an administrative officer by the name of Janaka. Another letter had been sent to Presidential Secretary Austin Fernando on March 23. However its regretting to note that there were no responses to these letters.  The fall out between the Minister and the then chairperson remained an inside matter, while the crisis between the Minister and the Trade Unions of the authority exploded outside. When charges were levelled by the Trade Unions against the administration of the authority, De Livera issued a notice on January 23 stating that these charges were false and fabricated. The labour Union of the National Child Protection Authority sent a lengthy letter to the President on January 29 detailing all charges. When this authority was established in 1998, under National Child Protection Act No 50, the main fact that received the attention of the Parliament was that it should function as an independent state institution without political interference.


However during the recent past this institution has faced challenges. By virtue of the powers vested in the chairman, the calling of the meeting of the Board of Directors was a task of the Chairperson, but it had gone to the extent where the meeting of the Board of Directors had been called by the secretary of the Ministry.
On February 7, the day of the incident, the then Chairperson had also called a meeting of the Board of Directors which could not be held due to a lack of a quorum. De Livera issuing a statement on February 8 charged that certain interested parties are curtailing the independence of the institution. The youths, who were awaiting a favourable response regarding their appointments as protection officers, were fully unaware of the inner struggle within the authority. 


While this was so the tenure of the Board of Directors of the authority also ended and the former Deputy Chairman Attorney H.M. Abeyrathne was appointed as chairman. With this appointment Abeyrathne had to shoulder the crisis of appointing the Divisional Child Protection officers. The absence of a board of Directors to lend him a helping hand is surfacing. According to the terms of the act, the NCPA Board of Directors have to be appointed by the President. However an institution established for the protection of children operates without a Board of Directors. The newly appointed chairman seems to be making all attempts to retrieve the authority from this crisis situation, but his tasks depend on the cooperation and the assistance he can obtain from the Ministry. The best example is the delay in appointing the selected Divisional National Child Protection Officers. The trade unions of the authority too have failed to express their position up to now. 


Who is misleading

The NCPA Board of Directors have to be appointed by the President
When this newspaper made inquiries about the making of appointments from the subject Minister Bandara, she directed us to her private secretary Ranjith Kulasinghe. In his statement Kulasinghe attempted to stress that after the interviews, letters to the eligible individuals had been sent without the approval of the Board of Directors. But a statement issued by NCPA Chairman Abeyrathne rejects this claim made by Kulasinghe. He stated that he had inquired about this matter and observed that a written approval had been obtained. The private secretary said that he was unaware of the politically influenced list of 66 individuals and added that in order to avoid this mudslinging an investigation is being conducted at Ministerial level. Further inquiries from Ministry Secretary Asoka Alawatte revealed that she was ignorant of such a matter and her primary task had been to appoint a Board of Directors. Therefore what the private secretary had stated has been disproved by two state officials. 
All responsible parties are dumbfounded when inquiries are made regarding this political list that contains the names of 66 individuals. The task of replying this vital question has been palmed off to a private secretary by Chandrani Bandara. The most humorous part is that the appeals made by those who obtained the highest marks are being handled by the same private secretary. Even though the Minister is unaware of this controversial list, the then chairperson had disclosed it. Is it not a coincidence that a majority of the names in that list have their roots in the Anuradhapura District, which is represented by the Minister The Private Secretary questions why a letter was sent at a time when the elections were being held It may sound true, but the letter had been sent by the 116 who were the most eligible and had obtained the highest marks. Opinions can be raised regarding the validity of a reply sent by a private secretary with that of a Ministry Secretary and a Chairman of an Authority. 
The Chairman of the NCPA Attorney Abeyrathne however assures that there is no issue and steps are being taken to effect these appointments. Meanwhile the Ministers private secretary reiterates that an investigation has been commenced by the ministry and until such time the investigations are over no assurance can be given about the future of the 116 individuals. 

All responsible parties are dumbfounded when inquiries are made regarding this political list
Political influence
Basing our assumptions only on the statements that are now surfacing it is crystal clear who is behind the muddling of the independent nature of the NCPA. It is also evident that the administration of this institute is truly under a political hand. Already one half of the year has lapsed. Even though the appointments are made effective these officers cant be deployed immediately. This is because these officers need to be provided with a practical training.
The primary duties of these officers to be appointed are reviewing complaints received regarding child abuse and doing follow ups, closely liaising with the rural population, creating awareness regarding protecting children from being abused and protecting childrens rights. The inordinate delay in their appointments therefore has made a huge impact on the countrys children.
The Government, which is vociferous regarding the ridding of corruption, promised the abolition of nepotism and political favouritism. Hence the recruitment of these individuals to the Government services is challenged. Therefore there should be no reason for this delay. 
Much time has been wasted in the process of replying these graduates. The delay and the silence witnessed suggests that there is some stumbling block. Your guess is good as mine regarding who is behind the appointment of 66 individuals and the power of this individual to suppress the 116 who had obtained the highest marks at the test.


Ministers work is handled by me- Kulasinghe

The following are excerpts of an interview done with Private Secretary to the Minister Ranjith Kulasinghe.
Q What is this list of 66individuals 
Applications were called for and interviews were held during a month. For some reason the letters had been sent to them during the elections stating that they have passed the interview and their appointments would made in due course. That is the issue. Taking advantage of the political situation someone had spread a rumour that a list containing the names of 66 close associates of the Minister has been presented. The Minister has no intention of issuing such a list. There was no move to interfere in the recruitment procedure. 
Q What is happening now 
There is a committee, operating at ministerial level, conducting an investigation to ascertain whether the awarding of marks had been done sticking to a procedure. Letters had been sent to certain candidates stating that they had been selected. This had been done without the knowledge of the Board of Directors and during the time there was an election. They are now investigating as to how this had happened. With the name of the Minister being connected to a list of 66 individuals we should clear ourselves. The Minister has directed an audit saying that she should be cleared of this accusation. She has said this because when anyone is appointed through a list purported to have been politically influenced, the Ministers name would be dragged in and she will be held responsible. Therefore the Ministry Secretary had been instructed to effect these appointments without a delay given that there has been no irregularity in accordance with the findings of the committee of investigations. 
QThe former chairperson in her petition of Writ had submitted the names of the 116 individuals and the 66 other names, supported by documents. It mentions further that the Minister concerned had influenced her to effect these appointments. 
If that is so we will act according to the law. If the Minister has given her a list and if she has it in writing let her prove it. The Minister and I are not aware of any such thing. I am doing most of the work of the Minister. Therefore I can firmly state that there was no such list comprising the name of 66 individuals. 
Q Can you therefore confirm that the 116 individuals would be given appointments. 
I cannot say that as I inquired into these appointments. The officials who conducted the interviews hadnt signed the result sheets. There are also legal infringements. An investigation is now in progress under the direction of the Minister. It is only when this concludes that we can state what will happen.

There is a committee, operating at ministerial level, conducting an investigation to ascertain whether the awarding of marks had been done sticking to a procedure

116 can be given appointments- Abeyrathne
When we contacted the NCPA Chairman Attorney H. M. Abeyrathne he said that there were no errors with regard to the procedures that were followed. 
We discussed this matter with the Minister.
The letter had been sent by the former Chairperson. She should have obtained the approval of the Board of Directors before sending that letter. I also came to know about it later. There is something in writing.
Therefore there is no issue and the appointments would be made during the first two weeks of June. 

I am not aware of the interviews- Asoka Alawaththa
When contacted Ministry Secretary Asoka Alawaththa said that A Board of Directors should be appointed in the first place.
The first step we are taking is to appoint of a Board of Directors for the NCPA and commence work. There were some minor issues there. Commencing work is more important than everything else and I am focused on that. As I am new I am not aware of the interviews held for recruitment purposes. I have no knowledge of any lists, said Alawaththa.  

The first step we are taking is to appoint of a Board of Directors for the NCPA and commence work

 
		
==============================
## Title: New SLFP Secretary gets Maithri, Mahinda mixed up
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 03:37 pm
New SLFP Secretary gets Maithri, Mahinda mixed up
	
The newly appointed General Secretary of Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) Professor Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa, inadvertently referred to former President Mahinda Rajapaksa as the leader of his party in his maiden remarks to the press after assuming duties.
Interestingly, incumbent SLFP leaderPresident Maithripala Sirisena was also present when Professor Piyadasamadethese remarks.
It appeared to be a slip of the tongue as he corrected himself immediately.

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: NoKunu  Transforming Colombo into a cleaner city
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 01:08 am
NoKunu  Transforming Colombo into a cleaner city
	

The slum households were taught to segregate garbage and secure disposal
	Toilets were made haphazardly without septic tanks flowing sewer to Kelani'
	The CMC extended its support very effectively by cleaning the clogged drains
	The vision is to build a system of civic engagement and cleaner Sri Lanka

Everything about the environment is turning pale. The blues and the greens are fading away and it is us humans who could treat Mother Nature better. From the irresponsible dumping of garbage to every other attempt made at polluting the environment impose huge threats to all living beings. With plastics becoming a major threat to the environment, this years World Environment Day theme -Beat Plastic Pollution correctly addresses this issue. Although Sri Lanka imposed a ban on polythene it has deemed to be unsuccessful. Yet theres hope. Recently a door-to-door campaign by the name No Kunu which translates to No Garbage was launched. This is an initiative by Sumi Moonesinghe, a retired lady with a desire to see a cleaner Colombo and a team of like-minded individuals.
Speaking to the Daily mirror , Moonesinghe shared her thoughts about this initiative, how it all began, progress and plans for World Environment Day.
Lessons from Morocco
I retired in September 1996 as the Founder and Managing Director of a very large essential food company after the owners decided to sell the business to a multinational company when the market share reached 70% in a span of 12 years, recalled Sumi. I had a team with me whom we referred to as the A Team named after the famous TV programme. Since then I lived a very quiet life. In April last year I went on a trip to Marrakech with my daughter and the family. I went everywhere I could go and I was amazed to see that there was zero usage of plastic in Morocco. Even the roadside vendors selling tomatoes, onions etc use cloth bags. Paper cups and glass bottles are used to store items and there are also no plastic spoons, straws etc. Thereafter I brought all samples as much as I could when I came back to Sri Lanka. After my return I contacted my A Team members who are now retired and they all agreed to the idea and started supporting me. I felt very encouraged and thereafter Rosy Senanayake was sworn in as the Mayoress of Colombo. She had supported me when I was building a brand. I told my team that we need to be grateful to people who supported us and this is one way of showing her our gratitude. I then approached my friends in the corporate world and suggested that they adopt the slums in the vicinity of their offices. The first to respond was a family-owned company in Grandpass. So we chose a map around this office and selected an area which doesnt overlap with another company. We go incognito and adopted our clarion call for action as the No Kunu pledge in which each person and company that comes on board becomes the guardian of the city, forest or beach they pledge to protect. The vision is to build a system of civic engagement that will help Sri Lanka become the cleanest country in Asia.

Before starting this initiative, I contacted former Sri Lankas cricketing ace Kumar Sangakkara and he agreed to support us in this cause. His message has been extremely powerful and its viral on social media as well
The No Kunu initiative
In the initial plot, the team walked to 500 slums and each house was given a bucket with a lid and a polysack bag and people were taught how to segregate garbage. People in these slums dont have the money to even buy a plastic bag or a polythene bag because they have enormous issues, Sumi continued. The Municipal Council truck doesnt go to the houses to collect garbage. Therefore we decided to go inside these houses and showed them this TV clip about segregating garbage. Before starting this initiative, I contacted former Sri Lankas cricketing ace Kumar Sangakkara and he agreed to support us in this cause. His message has been extremely powerful and its viral on social media as well. Each team has a member from the sponsor, the Environmental Police and the relevant staff cleaning the area while one person from my team conducts the census. The census collects data such as the number of children in the household, what do they do in school, whether they have money to buy shoes, whether a family has a terminally ill family member etc. The information received from the census team was sent to our sponsors. The first programme kicked off from Layards Broadway in Grandpass on May 19 and the second programme took place from Leslie Ranagala Mawatha in Wanathamulla, Borella. All these waththas (Houses on narrow lanes) have illegal toilets; these people have lived there all their lives. When we went there, we saw a drain which was full of sewer because they have built illegal toilets without a septic tank. They have just built them and each house has around three families and all the sewerage is coming into the drains and from the canal it goes to Kelani river. The CMC is doing an excellent job and when I informed them they came over and helped us to finish cleaning the drain by Sunday evening. The third programme held at Kew Road in Slave Island with the blessings from Ven. Galaboda Gnanissara Thera (Podi Hamuduruwo) of Gangaramaya Temple. It is quite a satisfying experience and it is an ongoing project which will be done every Saturday.
Eventually one city at a time, we will move from city to village, to beach, to forest and farm, from house to house , shop to shop and company to company. We will teacg them how to separate their garbage. We will mobilise company workforces to help clean our country. We will co-opt 1500 business leaders to pledge to be guardians of our cities and mobilise their resources and workforces to help demonstrate, clean-up. reiterate, resource and monitor a programme to keep Colombo clean first. Then every city, river, beach and forest and wherever possible to convert kunu into a valuable resource.

People in these slums dont have the money to even buy a plastic bag or a polythene bag because they have enormous issues
World Environment Day
Sumi showed us an interesting bag which could be folded into a pouch as well. It is waterproof and the pouch could carry your home keys, mobile phone etc. I have been in touch with the three leading supermarkets and also the garment manufacturers, she continued. I have asked if they could make cloth bags from their cut pieces. We had meetings at my house and they all agreed to support me. I have given them the materials and the plan and the bags will be made by unemployed women in the areas. This is a suggestion that I have; I would like to invite all corporate entities to do something different in view of World Environment Day. The world is going digital today and people necessarily dont need calendars. Once its used it is another item that adds to garbage. So if they could distribute a cloth bag such as this in place of a calendar it would cut down the garbage problem to a greater extent. Secondly I will be calling upon all FCMG companies to add one clip in their commercials in a way to give out a message on the segregation of garbage. If every household, office or factory keeps their perimeter clean, that is a step taken in the right direction. These companies could also run a promotion in the supermarkets and familiarise it among the public.
The No Kunu Team along with Ven. Galaboda Gnanissara Thera of the Gangarama Temple and the CMC will be engaged in cleaning the Muttiah Park - opposite the temple - today (June 5) in view of World Environment Day. The Team could be approached on Facebook via the Nokunu page and if you believe in a cleaner, greener tomorrow, do join them and support the cause.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Only a few sections of report, so cannot be tabled-Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 01:55 pm
Only a few sections of report, so cannot be tabled-Speaker
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya informed Parliament a short while ago that only some sections of the Bond Commission Report had been received and that they would be tabled, when the remaining sections were also received. He said he had requested for them as well.
 
		
==============================
## Title:   PM is the  best bet as UNPs  Presidential Candidate  
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:48 am
  PM is the  best bet as UNPs  Presidential Candidate  
	
Tourism Promotion Minister John Amaratunga during an interview with the spoke about the political situation of the country and the reforms of the United National Party (UNP) which he represents. Excerpts: 

Q What is your analysis of the current status of the Government
There is no difference. The national Unity Government will continue. The Ministers representing Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) in the Government are also doing their normal work. In fact, new subjects have been assigned to the ministers now. 
Q In the assignment of subjects, some institutions, such as the Department of Archaeology which was held by Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam, have been entrusted with Minister Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe. Why is that
I dont know. I am yet to see the gazette notification. I cannot comment on it as a result. There is no change in the subjects I held as the Tourism Development Minister. 
Q As an UNPer with 40-years of experience how do you view the current status of the party
Had the UNP obtained an absolute majority there would have been no problem. We would have forged ahead with our own policies. Since we had to join hands with the SLFP to form the Government, there were differences. Nevertheless, were working together. 

As a result of FCID operations, we have been able to minimize corrupt practices
Q How do you compare and contrast the UNPs present situation with its past
During the regime of J. R. Jayewardene as the President, we had five-sixth majority. We could implement anything we wanted. Today, the UNP is only a part of the Government. 
Q How do you view the differences in terms of policies
There is one difference here. We could implement projects speedily during the past. That is because of the Financial Crimes Investigation Division (FCID). Officials fear making decisions because of the FCIDs operations. They think twice before implementing a decision. 
There are two aspects here. That is to mitigate corruption. As a result of FCID operations, we have been able to minimize corrupt practices. Everyone is careful to make sure that financial regulations are upheld. That, however, causes delays in implementing projects.
Q Did you experience this personally in your ministry
Yes. We have to implement the digital advertising programme regarding the promotion of tourism. Officials fear bypassing the procedures. They insist on following the procedures. It has delayed the implementation of the programme, hence affecting tourism. 
Q Whats the UNP planning to do in view of the Presidential Elections
The Working Committee will decide who should be our candidate. Two Ministers have already said that UNP Leader Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe should be the candidate. If the Working Committee decides, we will go ahead with it. Minister Mangala Samaraweera clearly said the Prime Minister would be the candidate. If he says that, it may be the final decision. 
Q What is your opinion
I think the Prime Minister stands a good chance of emerging as the winner at the elections. 
Q You see him as the best bet
Yes, at the moment, he is the best bet. That is because of the enormous experience he has regarding governance and foreign and economic affairs. In early 1970s, people used to talk about J.R. Jayewardene as a hopeless candidate. He was viewed as an arrogant person. Yet, he proved to be the best candidate for the UNP. 

The Mahinda Rajapaksa group is also very strong. When the anti-UNP vote base is divided between them, we can emerge victorious

Q There is a cry from the UNP backbenchers that young blood should be infused to the UNP hierarchy. What is your opinion
Im not against that view. They should be given more responsibilities. They must understand one thing. I will cite one example. After I enetered Parliament, I remained without a portfolio for 10 years. I was just an MP. I continued to wait. Later, I was appointed as the State Minister of Finance. Since then, I have been getting portfolios. One shouldnt expect ministerial posts immediately after entering Parliament. 
Q If the party must groom another leader, who do you have in mind
There are enough and more at the second level of the party. Ministers Sajith Premadasa and Navin Dissanayake are there. We also have Ministers Harin Fernando and Mangala Samaraweera. There are five or six people identified as potential future leaders. As time progresses, we will find a person to fill the vacuum. 
Q What are the policy changes you expect in the party
The UNP has the same kind of policies. They cannot be changed. We are a democratic party and believe in the private sector as the engine of growth. 
Q How do you view the chemistry between the President and the Prime Minister
They are on talking terms though some people may think otherwise. I do not see any difference of opinion between them. The Unity Government will continue operating during the remaining 18 months. 
Q As far as the UNP reforms are concerned, what do you think of the recent appointment of new office bearers to key posts such as the General Secretary
I think those changes are enough. There is no need to make any drastic changes to continue for the next 18 months. Drastic changes can be made after the next elections. 
Q How hopeful are you of winning the next elections
The SLFP group led by President Maithripala Sirisena is also strong. The Mahinda Rajapaksa group is also very strong. When the anti-UNP vote base is divided between them, we can emerge victorious. 
Q You had similar hopes during the Local Government Elections held on February 10 because the President and the former President did not unite. But the UNP couldnt win . Why is it
That is true. There were various views expressed in this regard. We did not get the expected results. 

These foreign nationals, who were assaulted, did not come to give evidence. They made a hue and cry, and left. We couldnt punish wrongdoers as a result
Q What do you think of UNP Assistant Leader Ravi Karunanayake being denied a ministerial post despite making requests
Mr. Karunanayake played a major role in the installation of this Government in 2015. He worked very hard for it. There were allegations against him regarding the alleged Bond Scam. According to the report, he hasnt been involved in any scam. There is no reason for him to be deprived of a ministerial post. He hasnt been found guilty. 
Q How is the growth within the tourism sector
In 2010, there were only 400,000 tourists. Now, we get 2.5 million arrivals. Every month the number is increasing. At the same time, there are obstacles in our way. There was the closure of the airport and dengue epidemic. We have heard of a few incidents where tourists were assaulted. They have hampered the development of tourism. 
Q Some ambassadors raised this matter with you. What did they discuss
They sent travel advisories. When the Dutch tourists were attacked, they sent travel advisories. These foreign nationals, who were assaulted, did not come to give evidence. They made a hue and cry, and left. We couldnt punish wrongdoers as a result. 
We have to get our digital campaign right to promote tourism. We have to ensure the safety of tourists. We are trying to develop the domestic airports. We have to expand our international airport. We need to increase the number of immigration officers. We have to develop the railway system. Many tourists are willing to travel by train. 
There are many airlines willing to land here. Our landing and parking charges are very high. We have to bring them down. 
Q The recent tax hike has affected tourist industry. Foreign nationals have complained about high charges for food and accommodation due to increased taxes. How do you see this
We have received complaints both from locals and foreigners about it. In general, people find it difficult to live. When the rupee value depreciates, the rupee component of foreign exchange earnings increases. That is a plus point. Foreigners get the benefit from this. 



 
		
==============================
## Title: Presidents former Chief of Staff, ex-STC Chairman re-remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:12 pm
Presidents former Chief of Staff, ex-STC Chairman re-remanded
	
Presidents former Chief of Staff I. H. K. Mahanama and former State Timber Corporation (STC) Chairman P. Dissanayaka who were arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs.20 million from an Indian businessman, were further remanded till June 19 by Colombo Chief Magistrate Ranga Dassanayake today.
The Magistrates decision on whether to grant bail to the suspects would be made at the next hearing. (Yoshitha Perera)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez Sec. should be questioned at Parliament over bond report: Keerthi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 05:20 am
Prez Sec. should be questioned at Parliament over bond report: Keerthi
	
Presidents Secretary Austin Fernando should be summoned to Parliament and questioned over the missing part of the Presidential Commission Report on the Central Bank Bond Scam, Campaign for Free and Fair Elections (CaFFE) and Centre for Human Rights and Research Sri Lanka (CHR) Executive Director Keerthi Tennakoon said yesterday.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, he said all the MPs had been inconvenienced and were facing embarrassment due to Austin Fernandos move to prevent a vital part of the report from being exposed to the public domain.
"Fernando's move to seek the Attorney General's opinion on releasing the full report is the attempt to defend the individuals, who have obtained funds form Arjun Aloysius, Tennakoon said.
He has misled everybody by not allowing the annexure of C 350 which contained some vital records related to the bonds fraud to disclose to the public access," Tennakoon said.  
"Citizens of this country have the right to get to know as to what really happened in the bond scam. Although most of them are not knowledgeable of the bond scam, at least they should know who the perpetrators are," Tennakoon added. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Right of Reply by Megapolis Ministry:  The consequences of building Port City
## Section: News Features
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:10 am
Right of Reply by Megapolis Ministry:  The consequences of building Port City
	
We write in response to the article titled The consequences of building Port City published in your newspaper on April 26, 2018. It is becoming increasingly clear that this is an organised build-up against Port City, particularly because of the nature of its investor, rather than any public agenda.
As recently described by Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka in a speech he made at the launch of the Development Control Regulations for the Port City Development Project, urbanisation is inevitable, not because we want to transplant people from rural areas into big cities but because suburban and rural areas are being built up fast, merging into the urban infrastructure. Therefore, we have no option but to grasp this way of life, and find out what opportunities it has in store for us.
The Port City is an extension of that concept which germinated way back in the year 2004, and long before the Chinese Belt Road Initiative. The reason we need to look at urbanisation is because it is and has become an important or if not the most important factor for economic growth. According to UN reports, Sri Lanka is one of the least urbanised countries in the world.
May I point to an article appearing in the UN-Habitat website recently; they are currently assessing the spatial dynamics of Sri Lankas urbanisation, analysing 9 provincial capitals of the country, in the period 1995-2017. The project which is ongoing will publish its results later this year in the State of Sri Lankan Cities Report. However, the article says the data generated so far suggests that Sri Lankas cities have expanded rapidly since the 1990s.

Colombos rapid urban expansion is mirrored across the other provincial capitals. The preliminary results suggest that during the period 1995-2017, urban area grew by 9.57% per year
Preliminary spatial analysis suggests that in the capital, Colombo, the urban built-up area increased from around 41 km2 in 1995 to 281 Km2 in 2017, while non-built up areas diminished from 125 Km2 to 10 Km2. This trend of urban expansion is unprecedented in the citys history, with a far greater urban area added in the years 1995-2017 than at any other time in the settlements existence.
Colombos rapid urban expansion is mirrored across the other provincial capitals. The preliminary results suggest that during the period 1995-2017, urban area grew by 9.57% per year, which is a remarkably high figure even by global standards. A cross country review of over 300 spatial case studies reported far lower average annual rates of urban spatial growth in Europe, North America, Africa, India and China during a reference period of 1970-2000.
While news of rapid spatial expansion will come as no surprise to those commuting through Colombos seemingly-endless urban sprawl or visiting the bustling centres of Kandy and Galle, evidence of Sri Lankas booming cities are incongruous with its official position as one of the most rural societies on earth the report says.
Sri Lanka ranks as the fifth least urbanized out of 233 countries, according to the UNs 2014 World Urbanisation Prospects, with a marginally lower urban to rural population ratio than Niger, St. Lucia and South Sudan. Officially, only around 18 percent of Sri Lankans live in an urban area - or around 3.9 million out of the countrys 21.2 million, according to World Bank data. This figure is far below the global average of around 50 per cent, and is the joint lowest in the South Asian region (https://unhabitat.org/is-sri-Ianka-one-of-the-least-urbanised-countries-on-earth/)
Despite all the activities that is going on in the city, one could clearly see that it is being done in an orderly fashion and the ambient air quality remains at very good levels.
We at the Megapolis Ministry are planning to build a great city and it is our mission to accomplish economic prosperity and enhance the quality of life of the citizens of Sri Lanka through creating well designed, green, clean and smart, urban settlements in strategic locations of the country with the engagement of best design, engineering and town planning skills, state-of-art technology and worlds best practices.
The article from the PMAPC says that currently the levels of toxic PM10 particles in the city of Colombo are three times higher than what is safe for humans, and that with the proposed high-rise building constructions in the Port City over an estimated period of 12 to 15 years the PM10 levels may increase 25-30 times more than what is considered safe for humans, but does not give any source for this statement.
The effect of these particles is purely academic where Port City is concerned because the current readings are within safety limits. However, we would like to point out that both the SEIA (Dec, 2015) and EIA (Oct, 2017) discuss the particulate matters under the relevant chapters on air quality. In particular, EIA (Oct, 2017), provides records on PM10 and PM2.5, which still comply with safety standards.

We at the Megapolis Ministry are planning to build a great city and it is our mission to accomplish economic prosperity and enhance the quality of life of the citizens of Sri Lanka through creating well designed, green, clean and smart, urban settlements in strategic locations of the country with the engagement of best design, engineering and town planning skills, state-of-art technology and worlds best practices
To quote from EIA, OCT 2017 Chapter 4, page 10: According to Ambient Air Quality Standards stipulated by the Ministry of Environmental and Natural Resources of Sri Lanka, under the Extraordinary Gazette, No. 1562/22, August, 15, 2008, the Concentration of PM10 and PM2.5 over an average period of 24 hours, can only be at a maximum of 100(ug/m3) and 50 (ug/m3) respectively. While Ambient air quality measurements were done in the years 2014, 2015 and 2017 for 6 locations in the Port City area, the concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 always remained much less than the respective maximum permissible level.
Many refer to the monitoring programme conducted by the CEA in proximity to the Colombo Fort Railway Station and conclude that the level of particulate matters (PM1 0) in Colombo City is higher compared to WHO guidelines and CEA standards for which the maximum permissible level is 50ug/m3. However, as described in the EIA of October 2017 (mentioned above), the air quality measurements conducted over the last 5 years at locations around the coastal area in Colombo City (particularly near the Port City project area) where dispersion can be expected, show that the concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 always comply with the CEA standards. During the construction phase of the Port City Project, air quality impacts including particulate matters will be minimized by adopting practical mitigation measures as proposed in the EIA, OCT 2017. Most of these measures just reflect good site practice, and will be the general norm for experienced contractors. Principles and concepts on urban ventillation which will be directly linked with dispersion of air pollutants such as PM10 and PM2.S are incorporated in the Port City Master Plan at city level, block and building level.
I wish to conclude by stating that there are other issues that have been brought up in this NGOs constant tirade in the media, all of which have been answered many a time. Environmental issues were addressed in the SEIA which had 214 responses from the public when they were put up for scrutiny. These were taken up and 72 conditions were laid out for the project proponent to comply. Currently the Colombo Port City Project is being implemented under the Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development, keeping to the planned schedule and complying with the 72 conditions laid in the permit.


Nihal Fernando, ColomboPortCity,
Project Director/
Megapolis and Western Development Ministry
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sampath Bank Marches towards Vision 2020 with Sampath Stars
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 5 June 2018 10:40 am
Sampath Bank Marches towards Vision 2020 with Sampath Stars
	
Mr. Nanda Fernando, Managing Director, Sampath Bank PLC
Sampath Bank recommitted itself to offering technology driven, world class financial services to Sri Lankan consumers and businesses at an awe-inspiring event titled Towards Vision 2020 with Sampath Stars held at the Hilton Colombo, recently.
Apprising over 1,000 Sampath Bank team members present of the Banks significant recent milestones, Mr. Nanda Fernando, Managing Director, Sampath Bank PLC shared his strategic vision for the Bank towards 2020 with them.
He reiterated his firm belief that over 4,000 members of the extended Sampath family were the key asset of the Bank and their commitment and relentless efforts were instrumental in shaping the Banks success. Thanking them for their continued support, he called upon them to join in on working towards realizing this vision over the next two years. Together, all team members took a solemn pledge to extend their fullest support to the Bank to achieve these goals.
The ceremonial event also saw Sampath Stars being recognized for their loyalty and performance.
The Sampath Achievers Awards for 2017 were awarded at this gala event in recognition of outstanding performances at branch, department and individual level during the year 2017.
Branches received awards under 5 categories - Highest Percentage of Budget Achievement 2017 - Fee Based Income; Best Percentage Achievement of Budgeted Target 2017 - Cost to Income Ratio; Best Percentage Growth Compared to the Budgeted Target 2017  CASA; Best Percentage Growth Compared to the Budgeted Target 2017  Advances and Highest Percentage of Budget Achievement 2017 - Profit Before Tax. The best Zonal Office, Profit Centre Department, Cost Centre Department and Hybrid Department for 2017 were also recognized.
Recipients of Sampath 25 Years Service Awards
Individual awards were bestowed upon Mr. Dilan Perera, Ms. Shaniya Wickramasuriya, Ms. W. G. Samanthi and Ms. Samuditha Samaratunga in the Deposits Champion, Advances Champion, Academic / Professional Achievers and Special Talent categories, respectively.
Special recognitions were awarded to Sri Lankan ace spinner Mr. Rangana Herath, a member of the Sampath family for over 18 years, and Mr. Lalith Weragoda, Assistant General Manager - Human Resources, Sampath Bank PLC. Mr. Herath was felicitated for his outstanding contributions towards the success of Sri Lanka Cricket and his recent achievement of becoming the first left-arm spinner to take 400 wickets in test cricket. Mr. Weragoda was recognized for becoming the first Sampath team member to receive the highest academic award, a PhD, whilst serving in the Bank.
43 members of Sampath Bank were felicitated with the Sampath 25 Years Service Awards. Having completed 25 years of service as at 31st March 2018, they were honored with a trophy and a commemorative Gold sovereign.
The festive evening included performances by popular local artists as well as talent from within Sampath Bank.
Members of Sampath Bank family at the event
 
		
==============================
## Title: Singapore FTA: JO challenges Malik to a debate
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 09:22 pm
Singapore FTA: JO challenges Malik to a debate
	
The joint opposition today challenged Minister Malik Samarawickrama to a debate on the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Singapore and urged President Maithripala Sirisena to suspend the FTA.
JO MP Bandula Gunawardana told a news conference said Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama or Ministry Secretary Chandani Wijewardana could fix a date for a debate at which the JO would reveal the truth about the Singapore FTA.
This FTA should not be allowed to function, as it had betrayed Sri Lanka. The minister says anyone can access the FTA online. But only the English version is available so far. Therefore, people are not aware of its content. As far as we know, 13 ministers had submitted amendments to the FTA but none of them had been accepted, he said.
The MP said the minister did not even bother to present the FTA to Parliament and that it was the JO which presented it to Parliament.
"If the FTA is not suspended immediately, the President will have to take the responsibility for betraying the country, the MP said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Spends over 35 years to model ancient Rome
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:01 pm
Spends over 35 years to model ancient Rome
	
Archaeologist spends over 35 years building an enormous scale model of Ancient Rome. Scale 1:250. Most of it is based on the Forma Urbis, a huge marble topographical plan made during the empire of Septimius Severus.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Start doing green deeds today to beat plastic pollution
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 June 2018 01:00 am
Start doing green deeds today to beat plastic pollution
	
In socio-economic, religious or other dimensions, today marks one of the worlds most important days -World Environment Day, because the battle against global warming or climate change, is a matter of life or death for billions of people. Whether we realize it or not, what we do or do not do, what happens in the coming years and decades, will either be the end of the whole universe or a new creation. For instance, scientists say that by 2050, our oceans will be 50% polluted by plastic or polythene and the consequences of that are unimaginable. 
In a statement, the United Nations says it is taking steps to encourage worldwide awareness and action for the protection of our environment. Since it was started in 1974, World Environment Day has grown to become a global platform for public outreach and is celebrated in more than 100 countries. Above all, World Environment Day is the peoples day for doing something to take care of the Earth. That something can be focused locally, nationally or globally; it can be a solo action or involve a crowd. Everyone is free to choose. 
According to the UN, every year this day is organized around a theme that focuses attention on a particularly pressing environmental concern. The 2018 theme is beating plastic pollution. The day also has a different global host country, where the official celebrations take place. The focus on the host country helps highlight the environmental challenges it faces, and supports the effort to address them. This years host is India. 
Today Indias Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Dr. Harsh Vardhan along with the UN Under Secretary General and environment chief Erik Solheim will preside at a major ceremony which they hope will set an example to all countries. Mr. Solheim is also well-known in Sri Lanka for his peacemaking efforts. The UN urges governments, industry, communities, and individuals to come together and explore sustainable alternatives and urgently reduce the production and excessive use of single-use plastic polluting our oceans, damaging marine life and threatening human health. 
According to a report from Bangkok on Sunday, a short-fin male pilot whale has died in Southern Thailand after ingesting more than 17 lbs of plastic bags and packaging, a sobering casualty of the waste littering the worlds oceans. During an autopsy veterinarians removed more than 80 plastic bags from the whales stomach, said Jatuporn Burutpat, Director-General of Thailands Department of Marine and Coastal Resources. Officials say the whale was spotted by locals on May 28 looking ill and floating abnormally. Government veterinarians were dispatched to care for the whale and were joined later by members of a local whale conservancy group. Mr. Burutpat said that on June 1, the whale started to vomit pieces of plastic. In a post on Facebook, ThaiWhales said the animal struggled fiercely as it tried to purge its body of the plastic. 
India is excited to host the World Environment Day today. Indian philosophy and lifestyle has long been rooted in the concept of co-existence with nature. We are committed to making Planet Earth a cleaner and greener place. If each and every one of us does at least one green good deed daily towards our Green Social Responsibility, there will be billions of green good deeds daily on the planet, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said. From pan-Indian plastic clean-up drives in public areas, national reserves and forests to simultaneous beach clean-up activities  India will lead the initiative by setting an example. 
India will be a great global host of 2018s World Environment Day celebrations. The country has demonstrated tremendous global leadership on climate change and the need to shift to a low carbon economy, and India will now help galvanize greater action on plastic pollution. Its a global emergency affecting every aspect of our lives. Its in the water we drink and the food we eat. Its destroying our beaches and oceans. India will now be leading the push to save our oceans and planet, Mr. Solheim said yesterday. 
We hope that in Sri Lanka also millions of people will do millions of good deeds or green deeds, big or small so that our country also could join India in taking massive steps towards becoming a green Sri Lanka. Not only today, but if we all do green deeds daily, we will be helping to build a new Sri Lanka not just for ourselves but for generations to come. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: The need for  regulating election financing
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 5 June 2018 12:44 am
The need for  regulating election financing
	
Perpetual Treasuries (PT) allegedly pulled off probably the largest ever financial scam in the country. But, now it is becoming increasingly clear, that the disgraced bond trader did not just scam billions of rupees out of public coffers, but it had also engaged in a well calibrated effort of state capture. 
Various sources have alleged the existence of a list containing 118 names of politicians who had received funds from the PT and its subsidiary W. M. Mendis Company through which political contributions have reportedly been distributed. Allegations came to light after Dayasiri Jayasekara MP admitted that he received Rs. one million from Perpetual Treasuries owner Arjun Aloysius. Jayasekara MP did not want to go down alone, and he insisted that there was a list of 118 Parliamentarians mentioned in the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) Report as having received money from the PT.
The PCoI report is now the national archive and can be released to the public only after 30 years. A list of names of politicians who had received telephone calls from Mr. Aloysius was redacted from the PCoI report that was submitted to Parliament. It was that report which was later made public. 
The decision to censure the original PCoI report is problematic, but there is also a fundamental difference between talking to somebody over the phone and receiving gratuities, unless of course, one is to believe that each of those phone calls was followed up by a fat cheque. 
In all likelihood, there is no such list as those who received funds. What is there is a list of Parliamentarians to whom Mr. Aloysius has given phone calls. Now the President has sought the advice of the Attorney General to release that list. Yesterday, Speaker Karu Jayasuriya informed the House that he would release the names of the politicians in the said list. 
But, that is not what the public want to know now. Wild rumours are always more thrilling than facts. In the post-truth world we are living, rumours themselves become facts. Now, fewer people would be content with knowing the names of MPs who received phone calls, they want to know the names in the purported list of swindlers. That list may not exit not because no one took money, but because that was not the mandate of the PCoI. The government would have to institute a fresh CID inquiry to identify the full extent of complicity between certain parliamentarians and the Perpetual Treasuries. In the absence of a full investigation, pubic trust in politicians and political institutions would further erode.

Wild rumours are always more thrilling than facts. In the post-truth world we are living, rumours themselves become facts. Now, fewer people would be content with knowing the names of MPs who received phone calls, they want to know the names in the purported list of swindlers
Some politicians have already admitted to having received money. Field Marshal Fonseka said he was given Rs 100,000. But, there is a major difference between a politician receiving Rs 100,000 as election financing and the former Finance Minister getting the rent of his penthouse apartment paid by the PT owner. Some others who have received bigger pay offs would not come out unless they are exposed by an investigation.
However, those who cry foul about this nexus between politicians and election financing by fat cats, often disregard the underlining causes that led the politicians to rely on election financiers. Electioneering in Sri Lanka is an extremely expensive affair which neither the political parties, nor individual politicians can afford. The existing Proportional Representation system which compels the politicians to spread thin their resources across a large demographic area also favours the politicians with deep pockets. That also leads the politicians to rely on financing by various unscrupulous elements. Since such financial contributions are given in the understanding of future benefits, once elected politicians are compelled to extend various political favours, which effectively lead to tempering with tender procedures, filling state institutions with political acolytes and outrageous tax reliefs.
The proposed election reforms of a mixed electoral system, which would reduce the size of the electorate, would create a better level playing field for politicians with fewer resources. 
However, another problem in Sri Lankas election financing would see that the impact of proposed reforms is limited. Election financing in this country is murky and unregulated. No one knows how much is received as campaign contribution and how that money is spent. Sri Lanka needs to institute an election finance law that would bring transparency to the whole process. Each political party and individual politician should be made obligated to publish all contributions they have received from outside parties, and their sources. 
Election financing is a fact of political life anywhere in the world where there are competitive elections. But, most countries do have laws that govern the process. We dont. That absence has a heavy toll on the public trust in our political system. While politicians may not care much about the on-going de-legitimization of the political establishment at the moment, at one point, things would blow off the lid. Then it would be too late. The public interest in Gotabaya Rajapaksas presidential bid itself is a case in point of growing wariness among the people towards traditional politicians whom they consider as corrupt, incompetent and opportunistic. 
The government should try to regain the losing public trust in the political establishment. One area that needs to be addressed is the transparency in election financing. 
Follow @RangaJayasuriya
 
		
==============================
## Title: TNL Chairman to take legal action against TRCSL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 07:12 pm
TNL Chairman to take legal action against TRCSL
	
TNL Chairman Shan Wickremesinghe today said the move to shut down their Polgahawela transmission centre was not only unjust but also sudden and that he would take legal action against the TRCSL.
He said he was not informed of the court order which had been obtained by the TRCSL to search the transmission centre.
The TRC has obtained the warrant on false grounds. We have been paying for the transmission centre for 25 years up to December in 2016. Afterwards, the TRCSL informed us there is an issue with the frequencies. Therefore, I stopped making any further payments awaiting clarification from the TRCSL on the issue of new invoices. Though we gave them several reminders, the TRCSL failed to send us new invoices. The fault is at their end, Mr.Wickremesinghe told Daily Mirror.
He said the TNL has nine transmission centres including the one at Polgahawela and that the TRCSL has informed him they would raid other centres as well.
They said they would inspect the transmission centres at Karagahathenna and Hanthana as well. Closing down of the Polgahawela centre had already affected the TNL transmission in many areas. I will sue the TRCSL demanding compensation for the obstruction it had caused and the equipment it had confiscated, he said. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: TNL transmission Centre: Mangala to present a report in parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 10:05 pm
TNL transmission Centre: Mangala to present a report in parliament
	
Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera said today he regretted the shutting down of the transmission centre belonging to TNL television at Polgahawela and assured that he would submit a report in parliament on the matter.
In response to a question raised by joint opposition MP Wimal Weerawansa, Mr. Samaraweera told parliament that he did not have much information on the matter and assured him that he would look into it and submit a report to parliament soon.
"I got to know about it only an hour before it was shut down. I tried to contact the chairman of the TRC but I couldnt get through to him," he said.
MP Wimal Weerawansa said he did not approve of a media institution being forced to shut down in this manner. "The TNL has been very critical of President Sirisena recently. I doubt that it led to the shutting down," the MP said.
Mr. Weerawansa said a powerful hand must be behind this move and added that such a decision could not have been taken by the TRC chairman alone.
Minister Harsha De Silva said the TRC was under the purview of the President and added that media freedom should be ensured.
"I'd like to remind the President that we established the good governance government to ensure media freedom," he said.
Minister Samaraweera pointed out that politicians should be able to face both praise and criticism and added that he and the Prime Minister were heavily criticised by the Sirasa network but they had no issue with them. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: TNL transmission centre shut down
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 04:06 pm
TNL transmission centre shut down
	
A TNL transmission centre at Polgahawela was shut down today on a court order issued by the Polgahawela Magistrates Court, the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (TRCSL) said.
It said its officials and CID detectives yesterday raided the TNL-owned transmission station in Polgahawela because the network had not obtained the annual transmission licence from the TRC and had failed to make payments since last year.
The TRC said it was a punishable offence to transmit without a valid TRC licence according to the consolidated Act No.25 of 1991, as amended by the Sri Lanka Telecommunications (Amendment) Act No 27 of 1996.
False social media posts are circulating saying the said transmission station was raided even when the station has already made relevant payments to the TRC. However, there was no payment made to the TRC since 2017, it said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Transactions with PTL chief: Security officers of 24 officers quizzed: Aluthgamage
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 08:30 pm
Transactions with PTL chief: Security officers of 24 officers quizzed: Aluthgamage
	
CID has questioned the personal security officers of 24 MPs who had reportedly encashed cheques given by PTL owner, joint opposition MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage told Parliament today.
He said his party wanted the names of those MPs who transacted business with Mr. Aloysius so that if any of them were members of the COPE, they could be removed from it. We have said earlier that COPE members who had transacted business with the PTL Chief should be removed, the MP said.
State Minister Ajith P. Perera who responded said, MPs such as Mr. Aluthgamage cannot afford to talk on the bond scam because they are facing various charges and involved in court cases. I suggest that MPs who had transacted business with PTL should not be allowed to be in any of the Committees, he said.
Mr. Aluthgamage said Mr. Pereras personal security officer had also questioned by the CID. I accept there are court cases against me but I would like to say that the state minister's personal security officer had also questioned, he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP MP Kumarasiri elected Deputy Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 5 June 2018 05:39 pm
UNP MP Kumarasiri elected Deputy Speaker
	
UNP MP Ananda Kumarasiri was today elected Deputy Speaker by a majority of 44 votes in a secret ballot.
Ninety-seven members voted for Mr. Kumarasiri and Dr. Sudarshini Fernandopulle obtained 53 votes while more than 75 members were not in Parliament.
UNP MP Buddhika Pathirana proposed Mr. Kumarasiris name while MP S.B. Dissanayake proposed Dr. Fernandopulles name on behalf of the UPFA and the joint opposition.
Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan then suggested that all parties should come to a consensus and appoint Dr. Fernandopulle to the post. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: World Environment Day
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 5 June 2018 06:44 pm
World Environment Day
	
Hunupitiya Gangarama Temple Chief Incumbent of the Ven. Galboda Gnanissara Thera and Bank of Ceylon's former chairperson Sumi Munasinghe are seen planting a jack-fruit plant at the Mutthiah Park to mark World Environment Day today. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
==============================
