## Title: A survivor recalls the moments  When the angry tide awaited the train at  Peraliya
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 December 2017 12:58 am
A survivor recalls the moments  When the angry tide awaited the train at  Peraliya
	
She was four years old when the disastrous tsunami hit the southern and eastern coastal strip of Sri Lanka in 2004. She was in that fateful train accompanying her grandfather and aunt when the mass of water gushed into the train in Paraliya. There are the reminiscences of Nipuni who witnessed the tsunami which caused destruction in all its force.  The monstrous surge of water loomed over the train and instantly gulped all in the train. Thirteen years after the tsunami we went to Arachchigewatta in Imaduwa Ahangma in search of this tsunami survivor. 
This girl is Nipuni Wathsala Abewickrema, now a 17-year-old teenager. In response to our quest to know her story about the tsunami experience, Nipuni with a feeling of shock and pain associated with the loss of her grandfather during the tsunami began to narrate the horrifying tale.  At that time our uncle was at Trincomalee Camp. My grandmother and elder aunt made arrangements to see our uncle in Trincomalee. As it was during the December school holidays they also took me with them to visit uncle. After our arrival in Trincomalle uncle provided accommodation and all other necessities. We were able to visit several important places there and enjoyed our stay. 
We left Trincomalee on December 25th by night mail to Colombo. We reached Colombo Fort station on 26th morning. After having breakfast, bought by my grandfather at the station canteen, we boarded the Matara bound train. The three of us shared a row of seats which offered a view of the seaside during our journey to Matara. A few minutes after passing Ambalangoda Railway Station the train stopped suddenly and we had the instinct that there was some imminent danger,she recalled. 

When my aunt pushed me up to climb out through the window I felt someones foot trampling my head. There was a stampede and passengers were trying to escape. However, we were able to escape through the window
Screaming people 
Nipuni continued to recall her memories.  We saw a large number of people screaming and rushing towards the train. Many of them got on to the train that was stationary by now. Some of them came with bundles or bales containing items on their heads. We were surprised to see large waves rushing after them.  Then we saw that the train compartment before ours had toppled. Then my grandfather shouted warning us not to close the windows. My grandfathers raised voice at that moment of destruction still echos in my ears, she said.  According to her in a few seconds their compartment was filled with water up to the level of the window after the train had toppled to the land side. As we were seated facing the seaside we could resist the gushing water for a few minutes. My aunt raised me up and managed to hold on to the racks inside the train. By then water was up to her neck. Suddenly we could hear grandfather shouting from top of the toppled train. He was asking my aunt to raise me up and me over through the windows so as to take me out first. But my aunt couldnt do so as she was holding onto the rack with one hand. After that we couldnt see nor hear grandfather. He was probably washed away by the water, she recalled. 
Escape
They had remained for a few minutes. Then the water had receded to some extent. The scene around had been terrible. Many were laying, probably dead, at the bottom of the toppled compartment.  Some had jumped out of the train through the windows. When my aunt pushed me up to climb out through the window I felt someones foot trampling my head. There was a stampede and passengers were trying to escape. However, we were able to escape through the window. We began to move through the water without knowing where we were heading to. Some people shouted and warned us not go further as there is a river nearby. Finally these people rescued us using long ropes, she said. Nipuni said that after being rescued they were led to a temple where they were provided with meals and temporary accommodation. We later came to know that we had been given shelter at the Thelwatte Temple, she said. During those few days they hadnt had a mode of contacting their relations. But the people who had come to see them at the temple were very kind and had provided all their needs. 
One day we met a kind gentleman who came to Elpitiya Temple along with a team to distribute meals to tsunami victims. We asked him for help to be taken to the family of one of our relations in Elpitiya. Although all the roads in the area had been severely damaged due to the tsunami we received his help and reached the relation house with much difficulty. Two members of this family were employed by the Sri Lanka Army. They contacted our uncle in Trincomalee and informed him that we were safe, she reminisced.  Nipuni said they werent able to locate the body of her grandfather. He had been employed by the police. Later Nipunis family had come to know that someone had found her grandfathers identity card and handed it over to the Boossa Camp. 
Several days later Nipunis family had returned home. We saw how the whole area had been devastated by the monstrous tsunami. My aunt had to be admitted to the hospital due to health issues she had developed as a result of staying in the water while on the train. Due to the tsunami we could see how people died right before our eyes. Our grandfather was one of those who vanished with the others, she said. 
Every year Nipuni and her family go the tsunami memorial in Paraliya and engage in religious activities to invoke merits on thousands of tsunami victims, including my grandfather. 
Whenever I pass the area where our train fell prey to this tidal disaster a cloud of horror engulfs me. Today I am awaiting the result of GCE A/L examination. Before 26 December 2004 we knew nothing about the tsunami. But on this tragic day I experienced this tidal disaster as a 7-year-old little child. I pray that we dont get to face another tsunami in my lifetime, she said. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Animal lover in UK dedicated herself to stray dogs in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 08:37 pm
Animal lover in UK dedicated herself to stray dogs in SL
	
A heart-touching incident was reported in a foreign media where an animal lover Rachel Schofield in England had dedicated herself to focus on the charity after an eye-opening holiday to Sri Lanka exposed her to the reality of its estimated three million strays.
She had even abandoned her PHD studies, decided to sell her house and moved to a cheaper home in Wigton to focus on the charity and open a shop in Finkle Street.
It was reported that she was running a charity Help Hikkaduwa Strays from a shop in Workington where the street dog Kalu that overcame horrific conditions and neglect in Hikkaduwa was now safely sheltered.
Street dog Kalu overcame horrific conditions and neglect in Hikkaduwa before making a miracle recovery from being run over twice and an attack which left her with one eye and a disability. She has now been rescued and is making a new life with animal lover Rachel Schofield at the charity Help Hikkaduwa Strays from a shop in Workington, News and Star reported.
Because of Kalu's upbringing, Rachel does not know her exact age or breed but believes she is about two years old and has some German shepherd in her.
Malnourished and flea-ridden, Kalu was nursed back to health by Katharina, the charity's manager in Hikkaduwa.
Rachel said: "By sheer will she lived.
"She still absolutely loves people and for what she's been through she has an amazing nature.
"She's a typical Sri Lankan street dog with long legs and pointy ears."
"Even though her entire body is out of shape, she can run and play and she's a normal dog.
"She's got an amazing spirit and every puppy that survives those streets is a miracle."
Rachel has now dedicated her life to helping dogs in Sri Lanka and her partner Christopher Coupe also helps out, with his employer BC Agencies Ltd donating a van to the charity, the media report said.
"I actually went on holiday in Hikkaduwa and the amount of stray dogs was horrendous," she said.
"I saw an eight-week-old puppy that was skin and bones, dragging a broken leg and an old, emaciated dog that could barely stand.
"I took them to the local vets and it all started from there.
"I realised there were no facilities there to help these dogs."
The charity aims to rescue, feed and treat strays but Rachel's dream is to build a shelter in the region. The amount of donated items we've had has been absolutely unbelievable.
Word is still getting out that we're here and if we can get more people volunteering that would be absolutely brilliant, she said and added that "Last year I personally went over there and saved 273 dogs in 10 days.
"There is a lot of fear due to not understanding over there so I'd like to be able to go over there and educate people, get them the facilities," she said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: 4 arrested for betting during India-SL T20
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 12:35 pm
4 arrested for betting during India-SL T20
	
Four people were arrested in Mumbai on Monday for allegedly accepting bets on the IndiaSri Lanka cricket match on Sunday night, the Hindu reported today.
They were arrested during araid jointlyconducted by the Khadakpada Police and the Thane Crime Branch in a residential building on Gandhari Road in Kalyan.
We received information that a gang with international links was operating from one of the flats. Four suspects were detained and 15 cell phones, two laptops, six notebooks and 100,000 Indianrupees in cash were recovered, an officer with the Thane Crime Branchsaid.
The suspects, identified as Hiralal Talreja, his son Kunal, his brother Mahesh Talreja and their associate Kamlesh Lakhiyani, were taken to the Unit III officeof the Thane Crime Branch.
The call records of the cell phones were examined and the police found that the four had consistently been taking calls from various parts of the State for the entire duration of the match.
The four were questioned and after preliminary inquiries, the police booked them under the Maharashtra Gambling Act, Indian Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act.
The accused would accept bets from punters based in Thane district and neighbouring areas, and place bets through an online portal. An analysis of their call records has revealed that they made numerous calls to a Dubai-based number registered to one Jatin at frequent intervals. We suspect that their leader is based in Dubai and was communicating the rates to them based on developments in the match, the officer said.
The police are also working on identifying the people who placed the bets. The police have received inputs to indicate that the arrested quartet is part of a larger network of bookies, which accepts bets on ongoing cricket tournaments.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Caught with goods on!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 26 December 2017 09:56 am
Caught with goods on!
	

A leading politico has been caught red-handed while distributing gift parcels to his constituents targeting the upcoming polls.

The moneyed politico was distributing the gift parcels, when the law enforcing men descended on the scene and took into their custody the entire stock of parcels.
The politico who flew into a rage threatened the law enforcing men saying that he would teach them a lesson at the proper time, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Christmas wish for Nandanis shelter of hope
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 December 2017 12:31 am
Christmas wish for Nandanis shelter of hope
	
You will be reading this, I think, on the day after Christmas. The day after December 25th. Not unlike every other December 25ths we have run into, celebrated, and turned into a cosmetic festival that does little to no justice to its true, reflective Zeitgeist. There are Christmas stories that compel such a Zeitgeist, that offer us room for profound sorrow and intense anger. Stories that open us to the true meaning, if you could call it that, of those timeless words Merry Christmas!.
On this day, December 26, 2017, Boxing Day to some, an ordinary day to me, I will hence reflect on such a story which unfolded years ago near my home town, concerning a widow. That widow, Nandani Gallage, runs a small shelter, not for orphans, nor for adults, but for dogs. 
There are those who believe that the term (and the idea behind the term) humanist must be limited to human beings. As such they celebrate every season  Christmas, the New Year, Vesak, Poson, and every other day affiliated to a faith and collective  reflecting on the poor who continue to suffer in destitution and pitifully wallow in want. To me such a construction of an open-ended word is, at best, misconceived and born out of our mistaken beliefs regarding who the recipients of charity and goodwill should be. The world isnt resident to just human beings, after all, in fact we arent even heirs to that world: no one owes a damn to us, but we owe more than a damn to every creature that breathes, every flower that blooms, every forest thats razed to the ground in the name of development. To me, therefore, Nandani is a humanist.


It wasnt just dogs, moreover: even unwanted cats and kittens found their way, somehow, to her overcrowded shelter

I first came across her in 2014, I remember, through an article written to one of those weekly supplements in a Sinhala newspaper (though which newspaper, I cant recall now). It seemed at the time that she had a story to tell, so I went there, to Wewala, near Bokundara, which borders Piliyandala, to ascertain for myself what she had done and was doing. The last time I talked with her, she told me she couldnt remember a time when she wasnt handling and taking care of a street pooch, because the years that preceded her deterioration to the pitiful state she is in now almost seemed to be from another world, happier than the world she is in now. And as is always typical of such individuals, news of the good she did (rearing and nurturing the unwanted dog) got around fast, and soon one thoughtless person after another started dumping their unwanted dogs and puppies by her house. It wasnt just dogs, moreover: even unwanted cats and kittens found their way, somehow, to her overcrowded shelter. 
Problems tend to multiply in more ways than one and for Nandani, the problems she faced multiplied literally when the dogs she took in started bearing puppies: she couldnt simply give them away, so she decided to look after them as well. Her house isnt in the best condition today, not surprisingly, since the dogs she rears are everywhere, whether in the bedroom or the kitchen, and they havent left a single chair or sofa alone. Things would have been better if Nandanis husband were alive, but he died four years ago, which left her as destitute and unwanted as her pooches. She had thought of funding her shelter but finding those funds proved to be difficult: initially, she had borrowed from her neighbours, sometimes up to 4,000 rupees (which can do wonders for dogs), but after a while she had given up, despising the idea of individual charity. That makes her stand out, moreover: her disregard for charity. Its the prerogative and the preserve of the privileged, after all, a rare phenomenon. 
Her husbands death had been preceded by another unfortunate incident. By her estimation a generous man, he had once lent two million rupees to a colleague of his, who had used the money to go to Naples. The colleague hadnt returned the money, even when Nandanis husband was gravely ill and after his death, so when Nandani pleaded with him and got him to send her about 7,000 rupees a month, she had been happy for a while. But only for a while: to this day, he hasnt sent as much as a cent or rupee to her, and has broken off all communication with her. Tells a lot about us humanists, and tells a lot about her. (I suggested twice that she resort to one of those numerous NGOs and Animal Shelters that have been set up in recent years but she refused. Her rationale, sentimental to some, understandable to me, is that shes grown so much on those pooches of hers that she cant stand the idea of sending them away.) 

So on this Christmas, let us take some time to reflect on some people. First and foremost Jesus Christ, and then people like Nandani

She had also sought help from outside institutions, from shops, but to no avail. I used to buy rice-crumbs from a nearby shop that sold them for 30 rupees a kilo. I asked them as to why or how they cost so much when a kilo of normal rice cost around 70, but their argument was that those crumbs would sell in the market for 40 a kilo! The rice-crumbs shed been given all this while is what youd have expected: a flea-and-dirt infested mess that shopkeepers sweep to a corner and collect every day.

Which brings me to another pertinent point. Its clear that Nandani badly needs food for the dogs, and money for that food, but some would suggest that she shouldnt just take on dogs that are dumped at her doorstep. After all, one of the most common reasons for the stray dog problem in Sri Lanka is that people keep dumping them in public places. People like Nandani have good intentions, and they arent hard to come by, but all too often theyre preyed on by those who want a quick fix for their unwanted pooches. Its a crazy, interminable paradox, a circle that never stops going around and around. Sterilisation would be a tentative solution, but even that has its limits despite the governments own efforts at resorting to it to alleviate our stray dog problem. Charity is also a stopgap solution, which means that the only answer to her predicament would be a set or, more specifically, a network of genuine patrons.

As I said before, we arent really the heirs to this world. People like Nandani give us room for hope, but hope that is later tempered down

The unwanted pooch problem in Sri Lanka is more or less a microcosm of the elephant and human conflict we see elsewhere: there are problems, logistical or otherwise, involved in both sides. In the case of that unwanted pooch its largely man made: we rear pretty pets but the minute we decide their offspring are a burden we put them in a cardboard box and deposit them by the road. In this respect, religious institutions have been helpful  particularly churches and temples, many of which have made those pooches their residents  but then the other side, i.e. the humans, needs to be revisited as well: rabies is a rabid problem, even with the measures taken by successive governments, and other issues relating to hygiene are pertinent too. 
Malinda Seneviratne, quoting Ranbanda Seneviratne (no relative), contended that compared to those days when even the death of a dog would bring 50 human beings to the street, now if 50 human beings would die not even a single dog would be bothered. I understand that sentiment but I personally think that both Seneviratnes were wrong: if 50 human beings died a dog WOULD be bothered, because contemporary society has drawn a rift between the animal and the human that leaves the latter as the true savage. As I said before, we arent really the heirs to this world. People like Nandani give us room for hope, but hope that is later tempered down. She has survived on charity, but this intriguing lady who fends for herself virtually alone and these dogs needs more. Words arent enough to explain what she does: its a marvel, at one level, for a woman of her position to sacrifice so much for some unwanted dogs. She refuses to call her house a dog shelter  she prefers not to label what shes doing  but if it were a shelter, it certainly is overcrowded today. And shes still not grumbling. 
So on this Christmas, as with every other Christmas, let us take some time to reflect on some people. First and foremost Jesus Christ, and then people like Nandani.



You can contact Nandani through the following number: 0768725151
 
		
==============================
## Title: Construction on flyover: Use alternative routes
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 01:12 pm
Construction on flyover: Use alternative routes
	
The vehicular movement on the Sri Jayewardenepura Road, near the Welikada Junction would be restricted to two lanes both ways, due to the construction work on the Rajagiriya flyover, the Police said.
They instructed the people to use alternative routes, as much as possible to avoid traffic snarls until the flyover construction was completed.
The flyover is slated to be opened for the public on January 9.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CSE at risk of collapsing: Bandula
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 06:03 pm
CSE at risk of collapsing: Bandula
	
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) would collapse because of the short-sighted fiscal policies adopted by the Government, the Joint Opposition said today.
It said the Department of Supervision of Non-Banking Financial Institutions of the Central Bank had issued a notice on December 5, to cancel the licence of the Central Investments and Finance PLC (CIFL).
The notice said the Monetary Board had decided to issue a notice of cancellation of the licence issued to the CIFL to carry on finance business.Cancelling the licence of listed companies would make an adverse impact on the CSE, MP Bandula Gunawardane said.
He said the Government, when MP Ravi Karunanayake was the Finance Minister, decided to reimburse Golden Key depositors with public funds, an attempt heavily criticised even by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
There is no method in the world where taxpayersmoney could be utilised to compensate depositors of a private financial company, he said.
He also said the Government was known for its fiscal mismanagement internationally, and therefore, no foreign or local investor would come to Sri Lanka. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: End LG polls propaganda by Feb 7: EC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 11:54 am
End LG polls propaganda by Feb 7: EC
	
All propaganda activities related to the upcoming Local Government election should come to an endby the midnight ofFebruary7,the Election Commission saidtoday.
The election for the Local Government bodies to be held on February10 next year.
 
		
==============================
## Title: GMOAs first strike for 2018 in January
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 05:46 pm
GMOAs first strike for 2018 in January
	
The Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) today said it would resort to a strike in early January if the authorities failed to increase their extra duty allowance.
The GMOA said the allowance had been paid since the 1980s during the tenure of the then President J.R. Jayewardene and added that it had not been increased since 2013.
GMOA Secretary Dr. Haritha Aluthge said the extra duty allowance was paid based on a formula, which was prepared according to the basic salary of a medical officer which was last increased in 2016. However, the extra duty allowance had not been increased, following the increase in the basic salary.
Therefore he said the GMOA would resort to a stern strike action with the participation of all the medical officers if the authorities failed to respond to their request. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Guatemala to move its Israeli embassy to Jerusalem
## Section: International
## Date: 26 December 2017 10:10 am
Guatemala to move its Israeli embassy to Jerusalem
	

The president of Guatemala says the Central American country will move its embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
Guatemala was one of nine nations that voted earlier this week with the United States when the UN General Assembly adopted a non-binding resolution denouncing President Donald Trumps recognition of Jerusalem as Israels capital. Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales said on his official Facebook account Sunday that after talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he decided to instruct his foreign ministry to move the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.No other country has their embassy for Israel in Jerusalem, though the Czech Republic has said it is considering such a move. 
The resolution passed as the UN declared the US action on Jerusalem null and void.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hitler's Titanic
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 26 December 2017 09:04 am
Hitler's Titanic
	
In 1945 almost 10,000 men, women and children were killed on board cruise liner the MV Wilhelm Gustloff as they fled the advancing Russian Army.
It is the naval disaster that dwarfs the Titanic but is rarely mentioned despite being the largest maritime catastrophe in history.
The ship set sail from Gdynia, then Gotenhafen, in occupied Poland and was bound for Kiel in northern Germany, but was attacked by a Russian submarine in the Baltic Sea in January 1945.
It sank in less than 40 minutes, causing the deaths of 9,343 people including about 5,000 children.
The fate of the vessel was a far cry from its intended use as a luxury liner for the 'master' German race and had no class division system so 'ordinary' people could enjoy holidays just like the rich.
Despite the death toll being six times greater than the loss of life on the Titanic, the sinking of the former German cruise liner is hardly known of.
By January 1945 the area of Prussia was threatened by the rapid Russian advance from the east, leading to Operation Hannibal - a massive naval evacuation of German troops and civilians there.
Although the 685ft long ship was carrying about 1,000 army soldiers and members of the Gestapo, there were also around 9,000 civilians.
As it headed west it was spotted by a Russian submarine. The German ship was armed with anti-aircraft guns but they had frozen and were useless.
The Russian submarine fired three torpedoes at the 25,000 tonne ship which all hit and delivered massive damage.
Some of the 9,343 victims died in the explosions and others were crushed to death in a stampede by panicked passengers but the majority either drowned or succumbed to exposure in the freezing conditions.
The ship was never designed for military use, having been built as a cruise liner for the Nazi Strength Through Joy tourism programme that aimed to bring middle class leisure activities to the masses through a ballot system. (Daily Mail)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Humour in the campaign trail!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 26 December 2017 10:04 am
Humour in the campaign trail!
	

Two brothers contesting from the two main political parties for the same ward at the upcoming local government polls have become a source of much amusement to their voters, they say.

The two brothers, activists of the same political party for a long time had parted their political ways with one brother joining the main rival party on the eve of nominations.
Voters taken by surprise by one brothers unexpected move to quit his party to contest his own brother are confused over whom they should support while the two brothers are at a loss to tell who their supporters or opponents are. This is a funny situation. Both brothers have become laughing stock, one voter remarked.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Iraqs Christians celebrate  first post-ISIS Christmas
## Section: International
## Date: 26 December 2017 10:14 am
Iraqs Christians celebrate  first post-ISIS Christmas
	

Christians celebrated Christmas in Iraqs second city of Mosul for the first time in four years today - and hymns and cries of joy floodedthe church. 
The seasonal event marked the end of jihadist rule in the city and the Mass opened with the Iraqi national anthem as women wailed with emotion. 
Despite the modest interior of the church and the armoured police outside, wheelchair-bound Hossam Abud, 48, who returned this month from exile in Iraqi Kurdistan, said: This is a sign that life is returning to Mosul.  In 2014 when the Islamic State group seized the city ordering people to convert, pay taxes, leave or die, Mr Abud and thousands of other Christians fled Mosul. Patriarch Louis Raphael Sako of Iraqs Chaldean Catholic Church called on the congregation to pray for peace and stability in Mosul, Iraq and the world. 
With this mass, were sending a message of peace and love, because Christ is the messenger of peace. 
Saint Pauls church in east Mosul saw Muslims stand together today with Christian worshippers and local officials surrounded by candles and Christmas trees. As a reminder of the citys bleak recent history a portrait of a Christian killed under IS rule was displayed outside the church. 
Iraqi forces expelled the jihadist group from Mosul in July after months of ferocious fighting. 
Large parts of Syria and nearly a third of Iraq were once ruled over by the organisation who were decimated in a string of defeats.
Daily Mail
 
		
==============================
## Title: Keeping the   tremors in check
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 December 2017 01:10 am
Keeping the   tremors in check
	
The issuing of bulletins or warnings, when there is an impending disaster, takes no longer than20 minutes
	If the magnitude isless than6.5the threat of a tsunami is less
	If the depth of the earthquake is more than100 km,the possibility of a Tsunami is less
When the Boxing Day Tsunami struck Sri Lanka in 2004, the casualties recorded were second only to Indonesia. These casualties were caused largely due to a lack of awareness and experience regarding tsunami warnings. Many were trapped unaware of the devastating effect as there was no public warning. Spawned by a 9.0 magnitude earthquake off the coast of Sumatra, the tsunami was one of the worst disasters in the history of our island nation.

Although the tsunami and its trail of devastation are now a faded memory, speculation was rife of a looming tsunami during the past few months. Making matters worse, a tsunami warning alert was issued on the morning of August 13, and later withdrawn by the National Tsunami Early Warning Centre of the Department of Meteorology following the 6.4-magnitude earthquake which struck Sumatra. As fear of a repetition gripped Sri Lankans over the past few weeks, today we mark the thirteenth anniversary of the Indian Ocean Tsunami. 
The Daily Mirror spoke to the Deputy Director of the National Meteorological Centre in Colombo M.M.P. Mendis on how a potential tsunami threat would be detected. We are responsible only for tsunami warnings. Once we receive the information, we analyze the data and decide if the generation of a tsunami is possible. Normally, a tsunami threat to Sri Lanka would occur when something happens in two regions close to Sri Lanka. The first is the Sumatra zone and the Makran zone in Pakistan. These two are the most vulnerable zones which would impact Sri Lanka. 
According to Mendis, these regions are being constantly monitored by the California Integrated System Network; a network which monitors earthquakes worldwide, indicating their locations and other data of earthquakes. 
Seismology or the scientific study of the movement of waves through the earth is typically associated with the study of earthquakes. Seismic networks have been established globally with the primary purpose of locating earthquakes and determining their magnitude. 
When an earthquake takes place, to verify its precise location, we need at least three locations of the Seismic Network, he said. The earthquake can be therefore precisely located under ten minutes. Prior to the 2004 Tsunami, there was no Tsunami Warning System in the Indian Ocean. However at present we have a well-oiled system in place. The Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning system (IOTWS) is one of them. We also receive information from the Australia Tsunami Warning System and the Indonesian Tsunami Warning System, he said. 
These systems possess a separate network to gather and share meteorological data called the Global Telecommunication Network (GTS), through which the centre receives a host of data such as the magnitude, depth, location and also whether there is a possibility of a tsunami generation.

Its state-of-the-art Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWC) identified as one of the best tsunami service providers in the world is tasked with providing tsunami services to 23 Indian Ocean rim countries, which includes Sri Lanka


The NMC at the Department of Meteorology in Baudhdhaloka Mawatha is however not the only station which receives such information. We receive these messages through several dissemination models, so that if one channel fails, the message would reach us through another. Information is received through GTS, fax, telephones and emails to our centre here in Colombo, as well as our office in Katunayake. If there was any failure at the Colombo centre, the Katunayaka office will still have received the information, Mendis explained. 
The issuing of bulletins or warnings, when there is an impending disaster, takes no longer than 20 minutes, according to Mendis. Once an earthquake is detected, it takes from 10 to 20 minutes to verify its location. An information bulletin is then prepared within 15 to 20 minutes and then we issue a subsequent warning from this centre,he explained.


Issuing bulletins
A seismometer detects the vibrations caused by an earthquake. It plots these vibrations on a seismograph. The strength, or magnitude, of an earthquake is measured using the Richter scale. The Richter scale is numbered 0-10. 
The NMC has a standard operating procedure (SOP), according to which these warnings are issued. If the magnitude is less than 6.5 - the threat of a tsunami is less, therefore we issue an information bulletin for the general public. If the magnitude is over 7, there is a chance of a tsunami, which depends on the depth. If the depth of the earthquake is more than 100 km, the possibility of a Tsunami is less, Mendis detailed.

These warnings are first issued to the Disaster Management Centres, and then the relevant authorities, including the media, the tri-forces, Police as well the offices of the president and the Prime Minister. 
Speaking of tsunami travel time, Mendis said this too depends on the location of the earthquake. Generally, if there is an earthquake in the Sumatra area, a Tsunami will take between one to two hours to reach Sri Lanka. This time is sufficient for us to prepare for disaster management activities other than for a country like Indonesia. There is approximately a distance of 2000 km from the Sumatran coast to Sri Lanka. The maximum time taken to issue a bulletin from this centre is 30 minutes, he said. 
Cant be predicted
Asked how the centre dealt with recent speculations and rumours of a tsunami, the NMC Director said the rumours had caused great difficulty for the centre to cope with inquiries. 
There is no mechanism to forecast a tsunami, just as there is no mechanism to predict earthquakes. We were flooded with inquires with the rumours of an imminent tsunami. It is imperative that the public understand that not every earthquake causes a tsunami, even if the magnitude is greater than 7. There are minor earthquakes which take place all over the world each day, but cause little to no harm he underscored. 


There is no mechanism to forecast a tsunami, just as there is no mechanism to predict earthquakes. We were flooded with inquires with the rumours of an imminent tsunami. It is imperative that the public understand that not every earthquake causes a tsunami, even if the magnitude is greater than 7

The Deputy Director of NMC is confident that when required, the centre will be able to promptly handle a detrimental situation, acting to inform and warn the public immediately. There is an alarm system at our centre which triggers when there is an earthquake of a serious nature. If the magnitude of an earthquake is high, we usually dont wait for the information. With our experience, were capable of promptly issuing an information bulletin to warn the public, he said. 
Keeping waves at bay
The NMC provides round the clock services supporting disaster management activities. However it isnt mandated to collect data of earthquakes or ocean observations. One institute which provides ocean information specialising on tsunami warnings is situated in Hyderabad, India. The Earth System Science Organization and the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (ESSO-INCOIS) is an autonomous body established in 1999 under the Ministry of Earth Sciences of India. 
Its state-of-the-art Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWC) identified as one of the best tsunami service providers in the world is tasked with providing tsunami services to 23 Indian Ocean rim countries, which includes Sri Lanka. During a recent familiarization visit of a group of Sri Lankan journalists to INCOIS Hyderabad, the Head-Data and information Management Group Pattabhi Rama Rao, detailed the responsibilities of ITEWC. 
For the Indian Ocean region, INCOIS is equipped with data generated from 17 broadband seismic stations which provide data in real time. If an earthquake strikes, the centre at INCOIS receives data from around the globe. But the tsunami early warning centre gets into action when there is an earthquake

Generally, if there is an earthquake in the Sumatra area, a Tsunami will take between one to two hours to reach Sri Lanka. This time is sufficient for us to prepare for disaster management activities other than for a country like Indonesia. There is approximately a distance of 2000 km from the Sumatran coast to Sri Lanka. The maximum time taken to issue a bulletin from this centre is 30 minutes

in the Indian Ocean, Rao explained. 
Only if an earthquake measures more than 6.5 on the Richter scale do we start issuing the Tsunami advisories. Because statistically, an earthquake of less than 6.5 cant generate a tsunami. Although an earthquake with a magnitude over 6.5 could generate a tsunami, but it is not true in all the cases. In the Indian Ocean Region, we continuously monitor earthquakes and if there is any indication of an occurrence in the Indian Ocean and then we start acting on it, Rao said. 
We have one Tsunamigenic zone in the Sumatra Subduction Zone, in the bay of Bengal. We have another one in the Makran Subduction Zone. If any earthquake strikes these regions, we get seismic data and then start issuing the first bulletin which is based on the earthquake magnitude,he said.
Issuing warnings
Prior to issuing a second bulletin scientists at ITEWC refer to predetermined models of possible scenarios during a Tsunami generation. ITEWC employs mathematical models of tsunami wave propagation which determines the possibility of a tsunami as well as the tsunami wave heights that could be anticipated. We have about 50,000 scenarios which are based on the data we already possess, from different earthquakes. If there is any earthquake that will generate a tsunami, it is programmed to fit the corresponding scenario. Following this match, it gives the information such as the wave height and the coastal forecast points, Rao elaborated adding that the first observation bulletin issued within eight to ten minutes. 
For the second bulletin, which is issued within 15 to 20 minutes we analyse the likely scenarios and issue necessary advisories if the earthquake is going to generate a tsunami. It will be followed by the arrival time of the tsunami, as well as the height of the waves. For the third bulletin, we check our data against the water levels. For that we have established a chain of observation points such as the Tsunami observation buoys,he explained.
He further added how the centre receives data regarding wave information. Rao said if theres any earthquake which will generate a tsunami, these observation buoys will activate the tsunami mode. It transmits information to INCOIS in a high frequency mode, with detailed information on wave height. It basically measures the pressure difference in terms of the water level. This data is transmitted to the tsunami warning centre through satellites. This is how it confirms if an earthquake will generate a tsunami, Rao explained. 
Scientists at ITEWC dont rely on one source of information and continuously observe sea level variations in real time, which is used to validate and verify the data they receive. 
If something happens in the Sumatra region for instance, we receive information from international stations which will also confirm that a tsunami is generated. This kind of information is included in the third bulletin; any real time observations that confirm the generation of a tsunami, he said. 
On April 11, 2012 there was an 8.1 magnitude earthquake in Sumatra. It was likely that a tsunami would be generated. We issued an advisory in order for disaster management officials to take necessary precautions, Rao said adding that not all Early Warning Centres operate in the manner ITEWC does. 
For instance, the Pacific Tsunami Early Warning Centre doesnt provide the quantitative information in such detail, which we believe leads to unnecessary panic among the public. At INCOIS we reconfirm the observations when each and every warning is issued, he said highlighting the accuracy of their work. 



Disaster Management
In addition to providing ocean information services, ITEWC also employs three dimensional geographical mapping system or 3D GIS to assist disaster management activities. Thanks to 3D GIS. we can also provide disaster management officials information on which areas will be affected and how many buildings will be inundated, he said. 
We are also capable of providing socio-economic data. Suppose a tsunami is generated during the night time, we ease the work of the disaster management officials as we possess socio-economic data such as mobile numbers for instance, through which warnings can be disseminated. We can observe how many people will occupy the vulnerable area at a given time. We have already assisted officials when during disaster situations in highly vulnerable areas of the Indian coast and are planning to extend this service to other areas, Rao detailed. 

Thanks to 3D GIS. we can also provide disaster management officials information on which areas will be affected and how many buildings will be inundated


To keep the disaster management officials updated, ITEWC updates capacity building programmes at regular intervals and also ensure that the entire system is fail-safe. We have regular communication systems and also conduct mock drills in the national levels as well as the Indian Ocean level. We participate in the inter-government ocean commissions tsunami warning system and Indian ocean wave exercises, every two years. In 2016 we have conducted this and a similar exercise will be conducted in 2018 as well, the scientist revealed. 
Adding a note of caution, Rao said it is imperative that disaster management initiatives are paired with tsunami warning activities, which include authorities as well as the general public. As scientists we can issue advisories and warnings, but the disaster management officials have to get into action and then they have to provide information to those who are likely to be affected, Rao said. 
INCOIS which is in regular contact with authorities of Sri Lanka, including the Met Department has also developed an Ocean forecast system for Seychelles and Sri Lanka, in collaboration with Regional Integrated Multi-Hazard Early Warning System (RIMES). In addition to alerts on high wave, swells, tsunami, and oil spill trajectories. These forecasts, made available three days in advance for users, are updated daily on operational basis. Location specific forecasts for important local places such as fishing harbours are available for 22 locations in Sri Lanka.  




Pix by Nisal Baduge & Kalani Kumarasinghe 


 
		
==============================
## Title: Kulbhushan Jadhavs wife, mother meet Indian spy in Islamabad
## Section: International
## Date: 26 December 2017 10:13 am
Kulbhushan Jadhavs wife, mother meet Indian spy in Islamabad
	

Islamabad (DAWN.COM) - Kulbhushan Jadhavs wife and mother met the convicted Indian spy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after arriving in Islamabad on Monday morning via a commercial flight.
Jadhavs mother, Avanti, and wife, Chetankul, made a stop at the Indian High Commission prior to the 40-minute-long meeting with the spy, Foreign Office (FO) Spokesperson Dr. Muhammad Faisal said.
India has requested that the family should not have any interaction with the media, the FO spokesperson said.
Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in Pakistan on espionage charges.
He was captured by security forces on March 3, 2016, in Balochistan and sentenced to death by a military tribunal earlier this year for his involvement in terrorism and espionage.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Legally  impossible  to accept nominations for six new Pradeshiya Sabhas
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 26 December 2017 01:42 pm
Legally  impossible  to accept nominations for six new Pradeshiya Sabhas
	
I raised this matter in the Supreme Court
	Commission wasnt there to answer it
	Election of members on the basis of wards is useful to the people
	However under the new electoral system, no party may be able to obtain an overall majority in any Pradesiya Sabha

Senior lawyer Kalyananda Tiranagama, in an email interview with The , challenged the creation of six new local authorities in Nuwara Eliya. Following are excerpts of the interview done with Tiranagama.

QThere is legal wrangling about the creation of new local bodies in the upcountry. What is the legality involved in this case

The Election Commission called for nominations for 6 new Pradesiya Sabhas to be created by the Govt. Gazette No. 2043/57 dated November 2, 2017 published by the Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government Faiszer Musthapha. 
Three new Pradesiya Sabhas - Ambagahmuwa Pradesiya Sabhawa, Maskeliya Pradesiya Sabhawa and Norwood Pradesiya Sabhawa - are to be constituted out of the existing Ambagahmuwa Pradesiya Sabhawa. 
Three new Pradesiya Sabhas  Nuwara Eliya Pradesiya Sabhawa, Kotagala Pradesiya Sabhawa and Agarapathana Pradesiya Sabhawa - are to be constituted out of the existing Nuwara Eliya Pradesiya Sabhawa. 
According to the said Gazette Notification, the existing Ambagahmuwa Pradesiya Sabhawa and Nuwara Eliya Pradesiya Sabhawa will be dissolved with effect from February 14, 2018. Till that date these two Pradesiya Sabhas will remain in force. 
The six new Pradesiya Sabhas - Ambagahmuwa Pradesiya Sabhawa, Maskeliya Pradesiya Sabhawa and Norwood Pradesiya Sabhawa; Nuwara Eliya Pradesiya Sabhawa, Kotagala Pradesiya Sabhawa and Agarapathana Pradesiya Sabhawa - will be constituted with effect from February 15, 2016 after the dissolution of the existing Pradesiya Sabhas of Ambagamuwa and Nuwara Eliya. 
How can the Election Commission call for nominations for the Pradesiya Sabhas which have not yet come into being Can the Election Commission call for nominations regarding new Sabhas not yet constituted while the existing Pradesiya Sabhas remain undissolved


It is not only the area around the entry point to Sri Pada that will come under a new Pradesiya Sabhawa. The whole area other than the Peak where the Footprint is situated will come under the control of non-Buddhists

It is legally impossible. The Election Commission can call for nominations only after the new Pradesiya Sabhas come into being. I do not think the Commission has given its mind to this issue. I raised this matter in the Supreme Court. However the Commission was not there to answer this. 


QThere is controversy surrounding the move to bring the area around the entry point to Sri Pada under the new Pradesiya Sabha. How do you see it

It is not only the area around the entry point to Sri Pada that will come under a new Pradesiya Sabhawa. The whole area other than the Peak where the Footprint is situated will come under the control of non-Buddhists. Seetha Gangula and Indikatu Pana are two important points that pilgrims pass on their way to the peak. Pilgrims perform various rituals at these points while climbing the mountain. Seetha Gangula and Indikatu Pana are situated in the Grama Niladhari divisions of Seetha Gangula and Murray. Both these Grama Niladhari Divisions are completely situated within the Maskeliya Pradesiya Sabha area. 
Minister Musthapha says that Sri Pada is not situated in the Nuwara Eliya District. It may be that the Sri Pada Peak is situated outside the Nuwara Eliya District. 

Sri Pada remained within Ambagamuwa Korale for well over thousand years according to historical records

The ancient road Raja Mawatha to Sri Pada lies through Ambagamuwa Korale. There are 3 routes that can be used to reach the Peak  Kuruwita route, Ratnapura route and Hatton  Maskeliya route. The journey by Kuruwita and Ratnapura routes is more difficult while the Hatton Maskeliya route is the most convenient. More than 75% of the pilgrims use the HattonMaskeliya route. All the pilgrims traveling by train use this route.
These 3 new Pradesiya Sabhas are created solely on ethnic basis. According to the population statistics of 2013 on the basis of which Ambagamuwa Pradesiya Sabha area was divided into 35 wards in 2015, out of the total population of 57008 in Maskeliya Pradesiya Sabha area, 52498 were Tamils, 3970 Sinhalese and 540 Muslims. In Norwood Pradesiya Sabha area, out of the total population of 109451 in Maskeliya Pradesiya Sabha area, 100128 were Tamils, 5848 Sinhalese and 3044 Muslims. In both these Pradesiya Sabha there will be no Sinhala representation at all. In Ambagamuwa Pradesiya Sabha area also, though there are 7 wards with Sinhala majority, as the total population of the Tamils (51071) is much higher than the Sinhalese (44751), Ambagamuwa also may come under Tamil control. 
At present the three Pradesiya Sabha areas of Ambagamuwa, Maskeliya and Norwood come under the Divisional Secretariat area of Ambagamuwa. S. 2 of the Pradesiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 requires that every Pradesiya Sabha area declared, as far as possible, to correspond to limits of Assistant Government Agents Division ( Divisional Secretariat area). The Minister has created these 3 Pradesiya Sabha totally disregarding this provision in the Pradesiya Sabha Act. In time to come this may pave the way for creation of exclusively Tamil Divisional Secretariat Divisions. 
Sri Pada is one of the three most important, sacred places of Buddhist worship, the other two being the Temple of the Tooth in Kandy and Sri Maha Bodhiya in Anuradhapura. Sri Pada remained within Ambagamuwa Korale for well over thousand years according to historical records. The Ambagamuwa Rock inscription dates back to Polonnaruwa period, established by King Nissankamalla. It was a world-renowned place of Buddhist worship, attracting foreign visitors to the country from ancient times. 
The Sri Pada season commences with the Full Moon Poya in December each year. The season continues for five months and concludes with the Wesak full moon day, the following year. During the season every year over one million pilgrims visit Sri Pada. It was reported in the papers that on the Full Moon Day in March 2016, vehicles of pilgrims visiting Sri Pada remained parked along the Nallathanni- Maskeliya  Ginigathhena Road. One can understand the number of pilgrims visiting Sri Pada on a full moon poya day. 
It is the Pradesiya Sabha that provides necessary facilities for the pilgrims visiting Sri Pada day and night continuously during the season. It is the Pradesiya Sabha that grants construction permits for constructing buildings, issues licenses for hotels and restaurants, provides health services and organizes parking facilities. This generates huge income and job opportunities. When all these services are placed in the control of non-Buddhists who are not conversant with Buddhist culture and practices, one can imagine what may happen.
 Under Article 9 of the Constitution the Republic of Sri Lanka the Government is bound to give foremost place to Buddhism and it is the duty of the State to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana.
Buddha Sasana includes all the important and historical places of Buddhist worship. By doing things that will invariably result in removing Sri Pada from the control of Buddhists and placing it in the control of non-Buddhists, the State is shirking its constitutional duty of protecting and fostering Buddha Sasana.

However it is a question whether the Commission is exercising its powers independently to ensure a free and fair election. When they hear the public announcements of the Chairman of the Commission, it appears that people become skeptical


Q As a lawyer, what is your perception of the new electoral system
The election of members on the basis of wards is useful to the people. People can have easy access to the member who is a man from their village or city ward. This may lead to better interaction between the people and their representative. 
However under the new electoral system, no party may be able to obtain an overall majority in any Pradesiya Sabha. There will be weak and unstable administrations. In the election of Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen, this may lead to horse-trading, buying members. 

QHow do you view the powers vested with the current Election Commission in its capacity to ensure a free and fair election 
The Election Commission is vested with adequate powers to ensure a free and fair election. However it is a question whether the Commission is exercising its powers independently to ensure a free and fair election. When they hear the public announcements of the Chairman of the Commission, it appears that people become skeptical. 

QHow do you feel the need for a campaign finance law at this time
Unlike under the previous system, when candidates contest for smaller wards, they do not have to bear much expenditure for running the campaign. More than the money other considerations may prevail in Local Government Elections under the ward system.

Minister Musthapha says that Sri Pada is not situated in the Nuwara Eliya District. It may be that the Sri Pada Peak is situated outside the Nuwara Eliya District

Any way it is better to have campaign finance laws enacted limiting the expenditure that can be incurred in Local Government Elections. What is more important is the strict application of the law with due penalties for violations. Otherwise it will be a meaningless thing. 

QYou were critical of the 19th Amendment. It has been implemented during the past couple of years now. What is your view
I was critical of the 19th Amendment for the unhealthy and undemocratic provisions introduced through it and the fraudulent manner in which it was adopted. 
Some people acclaim that the 19th has enabled to set up Constitutional Council with power to appoint independent commissions. But President Sirisena himself has been critical of the performance of Constitutional Council on several occasions. How can the Constitutional Council, consisting of Cabinet Ministers and representatives entirely of political forces that brought in the Yahapalana Government into power, be independent Are the independent Commissions and the high officials appointed by the Constitutional Council acting independently 
Though the 19th Amendment has somewhat curtailed the powers of the executive presidency, it has not brought about any democratic changes in the Constitution. Though the President can make certain appointments like the Presidential Commissions, the 19th Amendment has made the President a virtual prisoner under the effective control of the Prime Minister. President cannot remove the Prime Minister or any other Minister or State Minister.
A Minister or State Minister or Deputy Minister can be removed only on the advice of the Prime Minister. 
The President cannot change any Cabinet decision or any action of any Minister. At the Budget debate in Parliament, President Sirisena openly spoke against the Budget proposal of granting concessions to beer industry. But the Budget has been approved by Parliament with concessions granted to beer industry remaining intact. The Government has ignored Presidents views on many occasions. 
Parliament cannot be dissolved till February 5, 2020 even if the majority of Members of Parliament demands. However much the public disapproval of the government increases, the Government will continue. Thus the legislative power of the people has been ushered. 
The number of Cabinet and non-Cabinet Ministers can be increased without any limit. That is how Sriyani Wijewickrama was appointed the State Minister of Provincial Councils and Local Government last week. 
19th Amendment has given a license to opportunist politicians in both parties  UNP and SLFP  to rob the country and enjoy benefits at public expense in the guise of a national Government. They have paved the way for this robbery to continue even after the next General Elections. That is why some Ministers openly say that they will continue in power till 2025. 
They may adopt the same strategy for running the Local Government institutions too. 
There is nothing that the country nor the people has achieved with the 19th Amendment. 


QHow significant is the Local Government Election this time 
This Local Government Election is of special significance for several reasons. This election is conducted after a continuous delay of almost 3 years. This is the first election to be conducted after the Pradesiya Sabhas were created in 1988 on the basis of newly demarcated electoral wards. 
This will provide the opportunity for the country to test the workability of the Pradesiya Sabhas elected on the basis of the new system of electing 60% of the members from wards and the remaining 40% under the proportionate representation system. Many politicians are already claiming that there will be stable provincial administrations after the election. UPFA General Secretary Mahinda Amaraweera openly says that whoever who wins the elections will control the Pradesiya Sabhas. 
This election will show the actual strength the SLFP and Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna has with regards to votes. It will have a determining effect on the future of the SLFP and President Maithripala Sirisena. It will also have its impact on the continuation of UNP-SLFP coalition Government.


Though the President can make certain appointments like the Presidential Commissions, the 19th Amendment has made the President a virtual prisoner

This election can amount to a referendum on the three-year performance of the Yahapalana Government. Everything will depend on the understanding of the issues and the ability of the political forces in the field. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Lunch time protests in main postal offices tomorrow
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 11:09 pm
Lunch time protests in main postal offices tomorrow
	
Protests are to be held tomorrow in five Regional Mail Sorting Centres (RMSC) and twelve divisional post offices during the lunch hour demanding the government to settle the dispute in recruitment procedure in postal service.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror Co-convener of the Postal Front H.K. Kariyawasam said due to the 06/2016 circular issued by the Public Administration Ministry, the Postal Department is severely inconvenienced in several aspects including recruitment of its staff .
He said the circular was creating a lot of problems in the postal services as the Postal Department is a closed department.
Although, the Postal Department is a closed department it does not have separate salary scales. Closed departments should be independent of other public institutions and its salary scales should be set accordingly, he said.
He added that the dispute in recruitment procedure had impacted in the services provided by the Postal Department causing long delays.
Further, he said when the matter was taken up with President Maithripala Sirisena during the World Post Day commemoration held on October 9 in Polonnaruwa, the President stated that the rules and regulations should not be an obstacle to the duties or the performance and therefore he would certainly look into the matter immediately.
Mr. Kariyawasam said that the postal workers would resort to islandwide work stoppage if the government failed to address the matter before Thursday (28). (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Memories of a devastating catastrophe
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 December 2017 01:03 am
Memories of a devastating catastrophe
	
It was December 26th, a historic day in 2004. I was watching television in the morning. Kamal, a confidante of mine, came to my home in the morning at about 8.30 a.m. He came to discuss how we should attend the funeral house of one of our relations in Meetiyagoda. The house is about 4 km from the Peraliya Town. Then we decided on a time to attend the funeral and began to watch the New Zealand -Sri Lanka cricket match. 
I heard the noise of the Matara bound express train, which had started journey from Colombo, arriving. Then I glanced at the wall clock at my house. It was 9.32 a.m. The train had just passed my home when I felt that the train had met with an accident.My friend and I ran immediately towards the rail track which was not more than 50 yards from home. There we saw that a compartment had been derailed. The light (amber) at the signal post was blinking. In the meantime a stream of water was arriving on the side of the railway track. Then my friend, who was very experienced about sea, told me that this situation was created due to a change of current. He said that the sea had entered the land. People were in fear and were running allover. By saying so, he was running into his house and I too returned to my home immediately. On the hearing of my footsteps, my wife screamed at me and told me to come to the room which was at the rear end of our home. Then I immediately went to the rear room and got onto the windowsill. I saw that my house was full of sea water. My fridge, almirahs, settee, television and beds were covered were submerged in water. I stood there helplessly on the windowsill. I had no idea what to do. All my family members were on a bed inside the room. The two almyrahs were blocking more water from entering the room.

I had no idea what to do. All my family members were on a bed inside the room. The two almyrahs were blocking more water from entering the room


Big sound 
There were eight members of my family in the rear room of the home. They all were shouting and sought assistance. In the meantime a person called Sunil, whose house was about 100 meters away from my home, saw that I was on the windowsill. He inquired, uncle who is shouting. He told me that he was coming and not to shout. Then immediately our well was filled with sea water, making a big sound. Sunil reached my home with great difficulty and opened the rear door. He took my two granddaughters on his two shoulders and asked us to follow him. Then we reached a hilly place, about 150 metres from my home, and he asked us to go to the Telwatta Rajamaha Viharaya to survive this tidal disaster. We tried to enter the temple, but were unable because fences obstructed our path. Then we heard people shouting and alerting everyone that the tide was coming towards the land. At that moment I realized that if the tide enters the land it would come over the roof of my home. I told my wife to think these were the final moments of our lives and that there was no other alternative except embrace the big tree nearby. We immediately went to that tree and embraced it. Then the waves entered the place where we were. The waves reached my neck. My wife and other family members who were with us invoked Gods blessing to survive. One of my relations who was embracing a Kitul tree (A tree from the palm family) along with her son and daughter was drowning in the water and disappeared. The woman who disappeared later surfaced and met her son and daughter. Then I inquired, Aunty how did you survive to which she replied, by saying that she was able to grab the root of the coconut tree. In the process she had been forced to consume much sea water. Anyway she survived and 10 years after this incident she died on 14th December, 2014. 

Pathetic situation 
I told my wife that the waves which reached our home came over the roof. That made me realize that there would not be anything left of the home. After 4-5 minutes

The Government had decided to give each family that had lost their houses, due to the tsunami, rupees of 250,000 as damages. It wasnt enough to rebuild my home. Still some areas of my home needs renovation

there were no barriers and area was clear. Then we went to the temple. I understood that my house was completely destroyed. With the help of the youth in the area people could go across the river to the other side for their survival. We too crossed the river and went to Aluthwala area which was over 5 km away from home. Many people had gathered at the Aluthwala Temple premises. They were from various villages in the area. By this time in my life I was serving the Ministry of Finance as the Protocol Officer. Due to the disaster I couldnt attend duty. I received a call from the ministry. The information I received was that the World Bank President James Woulffension was in Sri Lanka to access the tsunami disaster. The first task for me after the tsunami was to receive Woulffension at the Katunayake Airport. I even didnt have proper attire to go to work. My mind was troubled by all these events. I reached Ambalangoda with great difficulty. I purchased all what I needed from this town to do to work. 
Compensation 
The Government had decided to give each family that had lost their houses, due to the tsunami, rupees of 250,000 as damages. It wasnt enough to rebuild my home. Still some areas of my home needs renovation. But one day when I went (while on duty) to the VIP launch at the Katunayake Airport, I met Minister Kabir Hasim (Then he was an MP). I know him personally and he spoke about tsunami. He knew that I was also a tsunami victim. In his speech he spoke about the foreign aid that had arrived in Sri Lanka, during Tsunami period. According to him, each member of tsunami affected families was expected to receive one million as damages. According to him, I would have got Rs 5 million as damages. He warned that this kind of disaster would happen again and that foreign aid would not come like this. Everybody knows what happened to that money.

By this time in my life I was serving the Ministry of Finance as the Protocol Officer. Due to the disaster I couldnt attend duty

After the tsunami disaster I met Tilak Ranaviraja who was one of my former bosses and the then Commissioner General of Essential Services. When I met him, He asked me to provide a Police Report and other relevant documents along with photos etc. So I provided everything he wanted and went to meet him again after 3-4 days. Then when I met him he told me that after considering my facts and following his recommendation the Cabinet had approved the ration to every public servant who was affected by the tsunami disaster. He further told me that other public servants are lucky to receive this ration worth of Rs. 5000/- each month up to three months, largely because of me. Then I thanked him for the action taken by him regarding the tsunami affected Government servants. 
Nevertheless everything is over now. My dearest friend Kamal is also no more. I take this opportunity to thank the youth who helped people in various ways in the Peraliya-Telwatta areas including those who made temporally arrangements to cross over to other side of the river to help stranded people. I also thank the people who came by train from places of the country to help out. 395 lives were lost in my village and nearly 2000 people, who traveled by this train, went missing near my house. I wish all this was only bad dream, and not something true which happened 14 years ago. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: 'No tusk shells in our elephants'
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 09:30 am
'No tusk shells in our elephants'
	
Former Deputy Director of Customs Samantha Gunsaekara , a specialist in gems and wildlife trading said there are no tusk shells in the tusks of elephants in Sri Lanka.
He further said that the tusk shells springs up in an elephant which lives nearly hundred years and there may be tusk shells in one among thousands of elephants.
He said he could state with responsibility the racketeers are selling pearls taken from pearl oysters or glossed parts taken from the elephant tusks and selling them as tusk shells. There are some items made of crystal, cattle bones or some rocks, the racketeers are trying to sell them, saying they are made of elephant tusk shells. He said that he had done hundreds of postmortems on elephants and had never come across tusk shells in any elephant and requested the general public to reject these deceivers. (Vineetha M. Gamage )
 
		
==============================
## Title: Observing two minutes of silence for 2004 tsunami victims
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 06:20 am
Observing two minutes of silence for 2004 tsunami victims
	
The Disaster Management Centre has decided to observe two minutes of silence from 9.25 a.m. to 9.27 a.m. today, as a mark of respect to those who lost their lives by the tsunami disaster that hit the coastal belt of Sri Lanka on December 26, 2004.
The main commemoration ceremony will be held at Peraliya in Hikkaduwa, where one of the largest single rail disasters took place as a result of tsunami waves. Commemoration events will also be held in all 25 districts with the support of Divisional Secretariats and Divisional Disaster Management Centres.
Tidal waves of up to 30 metres, caused by a series of earthquakes measuring a magnitude of 9.1 to 9.3, took place in the epicenter off the West coast of Sumatra, affecting 14 countries including Sri Lanka, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Somalia, Thailand, Bangladesh, South Africa, Madagascar, Kenya, Tanzania and the Seychelles.
One of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history, the 2004 tsunami had reportedly killed 230,000-280,000 people in 14 countries. However, estimates state that in Sri Lanka, 36,603 people perished, some 5,000 went missing and another 800,000 displaced as a result of the catastrophe. The disaster has affected not only lives but also property amounting to billions or rupees.
Tsunami flooding consisted of three main waves with the second being the largest and most destructive. It hit the country approximately two hours after the earthquake. This influenced the authorities to implement a proper disaster management mechanism.
As a result, the Disaster Management Act came into being in 2005 and the Disaster Management Centre was established instituting a national disaster risk management system. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: 80% of fake FB accounts will be removed this week: CERT
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 08:31 am
80% of fake FB accounts will be removed this week: CERT
	
The Principal Information Security Engineer of the Computer Emergency Readiness Team Co-ordination Centre (CERT|CC), Roshan Chandragupta said 80 per cent of the fake Facebook accounts would be removed by the end of this year by the Facebook head office.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror he said CERT had received 3,400 complaints by November regarding the creation of fake Facebook accounts.
Mr. Chandragupta said most of the incidents were reported to the Facebook Head Quarters by CERT and several other complaints were made by the real owners under whose name fake Facebook accounts were operating.
Therefore, CERT believes about 80 per cent of fake accounts would be removed by the Facebook, he said. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Philippines storm death toll climbs to 240, scores missing
## Section: International
## Date: 26 December 2017 10:11 am
Philippines storm death toll climbs to 240, scores missing
	
MANILA AFP - The death toll from a storm that unleashed landslides and floods across the southern Philippines has climbed to 240 with scores of others still missing, officials said Monday. 
Tropical Storm Tembin on Friday struck the countrys main southern island of Mindanao, which often escapes the 20 or so storms that batter the rest of the archipelago nation each year. 
Civil defence officials said the number of confirmed deaths from Tembin on Mindanaos Zamboanga peninsula had risen to 78, while the death toll in Lanao del Sur province on the island went up to 27.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rishad should resign as Ravi did: BBS
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 03:56 pm
Rishad should resign as Ravi did: BBS
	
Similar to the resignation of Minister Ravi Karunanayake over the Central Bank Treasury Bond issue, Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen should also resign over the Wilpattu issue based on the Auditor General's report, Bodu Bala Sena (BBS) today said.
Addressing a press conference BBS General Secretary Venerable Galagodaaththe Gnanasara Thera said President should be held responsible for the deforestation of Wilpattu Reserve because the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment was under his purview.
Therefore, the President should take action to remove Minister Bathiudeen from his post until investigations are over, he said.
The Auditor General's report had said the Industry and Commerce Minister Rishad Bathiudeen had no authority to order the Director General of Forest Conservation to release lands of Vilaththikulam forest reserve for resettlement. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Shopping in Pettah
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 26 December 2017 05:21 pm
Shopping in Pettah
	
People are seen busy shopping for fireworks, clothes and other stuffs in Pettah in the wake of the festive season. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL receives first tranche of Htota port lease proceeds
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 03:13 pm
SL receives first tranche of Htota port lease proceeds
	
Sri Lanka received the first payment for the lease of the Hambantota port to thestate-owned Chinese firm, the Central Bank said today.
Accordingly, US $ 292.1 million has been credited to the US dollar account of the Government of Sri Lanka maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) leased out the Hambantota port to China Merchant Port Holdings (CMPort) for a 99-year period in exchange of US$ 1.1 billion in July.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tamil politicians trust Sinhala police officers: NP Governor
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 09:04 pm
Tamil politicians trust Sinhala police officers: NP Governor
	
Northern Province (NP) Governor Reginald Cooray said today that Tamil politicians in the North were being provided security by Sinhala Police officers as they could trust them.
"We should find out the reason why they are not trusting Tamil Police officers," the Governor said at an event in Jaffna, where a boat-transport service, that could accommodate 40 passengers, was launched between the Eluvaithivu and Analaithivu islands from the Karampon Ferry in Kayts.
The ferry service will facilitate the transport of people who are living in these areas, with the assistance of the Sri Lanka Navy.
He said that Rs. 132 million had been allocated for this programme by the office of the District Secretary, Jaffna.
District Secretary N. Vedanayagam, Private Secretary to Governor J.M. Somasiri, Governors Secretary L. Ilangovan, Rear Admiral Jayantha de Silva of Northern Province and residents of Eluvaithivu and Analaithivu attended the event. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: tea suffers from politics  and man-made disasters
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 December 2017 12:36 am
tea suffers from politics  and man-made disasters
	
Camellia, Khapra & Asbestos : Tea as an Aphrodisiac 

Not often is that the men have the heart, when their one great industry is ruined, to rear up in few years another as rich to take its place; and the tea fields of Ceylon are as true monument to courage as is the lion of Waterloo  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Is it the Khapra Beetle or Tit-for-Tat by Putins men against Sri Lankas ban on Asbestos Out of total production of Sri Lanka tea [Camellia Sinensis] more than 60 per cent is directly purchased by West Asia and Russia. The largest importer is Russia which accounts for 15 per cent of the total production and is followed by UAE, Iran, Syria, Turkey, Libya, Iraq, Azerbaijanand Japan.
In 2014 January, for the first time in Sri Lankan history tea prices have came down by Rs. 174 or US$ 1.27 per kg. Tea auction fetched the highest prices in the world; also the highest cost of production and lowest productivity is also witnessed in Sri Lanka. The crisis period during 2008 there was a drastic impact on the tea smallholders with bought leaf price falling below the cost of cost of production which was Rs. 40/-, an absolute crisis situationwas experienced.
Sadly, nationalisation in the 1970s and the crisis the industry faces, have made preservation of its history almost impossible. Sri Lankas share of world production and share of world export are also gradually decreasing. These are the signs of losing competitiveness in the global tea market.
In the 1970s, African countries entered the tea industry in a large scale. During 1970s, the Sri Lankan Government nationalised many of its plantations. As a result, the British investors who ran many of the Sri Lankan plantations went to Kenya to invest in the tea plantation sector in African soil. The Kenyan Government provided them with the necessary support. The tea produced by the Kenyan estate sector is marketed by the multinational companies. Thus, Kenya has relatively strong international marketing mechanism. This enabled Kenya to be a major player in the global tea market. Kenya is now enjoying a significant portion of the global tea production and global tea exports. Kenya gained market share at the expense of the major players, such as Sri Lanka and India.

An industry, without a long-term vision was going through a crisis moving downward for decades now, as a consequence of Going for short-term political expedience instead of probing for enduring solutions. Importation of tea from abroad for blending purposes tarnished the reputation the country earned for centuries as the undisputed qualitytea producer.

Khapra beetle considered native to India and one of the most destructive invasive insect species in the world
	The plantation sector covered around 760,000 hectares in 2002
	The largest importer is Russia which accounts for 15 % of the total production


Khapra Beetle and Sri Lankan Tea 
Sri Lankan tea accounts for about 20% of the Russian tea market. Russia restricted the importation of agricultural products when a Tea consignments from Sri Lanka to Russia found to contain a Khapra beetle a few days ago. Sri Lanka consequently lost a substantial amount of foreign exchange this year. A situation that has affected not only the countrys economy but also its image as a tea exporter.
Khapra beetle considered native to India and one of the most destructive invasive insect species in the world; they say it prefers grain and cereal products but contaminations are also reported in dried plant/animal matter, vegetable seeds and pulses. The pest according to specialists could thrive on the packing materials used as the larvae are known to live effectively until it finds a suitable host. It is very hard and expensive to destroy this pest. Therefore the argument that the insect was found on the outside of the packging material and the tea was not contaminated does not hold any worthwhile purpose.
Whos destroying Ceylon Tea Vasa Visa Nethi Ratak
Glyphosate, the killer of weeds was banned following a A country devoid of poisonous food campaign led by Ven Athuraliye Ratana MP, without finding an alternative herbicide. Regional plantation companies and Small holders are searching for a substitute to glyphosate, which is being extensively used all around the world in most developed nations.Low country tea small-holders who produce 70 percent of the total output faces enormous difficulties due to the suppression of the growth of the bushes as a result of Weeds. It turns the foliage brownish and stimulates defoliation, manual uprooting is the only alternative to use of herbicides, which is a tedious and costly task. 
Commercial plantations are very much ineffective in weed control. A Cabinet sub-committee appointed to study and report on the matter had noted that the ban led to unavailability of successful herbicides leading to experimenting with unauthorized herbicides or manual weeding that added to the cost along with reduced use of fertilizer that depressed the tea production further. Tea production in 2016 dropped by about 15 percent due to the above factors and the drought. At the last AGM of the Colombo Tea Traders Association, they brought out the issue stressing how just one individual was holding an entire industry and the government to ransom based on theirunscientific ideals.
Disastrous effects of Estates take-over
The plantation sector in Sri Lanka covered around 760,000 hectares in 2002. Of this total area, around 24% was used for cultivation of tea, 21% for rubber, and 55% for coconut. The plantation sector contributed 6% of the national GDP (Central Bank of Sri Lanka, 2002). 
These estates were Nationalized in 1972. After nationalization, management of the estates was given to the state owned enterprises (SOEs), namely Janawasama, State Plantations Corporation and Usawasama. The Estates that came under the third institution was managed by retired School teachers, Gramasevakas and other cronies of SLFP Ministers who knew nothing of Tea or Agriculture. Because of the ill performances of the SOEs, who ruined the tea industry, management was given to 22 private companies on a five-year-management contract in 1992. This made things worse, as at the tail end of the contract, that is when they approached the third year or so, they extracted the maximum benefits neglecting the maintenance factor. 
The authorities realizing error, in1995, this contract was extended to a 50-year leasing agreement reverting back the ownership and management of tea plantations to the private sector. Thus created a new generation of tea traders and planters. They combined local resources with global knowledge to fashion a new era in
Ceylon Tea.
The main purpose of this agreement is to ensure that the plantations are managed efficiently and effectively by transferring the full risks and benefits of such management to the private sector.
The Arsenite Contamination Scenario in Early 1980s
Political vultures in late seventies spread a fabricated and groundless rumor against the tea industry which became an extremely injurious canard that threatened the future survival of the industry. This surpassed all previous harmful actions and disasters the industry faced in 150 years, since the first tea plantation of Sri Lanka was initiated by Scotsman James Taylor, who planted tea seedlings brought down from Assam, India on a 19 acre plot of his estate, Loolecondera in Kandy in 1867.
Increasing our tea yield levels overnight is impossible. However, experts have suggested, it can increase earnings by diversifying uses of tea. The diversification can be in as a novel drink in the beverage sector itself, and into non-beverage industry as a component for producing medicinal drugs, perfumes and cosmetics. They require investments in superior marketing techniques and sustained research and development.
Tea as a component in Pharma, Cosmetics and Aphrodisiacs
Facing worldwide challenges is inevitable as tea is concerned, it is a universal beverage. Hence, tea authorities should deviate from their current thinking and think global and act global. Ceylon tea has been highlighted for its potential aphrodisiac qualities too. Two entrepreneurs havecommenced marketing it as a highly profitable luxury product to boost the libido. One company sells a small jar of premium Ceylon for $350. A hot cup of Ceylon tea was better known as being soothing and relaxing, but Sri Lankas tea industry is increasingly plugging teas supposed aphrodisiac qualities in a bid to radically change perceptions of the brew. The industry may not yet have hard medical proof of Ceylon Teas performance-enhancing powers, but they have long been the stuff of legend among Sri Lankan tea lovers. The top-quality white teas, Silver and Golden Tips, are gaining popularity among rich Chinese, Saudis and Japanese businessmen; these teas are known for their influence and potency according to an exporters spokesman. Campaigning for the first time in the recent history, The Sri Lanka Tea Board is about to embark on the health benefits of a high-end cup in the major international markets.





Unlike orthodox teas, the tea buds are carefully tended and are sun-dried for the gold or silver tint to make white varieties which they claim are good for sexual health. They have marketed a Kilo at a staggering over US $1000/-at Mariage Freres tea emporium in Paris. Your sexual performance automatically increases when your overall health improves, added the spokesman. Had Scotsman James Taylor ever dreamt of such qualities to be present in the plant when he first planted the bush, Camellia Sinensis, in 1849 at Peradeniya.
 
		
==============================
## Title: UN calls for regulation of presidential pardon for prisoners
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 December 2017 07:10 pm
UN calls for regulation of presidential pardon for prisoners
	
The exercise of Presidential Pardon for convicted prisoners should be regulated by clear guidelines to avoid arbitrary application and to ensure proper means for the release on compassionate grounds, the three-member UN Working Group has said in a report.
The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention has also identified significant challenges to the enjoyment of the right to personal liberty in Sri Lanka, resulting in arbitrary detention across the country.
The report, which was released on December 15, said that serious consideration should be given to abolishing the death penalty in Sri Lanka.
The Working Group said it observed overcrowded prisons and noted that remanded and convicted persons were held under the same facilities.
Long-term prisoners and persons serving life sentences are held in harsh conditions with limited time for family visits, lack of opportunities to work and participate in other vocational, educational or recreational activities and limited out-of-cell time.
The authorities must ensure that the prison system is aimed at the rehabilitation and re-integration of inmates, they said.
The three-member delegation comprised of Jos Antonio Guevara Bermdez, Leigh Toomey and Elina Steinerte.
 
		
==============================
==============================
