## Title: A golden rose that gave great value to Zonta
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
A golden rose that gave great value to Zonta
	
MANO MUTHUKRISHNA CANDAPPA
Passing away of Mano Muthukrishna Candappa greatly saddened the hearts of her several friends and acquaintances. It left a void in the many organizations of which she was a vital and integral part. 
Zonta was closest to Manos heart. Zonta, is a prestigious international organization founded in the United States of America by a group of leading women in the professions and business striving for the advancement of status of women. Zonta is now spread over 67 countries worldwide. 

In the late 60s, Evelyn de Soysa along with other illustrious women like Mahes Candiah, Dr. Stella de Silva, Dr. Siva Chinnathamby, Deloraine Brohier and a group of forward looking and enterprising women in various fields of professions and in business desired to form a Zonta Club in Sri Lanka, Manos enthusiasm and commitment made her become the Founder Secretary. She, in her inimitable style made the organization grow, expand and bear fruit over the past five decades. 
Zonta Sri Lanka now stands proud with five Clubs serving to advance the status of women in many fields, through its distinguished membership. Manos contribution was recognized in many ways culminating in her being elected the 1st District Governor for District 25 of Zonta International covering India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. 
Mano was the trail blazer in recognizing women of achievement in all fields, and honouring them through Zonta Club I of Colombo. These awards were considered very prestigious by the recipients as can be witnessed by the large volume of applications that are received regularly from women applying for the award, year after year. 
Manos interest in the welfare of women was not limited to Zonta. The Womens Chamber of Industry and Commerce, the SAARC Womens Association, Sri Lanka Womens Conference and many other organizations and associations had the benefit of her expertise including the Colombo Chetties Association and the Forum for Ageing. 
Manos beginning as an adventurous journalist travelling overland to Russia six decades ago, led her to make bold and courageous decisions. Her innovative ideas in fostering the growth of the Polytechnic (Pvt) Ltd., elevated the quality and standard of training young women to hold positions with dignity. 

Mano had an iron hand inside a velvet glove and it was this strength and will-power that led her to overcome the obstacles life placed before her. 
Her daughters Ramola and Sharadha were her pride and joy. Led by her example, they in turn, carry on her ideals with distinction. Their families with her sons-in-law Siva and Skanda and her grand children and great grand children made her very proud of them. 
She had countless friends and each one was special and important to her. She found time for them, to care, love, counsel and guide them. Her loss will be greatly felt by everyone who knew her. 
Zonta Club 1 of Colombo celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. Yellow Rose is the symbol of Zonta and Mano will be remembered as the Golden Rose which gave great value to Zonta Sri Lanka. 
We miss you Mano. 
Mala Sabaratnam  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Are we a Country of common-sense politics 
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Are we a Country of common-sense politics 
	
Religion, race and language continue to play a major role in the civil and political arenas especially when elections come around
	The racial riots of the mid-fifties, youth insurgencies of the seventies, ethnic devastation of the mid-eighties, thirty-year war are but lessons we have learned with much pain, sadness and regret
	We can boast about the great tanks and irrigation systems during the era of our ancient kings, the valiant lives of our ancient heroes and freedom fighters
The multi-party system is a healthy structure in a workable democracy. A parliamentary opposition is meant for contributing their constructive critique to whatever may be seen as adversely affecting the government
The six decades or more of politics that we have witnessed in the post-independent Ceylon renamed Sri Lanka, the land of Taprobane, leave much to be desired in the minds of genuinely patriotic citizens who can weigh facts and figures wisely, with prejudice to none.
One would have expected post-independent Sri Lanka, freed from the yoke of political colonial rule and offered a bevy of golden opportunities whereby to launch on her own path of prosperity and peace, to make gallant strides like her Asian neighbours Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, Thailand and Korea. These latter countries and nations who were once in the dumps of economic decadence following the two world wars, have by now brilliantly set foot on the paths of economic recovery and political stability. Despite the fact that some economists would dub Asia as a continent of poverty, there are still in this promising part of the East, economic giants that are holding good sway in international relations and trade. What has become of the pearl of Indies so blessed with natural resources, competitive skill and talent The frustrating thought breeds agonizing questions that aches every right-thinking persons mind! 
Sri Lanka as it is today is indeed and unquestionably multi-lingual, multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and dotted with a plethora of political ideologies, not to mention the new political parties that rise on the horizon practically daily
It is only in a mature civil society that democracy can bring in its manifold blessings. A thorough analysis and an objective critique of the last sixty years of civil governance in our beloved motherland would reveal that a profound and unbiased intelligent insight into the economic infrastructures and political movements in this country had left much shallow layers of planning and solidarity. On the one hand, in a working democracy rulers do need a healthy opposition as an agent of discernment of the major national decisions that affect the country and its citizens as a whole, particularly on controversial issues. On the other hand, opposition views and criticism that ignite raw disagreement inspired by a very low-key national sentiment, perpetually confrontational in approach and gutted with ill-willed non-compliance, can be hazardous for the onward prosperous journey of a nation.
Today we do not find culturally, religiously and ethnically monolithic societies anywhere in the world. There may be majorities by reason of ethnicity, culture, language and religion. But, the fact is that despite this majority factor, society is very complex in its multi-culturality, religiosity and ethnicity. The modern-day social phenomenon of the migration of peoples for whatever reasons is another social factor to be reckoned with as a point that complicates this complexity. 
This being the case, problems of different cultural stances, ethnic identities and political ideologies are bound to emerge. The challenge is to reconcile these differences and forge ahead with a wide vision in mind and large-hearted commitment to a common purpose. A nation that feels threatened with its diversity will lack the backbone and the nerve to go forward. If unity and reconciliation are pursued, the path forward would be made easy.
Sri Lanka as it is today is indeed and unquestionably multi-lingual, multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and dotted with a plethora of political ideologies, not to mention the new political parties that rise on the horizon practically daily. The political history of Sri Lanka has seen incredibly revolutionary changes during the past sixty years. Generally, the trends have been in favour of democracy.
Religions, religious leaders and religious sites should not be exploited for political purposes. Politicians should be found busy governing the country in all its secular spheres instead of spot-lighting themselves in religious observances which are unnecessary and financially unproductive
We have seen very often how radical Marxist ideology had failed the people and how fundamental and leftist socialistic trends do not seem to appeal to our masses. In addition the interplay between religion and politics has been quite noteworthy. Religion, race and language continue to play a major role in the civil and political arenas especially when elections come around. There have been moments and situations of lamentable failure where minority rights had to be justifiably defended and fostered as against the unilateral and uncompromising demands and claims of the majority, religion-wise and language-wise. This unfortunate situation has led to terrible disasters and tragedies in the history of this beautiful land which claims to have in the eyes of the world a chequered history, a noble civilization and a charming culture. The racial riots of the mid-fifties followed by youth insurgencies of the seventies and the ethnic devastation of the mid-eighties, not to mention a thirty-year war that consumed this country simply laying it waste in many ways are but the lessons we have learned with much pain, sadness and regret. 
At the same time, while we can boast about the great tanks and irrigation systems during the era of our ancient kings, the valiant lives of our ancient heroes and freedom fighters, the independence we have won without any armed struggle or shedding of blood against the last colonial power, the contemporary period has shown our inability to solve many of our problems that have laid siege to our progress and prosperity. Embroiled in the intricacies of an inter-national economy that had created the so-called 20th-century tragedy that is the third-world, like many a country we have got enmeshed in the claws of the twin-headed hydra, the international institutions such as the international monetary fund (IMF) and the World-Bank (WB) with the latest being the EU hegemony. 
However grand an economic and social vision may be as presented by the current governing authority, unless the most essential services for the people run smoothly, common man would be driven into restlessness and anger. The hospitals with its care for the poor and the middle-class, the transport services with its facilities for travel and social mobility and most of all a practical system of education and vocational formation of the youth should be the upper-most important concern of the government. These are the daily needs of the common man. Mega- projects like airports, harbours and roads must bring in the revenue that will help us redeem our debts and give us a surplus that will ensure a good reserve. It is for these things that political parties must hammer out their manifestos stamped with genuineness and practicality leaving the freedom to the voters to choose what they perceive is the best pledge. During the campaign false promises should not be given which can only dupe the people into a wrong choice that will spell disaster to the country at large, both in the political sphere and in the socio-economic plane. It is not just to keep masses ignorant of the crude realities that beset us. 
Right now the country faces a three-fold serious situation: 1) a decadent economy to be resurrected dealing also with any dishonest laundering of the nations wealth 2) war-crime allegations to be squarely met in all truth and honesty with proper investigations done into questionable incidents during the 30-year war helping us thereby to win the good name that had been tarnished on the world stage; and finally, the still difficult issue of national reconciliation that will ease ethnic tensions and promote a common national Sri Lankan identity where the fundamental human rights of both the majority and the minority communities are well-safeguarded. It is here that a major responsibility and duty lie in the hands of the political parties and their leadership to spearhead moves and movements that will usher in not only peaceful co-existence but also a practical way to live out a national life-style of pro-existence. The spiritual values that are drawn from the great religious traditions in our blessed country well championed by religious leadership coming into the process of national integration will augur extremely well as a crucial and much-needed socio-cultural factor that will rally the country round in a healthy way.
Religions, religious leaders and religious sites should not be exploited for political purposes. Politicians should be found busy governing the country in all its secular spheres instead of spot-lighting themselves in religious observances which are unnecessary and financially unproductive. 
The multi-party system is a healthy structure in a workable democracy. A parliamentary opposition is meant for contributing their constructive critique to whatever may be seen as adversely affecting in the government. It is through moral persuasion through debate and not to be expressed in wild language, violent outbursts, uncourteous gestures or organized rallies that constantly disrupt the life of ordinary citizens who wish to go about their daily chores in tranquility.
The trade unions are justified in the voicing of their opposition and condemnations provided they are reasonable in their protests and are meant to champion social justice connected with burning issues at hand. It is time for the Sri Lankans to learn from other nations which have risen from dust and ashes to reach loftier levels of polity and economy, plodding the paths of true patriotism and genuine commitment to common national interests devoid of partisan and sectarian agendas. They can learn from modern nations which despite ethnic and language differences have learnt to celebrate diversity while living and working as one country.
In these countries there is social harmony and economic exuberance. Sri Lanka first, our good name first, our common identity first and the like, should be the slogans that should guide our course of action and strategies. Divisiveness, suspicion and ill-will have to be abandoned. Mistakes have to be humbly acknowledged and repented, wrongs undone and good-will promoted. The human and natural resources that we are blessed with have to be invested in the work of development and social cohesion. While history will be the final judge of our deeds, a good and enlightened social conscience disciplining us on the right path will prove to be our sure reward. With these endowments enriching and motivating our nation, all its citizens can unite to lead the land we all love, Sri Lanka, the island of serendipity.
 
		
==============================
## Title: ComBank innovates again with FastPay  new mobile payment option
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
ComBank innovates again with FastPay  new mobile payment option
	

The Commercial Bank of Ceylon has launched its own mobile payment option, enabling account holders to make instant cash-less transactions via the banks existing mobile banking app, through a simple and innovative mobile payment option.
FastPay links Commercial Bank accountholders who use the banks mobile banking app with point-of-sale terminals of vendors who use the banks online banking service, enabling the account holders mobile phones to be used like debit cards to access funds in their bank accounts.
This elegantly hassle-free and secure payment system allows a customer to make purchases and inform the cashier at the retail outlets that he or she wishes to pay via FastPay. The cashier then enters the customers mobile phone number and the platform generates a notification to the customers mobile phone, and the transaction is completed when the customer authorises payment from his phone.
This is once again a simple easy-to-use feature made possible through technology, Commercial Bank Chief Operating Officer S. Renganathan said. At Commercial Bank, we are constantly looking for ways to make financial transactions more convenient, safer and as inclusive as possible. FastPay will enable cash-less and card-less payments even in remote areas where card payments are less common.
This new payment option will initially be available at Barista outlets at World Trade Centre, Cafe Mocha - Gandhara, and Barista outlets at Laksalapremises - Thunmulla, Bambalapitiya,Peradeniya and the National Museum.Customers who use FastPay for payments at Barista during the launch period up to end of November 2017 would receive a 50 percent discount on the total bill value, the bank said.
Merchant outlets offering the FastPay option to their customers will receive their money in their accounts when the customers accounts are debited at the end of each transaction, and the sales proceeds can be viewed on the same day through the banks online banking facility.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Constitutional Assembly: focus on aspirations of all people
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 08:15 pm
Constitutional Assembly: focus on aspirations of all people
	
The Constitutional Assembly and the steering committee should focus on the aspirations of all people when it comes to compiling a new Constitution instead of taking into account the ideologies of a few, joint opposition parliamentary group leader Dinesh Gunawardene said today.
"NGOs do not represent the people. The steering committee therefore should focus on the citizens of the country and consider their ideas as well," Mr. Gunawardene said while highlighting that the constitutional steering committee interim report only highlighted ideas of a small group.
He questioned why there was no consistency with regard to the sovereignty of the nation in the interim report. The MP said the Sinhala, Tamil and English copies of the report were not consistent as it gave different interpretation on the sovereignty of the nation.
Further, Mr. Gunawardene said the joint opposition would not allow anyone to change the status guaranteed for Buddhism in the present Constitution. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: 51 countries line up to sign UN treaty outlawing nuclear weapons
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:14 am
51 countries line up to sign UN treaty outlawing nuclear weapons
	

DAILY MAIL, 20 September, 2017 - With the North Korean nuclear crisis looming large, 51 countries on Wednesday lined up to sign a new treaty outlawing nuclear weapons that has been fiercely opposed by the United States and other nuclear powers. 
The treaty was adopted by 122 countries at the United Nations in July following negotiations led by Austria, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and New Zealand. 
None of the nine countries that possess nuclear weapons -- the United States, Russia, Britain, China, France, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel -- took part in the negotiations. 
NATO condemned the treaty, saying that it may in fact be counter-productive by creating divisions. 
As leaders formally signed on the sidelines of the annual UN General Assembly, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres hailed as historic the first multilateral disarmament treaty in more than two decades. 
But Guterres acknowledged that much work was needed to rid the world of its stockpile of 15,000 atomic warheads. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Country  needs incorruptible  Statesmen, not  marketing brands
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Country  needs incorruptible  Statesmen, not  marketing brands
	
If the defeat of the LTTE is a reunification of the country, it was only territorially, not a reunification of the hearts and minds of all the people
	It is crystal clear, even to a schoolboy, robbing even a few rupees for personal gain is theft
	It is this kind of politics, politicians and political parties and their crony supporters, who selfishly expect perks, position, and power
I refer to the article in the Daily Mirror of 13th September titled In Game of Thrones, Game Changes, by Dr. Dayan Jayatielleke (Dr.DJ). I am a free thinker not in bondage to political parties of whatever variety. I have nothing but contempt for politics, politicians, and political parties. These three demons have been the downfall of our nation. The day political parties are buried, this country will progress and prosper; more on this, at a later date. 
With the introduction of the vernacular as the Official Language in 1956, that breed of politicians and public servants were a vanishing species by 1970s
Yes, it is true. I endorse Dr. DJs statement that we had distinguished Prime Ministers and public servants of impeccable integrity, ability, honesty and intellect. It was an era when political parties were just one or two. Further, it was an age when the Official Language and medium of education was English. Political leaders and their followers and the public servants were more refined and cultured, then. With the introduction of the vernacular as the Official Language in 1956 by the Oxford educated, liberal minded Prime Minister, S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, that breed of politicians and public servants were a vanishing species by 1970s. The quality and calibre of politicians and public servants diminished. Today, political parties have mushroomed like IPL teams, where politicians like the IPL players, are bought and sold in auction for money.
I have nothing but contempt for politics, politicians, and political parties. These three demons have been the downfall of our nation
Some of the statements made by Dr. DJ do not stand to reason 
1.Dr. DJ states that Lalith Weeratunga and Anusha Palpita are imprisoned and heavily fined for a victimless crime.This reasoning is utterly absurd. Firstly, this is not a crime between two or more identifiable persons, under Civil or Criminal law of the country. This is misappropriation of State Funds. Dr. DJ is blind to the stark reality that the victims are the 20 million people of this country, whose money has been robbed to meet the private, personal purpose of an individual, to win an election. Further, Dr.DJ says that the sum of Rs. 600 million is relatively insignificant compared to the Bond scam. The logic is, therefore, it is excusable. He further states it is a careless compliance or impropriety, when it is crystal clear, even to a schoolboy, that it was a calculated collusion between the doers and the beneficiary. There are no degrees or shades in robbing. Robbing even a few rupees for personal gain is theft. 
2.Dr.DJ states that the Project of Constitutional Change, a project that in any self-respecting country is the most sovereign process. Again he refuses to see the democratic, sovereign process is action. Public representations have been solicited, both in writing and in person, Committees have discussed and debated the issues involved and finally it will be again subject to deliberations by all the peoples representatives in the duly formed Constitutional Assembly and enacted with a 2/3 majority votes, with the possibility of a Referendum by the people. Isnt this democratic and expression of peoples sovereignty 
3.Dr. DJ seems to be an avowed worshipper of the Holy Trinity of the SLFP when he says that even if Mahinda is out of the way, there is Gota, if Gota is out of the way, there is Chammal, if Chammal is out of the way ,there is Dinesh (conspicuously Basil is dethroned from the Pantheon of demi - Gods). Dr. DJs superlative adoration of the Rajapaksas, suggest that he believes that the country has no superior and higher persons than these deities of the SLFP. 
4.Dr. DJ is of the opinion that  MR is the biggest brand the SLFP has. What the country needs is talented, able, incorruptible and meritocratic leaders not marketing brands. If MR is the biggest brand, he should have won the last election. 
5.The irony of ironies is that Dr.DJ states that MR reunited the State, resurrected the economy and transformed the face of the country. If the defeat of the LTTE is a reunification of the country, it was only territorially, not a reunification of the hearts and minds of all the people, but aggravated the cleavage between the North and South. It was not a resurrection of the economy, but inflicted a death-blow to the economy. Infrastructure development at inflated cost and kickbacks, white elephant projects with no return on capital, emasculating debt burden bequeathed to posterity, which outstripped the National Revenue and superficial beautification of the city with greenery, which is the only transformation of the face of the country.
No, the capital city only, with so-called Urban Development projects, that enriched the pockets of those involved. 
It is this kind of politics, politicians and political parties and their crony supporters, who selfishly expect perks, position, power in the future and hence believe and want a change of throne to happen. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dialog Mobile services fully restored
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:21 am
Dialog Mobile services fully restored
	
While expressing regrets over the inconvenience to its customers arising from network disturbances on Wednesday afternoon, the Dialog network announced that the services were fully restored in less than 60 minutes.
Dialog regrets the inconvenience to customers arising from network disturbances on Wednesday afternoon. The Disturbance to voice and SMS services occurred due to a power systems failure at one of the key network nodes, which resulted in congestion in other parts of the network. Services were fully restored in less than 60 minutes, the Dialog stated.
On Wednesday afternoon, Dialog networks throughout the country experienced a wide-ranging network failure.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dont put the elderly in the forgotten file!
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Dont put the elderly in the forgotten file!
	
World Alzheimers Day falls today
Imagine waking up one day and not being able to recognise your family, their names or even where you are. This is what a person with Alzheimers disease lives with daily. Identified as one of the causes of Dementia, Alzheimers could be treated and delayed in certain instances, but never be cured. Dementia is the progressive loss of the powers of the brain. Hence the most common types of Dementia are Alzheimers disease and Vascular Dementia. These diseases damage and kill brain cells, so that the brain cant work at its optimum level. 

Having volunteered to work with people diagnosed with Alzheimers disease for the past 18 years, Lorraine Yu, Founder and President of Lanka Alzheimers Foundation (LAF) has been an inspiration to the society. In view of World Alzheimers Day, which falls today (September 21), the Daily Mirror visited the Lanka Alzheimers Foundation in Maradana.

Every possible place should be Dementia-friendly - Lorraine Yu 
Lot of people think that we run a rich organisation and have foreign donor agencies backing us, says Lorraine Yu, LAFs Founder and President. I was shown this property in December 2002 and I felt that 2/3rds of my battle was won because I only had to find people and start the centre. I faced many challenges at the inception because many people didnt believe in me and they thought I was a scam. Hence I had to deliver to the people, prove myself and earn credible presence in the community. Theres very little awareness about Alzheimers and dementia since they are age-related diseases. Supporting the elderly isnt fashionable and unfortunately the elderly population has become the forgotten lot. Ageing is inevitable and with age the risk of you getting dementia is higher. This isnt a normal feature of aging. All non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and depression could increase your risk of being diagnosed with dementia. We are trying to educate younger people in the community. If you had diabetes in your family then you have to be mindful about it in your younger age because you may have distanced diabetes, which is a risk factor. High blood pressure may give rise to strokes which cause the second-most common form of dementia known as Vascular Dementia. The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimers disease. With regard to Alzheimers we dont have a cure. And during the latter stages of this disease the patient totally depends on close associates.
The lack of understanding makes it more challenging for the caregiver,explained Yu.
Alnaas Esufally
Lorraine further said that if someone inquires the time from you about 10 times that definitely is a sure sign of dementia. Repetitiveness is due to loss of short term memory and they arent doing it intentionally to annoy you. But there are family members who will shout at them for asking something repeatedly. Theres no purpose in being hard on them and once they get scolded they feel sad and frustrated because they know they have a problem. People shouldnt judge those with dementia because there are some people who will be arrogant and insulting.
We have to make every possible place a Dementia friendly venue. As service providers we have to educate people about dementia, so that they know how to provide a service without being judgmental. Those who suffer from dementia should always make sure that they are going to a safe, secure and non-judgmental environment. If they dont have that confidence they will try to isolate themselves. Hence the caregiver too gets isolated. The LAF is there to direct support. We know that there are so many people out there who still havent reached us. We come across incidents where people have wandered off and gone missing. So when I come across such a person I phone the family because they have never contacted us,said Yu.
We are focused on educating people around the island. In addition to that we also conduct memory screening and assessments for those who are experiencing difficulties with memory and reasoning abilities. Assessments are available in both Sinhala and English
A collection of art done by the 'clients'
Services 

Speaking about the services offered to its clients (as described by Lorraine) she said that as part of the world body, they arent supposed to provide direct services. We play an advocacy role to speak to policy makers and stakeholders about making a change. 60% of people who have dementia have a tendency to wander and we provide them with an Identification bracelet which is hypo-allergenic, water and sweat resistant. We are focused on educating people around the island. In addition to that we also conduct memory screening and assessments for those who are experiencing difficulties with memory and reasoning abilities. Assessments are available in both Sinhala and English and would last approximately 30 minutes. We also have an activity centre which is open from 9am to 4pm on Mondays and Wednesdays, where the clients can engage in reminiscence therapy, music sessions, gentle exercises, arts and crafts, cooking, letter writing etc. These activities provide stimulation socially, mentally and physically. In addition to that we do counseling and educate family members on understanding dementia, the progression of the disease and information on successful, stress-free caregiving, she said.
When we walked through the corridors at LAF a group of clients were engaged in a music session. Another was playing carom with a volunteer. The Centre is set in a warm, welcoming and tranquil environment providing specialized care for the clients.
Volunteers and funds

The LAF solely relies on funds given by donors and well-wishers. If a client walks in, the services are absolutely free-of-charge, but theres a registration form. The model of this Centre is not that of a day-care centre. Its a home for them and they enjoy getting together with others. The success story of LAF is dedicated to its volunteers who enjoy spending time with the clients. Alnaaz Esufally is one of them who has been volunteering for over a year and half. Speaking to the Daily Mirror she said that its quite an enriching experience to spend time with them. Dementia and Alzheimers could affect anyone across all borders. You can be clever and wealthy, but the disease is unavoidable and at one point you become helpless. People at home have to attend to their daily needs and when family members need a break we are there to help. I do very little for them, but it has made me a happier person. Every Friday I visit LAF and Im planning to come regularly. We sing, paint and dance with them and try to make their Friday a happening one. I would like to request from those interested to please come and be a part of this experience and help people who have no expectations,said Alnaaz Esufally.
We have to train doctors as well as nurses because the caregiver has a bigger role to play in this situation. The issue at hand is that most people with Alzheimers disease are being taken care of by relatives who dont have adequate training
Dearth of geriatricians inSri Lanka 
Although Sri Lanka is experiencing a boom in the ageing population, little has been done to offer a hand for active ageing. Hence, they are vulnerable to conditions such as dementia and Alzheimers disease. Speaking to the Daily Mirror, Prof. Chandrika Jayasinghe, Professor in Medicine at the University of Peradeniya, said that theres a dearth of geriatricians in Sri Lanka. Although there are people who have studied geriatric medicine theres a dearth in Board Certified Geriatric consultants. Therefore, theres an issue in addressing the root causes of the issue. This is an urgent need and I believe that there are several postgraduate programmes in gerontology and geriatric medicine which is a good sign. We have to train doctors as well as nurses because the caregiver has a bigger role to play in this situation. The issue at hand is that most people with Alzheimers disease are being taken care of by relatives who dont have adequate training. Therefore there could be certain weaknesses in the caregiving process. If the elderly population isnt taken care of, we will have an equally high disabled population because people with Alzheimers have a tendency to meet with accidents which could cause physical harm as well. Therefore a policy decision has to be taken to improve the process of active ageing.  Prof. Jayasinghe said.
Repetitiveness is due to loss of short term memory and they arent doing it intentionally to annoy you. But there are family members who will shout at them for asking something repeatedly. Theres no purpose in being hard on them
When asked about the situation in rural areas Prof. Jayasinghe said that in rural communities, the family unit is tightly knit. But in Colombo and suburbs, children have a tendency to leave their parents and migrate. Hence parents grow old and in case they have Alzheimers disease the matter would be worse. On the contrary, in rural communities we can be sure that at least one person would remain with the patient,said the professor.
-Pics by KushanPathiraja 
Reducing risks of Dementia
 
Dementia has been identified as the fourth biggest killer after diseases like strokes and cancer. As life expectancy increases, there will be older people and many more people suffering from dementia. By 2050 it is estimated that there will be approximately half a million people with dementia in Sri Lanka. In order to reduce risks of dementia several things could be done: 
Follow a healthy diet: A brain-healthy diet is one that reduces the risk of heart disease, diabetes and encourages good blood flow to the brain. Studies have shown that a high intake of leafy vegetables would reduce the risk of Alzheimers disease by 55%. 
	Challenge your brain: Activities that need mental energy such as reading, playing board games, doing crosswords or puzzles may help reduce risk of dementia. 
	Be physically active: Regular physical activity helps the blood flow to the brain. Studies show that people who exercise three or more times a week have a 30% - 40% lower risk of developing dementia. 
	Enjoy social activities: Having an extensive social network seems to protect against dementia. Therefore keep in touch with friends and family, get involved in your community, volunteer or join an activity group. 
Information courtesy :http://alzlanka.org/ 
(If you know of anybody with Alzheimers, dementia or other memory problems please contact the Lanka Alzheimers Foundation on 0112 667 080 or visit them at No. 110, Ketawalamulla Lane, Colombo 10.)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dozens of states sign nuclear weapons ban treaty at United Nations
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:09 am
Dozens of states sign nuclear weapons ban treaty at United Nations
	

REUTRS, 20th SEPTEMBER, 2017-
Dozens of countries signed a treaty to ban nuclear weapons on Wednesday amid tensions over North Koreas nuclear and missile tests, although the United States, Britain, France and others boycotted the event at the annual United Nations gathering of world leaders.
The treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons will enter into force 90 days after 50 countries have ratified it. Only a few states were due to deposit their ratification on Wednesday.
There remain some fifteen thousand nuclear weapons in existence. We cannot allow these doomsday weapons to endanger our world and our childrens future, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said as he opened the treaty
for signing.
Earlier this month North Korea conducted its sixth and largest nuclear weapons test. U.S. President Donald Trump told the 193-member U.N. General Assembly on Tuesday that if threatened, the United States would totally destroy the country of 26 million people and mocked its leader, Kim Jong Un, as a rocket man.
The treaty was adopted in July by two-thirds of the 193 U.N. member states after months of talks, which the United States, Britain, France and others skipped. They instead pledged commitment to a decades-old Non-Proliferation Treaty, which aims to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and weapons technology.
The United States, Britain and France are among nine countries believed to have nuclear weapons.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Entrepreneurship and microfinance backbone of Lankan economy : SDB Bank Director
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Entrepreneurship and microfinance backbone of Lankan economy : SDB Bank Director
	
Expressing views on the Sri Lankan MSME sector alongside the reasons for its unwavering confidence in SDB Banks growth potential, Non-executive, Non-independent Director, the largest shareholder as at 31st August 2017 with 11percent stake in SDB, and the Managing Director of Global Rubber Industries (Pvt.) Ltd. Prabhash Subasinghe underscored the fact that entrepreneurship and microfinance sector has tremendously supported and consolidated the countrys economy.
Global Rubber Industries (GRI), predominantly an export company that has a worldwide dealer network with sales and distribution offices in several countries including the USA and Australia, has drawn its attention to Sri Lankas SME Sector.We possess substantial investments in overseas markets, and we are now looking to furtherinvest in Sri Lanka, a country that has clearly shown high growth potential in the SME sector, Subasinghe stated.
GRI currently holds investments in the financial sector and sizeable investments in the insurance sector, hence the move to further invest in the finance sector, specifically in banking, was a strategic decision. SDB was found to be the textbook candidate for investment, owing to SDBs support from a large chain of Sanasa societies. Moreover, the Sanasa Movement has maintained long-standingbrand recognition in the country, thereby providing assurance of high growth potential.

Unique candidate
GRI, which claims to an insurance portfolio, found SDB Bank as a unique candidate for investment in the financial sector, mainly due to SDB Bank being supported by a massive chain of Sanasa societies. Sanasa Movement has maintained long standing brand recognition in the country, thereby giving a successfulgrowth potential.
Furthermore, when compared to other financial institutes, SDB has an outreach of 8000 Sanasa societies island-wide while the bank asserts claims to astounding 38,640 shareholders. GRI considered this to be an optimistic factor which will contribute towardsthe banks holistic development. 71 percent of stake in the bank are owned by a handful of large investors. The largest stakeholders include the Sanasa Movement along with the World Banks subsidiary  IFC, SBI-FMO, Dr. Senthilver, FMO and ourselves. Conversely, the Sanasa Movement comprising of over 8,000 societies holds 29 percent of the stake. Once again this proves that SDB is an unrivaled bank, as its large investors not only consolidate the banks strength, but also offer a steady growth for small shareholders.
Expressing his views on SDBs future growth potential, Subasinghe emphasized that GRI, which is armed with expertise and long-standing experience in the industry, has recognized SDB as a small financial institute with considerable development possibilities. I joined the banks Board of Directors in order to extend my fullest support towards its growth. At presentthe banks biggest milestone is Rs. 1 billion profit target.This will significantly elevate the banks position among its competitors in the stock market as well as the banking industry.
Subasinghe further speculated that SDB has several means of growth, established and strengthened by the equity partnerships attained with globally renowned international firms including IFC, FMO, and SBI-FMO. In addition, SDB is supported by several large investors including the GRI, which holds the power to considerably change the dynamics of the bank, and place it on a direct path to progress.
As an outstanding and exceptional entrepreneur in Asia, Prabash Subasinghe shed light upon the strategic and operational importance of developing SME banks from the grass-root level to international level. Im an entrepreneur who started on a green field basis and ultimately made it to the major league. I strongly believe that entrepreneurship is the backbone of a countrys economy. I trust that its crucial for a bank to support the growth of SMEs. SDB has already specialized in the micro finance and the SME sectors.

Deciding factor
Entrepreneurship decides the success of a country and its economy. Organizations are made by those who pursue a vision, those who face risks and those who overcome challenges. Personally, I feel that entrepreneurship is holistically essential for Sri Lanka to grow, and the country needs more entrepreneurs. Subasinghe declared.
SDB has operated within a certain frame and model, up until now. However, with international financial bodies and large volumes of foreign direct investment (FDI) flowing in, the bank will undergo a prominent positive change in due course, and we are enthusiastic about this happening. Succeeding the involvement of the Sanasa Federation and Sanasa Movement, we expect tremendous growth performance from SDB in the years to come. Im personally prepared to extend my time to aid and support SDB and its valuable stakeholders, towards the accomplishments of this goal.
Speculating a change in the brand mix of the bank, Subasinghe once again underscored the value added from the international equity partnerships entered with the IFC, FMO and SBI. While expanding the banks international recognition, the synergy formed with the global financial firms would pave the way for foreign investors to approach and invest in the bank. These partnerships, especially the ties with the World Banks subsidiary  IFC, will prove to stand testimony to SDB Banks growth potential and exceptional performance.

About Subasinghe
He is a non-executive Director to the SDBs Board of Directors, bearing a 12 percent stake, in addition to holding a number of key positions in the following organizations: Chairman of Sri Lanka Association of Manufactures of & Exporters of Rubber Products, President of the Sea Food Exporters Association, Board Member of Sri Lanka Society of Rubber Industry and an advisor for the Sri Lanka national export strategy.
Subasinghe graduated from an Ivy League, Cornell University with a B.Sc. in Applied Economics and Business Management, following this he had pursued further studies at the prestigious Harvard University, INSEAD and the Center for
Creative leadership.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fitch affirms Alliance Finance at BB+(lka); Withdraws Ratings
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Fitch affirms Alliance Finance at BB+(lka); Withdraws Ratings
	
Fitch Ratings has affirmed Alliance Finance Company PLCs (AFC) National Long-Term Rating and the ratings on its outstanding senior unsecured debentures at BB+(lka). The Outlook on the National Long-Term Rating is Stable.
Fitch has also affirmed AFCs outstanding subordinated debentures at BB(lka). At the same time, Fitch has withdrawn all the ratings of AFC because they have been taken private. A full list of rating actions is at the end of this rating action commentary.
AFCs rating reflects its established but modest franchise, weaker capitalisation stemming from its track record of rapid growth and higher risk appetite relative to peers. This is counterbalanced by improvements in risk controls and asset quality following changes to its management.
AFCs outstanding senior debentures are rated at the same level as AFCs National Long-Term Rating as they rank equally with the claims of the companys other senior unsecured creditors.
The outstanding subordinated debentures are rated one notch below AFCs National Long-Term Rating to reflect their subordination to the claims of senior unsecured creditors.
 
		
==============================
## Title: GMOA claims strike a success
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 07:47 pm
GMOA claims strike a success
	
Healthcare and education services countrywide were disrupted today because of the 24-hour strike launched by several trade unions against the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe.
Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) Secretary Dr. Haritha Aluthge told a media briefing that government doctors including ayurvedic doctors, dental and veterinary surgeons stopped work from 8.00 a.m. today and would continue the work stoppage till 8.00 a.m. tomorrow.
We have successfully launched the 24-hour strike today in hospitals countrywide. The main motive behind these strikes is to get a permanent and reasonable solution to the SAITM issue, he added.
However, he said emergency treatment at all the hospitals was carried out uninterrupted.
Meanwhile, Ceylon Teachers Union (CTU) General Secretary Joseph Stalin told the Daily Mirror that about 60 per cent of teachers at state schools kept away by applying sick leave.
The strike action against the SAITM launched by twelve unions attached to education sector was a success. Around 70 per cent of teachers from remote areas and 50 per cent of teachers from urban areas have applied for sick leave today, he added.
He said they had launched this strike in protest of SAITM as well as against the privatization of the education in the country.
However, speaking to the Daily Mirror, Education Ministry Media Secretary Kalpa Gunaratne said there was no effect on the educational activities at schools today though several teachers union had claimed that they were on sick leave.
Meanwhile, thousands of patients who called over today at government hospitals in several areas including Matale, Polonnaruwa , Anuradhapura, Kandy, Monaragala and almost all hospitals in the Nuwara Eliya district seeking treatment returned in disappointment due to the strike against the SAITM.
The patients who sought OPD treatments and those expected to attend clinics scheduled for today were the worst affected.
Secretary of the GMOA Polonnaruwa branch Dr. G.D.P Bandara said the strike in the Polonnaruwa district was a success. He said more than 5,000 patients who were scheduled to attend clinics and those who sought OPD treatments at the Polonnaruwa hospital had to go back in disappointment. He said more than 350 doctors in the district had joined the strike.
Patients who called over at the Anuradhapura district from remote areas early today were waiting at the hospital for long hours until the time of buses to return. Hundreds of disabled patients were among them. Several others were waiting at the hospital in the hope of the doctors calling off the strike and returning to work in the afternoon.
Deputy Director of the hospital Dr. Dulan Amaraweera said the patients in the OPD were the worst affected. He said the treatment of in-house patients, urgent surgical operations, treatment of cancer, and kidney patients were going on uninterrupted. Similar reports had been received from other areas as well. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
(Additional reporting by K.G.Karunaratne, M.W.Somaratne, Atula Bandara, L.B.Senaratne, Sumanasiri Gunatilleka and Sudath Hewa and Kusal Chamath)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. insults judiciary by introducing reforms through backdoor: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 05:20 pm
Govt. insults judiciary by introducing reforms through backdoor: MR
	
Former president Mahinda Rajapaksa today said the government has openly insulted the judiciary and flouted the Constitution by introducing changes to the Provincial Councils Election Bill through the backdoor.
Issuing a statement, he said these changes have been made when the Supreme Court (SC) had given a clear ruling that the extension of the terms of the Provincial Councils (PCs) or a postponement of elections would require a referendum in addition to a two thirds majority in Parliament.
He said all provincial councils will stand automatically dissolved in terms of Article 154E of the Constitution as they complete their five year terms.
The Sabaragamauwa, North Central and Eastern provinces are to stand dissolved in a few days time. The other PCs will stand dissolved at various times in 2018 and 2019. Though the dissolution of the provincial councils will take place as scheduled, the latest changes to the provincial councils elections law will enable the government to indefinitely delay elections to the PCs on the excuse that constituencies need to be demarcated, he said.
The full statement is as follows:
Indefinite postponement of the Provincial Council elections
The UNP, the SLFP faction allied to the UNP, the Tamil National Alliance, the JVP and other yahapalana conspirators acting in concert have introduced changes to the provincial councils electionslaw in order to indefinitely postpone PC elections.
Even though they tried earlier to introduce a constitutional amendment to extend the terms of the existing provincial councils without holding elections, that move failed because the Supreme Court determined that such a constitutional amendment would require a referendum in addition to a two thirds majority in Parliament. Now all provincial councils will stand automatically dissolved in terms of Article 154E of the Constitution as they complete their five year terms. The Sabaragamauwa, North Central and Eastern provinces are to stand dissolved in a few days time. The other PCs will stand dissolved at various times in 2018 and 2019.
Though the dissolution of the provincial councils will take place as scheduled, the latest changes to the provincial councils elections law will enable the government to indefinitely delay elections to the PCs on the excuse that constituencies need to be demarcated. This was the same excuse this government used to postpone the elections to the local government bodies which have now been delayed by over two and a half years.
This government has stood the law making process on its head in their attempt to avoid holding elections. Amendments to Bills at the committee stage in Parliament are brought only to make minor technical changes to facilitate the passage of the Bill. But in the past few days, the government has used committee stage amendments (introduced to Bills brought for a completely different purpose) to change the system of election to local government institutions and the provincial councils.
Such gross abuse of the law making process has never before been experienced in this country. The government brought 31 pages of new amendments to completely change the PC elections system at the committee stage to a Bill less than one and a half pages in length introduced to increase womens representation in the provincial councils.
The manner in which they changed the provincial councils election system with just days to go for the automatic dissolution of the first three provincial councils shows that they will do anything to avoid holding elections. When some political parties said that they will not vote for these amendments unless the proportion of representatives elected on the proportional representation principle are increased from 40% to 50%, the government agreed to that literally on the floor of the house.
However, when the government changed the system of election to local government bodies just days ago, the proportion of representatives elected on the proportional representation principle was fixed at 40%. Now there is a mismatch between the system of election to the local government bodies and the provincial councils. Changes are being made to the election laws without any guiding principles. These hasty and ad hoc changes to the election laws are placing the very edifice of representative democracy in this country in grave danger.

The Eastern Provincial Council will be among the first three PCs to stand dissolved. Thereafter there will be no elected local government bodies or a provincial council in the East. Back in 2008 with the war still raging in the Vanni, my government held elections to local government institutions in the East in March 2008 and followed up by holding the first election to the Eastern Provincial Council in May 2008 because it was vital to introduce democracy and normalcy to that region after liberating the province from the LTTE.
A little over a decade ago, there were no local government institutions or a provincial council functioning in the East because of the terrorists. Now there are no local government bodies in the East and elsewhere as well and the existing provincial councils are to go into oblivion one by one because of the yahapalana government.
Even the JVPs ban on elections in 1988/89 and the LTTEs terrorism over three decades was never able to bring the electoral process in this country to a complete halt the way the present government has.
This government has also openly insulted the judiciary and flouted the Constitution by introducing changes to the provincial councils election law through the back door when the Supreme Court had given a clear ruling that the extension of the terms of the provincial councils or a postponement of elections would require a referendum in addition to a two thirds majority in Parliament.The people should unite and organize to oppose this attempt to destroy the democratic institutions in this country.
Mahinda Rajapaksa
Former President of Sri Lanka
 
		
==============================
## Title: How language  calls  the child
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
How language  calls  the child
	
Language is the key which unlocks the door to developing skills that help communicate with. This key should be uncovered during the early years of a child, enabling him or her to have an augmented vocabulary. When this is done a child is gifted with the refined skill of fluent communication.
It is the teachers responsibility to lay the basic foundation of language literacy in a childs early years. This responsibility isnt easy and requires tactical maneuver to guide the child accordingly and to evaluate progress in the language literacy as befits the age. The basic foundation of language is of utmost importance. This is why a clear language presentation has to be essentially brought about in the prime of childhood. 

To serve this purpose, a three day Language Refresher Course was organized at the Good Shepherd Maria Montessori Training Centre. The course was held from September 6-8. The course targeted Montessorians working in authentic AMI Montessori Houses for Children. The programme was conducted by an energetic and lively personality named Cheryl Ferreira, the Course Director for Part-time Courses at the Maria Montessori Institute, London, UK. Being an experienced trainer, Ferreira was able to lucidly dispense knowledge to the audience. Ferreira conducted a session on the use of English language for children, helping the tiny tots to communicate using the language. The initial training was followed by a session where participants were made to read and write. The programme served as an eye-opener to the approach that should be adopted by adults to inculcate language development in children, from a very young age. The program concluded successfully, attracting 140 attendees from twenty-five schools located all over the island. 
The programme served as an eye-opener to the approach that should be adopted by adults to inculcate language development in children, from a very young age
The organizing committee reserves the rights to bask in the glory of the programmes success. The result for this success is the initiation and smooth management of the event. There was no room left for anyone to be dissatisfied. The Organising Committee comprised members Juliana Mahadeva, Zenita De Silva, Sherene Alles Fernandopulle. Sanjana Selvarajah, Kishani Silva, Ama Gokula, Vimadi Athauda, Sr. M. Stanislaus Vas, Surangani Jayatilaka, former Principal of St. Bridget Montessori House of Children, Sr. Marie Remona Nugara, present Principal of tSt. Bridget Montessori House of Children, Sr. M. Dulcy Peiris, Sr. Thilini Rupasinghe and Sr. Velani De Silva
Group activities of the refresher course
.The course prepared teachers intellectually
Speaking on behalf of the Organizing Committee, Rev. Sr. Stanislaus Vas, expressing her opinion on the language refresher course, deemed it as a way to enrich the vocabulary in children. We feel Blessed and Privileged. We thank God as we see this programme as a treasure that will help benefit little children. It is a gift that we place at the feet of the little child by way of language. The course has made us feel enriched and empowered. It has served its purpose in raising awareness and in preparing teachers intellectually, socially and spiritually to offer the gift of language competency to children from a very young age while ensuring the maximum respect and dignity of the little child. The language development of a child starts from birth. So the beginning is at home. When he enters the House of children then the teacher is entrusted with the responsibility of presenting the language to the child and enriching vocabulary.We hope the programme served its purpose. This is our inaugural course. In time to come, we hope to conduct one every year, opined Sr. Stanislaus Vas. 
pics by Waruna Wanniarachchi
Good Shepherd Maria Montessori Training Centre
 
		
==============================
## Title: JVP supporting mainly to abolish executive presidency: Anura
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 03:14 pm
JVP supporting mainly to abolish executive presidency: Anura
	
Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake said today they would support the Constitution-making process based on several facts including the abolishing of the executive presidency and changing of the electoral system.
The JVP MP told Parliament that the constitution was meant to protect the social and economic policy of the country and added that they were against that policy and the constitution in general.
He said however they would support the constitution making process on the aspect of making democratic reforms.
He said they were of the opinion that a new constitution should be introduced as the present constitution had been amended 19 times mainly to ensure the power of the government in office.
He said they were participating in the constitution making solely to abolish the executive presidency which was detrimental to the country.
He said democracy could not be upheld while maintaining the executive presidency and added that it should be abolished to protect the peoples' rights and uphold democracy.
Mr. Dissanayake said the electoral system also should be changed and added that if parliamentary electoral system was to be changed, it should be done within the constitution not by amending it.
He said the constitution should ensure equal rights of all communities and added that no faction should participate in the constitution making with racial ideology.
He said national security and sovereignty should be ensured in the Constitution. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan baby farms: Minister admits illegal adoption trade
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 11:47 am
Lankan baby farms: Minister admits illegal adoption trade
	
Sri Lankan authorities have admitted in a Dutch documentary that thousands of babies born there were fraudulently sold for adoption abroad in the 1980s.
Up to 11,000 children could have been sold to Europe, with both parties being given fake documents.
Some were reportedly born into "baby farms" that sold children to the west.
Sri Lanka's health minister told the Dutch current affairs programme Zembla he would set up a DNA database to help children find their birth mothers.
About 4,000 children are thought to be have been relocated to families in the Netherlands, with others going to other European countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the UK.
One adoptee called Rowan van Veelen, told the BBC earlier this year that he had travelled back to Sri Lanka to try and find his birth mother 27 years on.
He was part of a Netherlands-based social media network that tried to match Sri Lankan birth mothers to their estranged adopted children.
"The adopted children and the mothers got the wrong information, which makes it really hard," he explained.
"We want to make a DNA bank with all adopted children from [the] Netherlands who can search if we have siblings there.
"Then we could ask other countries like Sweden, Denmark and Germany to give their DNA also in the bank too."
The Dutch filmmakers from Zembla started looking into the allegations after the Dutch Council for the Administration of Criminal Justice and Protection of Juveniles advised the government in November 2016 to considering banning foreign adoptions because of unethical practices in some of the children's origin countries.
Norbert Reinjens, a researcher for Zembla, told the BBC that they had found evidence that all kind of documents were falsified by adoption authorities - including birth certificates, the names of children and the identity of biological parents.
"In some institutions there were 'acting mothers' who were paid to pretend to be the biological parents while handing them over," he said.
In the documentary locals allege that some hospital workers worked alongside the networks.
Some new mothers at a hospital in Matugama, western Sri Lanka, were reportedly told their children had died, when they were actually sold abroad for adoption.
One woman told the documentary makers she was paid 2,000 rupees (23; $30) by someone connected to the hospital to act as a baby's mother.
Sri Lanka temporarily banned intra-country adoptions in 1987 when one "baby farm" was raided, and 20 newborns were found inside.
Reports from the time said the women there were being held in "prisonlike conditions", surrounded by a 10 ft (3m) wall.
Sri Lankan Health Minister Rajitha Senaratne denied the government held any responsibility or knowledge of the networks.
But in an interview with the documentary makers he said he would look into setting up a special office to try and match the children involved.
"It is very wrong, it is against human rights of those families - so that has to be investigated. I myself will take the responsibility for that investigation."
One mother, Renuka Abeysinghe, told the BBC that her daughter was taken in 1992.
"I will be very happy if I meet her again. I gave her for adoption because we were poor and we didn't have a way to live.
"They told me they took her to Germany but we had no information after that."
Another, Ms Sirimavathi said she was alone when she gave up her daughter.
"I don't have parents, and all my close relatives were abroad when I got my child. I didn't have anyone. I didn't have a place to stay, " she said.
"I cried a lot when giving away the baby, still I am crying.
"My wish is to see her once, I don't want anything from her."
The Dutch State Secretary for Security and Justice confirmed to Zembla he was looking into the allegations. (BBC)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran compellable to give evidence: PCoI
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 05:31 am
Mahendran compellable to give evidence: PCoI
	
In a special statement, the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) yesterday ascertained that Central Bank's former governor Arjuna Mahendran is compellable to give evidence and that being a foreign citizen did not preclude him from falling within PCoI jurisdiction and therefore had to obey summons.
Especially after accepting the appointment of Central Bank Governor, Mr. Mahendran cannot claim he is outside our Law, PCoI Chairman Justice K.T. Chitrasiri said while reading out the special statement at the end of yesterdays sessions.
PCoI's full statement is as follows:
"As you are all aware, this Commission of Inquiry has tried to refrain from making statements with regard to media reports and media discussions, since we believe our task is only to carry out our Mandate as completely as possible within the available time period and to honour our duty to act within the Law and fairly, as emphasized by the Supreme Court in several decisions and not to engage with the media. However, media reports about a submission made yesterday, requires us to make a brief statement now. At the time these submissions were made yesterday, there was no need to respond since it was clear that Mr. Mahendran would be testifying and there was no need to delay proceedings.
"However, in view of media reports, we wish to now state with regard to that submission that, firstly, in our view, Mr. Mahendran being a foreign citizen does not take him outside our jurisdiction and he had to obey the Summons. Especially after accepting the appointment as Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Mr. Mahendran cannot claim that he is outside our Law.
"Secondly, Mr. Mahendran is in a very different position to Mr. Arjun Aloysius who appeared in response to summons and pleaded that he is likely to be the accused in a Criminal Case in the High Court and that he is likely to incriminate himself if he is compelled to give Evidence. Mr. Aloysius invoked a Golden Rule of the Law that an accused cannot be forced to incriminate himself.
In view of those specific statements and after consideration, this Commission decided to refrain from compelling Mr. Aloysius to give evidence because we are of the view that doing so will result in us departing from our duty to act fairly and equitably. We are obliged to keep within the intent and spirit of the Law. We also cannot disregard the fact that, this Commission has assumed some characteristics which are far from the more formal or perfunctory bodies that may have been envisaged in 1948 when the Act was passed.
Further, we are of the view that, compelling Mr. Aloysius to give evidence would have resulted in an application for judicial review in the Superior Courts which, given the question of law involved, may have resulted in much delay in concluding these proceedings. In our view, such delay would have been very detrimental to the process of Inquiry.
Further, compelling Mr. Aloysius to give evidence against his wishes may have raised a potential question of Law at a possible future Indictment in the High Court [Mr. Aloysius states he thinks is likely] as to the admissibility of the entirety of the evidence that may emerge from these proceedings. At this stage, that is only a question that may arise. However, it must be considered.
It is only after taking all these factors into consideration, that we made the Order which we considered to be lawful, fair and also prudent.
Mr. Mahendran is not in the same position. He does not say that he is likely to be the accused in a Criminal Case in the High Court and he does not say that he is likely to incriminate himself if he is compelled to give evidence. He has entered an appearance under Aection 16 of the Act saying only that it is desirable that he is represented. He does not invoke any right of an accused or likely accused. Therefore, he is compellable to give evidence.
In any event, we do not think Mr. Mahendran is so foolish as to not take the opportunity to give evidence and give his explanation, if any. Even if he did not want to give evidence, we are certain that his Counsel would advise him that it is in his interests to give evidence."
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran decided to raise Rs.10bn through public auction
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 08:32 am
Mahendran decided to raise Rs.10bn through public auction
	
Explaining why he decided to raise funds through public auctions particularly with regard to the February 27, 2015 auction, former CB governor Arjuna Mahendran yesterday further testified before the Commission.
He said there was a meeting of the Monetary Board on February 24, 2015 in which raising government funds through public auctions and issuing thirty-year bonds were discussed.
Mr. Mahendran said after seeing that Rs.20 billion had been bid at the February 27, 2015 auction he was relieved, considering the urgent government fund requirement. At that point, at noon on February 27 after the auction, he had decided to raise funds from that auction and not to go for the Private Placement Method (PPM).
He said there were several discussions on Private Placement versus Public Auction methods at a very high level of the government, several weeks before the February 27, 2015 auction.
I was given a very clear signal by the Hon. Prime Minister that all CBSL procurement should be done in a transparent manner in light of the new government's policies," Mr. Mahendran said.
He said, In the first Cabinet meeting at that time the Prime Minister had specifically said that these procurements should be done in a transparent manner. So I interpreted that it meant the issuance of bonds as well. Subsequently, I confirmed about this with the PM on February 24, 2015 during another cabinet subcommittee meeting on economic affairs.
Mr. Mahendran said it was in this backdrop that he preferred raising funds solely from the February 27, 2015 public auction.
It was also explained that on March 6, 2015, Mr. Mahendran had conveyed this decision to the Monetary Board and thereafter, the CBSL had started raising funds through treasury bonds only from auctions.
Concluding his evidence, Mr. Mahendran said he had not transferred any CBSL officials with a to helping Perpetual Treasuries or to help him or Arjun Aloysius.
Thereafter, Counsel Harsha Fernando who was appearing on behalf of former Deputy Governor, P. Samarasiri, questioned Mahendran on the February 27 Auction, 2015.
Mr. Fernando questioned him on the 5% penal rate cut and the departmental decision of Public Debt Department (PDD) to accept Rs.10 billion at the auction.
It was said that Mr. Mahendran was facing significant pressure to find money for the Government by the end of February 2015.
It was also explained that after the discussion with Dr. Weerasinghe at the MOC (Market Operation Committee) meeting on February 27, 2015, morning, Mr. Mahendran had decided to remove the 5% penal rate considering it an urgent requirement.
After the February 27 auction finished at the noon, Mr. Mahendran had discussed with the PDD officers in the presence of two other Deputy Governors to accept Rs.10.05 billion from the auction. Later that recommendation went to the Tender Board for approval.
Mr. Mahendran said he was aware by the time he was discussing with PDD that there was a removal of 5% penal rate and it would affect the interest rate and it would increase at the auction.
It was revealed that when Mr. Mahendran was discussing with the PDD, Deputy Governors Ananda Silva and Dr. Nandalal Weerasinghe were with him. Ms. Seneviratne (Superintendent of PDD), Dr. Asim (add. Director of PDD) and Ms. Muthugala (Add.director of PDD) were also part of that discussion.
It was revealed that these three PDD officers were also members of the Tender Board.
When Mr. Mahendran decided on the removal of the penal rate with Dr. Weerasinghe, there were three other members who were also part of that MOC meeting. They are Mr. Karunatilleke, Ms. Swarnakularatne and Mr. Rodrigo.
These three members were also members of the Tender Board. It was said that the Tender Board comprised eight members. The other two were Deputy Governors Sepala Ratnayake and P. Samarasiri who were not members of PDD or MOC.
Referring to the two events -- the removal of penal rate and the PDDs decision to accept bids up to Rs. 10 billion -- Counsel Harsha Fernando said those two incidents would not have taken place without the Governors involvement. (Shehan Chamika Silva)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran to be cross-examined on Friday
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 06:27 am
Mahendran to be cross-examined on Friday
	
Acting Solicitor General Dappula de Livera PC requested the Commission to adjourn proceedings for two days prior to the Attorney Generals Department officials cross-examine former Governor Arjuna Mahendran, who testified before the Commission.
Filing an application before the Commission through a motion, ASG De Livera observed that Arjuna Mahendran testified before the commission after having listened to almost all proceedings of the PCoI since he was permitted by the PCoI to sit and to hear the proceedings from the very beginning.
Mr. De Livera said the officials assisting the PCoI have to go through a bulk of material and evidence which is contradictory to what Mahendran has testified. Therefore he requested the proceeding to be adjourned for two days before they begin the cross-examination.
Considering the volume of evidence placed before the Commission, Mr. De Livera was of the view that Mr. Mahendrans testimony is critical to the inquiry, and to conduct an effective and relevant cross-examination they need time to prepare.
However, Presidents Counsel Romesh de Silva objected to the stance, moving that there was no prior notice regarding such a request from the officials from the AG's Department.
Disagreeing with ASG De Liveras stance, Mr, De Silva said the officers assisting the Commission knew about Mr. Mahendran's evidence and they had enough time to prepare. He said it was because of the cogent evidence given by Mr. Mahendran that the officials were seeking more time before the cross-examination.
The Commission however, allowed the AG Department officials time to prepare before cross-examining the witness and adjourned the proceedings til Friday.
The Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) comprising Justice K. T. Chitrasiri (Chairman), Justice Prasanna Jayawardane and Retired Auditor General Kandasy Velupillai will meet at 10 am on Friday. (Shehan Chamika Silva)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Man who tried to kill himself at MRs residence arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:44 pm
Man who tried to kill himself at MRs residence arrested
	
A young man who had visited former president Mahinda Rajapaksas official residence in Wijerama Mawatha, Colombo todaywas arrested when he threatened to commit suicide saying that he wont leave till he meets Mr. Rajapaksa.
The Police said the suspect had tried to stab himself once he found out that Mr. Rajapaksa was not at his residence at that time. He was overpowered by one of the policemen providing security to MP Rajapaksa and handed over to the Cinnamon Gardens Police thereafter.
The suspect had been identified as a resident of Balangoda.
Meanwhile, the former president's Media SpokespersonRohan Welivita said that the suspect appeared to be mentally unstable.
"He was shouting and said he wanted to meet the leader who saved Sri Lanka from terrorism and set our people free," he said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Maria makes landfall in Puerto Rico as a deadly Category 4 hurricane
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:13 am
Maria makes landfall in Puerto Rico as a deadly Category 4 hurricane
	

DAILY MAIL, 20 September, 2017 - Puerto Rico is currently hunkering down as its hit with the strongest storm the island has seen since the Great Depression. 
Hurricane Maria made landfall early Wednesday in the southeast coastal town of Yabucoa as a Category 4 storm with 155 mph winds, and it was expected to punish the island with life-threatening gusts and flooding for 12 to 24 hours. 
Officials on the U.S. territory have warned that the storm would decimate the power companys crumbling infrastructure and force the government to rebuild dozens of communities. 
Maria had previously been a Category 5 storm with 175 mph winds, but was downgraded as it slashed its way through the U.S. Virgin Islands overnight. 
This is going to be an extremely violent phenomenon, Puerto Ricos Gov. Ricardo Rossello said in advance of the storm. We have not experienced an event of this magnitude in our modern history. 
The Miami-based National Hurricane Center says little change in strength is expected in the coming 48 hours as Maria remains a dangerous major hurricane.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MBSL Matara branch reopens with new look
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
MBSL Matara branch reopens with new look
	

Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka & Finance PLC (MBSL) recently extended its new design and look to its Matara branch to provide customers a redefined financing experience.
The upgraded and relocated branch at Anagarika Dharmapala Mawatha, Nupe, Matara was formally inaugurated by MBSL Chairman Dr Sujeewa Lokuhewa in the presence of the companys management, staff, invitees, customers and well-wishers.
The new premises is strategically located to ensure easier access to the branch for customers in the locality and persons passing through the area, making it much more convenient for existing customers and potential customers to access the full range of finance expertise provided by MBSL. The premises are also more spacious and equipped to provide a comfortable ambiance for customers. The relocated Matara branch is the second in MBSLs model branch concept, the first being the Gampaha branch, which was upgraded last month.
MBSL has assets valued at over Rs.35 billion and deposits which exceed Rs.20 billion and serves over 200,000 customers through a network of 48 branches and business places. It is with pride that I inform you that while providing optimum service to our customers we were able to increase our profits by 209% last year. In keeping with our vision to be the most innovative business solution provider to the nation, MBSL has decided to upgrade its branch network to serve the public more efficiently, said the MBSL Chairman Dr. Sujeewa Lokuhewa at the opening ceremony.
As an innovative financial solution provider in the country, MBSL has always represented quality of life improvements for the people of this country, and as we pursue our growth objectives this will continue to be a primary focus through new products and services and improvements to existing facilities and services, said the MBSL CEO Nishaman Karunapala.
The new location of the Matara branch will enhance customer convenience significantly and will contribute towards our growth drive by supporting market expansion within the region. As always, our highly trained staff is dedicated towards the highest quality of services, and I believe the combination of convenience, range of services and quality of personnel, will result in improved performance, he further said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Medical team ready to examine Kaavan in Pakistan: Zoo
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 09:00 am
Medical team ready to examine Kaavan in Pakistan: Zoo
	
A medical team was ready to leave for Pakistan to examine a 32-year-old elephant named Kaavan, who was said to be suffering from psychological trauma following the death of its female partner, Zoological Department Director General Dhammika Malsinghe said yesterday.
Speaking to Daily Mirror she said the department had come across a news item published in the Pakistani website which said that the Pakistan Wildlife Foundation was seeking medical assistance for the elephant which was sent there from Sri Lanka in 1985.
Accordingly, the Zoological Department had decided to send a Veterinary Surgeon, Assistant Director, Curator and a mahout to examine the elephant.
If the Foreign Ministry requests us to send a team we are ready, she said.
According to Islamabad media, the zoo authorities in Islamabad were of the opinion that the lonely elephant, Kaavan, was suffering from a mental illness. The elephant had become the subject of a high-profile rights campaign backed by music icon Cher, but efforts to improve the pachyderms lot appear limited, the report said.
The Islamabad wildlife administration had also considering sending the animal to Cambodia.
The report says:
But his behaviour -- including signs of distress such as bobbing his head repeatedly demonstrates "a kind of mental illness", said Safwan Shahab Ahmad, Vice Chairman of the Pakistan Wildlife Foundation.
Ahmad, who has conducted detailed research on Kaavan since the 1990s, also slammed the lack of trained experts to take care of the elephant, saying that he needs more space and a pen to better adapted to his natural habitat.
Activists say he has insufficient shelter from Islamabads searing summer temperatures, which can rise to above 40 degrees Celsius (100 Fahrenheit).
Asian elephants can roam thousands of kilometres through deep tropical and subtropical forests, according to the World Wildlife Fund.
In contrast, Kaavans 90 by 140 metre (100 by 150 yard) pen has almost no foliage, and only limited shade is provided. "Give Kaavan deep bushes and artificial showering and you will see him enjoying the environment," said Ahmad, who has written several research papers on the elephant.
Ahmad was backed by mammalogy expert Dr Wasim Ahmad Khan, who said captivity "will shorten his life if we dont take care of his environment".
Arriving as a one-year-old in 1985 from Sri Lanka, Kaavan was temporarily held in chains in 2002 because zoo-keepers were concerned about increasingly violent tendencies, but he was freed later that year after an outcry.
His mate Saheli, who arrived also from Sri Lanka in 1990, died in 2012, and last year it emerged that Kaavan was regularly being chained once again-- for several hours a day.
Scores of people signed a petition sent to zoo authorities and Pakistans Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in protest, and the zoo told AFP during a visit earlier this month that the elephant is no longer being restrained.
Kaavans keeper maintains that the pachyderm is not being mistreated-but just longs for company. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: New Constitution; Steering Committee interim report presented
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:29 am
New Constitution; Steering Committee interim report presented
	
Sri Lanka's future depends on the ability which the UNP and the SLFP possess to reach an agreement on the fundamentals of the new Constitution, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe told the Constitutional Assembly today.
The Prime Minister made this remark while presenting the interim report of the steering committee established under the constitutional assembly. The report was actually presented to the constitutional assembly by him.
"It is up to the SLFP and the UNP to reach an agreement on the fundamentals of the new constitution and the future of this country depends on the ability which the two parties have to reach such an agreement" the Prime Minister said.
Mr Wickremesinghe said keeping the unitary status of the country and maintaining the foremost status of Buddhism will be some of the fundamentals of the new Constitution.
He said the interim report had proposed a new structure for the government. This he said will comprise three tiers namely the centre, provincial councils and the local bodies. " Emphases is made on maximum devolution of power where maximum power will be devolved to provincial councils and to make it the second tier of the government" he said.
" Matters with regard to the executive presidency have been left for further discussions as parties have come up with different suggestions on it," he added.
The Prime Minister stressed that the objective of the government was to bring in consensus instead of division and take the country towards peace and development. He mentioned that the TNA had taken a significant step to work with the main political parties and bring in peace and prosperity to all people.
" We want to ensure a nation where it's people will reap the benefits of economic development. We want to make sure that people could fulfil their basic needs such as food without any difficulties. We cannot afford to lose the opportunity we have before us to work together and bring in a constitution which is useful to all people" he also said.
Further the Prime Minister said the interim report is not the final draft as it will be subjected to further discussions especially among the public and will be amended accordingly. " We would like to see the interim report subjected to a broad debate," he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: No provable evidence filed against Jayasuriya: Marapana
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 06:21 pm
No provable evidence filed against Jayasuriya: Marapana
	
Foreign Minister Thilak Marapana said today no provable evidence had been filed against former army commander Jagath Jayasuriya to the effect that he committed war crimes in the case filed by an NGO in Brazil recently.
Responding to a question raised by joint opposition MP Dinesh Gunawardane, the minister said this was not a new thing and added that two similar cases had been filed against Sri Lankan security forces by NGOs in the United States and Switzerland in 2011.
He said however the governments in the two countries had withdrawn the cases.
He told parliament that the allegation against Mr. Jayasuriya was not made with good intentions as it was done after he left his position as the army commander and also he left Brazil as its Ambassador.
Referring to the statement made by Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka, he said it was his personal opinion and that it was not the opinion of the government.
He said the official stance on the matter had been made by President Maithripala Sirisena recently. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Patients left in the lurch
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 September 2017 03:51 pm
Patients left in the lurch
	
People were seen stranded at the National Hospital, Colombo due to the island-wide strike conducted by the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) against SAITM this morning. Pics by Kushan Pathiraja 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Protest over Myanmar in Colombo
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 September 2017 03:22 pm
Protest over Myanmar in Colombo
	
United Socialist Party members today staged a protest in front of the Myanmar Embassy in Colombo urging a stop to the attacks carried out on the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Saving Kelani River
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 September 2017 07:19 pm
Saving Kelani River
	
An inter school talent competition and an awards ceremony organised by the Peoples Foundation to Protect Kelani River (Kelani Gan Diyawara Surakime Janatha Padanama) was held in Kelaniya recently. Pics by Damith Wickramasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Schoolchildren display three-mile-long Sari
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 September 2017 04:24 pm
Schoolchildren display three-mile-long Sari
	
More than 250 students of Alwathugoda Sarath Ekanayake Primary School lined up along the GannoruwaKandy road today to display a three-mile long bridal Sari worked by a beautician who claims it to be the worlds longest Sari. She is hopeful of setting a Guinness world record for her work.
Several other students posed as flower girls in the event held in the form of a wedding.
The display held under the patronage of Chief Minister Sarath Ekanayake created heavy traffic congestion compelling the police to deploy a contingent under SSP N.M. Sisira Kumara to control the traffic.
The display was organised by a beautician couple in Alwathugoda. (J.A.L. Jayasinghe)
Pix by Chamil Rupasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Softlogic Life leads with over 80% claims settled in one day
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Softlogic Life leads with over 80% claims settled in one day
	

Softlogic Life Insurance PLC has leveraged its strong synergy with healthcare and healthcare solutions where the Groups Asiri Hospitals have backed them in gaining a leadership position in the competitive life insurance space.
As the leader in Health, the company has focused significantly on the claim settlement process which is the biggest pain point for most customers when they have to get a claim paid by an insurance company.
The company has set up a cashless settlement system with more than 60 hospital locations around the country, ensuring direct settlement of bills to the hospital, enabling customers to walk out without having to make payment for their hospitalization. Usually customers have to make payment to the hospital and then submit bills for re-imbursement to the insurance company.
Softlogic Life has become a force to be reckoned with in the local life insurance industry and is one of the fastest-growing life insurance companies in Sri Lanka. With the introduction of world-class solutions that include tie-ups with Parkway Hospitals Singapore and Apollo Hospitals India, they provide the best in healthcare both overseas and at home through the Groups Asiri Hospitals. The diversity of Softlogic Lifes solutions provides the customer the freedom and the opportunity to live life to the fullest.
While marching forward with an unwavering passion, Softlogic Life was recently conferred with the prestigious Excellence in Claims Service award at the Sri Lanka Insurance Industry Awards 2017 by Fintelekt, further strengthening its position as the undisputed claims service leader in the life insurance sector of Sri Lanka. The Excellence in Claims Service Award honored Softlogic Lifes unwavering efforts which demonstrated companys overall leadership and commitment to effective and speedy claims settlement in Sri Lanka. The parameters for evaluation included volume and value of claims settled, average turnaround time for claims payment, repudiation rates and speed in claims settlement.
This performance, which is above par in the local life insurance industry, was greatly supported by the companys focus on the use of technology for improvement in customer service through better empowerment and convenience during the claims settlement process.
The expertise of implementing technology-backed solutions to deliver convenience, flexibility and vitality to its customers has been a key characteristic of Softlogic Life. The LifeUp smartphone application by Softlogic Life brings much value to its policyholders in finding out details of their policy and further enables a host of services that even include order of medicines to your doorstep.
The company has also rolled out three unique services - doctor visit to your doorstep, ambulance for medical emergencies and medical tests at your doorstep  which reiterated the companys eminent position in health insurance, bringing convenience and peace of mind for customers in an emergency medical situation.
Panning out his views about their outstanding industry recognition, Softlogic Life Insurance PLC Managing Director, Iftikar Ahamed said, We always look at how to provide the greatest convenience and value to our customers and we see claims settlement as that moment of truth. We are a company that is passionate about doing the best for our customers and are always working on areas to improve the service benchmark via customer-centric innovations.
Softlogic Life Insurance PLC is a subsidiary of Softlogic Capital PLC and is part of the Softlogic Group, which is recognized as one of Sri Lankas most diversified and fastest-growing conglomerates, with interests in healthcare, retail, ICT, leisure, automobiles and financial services. Significant stakeholders in the company also include FMO and DEG, who are rated AAA Development Financial Institutions from the Netherlands and Germany, respectively.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Some notes on the  art of  film  criticism
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Some notes on the  art of  film  criticism
	
Most criticism of contemporary art and popular culture follows either of two trends: nostalgia for the past, and acceptance of the present. The first is an act of yielding, of giving in, while the second is an act of accepting what is generally considered to be inevitable and inescapable. Given this crude dichotomy, its no cause for wonderment that contemporary criticism is muddled up. That it survives in some form in a country, any country, particularly one as packed in and small as ours, is a miracle. 
For a genuine culture of music, theatre, cinema, dance, etc to subsist here, a veritable culture of criticism must be in place. In this paper some weeks ago I pointed out that we cant be a nation of writers without being a nation of readers. Well, we cant be a nation of critics either, a problem given that in Sri Lanka, artistry is predicated on critical judgments; put simply, our artists can disseminate their work most effectively through discerning critics. The problem is the gap between what is deemed as populist, unserious, frivolous and what is deemed as arty, profound, obscurantist. The former is ignored to such an extent that there arent any critics to discern them at all; the latter is inflated so much that there arent any critics to intelligently discern them.
The hysteria associated with the latter is an ironic reversal of the hysteria that was once associated with the former. What is considered tasteful and serious, in our cinema and theatre, still thrives on a conception of these mediums that flourished in an earlier era. The cinema of Asoka Handagama derives its outlook from the cinema of Bergman, Antonioni, and the East Europeans, for instance, which he goes for, again and again, with despairing frequency. (Is it any wonder that, to me at least, his best films, like Channa Kinnari and Ini Avan, are less derivative in this sense, while his lesser work, like Aksharaya and the more recent Age Asa Aga, are more so). 
The first film critics were writers and journalists. Tolstoy and Bernard Shaw were nearing the end of their careers and lives when the cinema was born
Because our critics, in whatever media, are so enthralled by what they see on the surface  etched in black-and-white symbols, metaphors, and unfinished, mangled sentences  they are inclined to heap praise on the objet dart without delving into what makes up that object in the first place. They are ready to forgive what a plain, unsullied audience may consider as unforgivable errors of judgment and taste. On the other hand, as members of that audience we exhibit roughly the same kind of joy or cynicism regardless of whether what we see is commercial or art-house. 
Two years ago, I believe on a Sunday, I was at a cousins house watching one of those populist reproductions of history that win so much at the box-office and yet say so little about our history. This film was based on a Jathaka tale, and involved, towards the end, the impending murder of a princess by a horde of lascivious princes and kings demanding their pound of flesh. Now in a chivalry-laden romance like this you know whats going to happen: like the poor woman tied to the rail track in those early silent movies, the princess is bound to be rescued by the same man she had earlier spurned. 
Film criticism, because movies are still fresh, is not surprisingly the most misunderstood form of criticism, because intellect never really works. You need to FEEL what you are writing, what you are reviewing
Which is what happens, and what compelled laughter from my cousin and his family, as we watched, with baited breath, that prince arriving on horseback and preventing that butcher of an executioner from despatching her for good. Ohoma wenne naha, pissu yakku! my cousin, who was still at school, roared, grinning so widely with the satisfaction of knowing in what way the hero and heroine would be reconciled. The hero, incidentally, had a physical deformity; in the original, his lover marries him despite that, while in here, she marries him and he is cured. (Perhaps Deadpool  yes, that Deadpool!  was more faithful to the Jathaka tale: after all Vanessas love for Wade Wilson doesnt redeem his earlier figure.) I think it apt to mention that none of those Hollywood sword-and-sandal epics of the forties and fifties were accurate either. We despise the Americans, but follow their penchant for a historicism. 
It seemed curious to me at the time that this cousin, and his family, had thought highly of the picture. Their general high regard for it did not compensate for or even outweigh their disgust for such crudely conceived sequences. Such a concurrent attitude of admiration and disgust, which reflected the films own unenviable blend of high production values and zero aesthetic values, confused me for a long, long time, because I thought it odd that a film that could wring so much from the box-office could also wring so much cynicism from the audience, a fairly good microcosm of which was my cousins family. They were reacting to the picture in parts: perhaps a reminder that in this digitalised, pixelated era where we watch television with all those commercial breaks while tapping on our phones and stalking other people on their Facebook profiles, we no longer react properly to anything. How we react is tempered by how we take to something. Our art is closer to advertising than art in this regard, which isnt necessarily a bad thing: for directors to win us, the audiences, they must deliver on our briefs and get us to the theatres from the word go. 
In any given society, if critics are like audiences in their opinions about a film, a play, or even an art exhibition and dance item, they are disregarded and put off as impressionistic. Their tastes and criteria of value are questioned as being random, arbitrary, and irrational, forgetting that what is random, arbitrary, and irrational in them was what drove the first critics of any art-form. Since I can speak with any kind of coherence only about the movies, I will limit my views from this point to the cinema, the art-form that has evolved faster than any other. My cousin had reacted to a film; had the critics reacted in that same spontaneous, immediate way to what are deemed as art-house pictures, which they are invited almost every other week and month to, the art-house directors would have seen the light of day, and vanished. 
The first film critics were writers and journalists. Tolstoy and Bernard Shaw were nearing the end of their careers and lives when the cinema was born: what they wrote, consequently, reflected their distrust of a medium which seemed to privilege visual excess over imagination, while confusing the one for the other. Bernard Shaw had his stints at journalism, but didnt belong to that field. Those who did, and wrote like artists, were destined to be the first purveyors of the worlds most industrial art. 
They came in a particular order, and most of them are forgotten but still read today: Manny Farber, James Agee, and Pauline Kael. All of them were idiosyncratic and, at a time when newspapers devoted meagre spaces to movie reviews which forced the reviewer to tone down, prospered in magazines or became their own publishers: Kael with The New Yorker, Agee with The Nation and TIME. Their discovery of the publishing industry was a blessing, but was also a curse: when postmodernism arrived, those who prided themselves on being purveyors of the medium academised their feelings and put them on print. The result was a proliferation of intellect, and a diminishment of sincerity. Film criticism, because movies are still fresh, is not surprisingly the most misunderstood form of criticism, because intellect never really works. You need to FEEL what you are writing, what you are reviewing. 
Susan Sontag, in her groundbreaking essay Against Interpretation, argued that inasmuch as interpretation was and is essential to art, culture, even society, its contortion at the hands of some of its wielders meant that there was no consistency, no cohesion, in the field of criticism. What this means is that when you read into a text  a film, a play, a dance item, a concert, etc  you often become unaware of what you are reading into. 

When it comes to movie criticism here, the hackneyed phrase and clich and tribute are held as sacrosanct, inviolable. Added to this is a horde of superlatives which are there, not to reduce the film to its barest essentials and dissect it, but to push forward the artists perception of his own work (manifestly different to his intentions: how you rate your own work, after all, is different to how you intend its message to pop out). 
The reviews that Prasanna Vithanages Oba Nathuwa Oba Ekka compelled were rather symptomatic of this trend: one by one, the reviewers all came out in their universal, almost unanimous summing up of it as probably the greatest post-war film ever made. Regardless of whether it was great or not (it may have been Vithanages least visual film), its treatment at the hands of journalists did a disservice to the director and his vision, particularly since the easiest way to sum up a movie, for our critics that is, is by resorting to the clich. They will say its great, just as they will say Handagamas Age Asa Aga is a cinematic masterpiece, but why And how 
Agee could get away with overblown adjectives, and so could Kael and, closer to home, Regi Siriwardena (who used such adjectives sparingly, by the way), because in their hands even a clich became more than what it was. Perhaps thats the first point I can make of our (movie) critics: they lack the prose, the feeling for words and phrases, which can help them tide over their penchant for those adjectives and adverbs.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Suu Kyi denies going soft on military
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:15 am
Suu Kyi denies going soft on military
	
Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi has rejected a suggestion she is soft on the military, which the United Nations has accused of ethnic cleansing, saying her relationship with the generals was normal and her objective was national reconciliation. 
Suu Kyi condemned on Tuesday rights abuses in Rakhine State, where conflict that began last month has forced 421,000 Rohingya Muslims to seek refuge in Bangladesh, and said violators would be punished. 
However, in her first address to the Buddhist-majority nation on the crisis, she did not address U.N. accusations of ethnic cleansing by the security forces, drawing cool international responses.

Weve never changed our stand, Suu Kyi said in an interview with Radio Free Asia, when asked if she had softened her stance on the military, which she challenged for years in her campaign for democracy. 
Our goal has been national reconciliation from the very beginning. We have never criticized the military itself, but only their actions. We may disagree on these types of actions. 
She cited her unsuccessful bid in parliament to change a military-drafted constitution, which bars her from the presidency and gives the military responsibility over security and a veto over charter reform. 
Well continue to bring changes within the parliament. Ive stood firm with the military before, and still do now, she told Radio Free Asia.
REUTERS, 20th SEPTEMBER, 2017 

 
		
==============================
## Title: The voice of participants
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
The voice of participants
	
The language refresher course received nothing, but positive feedback from the participants. The trainer was acknowledged as experienced and the audience found her presentation to be very informative and practical. The presentation was interesting, hence the session captivated the attention of the audience. The participants await the next course.
 
		
==============================
## Title: TNA stance during debate stage: Sampanthan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 01:14 pm
TNA stance during debate stage: Sampanthan
	
The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) will come up with its stance on the interim report of the Constitution at the time when it is debated in the Constitutional Council in the near future, TNA and Opposition Leader R Sampanthan said today.
"We will talk about the report laterandwhat I would like to stress now is the need to build a peaceful and united Sri Lanka," he said.
Speaking at the constitutional assembly,the opposition leader said what is needed is to ensure that country achieves peace where it's people could live in harmony.
"There were so many efforts to bring in reforms in the past. Some important proposals were made during the efforts made by the then government which attempted to bring in constitutional reforms in August 2000. However, none of them could be incorporated to the Constitution. Such a situation made educated citizens in this country to take up residence in other countries," he said.
"We need to salvage the country' s reputation. We have been left behind while other countries march forward with economic development. Let's all join in the journey towards success in the future" he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Unleashing Problem Solvers  a perfect guide to a disciplined society
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 September 2017 12:00 am
Unleashing Problem Solvers  a perfect guide to a disciplined society
	
TISSL Intl Conference for Heads of Schools: 17-19 November at Wadduwa
The International Schools of Sri Lanka (TISSL), which is an association of premier international schools in Sri Lanka, was formed in 2001 with the main aim of fostering good relationships with its 25 member schools. The association also organizes annual international conferences with heads and decision-makers of member international schools and non-member international schools, state schools and private schools in the region in order to exchange best practices and enhance the quality of teaching-learning practices in schools. 
KUMARI GRERO - Chairperson TISSL
As the international school sector in Sri Lanka keeps growing, it is inevitable that this trend will soon affect the overall landscape of education in the country and with the rise of the private school network, decision makers from these schools are yet to understand the extent of this expansion, where only a few are fully prepared to adapt to this growth as well as any other unknown developments. 
This years TISSL Conference will take place at the cross roads between extensive infrastructure development of educational institutions in the government sector as well as educational institutions in the private sector. With this in mind, the Chairperson of the TISSL Association leading the TISSL Conference Organizing Committee - Kumari Grero and her team, identified a timely theme for this conference  Unleashing Problem Solvers. Under this theme, three reputed professionals from foreign countries have been invited to share their expertise to school leaders and decision makers in Sri Lankas international schools community, in order to help them identify and tackle any upcoming issues during the planning phase of this infrastructure development. 


Pearson and Cambridge International Education are the Principal Sponsors of this event and will each host a prominent speaker to share their expertise related to the theme of the conference. The British Council teamed up as a Co-Sponsor and will sponsor Sir Michael Wilshaw, who will grace this event as the Chief Guest and deliver the key note address to participants. With over 50 years of experience in education and successful incumbencies as the former Chief Inspector of Schools in England and the former head of Ofsted, his insights on education will be extremely beneficial and relevant to the theme of this conference. Another Co-Sponsor of this event is Monash University. 
The TISSL conference will also highlight and demonstrate TISSLs commitment to bring best practices of world class education and foster close co-operation between member schools and all other schools in Sri Lanka who are faced with this challenge. A variety of presentation formats await all participants, which include the key note address as well as other speeches backed by multi-media presentations, speech moderation and interactive group activities. A dance item and choir performance will also add colour and value to the three day event. 
As this conference is a unique platform and an international forum to exchange ideas and experiences, the TISSL association warmly welcomes and encourages all school leaders and professionals in the field of education to attend this conference and benefit from this rare opportunity where like-minded individuals can come together and form new alliances, whilst exchanging perspectives that would aid in the betterment of our countrys education system for generations to come.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: US-backed force takes 90% of Syrias Raqa from IS
## Section: International
## Date: 21 September 2017 10:11 am
US-backed force takes 90% of Syrias Raqa from IS
	

US-backed fighters have captured 90 percent of the Syrian city of Raqa from the Islamic State group after overrunning five strategic neighbourhoods, a monitor said on Wednesday. 
Because of the heavy (US-led) coalition air strikes, IS withdrew from at least five key neighbourhoods over the past 48 hours, said Syrian Observatory for Human Rights chief Rami Abdel Rahman. 
This allowed the Syrian Democratic Forces to control 90 percent of the city. IS has pulled out of the north of the city and abandoned its grain silos and mills. 
IS is now confined to the city centre, Abdel Rahman said. 
The difficulty in advancing and fully clearing these neighbourhoods is linked to the mines that IS has left behind. IS seized Raqa in early 2014, transforming the city into the de facto Syrian capital of its self-declared caliphate.  It quickly became synonomous with the groups most gruesome atrocities, including public beheadings. Backed by US-led coalition air strikes, the SDF spent months encircling the city before entering it in early June.

Tens of thousands of civilians have fled the fighting in recent months. Estimates of the number still inside the city range from fewer than 10,000 to as many as 25,000.  
BEIRUT AFP, Sept20, 2017 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Wildlife dept. can teach parliament workers to handle snakes
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 September 2017 09:44 am
Wildlife dept. can teach parliament workers to handle snakes
	
We are prepared to educate parliament workers how best to act in case they come across snakes and other venomous reptiles in the parliament premises, <U+200E> Department of Wildlife Conservation Director General G.C. Sooriyabandara told Daily Mirror.
He said they would do so if the authorities make a request.
"We have read reports of snakes and venomous reptiles being frequently sighted in the vicinity of Diyawanna Oya and will teach the parliament workers how to act in such circumstances, Mr. Sooriyabandara said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: With a special nocturnal zone, National Zoo in Dehiwela will be opened from 7.30 pm to 10 pm on Frid
## Section: Poll
## Date: 21 September 2017 01:39 pm
With a special nocturnal zone, National Zoo in Dehiwela will be opened from 7.30 pm to 10 pm on Frid
	
==============================
==============================
