## Title: Advantis Engineering Continues To Aid Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children with Innovative Space Solu
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 04:52 pm
Advantis Engineering Continues To Aid Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children with Innovative Space Solu
	
Advantis Engineering, a subsidiary of Hayleys Advantis Limited, recently completed the design, construction and furnishing of a lobby area for patients awaiting heart surgery at the Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children (LRH).
The team at Advantis Engineering, who have been working with the staff of LRH for many years, identified the need for a lobby that would help sooth a scared child who is on the way for a surgery.
The new lobby is furnished with comfortable seating, colorful walls, plenty of toys, a fish tank, and a TV to keep the children entertained and distracted whilst they await their surgery.
Commenting on the upgraded lobby Dr. Shehan Perera said, The newly gifted Cath-lobby is a fantastic addition to the hospital, especially to the kids who are undergoing heart catheter procedures and their parents at the Heart Centre at Lady Ridgeway Childrens hospital. In the past, children were lined up in a busy, noisy and crowded corridor, with no space to breathe or move around. They were terrified at awaiting their turn to be taken for the procedure. Also, seeing those who have had their procedure being taken past them was also very traumatic and stressful, which is a terrible experience.
Now the Cath- Lobby provides them with a fairytale like space where they completely forget about the scary procedure that they are to undergo. The kids who come now do not want to leave the lobby because they feel so comfortable and happy in it.
Dr. Shehan Perera extended a very big thank you to the Advantis team for the wonderful gift of an out-of-this-world Cath-Lobby. He commented, Seeing the relieved faces of kids and their parents is an absolutely heartwarming experience, and any expression of gratitude from kids as well as parents for such a beautiful place is worth more than a thousand words.
This was the second phase of Advantis Engineerings ongoing work with LRH which began in 2016 when the company stepped forward to construct the storage area for the HOPE Operating Theater. This first phase of development, enabled the hospital to open up space for another operating theater which added to their capacity to save lives. Ultimately, this helped the hospital to perform two to three additional surgeries per day.
The Advantis Engineering team handled the entire process from planning and design to the final construction of the lobby. Advantis Engineering also donated all furniture and entrainment equipment as well. The construction of the space required the careful demolition of an existing hospital area without disrupting the day-to-day activities or causing any additional distress to the patients. With extensive experience in the construction business, Advantis Engineering was able to complete this complex project safely, efficiently and on time.
Commenting on the project, Kamal Wimalaratne, General Manager, Advantis Engineering, said, As a company that always puts the community first, we at Advantis Engineering are proud to be able to assist LRH in the great work they are doing through the use of our innovative space solutions. We hope that this new lobby with its enjoyable features will continue to create a better environment for the children preparing for treatment, and reduce the stress-levels of parents in the waiting room.
Founded in 1895 the Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children is Sri Lankas premier pediatric hospital and is considered amongst the largest pediatric hospitals in the world with a bed-strength of over 900.
Advantis Engineering, a fully owned subsidiary of Hayleys Advantis Limited, constantly strives to provide innovative accommodation solutions for a wide variety of industries. Operating with the latest technology applications, the company has expanded its service offering over the years, ensuring that the best of mobile accommodation solutions are available right here in Sri Lanka. It is also the only company in Sri Lanka that is operating with a fully-fledged sheltered manufacturing plant for container conversions. Hayleys Advantis is the transportation and logistics arm of Hayleys PLC, a diversified blue-chip multinational conglomerate, recognized as the number 1 listed company in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Constitutional Coup - Massive protest rally on Dec.17
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 06:37 pm
Constitutional Coup - Massive protest rally on Dec.17
	
UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe today informed UNP MPs, provincial councillors and organizers that a mass protest rally participated by members of several political parties and civil society organizations will be held in Colombo on Monday, December 17.
According to what the UNP leaders told those gathered at Temple Trees, the protesters will march from all over the country for the rally at Galle Face Green.
Our lawyers have informed us that the Supreme Court decision on the petition filed against the dissolution may be delayed even till Friday. Therefore we decided to hold 'Jana Bala Meheyuma protest next week after the judgement is given, Mr. Wickremesinghe said. We will join this protest with the others who are concerned over the President and his cohorts attempting to administer this country by bypassing Parliament. It is the people who have the right to decide when the election should be held. We must be alert to the fact that the present political crisis has everything to do with the peoples rights."
He said it was Parliament and the people who should decide who becomes the Prime Minister. There have been times when the President is from one party while a rival party obtains a majority in Parliament. I got the opportunity of becoming the Prime Minister in such a situation in 2001, Mr. Wickremesinghe said.
UNP Deputy Leader Sajith Premadasa said the struggle against the constitutional coup is continuing because of the interest shown by party members at grassroots level. He stressed the need to launch the struggle at the village level as well. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Drawing funds by ministry secretaries: UNP to question in the house
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:03 am
Drawing funds by ministry secretaries: UNP to question in the house
	
UNF has handed over motions to the Secretary General of Parliament against Secretary to Prime Minister and secretaries of four ministries calling for a probe by Public Finance Committee in Parliament and by the Privileges Committee for allegedly continuing to draw funds of the republic by notwithstanding the resolutions passed in the House.
UNF MP Patali Champika Ranawaka who announced their decision to media yesterday said motions have been handed over against Secretary to what he called purported Prime Minister Sirisena Amarasekera, Secretary Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs S. R. Artigalle, Secretary to Ministry of Commerce Bernard Wasantha Perera, Secretary Ministry of International Trade and Investment S. T. Kodikara and Secretary Ministry of Housing S. Marasinghe.
The motions said: "The secretaries notwithstanding the resolution of this House dated November 30, 2018 and in blatant defiance thereof is continuing to draw on the funds of the republic to defray expenses of Prime Minister and the other ministers." The five separate motions carried the same wordings. Each motion has been signed by Mr. Ranawaka, Lakshman Kiriella, Ravi Karunanayake, Dr. Rajitha Senaratne, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam and Arjuna Ranatunga.
We decided to go ahead with these motions as a further steps against the continuance of the purported government despite the passing of no confidence motions and the interim order issued against the Prime Minister and the cabinet by the Court of Appeal, Mr. Ranawaka said.(Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ex-Malaysian PM Razak arrested, freed on bail
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 01:45 pm
Ex-Malaysian PM Razak arrested, freed on bail
	
Former Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak was arrested by the countrys anti-graft agency over alleged tampering of the 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) audit report, Channel News Asia reported a short while ago.
Najib was arrested at the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) headquarters shortly after he arrived at the premises for further questioning over the issue. However, he was later freed on bail at around 1.20 pm.
On Nov 25, Auditor-General Madinah Mohamad revealed that the final audit report on 1MDB had been tampered with and that Najib had knowledge of it.
She also disclosed that two crucial matters dropped from the report were regarding the presence of fugitive businessman Low Taek Jho at a 1MDB board meeting, as well as the financial status of 1MDB.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Failure to submit documents of death row inmates: Prez to launch probe
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 05:23 pm
Failure to submit documents of death row inmates: Prez to launch probe
	
President Maithripala Sirisena today said an investigation will be launched to look into the failures of several institutions to submit relevant documents relating to those will be facing death penalty should be implemented.
He said this failure has delayed the decision to implement the death penalty. The President made these remarks during a meeting held at the Presidential Secretariat today to discuss about instituting necessary changes to the laws to control drug trafficking and minimizing criminal activities.
He said necessary steps should be instantly taken to implement the decision to enforce death penalty against the convicts who are still engaged in drug trafficking in spite of being sentenced to death.
No one should weaken the laws to suppress drug trafficking. It is important to enforce laws without having any loopholes that allow the smugglers to escape, he said.
Attorney General Jayantha Jayasooriya, Secretary to the President Udaya R. Senevirathne, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Hemasiri Fernando, Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundara, Commissioner General of Excise Department and secretaries of ministries were present in this event.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Five injured in Modara shooting
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 03:42 pm
Five injured in Modara shooting
	
At least five persons including a woman were injured after two gunmen opened fire at them in Modara a short while ago, Police said.
Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera said the two gunmen arrived on a motorcycle had opened fire at the three-wheeler in which the victims were travelling in at Panganada Junction at around 3.00 pm today.
The injured were admitted to the Colombo National Hospital.
Meanwhile, hospital sources said a pedestrian who was hit by the three-wheeler after it was shot at, was also admitted to the hospital.(Darshana Sanjeewa)

Video by Sanath Desmond and Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: FR petition against convening parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 10:02 am
FR petition against convening parliament
	
A Fundamental Rights Petition was filed before the Supreme Court by a lawyer challenging Speaker Karu Jayasuriya's decision to convene Parliament despite a pending restraining order.


Video by Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: FR petition against dissolution of Parliament Delving into Constitutional abyss
## Section: News Features
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:02 am
FR petition against dissolution of Parliament Delving into Constitutional abyss
	

Petitioners final arguments
As countrys time ticking away arguments in the Supreme Court meander through words and letters of the Constitution

aking his final contentions, over the Fundamental Rights petitions filed against the Presidents decision to dissolve Parliament, Kanag-Iswaran PC, who appeared for Petitioners said . If the things go wrong, the reason will not be that we have a bad Constitution, but the man is vile.
The Supreme Court on December 7 concluded the hearing of multiple Fundamental Rights petitions against the move to dissolve Parliament by President Maithripala Sirisena as well as several intervening petitions and extended the Interim Order against staying the dissolution proclamation till the judgment is delivered. The Judgment was reserved with the date to be notified to Counsels later.
Following are the arguments moved by the Petitioners on December 7 as their
final contentions:

Summary of previous contentions of the respondent and the intervening parties
On the earlier occasions, making submissions on behalf of the President, Attorney General emphasised that the Supreme Court is precluded from exercising jurisdiction in respect of the alleged violations of Petitioners Fundamental Rights, and from granting the relief prayed for by the Petitioners, and that it has no jurisdiction on the Presidents Proclamation of dissolution of Parliament.
Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya with Solicitor General Dappula de Livera, Senior Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Rajaratnam, Additional Solicitors General Demuni de Silva and Farzana Jameel, as well as Deputy Solicitor General Nerin Pulle, Senior State Counsel Shaheeda Barrie, State Counsel Kanishka de Silva and Manohara Jayasinghe instructed by Senior Additional Solicitor General Sepalika Tiranagama, in his submission further stated that the dissolution of Parliament by the President did not constitute executive and administrative action.
Making submissions on behalf of the intervening parties, Presidents Counsel Sanjeewa Jayawardena, Ali Sabri PC, Gamini Marapana PC, Monohara de Silva PC and Canishka Vitharana were of the view that Presidents decision to dissolve Parliament was not unconstitutional.
They said that Articles 33(2)c and 62(2) of the Constitution have given a substantive isolated power enshrined in the President to dissolve Parliament at any time. They said the phrasal used in Sinhala version of Articles 33(2)c and 62(2) of the 19th Amendment have different meanings compared to its English meaning.
Referring to the questioned of Article 70(1), they elaborated that there are two chapters in the Constitution setting out powers vested in the Executive and the Legislature.
Their argument is that Section 33(2)c is a standalone Section set out under the Executive Powers Chapter of the Constitution and Section 70(1), which describes about dissolution of Parliament comes under the power of legislation chapter set out in the Constitution, allowing the legislation to call upon President to dissolve Parliament .
They argued that it is prima facie evidence that Section 33(2)c is an unfettered provision which allowed the President to dissolve Parliament at any time. They said that people had elected the President and the sovereignty of people was with the President, and that cannot be curtailed. They also were of the view that the President prompted to take this decision as there was a breakdown in the Government and the whole country, so the President had decided to dissolve Parliament which he lawfully could do, to uphold the Sovereignty of the people because there is no better way other than to call upon an election to uphold the sovereignty of people.
They argued that Article 33(2)c was introduced into the 19 Amendment deliberately as the legislature could not erode the executive powers set out in the Constitution (to dissolve Parliament) without a referendum, and therefore, Article 70(1) only an inclusion to enhance the check and balances and that it was a realignment of the legislative powers.
Question of Jurisdiction
Presidents Counsel Kanag-Iswaran, who appeared on behalf of the Petitioners, said that ones right to go before the court on Fundamental Rights violation, by an Executive or Administrative Action in terms of Articles 17 and 126 of the Constitution, could not be ousted merely without a Constitutionally valid derogation.

Article 17- says that every person shall be entitled to apply to the Supreme Court, as provided by Article 126, in respect of the infringement or imminent infringement, by executive or administrative action
Mr Kanag-Iswaran said that it was only under Articles 154 J and 170 that one had been provided total ousted clauses curtailing the jurisdiction of the court from hearing any case against actions arising out of those Fundamental Rights Articles.
He also said Articles 41 and 61A had provided partial ousted clauses limiting the jurisdiction of Court only to Fundamental Rights violations.
He said that the position maintained by the respondents that Article 38 (Impeachment procedure) should have been the provision that was available to take actions against a President over a Constitutional Violation was wrong, since Article 38 which provided an impeachment procedure against President was limited to Parliament and not an ouster clause, which prevented the petitions from the access to Article 126 (Fundamental Rights violation actions).
Out of the two remedies, either one could be selected. It cannot be restricted unless by a clear ouster clause in the Constitution, he said.
Executive action or not
Answering the question that whether the power to dissolve Parliament of the President could be regarded as an Executive Action, he read Article 35 (Immunity of the President) of the Constitution, which says, While any person holds office as President of the Republic of Sri Lanka,
no civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted or continued against the President in respect of anything done or omitted to be done by the President, either in his official or private capacity:
Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall be read and construed as restricting the right of any person to make an application under Article 126 against the Attorney-General, in respect of anything done or omitted to be done by the President, in his official capacity
Article 35 opens a gate for the citizens to take Fundamental Rights violation actions against anything done by the President in his official capacity, he said.
He said that even an appointment of a Presidents Counsel or a Supreme Court Judge by the President could be challenged under Article 126 of the Constitution if there was a violation of Fundamental Rights protected under our Constitution.
Is the dissolution of Parliament a Plenary power
Rebutting the intervening parties argument that the power of the President to dissolve Parliament was a plenary power, Thilak Marapana PC said, that recognition is long gone tradition which may have existed in kings time, and nowadays, even the actions of Englands Monarch is justiciable.

Plenary power is a power that has been granted to a body or person in absolute terms, with no review of or limitations upon the exercise of that power.
He further said the word used as in addition in Article 33 is only to add to the list of powers and duties vested on the President under that Article and nothing can be interpreted as to broaden the power.
He also said that there were no different types of dissolution called as Legislative and Executive dissolutions, but still, only the President could dissolve Parliament under Article 70 (1) of the Constitution upon the two-thirds majority in Parliament.
We misunderstood the harmonious interpretation of the Constitution, it is not that the Constitution must be read harmoniously with the matters happening in the country, but must be interpreted the provisions of the Constitution harmoniously, Thilak Marapana PC.
Can President dissolve Parliament, when it is prorogued
Answering to the argument that the dissolution process set out in Article 70(1) of the Constitution can be taken away, when Parliament is prorogued, Mr Thilak Marapana said such situation was set out in Article 70 (3) of the Constitution as follows:

70 (3) A Proclamation proroguing Parliament shall fix a date for the next session, not being more than two months after the date of the Proclamation: Provided that at any time while Parliament stands prorogued the President may by Proclamation 
(i) Summon Parliament for an earlier date, not being less than three days from the date of such Proclamation, or
(ii) Subject to the provisions of this Article, dissolve Parliament.

He said this was a power given to the President to exercise not at any time but to exercise during only the time when Parliament is prorogued. He was of the view that in such situation President could dissolve Parliament subject to the provision of this article, Article 70 (1).
He elaborated the only three scenarios that the President could dissolve Parliament under this provision.
-Firstly, after the four and half years, the President can at any time dissolve Parliament
-Secondly, if the time is within the four and half years, and a situation where Parliament is prorogued, then the President has to summon Parliament first (70(3)(i)) and pass a resolution with a two-thirds majority to dissolve Parliament .
-Thirdly, when there is a resolution passed by Parliament with a two-thirds majority then the President can dissolve Parliament.
This Article 70(3) is not an unworkable provision, it caters how the President should prorogue and dissolve Parliament subject to the other provisions of the same Article. T. Marapana said.
Mr Marapana also pointing the importance of the dissolution process under Article 70 (1) of the Constitution, explained that under Article 48 (2)
If Parliament rejects the Statement of Government Policy or the Appropriation Bill or passes a vote of no-confidence in the Government, the Cabinet of Ministers shall stand dissolved, and the President shall, unless he has in the exercise of his powers under Article 70, dissolved Parliament, appoint a Prime Minister,- there is a reference to Article 70, and that means the President can only dissolve Parliament according to the procedure set out in Article 70(1).
Do the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts have different meanings
Replying to the argument of differences of the text in Article 62(2), M.A. Sumanthiran said the meaning of the text in both -English and Sinhala was the same but only the structuring of sentences differed.

62 (1) There shall be a Parliament which shall consist of two hundred and twenty-five members elected in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
(2) Unless Parliament is sooner dissolved, every Parliament shall continue for five years from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer, and the expiry of the said period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of Parliament.

He said that Article 62 was about the term of Parliament in the general sense.
It says firstly that there is a five years term, then it says unless sooner dissolve, because there is a possibility of Parliament being dissolved prior to its full term under Article 70 (1), he said. Mr Sumanthiran was also of the view that Article 62 does not mention who can dissolve Parliament and that it is enough to be identified this provision as a common Section which provided the term of Parliament.
The phrase, Unless sooner dissolved is a phrase there in any constitution in the world, where Parliament is not a fixed term, he said.
Further elaborating his legal argument Mr Sumanthiran moved that Parliament, in fact, could not make laws only in Sinhala and Tamil, and it had to make them available in English as well (in three languages).
Referring to the 16th Amendment and Article 23 of the Constitution, in a situation of inconsistency among translations, he said the law didnt say that the Sinhala Language should prevail, when there was an inconsistency among every language, but only said when inconsistency between Tamil and Sinhala, so the English had been left alone for a good reason, since some provisions had to be interpreted with its original version.
Such as Article 10, 11 and 12 of the Constitution is borrowed from international instruments, and in forty years of jurisprudence in the Supreme Court has interpreted their English meaning, not the Sinhala translation, which has differences. Similarly, this Article 62 clause which is in Sinhala as Unless sooner dissolved has to be read with its origin, which is borrowed from the English text of Soulbury Constitution to explain the none fixed term Parliament , Sumanthiran said.
He also said that even in Tamil and Sinhala texts there was no inconsistency as such because when one read the Tamil version it was clearly in line with the English meaning.
The meaning of inconsistency is a very high degree matter, as in this situation there is none as such, since, all the confusions will go away if you go and read the both the Sinhala and Tamil version of Article 62, he said.

33 (2) In addition to the powers, duties and functions expressly conferred or imposed on, or assigned to the President by the Constitution or other written law, the President shall have the power -
(c) To summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament;

He also referred to Article 33(2) c and dealt with the clause of In addition. Mr Sumanthiran said, There are Additional Solicitor Generals in the Attorney Generals Department, but are we saying that those ASGs have more power than that of the Attorney General because they are additional No! The phrase in addition is there in Article 33(2) to depict the powers that the President has in the supplement, not that it should be interpreted alone, but with other relevant Articles as well (with Articles 62(2) and 70(1).
Article 33 (2) c is about, who can dissolve Parliament , Article 62(2) is about the general term of a non-fixed term Parliament and the possibility of its prior dissolution, and Article 70 is the provision says how the dissolution is done, in what means, on what conditions. These provisions must be interpreted harmoniously, Sumanthiran said.
The dispute over Article 70(5)
He also explained the dispute over Article 70 (5) (a) and (b).

70 (5) (a) A Proclamation dissolving Parliament shall fix a date or dates for the election of Members of Parliament and shall summon the new Parliament to meet on a date not later than three months after the date of such Proclamation.
(b) Upon the dissolution of Parliament by virtue of the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 62, the President shall forthwith by Proclamation fix a date or dates for the election of ..

He said that the sub-Section (a) in this Article is talking about a proclamation that could be issued when Parliament was dissolved according to the process explained in Article 70 (1) before the four and half years time. And the (b) is referring to Article 62 because it speaks about a proclamation that should be issued when Parliament is automatically dissolved in the event of expiration of the term.
What was decided in Supreme Court determination case in 2002
There was an argument that on an earlier occasion over the Supreme Courts determination in the case of In Re 19th Amendment Bill in 2002, that the Presidents power to dissolve Parliament cannot be limited unless by a referendum. However, Mr Sumanthiran clarified that in this case in 2002 the Supreme Court did not strike down such fetter being made over the dissolution power of the President since the proposed amendment in 2002 is different to what was proposed in 2015.
He was of the view, that in the 19th Amendment of 2015, limited only the Power of the President to dissolve Parliament to four and half years, but still, even with a resolution of a two-third majority, the discretion is with the President to dissolve it. In 2002 determination case, Justice Sarath N. Silva observed the possibility of restricting the dissolution power of the President if the Checks and Balances are maintained properly, so our argument is that the 19th Amendment has restricted the power of the President in a way that caters to the Checks and Balances, he said.
He was of the view that, the Supreme Court in 2015 determination allowed for such limitation, not because the inclusion of Article 33(2)c but such limitation can be done with the collaboration of the concept of Checks and Balances.
Supporting the above argument, Presidents Counsel Thilak Marapana also said that Article 33 (2) c which was brought in by the 19th Amendment, was included as an enumeration to the powers and the duty of the President.
By adding the dissolution of Parliament also in Article 33 (2) as an executive act allows such act to be justiciable under Article126 of the Constitution, he said.
Supreme Court determination over the 19th Amendment in 2015
Mr Sumanthiran also showing a written submission made by the Attorney General in the Supreme Court determination case over the 19th Amendment Bill in 2015 said, that the AG too observed that there were limitations to the President in dissolving Parliament according to the proposed Bill, limiting to the situations where after four -and-a-half years of Parliament term and with a two-thirds resolution passed by Parliament.
He pointed out the AGs stance on that occasion was that the mandate received from the people by Parliament under Article 4(a) of the Constitution is distinct by the mandate that was given to the Executive under Article 4(b) of the Constitution, and that the question needs to be understood in that light, if the President, who is not legislatively elected, prematurely dissolved Parliament.

Article 4-The Sovereignty of the People shall be exercised and enjoyed in the following manner:
(a) The legislative power of the People shall be exercised by Parliament,
(b) The executive power of the People, including the defence of Sri Lanka, shall be exercised by the President

Sumanthiran was also of the view that, if the intervening and respondents argument were to be accepted, it would render Article 70(1) superfluous or redundant, and that was not the way one must give effect to the provision of a Constitution.

70 (1) The President may by Proclamation, summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament:
Provided that the President shall not dissolve Parliament until the expiration of a period of not less than four years and six months from the date appointed for its first meeting, unless Parliament requests the President to do so by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present), voting in its favour.
Who is responsible for the confusion
Dr Jayampathy Wickramaratne also appearing on behalf of the Petitioners replied to the argument put forward by the intervening parties, that there was a confusion in the country which led the President to take this decision to dissolve Parliament .
He said:
Earlier in the year there was a No Confident Motion passed against the government, which was successfully defeated, and until the October 26, the Government was functioning smoothly, as even according to the Hansard, on 25th and 26th of October there were several Money Bills that were passed. Even in the evening of October 26, there was a resolution passed over a supplementary. Then a Member of Parliament being appointed as the Prime Minister, who is still unable to prove that he had the majority. Later Parliament was prorogued till November 16 and subsequently, it changed till November 14. And amidst all, then the President dissolved Parliament on November 9, which was challenged before the Supreme Court and the Court gave an interim order staying the dissolution on November 13. Following that Parliament gathered on several occasions and passed No Confident Motions against the Government. This confusion was created by the President, so he should go to the people and ask whether he has done so far was correct or not by holding a presidential Election after January 9, 2019.
The objective of the 19th Amendment
He also observed that the reason to bring four and half years restriction on the dissolution of Parliament is to provide time for different parties for a unity government. The main objective of the 19th Amendment is to provide an opportunity for parties to work together at least for four and half years, he said.
There was an argument about the way in which these petitions were filed under Article 12 (equal protection of the law) was inadmissible since the petitioners have to prove that they have been treated differently due to this dissolution in a comparison.
Citing several precedents, Dr Wickramaratne said that over the past years the Court had adopted a new doctrine when examining such situations.
Equality is a dynamic concept and that cannot be confined, because Equality and Arbitrary Actions are two sworn enemies, he said.
He also said if the intervening parties argument was to be accepted, the President will have a power to dissolve Parliament at any time even in a situation where an impeachment process is initiated. This argument would render that the President could dissolve Parliament even at a time immediately after an impeachment process initiated in Parliament against him, so it would mean that Parliament could never have an impeachment against him, he said.
Constitution and the peoples right
Appearing for the Petitioners, Senior Counsel Viran Corea said that the Constitution was not a riddle, the common-sense approach in interpreting the Constitution was that country could operate with Rule of Law collectively. Constitution is a vehicle. When it is needed to stop and applied breaks, it should be stopped, because it is intended to do so, he said. In Article 33(2)c the power is there for the President to dissolve Parliament but in Article 70(1) there is a restriction on that, he said.
Presidents Counsel J.C. Weliamuna was also appearing on behalf of the Petitioners counter-argued about the intervening parties contention of go to the people to solve the confusion.
He said that the peoples voice could only be heard in a prescribed manner Election has to be held in a prescribed form by the Constitution, not after every morning tea because going back to the people is also regulated by the Constitution and the Franchise cannot be used as a defence in this situation, he said.
Mr Weliamuna also citing various precedents observed that the Fundamental Rights violation jurisdiction is a sui generis jurisdiction, so that the all of the petitions come under the Supreme Courts jurisdiction.
Presidents Counsel Geofrey Alagaratnam said that the Proviso of Article 70 (1) was not a mere proviso but an exception, as it has two limbs, firstly the limitation of not allowing to dissolve Parliament before four and half years time and secondly the requirement of two-thirds resolution over the dissolution. Giving the gratitude for the seven Bench Supreme Court Justices for allowing the judicial process to be gone through by hearing the case for four consecutive days, Senior Counsel Hijaz Hizbullah stressed the importance of the hearings. He was of the view that the interpreting of the Constitution is like connecting the dots, and that one would not know the real picture unless one started connecting all the dots which were relevant to the picture. He also referred to a remark of the President which said that he would not appoint a certain member of Parliament as the Prime Minister even if the all 225 members of Parliament were agreed.
Considering Article 1 of our Constitution (Sri Lanka shall be known as the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka) Mr Hijaz Hizbullah asked: Is that statement of the President a Democratic, a Socialist, or a Republican He also said that it was true that on two occasions the Supreme Court of Pakistan had decided that the President could disregard the Constitution in breakdown situation in the country, however, the Indian Supreme Court decided totally different to that by holding that the Constitution could never be violated . Now see the difference of the two countries democracy level after such decisions, he said. In a final statement considering the upholding of the democracy in the country, he said If not for your lordships, who If not now when
Ten fundamental rights petitions against the Presidents declaration to dissolve Parliament came up before the bench comprising Chief Justice Nalin Perera and Justices Buwaneka Aluwihare, Sisira J. de Abrew, Priyantha Jayawardena, Prasanna S. Jayawardena, Vijith K. Malalgoda and Murdu Fernando. Five petitions have sought to intervene to counter the main petitions.
K. Kanag-Iswaran PC, Thilak Marapana PC, Dr Jayampathy Wickramaratne PC, M.A. Sumanthiran PC, Counsel Niran Anketell, Viran Corea, Ikram Mohamed PC, J.C. Weliamuna PC, Ronald Perera PC, Hizbullah Hijaz and Suren Fernando appeared for the petitioners.
Gamini Marapane PC with Naveen Marapane, Sanjeeva Jayawardane PC and Ali Sabry PC appeared for the intervenient petitioners opposing the main petitions.
*The writer, a law student as Daily Mirror Courts Reporter, has gathered above findings by listening to the oral submissions made on December 7, 2018, at the Supreme Court.
He can be contacted via
shehandailymirror@gmail.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: FR petition against removal of Ranil as PM fixed for Jan 7
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 11:26 am
FR petition against removal of Ranil as PM fixed for Jan 7
	
A Fundamental Rights petition filed by Ven. Dambara Amila Thera against the removal of Ranil Wickremesinghe from premiership ,appointment of a new Prime Minister and a Cabinet was fixed for January 7 after it was taken up for hearing by the Supreme Court today.
The petition was taken up by a three-member bench including Buwaneka Aluwihare, Sisira De Abrew and Murdu Fernando. (Faruk Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gamblers, Scribblers of the Divide are RESPONSIBLE for D-Ropes, erratic 19 A
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:07 am
Gamblers, Scribblers of the Divide are RESPONSIBLE for D-Ropes, erratic 19 A
	

as it on October 26, 2018 by Sirisena - The conventional explosive, attached to a detonating mechanism ready to be used by any future administrator was set 41 years ago, on September 22, 1977 by JR Jayewardene. The creator ensured fabricating a sensational, improvised, destructive and harmful mechanism using deadly flammable ingredients and designed to destroy or incapacitate a nation. 
Punters in a gambling den need money for the game, they will steal and pawn wifes jewellery or sell home silver; gambler is someone who cannot stop risking and usually losing his money in the hope of winning a lot more money, but in political dens [Den of thieves, the Parliament as Karl Marx saw it] the political gamblers are astute wise men who do not throw money on the table; they do not need an investment. They only use other peoples money-therefore there is no risks involved in losing, but if one wins...[Most of them are losers who convinced the leaders that they should be there at any cost], its a triumph for their generations at the cost of the poor masses. Theses gamblers would plant a trap and give deadly ropes to their leaders promising numbers, whose interest is utterly in their own and in how to retain or gain more power for them. 
The Sirisena-MR combine, expectedly, greet fresh elections, asserting it would reflect the true will of the people. Free and fair elections are central to a democracy; but can they be conducted in the wake of the dubious dissolution of Parliament, they may be anything but. The UNP and its allies are now set to challenge the Presidents battle. We are at a crossroads where we are to make a crucial alternative between democratic consolidation or a move away to dictatorship. The judiciary has a critical task at hand. 
The voter must resolve NOT to vote for those who are corrupt, unruly, and resort to brutality inside the consecrated Chamber as the whole planet witnessed weeks ago. Those concerned are not fit to stand for the sovereignty of the public. We, the electors must use our ballet to make a distinction. 
Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera: Rushed up 19A -- 113 or opinion
Speaking on the subject of his funeral Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera said, This body is a mala kuna and thats how it should be taken care of; I am against all of this unnecessary nonsense of funeral extravagance. But, the Yahapalana government of Maithri-Ranil, who did not take any interest in baking the rotiya while the thetiya was still hot (Bake the bread while the pan is hot) attempted for a grand ceremonial cremation to the deceased. Perhaps, they would have surmised like the monk Subhoda who on hearing Buddhas Parinibbana, said, the chief is gone, rejoice friends, now we can have our own way. 
Ven. Sobitha spearheaded the campaign and was instrumental in informing the people about the need for yahapaalanaya at a time when MR and family were threatening to take over every aspect of peoples lives at the expense of democracy.The UNP was being beaten repeatedly at every election and their MPs including unprincipled Karu Jayasuriya were joining MRs by the dozen. 
The late prelate who, some 30 years ago spoke against the Indo-Lanka Accord, along with Prof. Sarachchandra and manhandled by JRs thugs, was a neutral monk who initiated ending the MR era and established a yahapaalanaya. The people listened to him, but the new regime was dragging its feet on altering the Supreme Law, and system of elections. Sobitha Thera spoke of importance in acting fast when he said,Cook the rotiya while the chatiya was still hot. The Constitutional Pundits with vested interests wanted to kill two birds fix the Rajapaksas through 19A and transfer all powers to PM. They prevented Gota or Basil from contesting by introducing a clause to maim dual citizens; Age limit meticulously calculated to prevent the crown Prince from entering the fray too. They did not trust Sirisena, hence diluted his power for dissolution from one year to four and a half. The Ven Prelate was the first to condemned the 19A saying that the Rotiya we cooked was half baked. Worst, the change in the manner of appointment of PM, instead of making the acceptance of 113 votes in the House mandatory; they made a mockery of it by saying, The President shall appoint as Prime Minister the Member of Parliament, who, in the Presidents OPINION, is most likely to command the confidence of Parliament,because in April 2015, when they presented it in Parliament PM Wickremasinghe had only 42 on his side where as his opponent DM Jayaratne could boast of 161. The clause boomeranged resulting in a rapidly deteriorating political culture. President asserted that he would defy even if all the 225 agreed for one particular candidate. He will appoint based on hisopinion, as envisaged bythe Scribblers of 19A, for the House to pass a NCM against. A situation in which two sides finding further action is impossible or futile; a deadlock; leading to an unprecedented constitutional crisis leading to an anarchy. 
The intellectuals, academics, scholars, religious dignitaries, [who are not pawns of mischievous politicians] thinker forums [non-NGO types] are bewildered and helpless in this calamity.They say, the crisis was triggered by President Sirisena on October 26, 2018 when he decided to appoint MR as PM. But if one examines the contemporary political history, it reveals as we have highlighted in the beginning, that he only activated or generated an already constructed improvised explosive device (IED) set on September 22, 1977 by JRJ. A Bill was adopted by the then National State Assembly on that day as the Second Constitutional Amendment. Executive power was transferred to the President and JR became the first Executive President of Sri Lanka on Independence Day, February 4, 1978.
Our legislators and also the public should be conscious of constitution and general court ruling interpretations at a suitable level. Lets evolve a country, where the people stop stooging, worshipping and going behind politicos. 

"The constitution clearly says The PM continues to hold office throughout the period during which the cabinet of ministers continues to function. The Speaker is the uppermost authority in parliament and is anticipated to be absolutely independent and unbiased at all times. Standing orders [A set of rules] is used to manage parliamentary meetings. "
Sri Lankas Constitution is riddled with inconsistencies. The Article 33 (2) (c) states: It shall be the duty of the President to  summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament, while, Article 70 (1) states:  The President may by Proclamation, summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament: Provided that the President shall not dissolve Parliament until the expiration of a period of not less than four years and six months from the date appointed for its first meeting. 
The constitution clearly says The PM continues to hold office throughout the period during which the cabinet of ministers continues to function. The Speaker is the uppermost authority in parliament and is anticipated to be absolutely independent and unbiased at all times. Standing orders [A set of rules] is used to manage parliamentary meetings. The Speaker Karu Jayasuriya overlooked the cardinal tenet of impartiality. 
The Speaker, though has the power to suspend standing orders if there is an overwhelming support from the MPs present to proceed strictly on an emergency. He cannot do so to please a particular party, to bring in a motion where notice has to be given: the motion of no confidence was not read and no member knew its contents, let alone have any time for a reasonable debate, and then go for a count of votes quoting a Standing order that allows him to use Sound. Speaker was not in control of the House because of his lack of admiration for the rules of parliamenthe didnt even have an agenda for the two meetings on November 15 and 16.
Karu Jayasuriya repeated the same routine on the next day for the second time, despite the Presidents appeal to bring in the motion according to the accepted set procedures of standing orders. 
The Judiciary will go down in history as brave man who saved the nation from all types of threats from politicians, if they return a decision that they genuinely consider is in harmony not only with a tinkered Constitution, but, on democratic norms. When MR did not obtain a legislative majority, in an act of desperation, to avert a likely loss of face for both Sirisena and Rajapaksa over controversial dismissal of Ranil Wickremesinghe as PM on October 26, President dissolved Parliament. In his world famous Gettysburg Address, Statesman Abraham Lincoln stated, democracy is by the people, for the people and of the people meaning the power should be used for the rights, welfare and dignity of the people. The UNP should allow membership to make voice in the party, and remove dictatorial powers of the leader; get ready to face the people. 
The nation continues to be occupied in a catastrophic legitimate or otherwise of unparalleled proportion that we have no option but to seek the Peoples mandate in sorting out matters as best suited them through a Parliamentary poll.
Every actual democracy rests on the principle that not only are equals equal but unequals will not be treated unequally. Democracy requires, therefore, first homogeneity and secondif the need arises elimination or eradication of heterogeneity.The Crisis of Parliamentary Democracy
<U+2015> Carl Schmitt

Writer can be contacted atkksperera1@gmail.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: LawAsia observers visit Sri Lanka: SL judiciary praised  for conduct, independence and tolerance
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:05 am
LawAsia observers visit Sri Lanka: SL judiciary praised  for conduct, independence and tolerance
	
s Sri Lanka awaits another historic judgement to be given by the Supreme Court on President Sirisenas move to dissolve Parliament, the Sri Lankan judiciary is being praised for its independence. While respecting its initial interim order withdrawing duties of the purported Prime Minister and his cabinet of Ministers, Sri Lankan citizens have once again vested hopes on this pillar of the Constitution. In order to observe the Supreme Court proceedings on the hearing of petitions against dissolution of Parliament, a high profile delegation representing LawAsia visited Sri Lanka recently. Speaking to the Daily Mirror, Christopher Leong, President of LawAsia and Prashant Kumar, Immediate Past President of LawAsia expressed their observations on conduct, tolerance and patience displayed during the hearings. 
The commendations
The visit of the delegation was coordinated by former President of the Bar Association of Sri Lanka (BASL) Upul Jayasuriya. He said that the delegation is carrying out a neutral observation and their remit is to see how the rule of law is being upheld here. The judicial process here is transparent and all parties are allowed to have their say before the court. This is our primary remit and how the court decides on an issue and the sole power is on the Court in a sovereign country, Upul said giving a background to the purpose of their visit. 
In coming for this observation team, I have had the opportunity to read through the relevant parts of the Constitution of Sri Lanka, Christopher said referring to the Constitution. From what we have observed the relevant provisions involve Articles 43, 62 and 70. One of the things we are very confident in saying is that having read through articles and in terms of language, I think Sri Lanka is very fortunate in that the language used in the Constitution is very crisp and clear. It is unambiguous and that would lend an easy and natural interpretation. Having attended hearings, we have also observed that the SC bench that is hearing this matter is very engaged with the issues involved as well as the arguments. They have exhibited judicial temperance and patience hearing this matter. 
The observations that we have is that the SC Judges are very careful to give the counsel sufficient time to develop and make their submissions, he continued.I suppose that is because of the gravity of issues that are involved. The SC judges have endurance and most importantly the members of the SC bench asked questions and clarifications. I think the SC acted expeditiously and they have given priority to these proceedings. 
In his comments, Kumar said that these are tricky Constitutional issues and that the courts have to go in depth. They have to involve all stakeholders and parties who are present before it. It is not uncommon that the hearing gets prolonged and it takes many days. In India, we challenged the Judicial Appointments Commission and the hearing went on for 45 days. Therefore the determination has to be thorough and all aspects of the Constitution need to be argued before the Judges. 
Jayasuriya further said that in this situation there were ten intervening parties which is a healthy sign where the SC has allowed every one of those parties to be heard. 
Maintaining integrity of the Constitution
The Constitution established in Sri Lanka is a republic and in all republican Constitutions, every power vested in any authority is solely exercisable for furthering the objectives of the Constitution, Kumar added. The judiciary is made the final arbiter and the custodian of the Constitution. That is what is before the SC and the SC has this dispute which is to be analysed from the structure of the Constitution and the effort has to be to maintain the integrity of the Constitutional design of the government which has been established. So judiciaries across the region have been very robust especially in India in exercising their powers as custodians of the Constitution. Primarily this is the issue before the SC which is to see how the Constitutional scheme is to be given its meaning in the light of surrounding circumstances; which action will destroy the spirit or undermine the Constitution or which action will further the Constitutional design and objective. This is the trend in modern Constitutions and judiciaries. 
Jayasuriya also added that everyone including the President, Judges of SC, Presidents Counsel and attorneys-at-law have all taken an oath to defend the Constitution. So when we are supposed to defend the Constitution that doesnt mean we have a right to violate the Constitution. When in doubt the only authority that can interpret the Constitution best is the SC. 
When asked whether such attempts to dissolve Parliament have been made in other Asian countries or anywhere in the world, Kumar said that there have been similar instances in India at the Provincial level. There has been an instance where the governor of the state dissolved the assembly and the SC of India went to the extent of restoring the assembly, setting aside the dissolution. This has happened in Arunachal Pradesh and several other states. In India it has been consistently interpreted that the final arbiter of the majority, who form the government is neither the President nor the governor but it is the floor of the house and a test held on the floor of the house. 
Justifying confidence
The other observation was on the vote of No-Confidence that was taken in Parliament, Leong added. As a general rule and a Constitutional provision, the Parliament is always the master of its own house. In this instance, a vote was taken by Parliament to make a determination within the aghast house as to who is reposed with the confidence of the majority of members. That vote was taken twice. As to the manner that vote has to be taken, the Parliament, as the master of its own house could determine the way it could take the vote. It could be taken by a show of hands, a voice vote or by electronic means. But it is the Parliament that determines how it will be taken and the results will be announced by the Speaker. Once the speaker announces the result it is final. Apparently the vote of No-Confidence was taken twice and it was carried by a majority. On both occasions over 120 voted in favour of the vote and matter has been taken to courts by 122 members of parliament. 

"One of the things we are very confident in saying is that having read through articles and in terms of language, I think Sri Lanka is very fortunate in that the language used in the Constitution is very crisp and clear"
Leong also referred to an example in Malaysia. Theres an interesting precedence in Malaysia where the King, who is the head of state decided that in order to ascertain who would get majority confidence you are not merely confined to having a vote of Confidence or No-Confidence in Parliament. You can ascertain that from other means if available. In Malaysia, the head of state gathered the members of the state assembly and asked them to affirm their support for which candidate the majority confidence was reposed. That went to courts, was challenged in court and our apex court decided that it was a valid ascertainment to get the majority view as to whom the Parliament reposed confidence in. Hence, it will be interesting how Sri Lankan judiciary would view this action. 
What would be the answer
If an answer is not found to the dissolution then the President can continue this process, Kumar added. In fact he will continue until he finds the voter party and majority which he thinks should form the government. So let the new government come and the majority is not to be tested on the floor of the house so that you can dissolve it. Therefore, does the Constitutional scheme suggest that the President has an absolute power and if the election is the solution that he can filter the democracy in a way until he gets the juice he wants With the series of events that had taken place, one question that needs to be asked is what way to go. If you take one view that the courts cannot intervene and the President has the absolute power to dissolve Parliament then this opens up a possibility which would bring down the entire foundation of a republican Constitution. Then theres no use of an election. It substitutes democracy with a presidential fiat. This is a question before the courts; not just what happens today but it is the entire future of the republic. That is in the hands of the lordships. Whether the country is going to go ahead with what it has preserved for 70 years is the question that is before Courts. 
Pics by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: League of Nations, the UN and the worlds longest running conflict - EDITORIAL
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:03 am
League of Nations, the UN and the worlds longest running conflict - EDITORIAL
	

n the aftermath First World War (1914 - 1918) in which 15 - 19 million lives were lost, the League of Nations (LN), an intergovernmental organisation wasfounded on January 10, 1920.
The Leagues goals included disarmament, preventing war through collective security, settling disputes among nations through negotiation and improving global welfare. The goal of the LN was to prevent wars through disarmament, collective security and negotiation. Unfortunately despite the lofty benchmarks it set for itself, the League fell badly short of its goals. Barely two decades after the formation of the LN, World War II broke out in 1939 when Germany invaded Poland.
The loss of life in the second World War (1939-1945) was on a much larger scale, when compared to World War I. Between 60 - 85 million lives both military and civilian were lost. The largest number WWII casualties came from China and the Soviet Union,. 26 million are estimated to have died in the Soviet Union, while China estimates its losses at approximately 20,000,000 deaths.
On October 24, 1945, at the end of World War II, the United Nations Organization was founded, committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. But within a space of three years the newly formed United Nations created the worlds longest running war (the Israel-Palestine conflict) when on May 14, 1948, it created the state of Israel in the land of Palestine. A concept of British Foreign secretary Arthur Balfour known as the Balfour Declaration. The declaration, contained in a letter to Lord Walter Rothschild, a leader of the British Jewish community, was vaguely worded. Mr. Balfour had offered a national home for the Jewish people, NOT a state.
Hungarian-Jewish writer Arthur Koestler described the setting up of the state of Israel in accordance with the Balfour Declaration in the memorable words one nation solemnly promised to a second nation the country of a third....
The Balfour Declaration promised a national home not a state to the Jewish people. This was to be achieved without prejudicing the civil and religious rights of Palestines existing non-Jewish communities, which at that time accounted for 90% of the population.
But May 15, 1948, the day after the UN recognised the State of Israel is remembered by Palestinians as the beginning of the mass exodus of Palestinians from their lands and homes... and every year on May 15, Palestinians the world over, approximately 12.4 million, refer to this day as Nakba, or catastrophe, it refers to the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians from their lands and homes by Israeli Zionist gangs on May 15, 1948. By the first half of 1949, at least 750,000 Palestinians had been forcibly expelled or fled their homeland in the face of armed Israeli attacks.
Today more than 1.5 millionPalestinians, live in 58 recognized Palestine refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. Statistics revealed by the Guardianshow, that almost 5 million Palestinians today live under a military occupation. This has lasted for over five decades. Another 1.7 million are Palestinian citizens of Israel and are a minority under pressure not to antagonise the Jewish majority.
Some political parties from their community were banned until the supreme court overturned the ban. National security is invoked to justify often racist citizenship laws. They are poorer than their Jewish neighbours and endure terrible discrimination. However, they live better lives than Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank, where politically the community is divided between Hamass radicalism and Fatahs ineffectiveness.
Continuing the illegal settlements and a combination of legal and administrative controls mean that the Palestinians, supposedly promised a fifth of the land as part of the Oslo Accords, control a little more than a tenth of historic Palestine. That the Israeli military operates freely in many Palestinian-controlled areas undermines the idea that Palestinians really run them.
2018 marks the 70th year since the the UN created the conflict in Palestine. It is the duty of the UN to make both parties realise that peace can be achieved only through sharing fairly, the land both claim to love 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel Cash Bonanza Carnival 2018 for the month of November held in Angoda
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:38 am
Mobitel Cash Bonanza Carnival 2018 for the month of November held in Angoda
	
Sri Lankas National Mobile Service Provider, Mobitel, successfully concluded another episode of its much-acclaimed loyalty rewards programme with the Mobitel Cash Bonanza Carnival at the T.B.Illangarathna Ground in Angoda, on 17th of November 2018. The event concluded on a very high note with the enthusiastic participation and overwhelming support of their much loyal customer base. This unique and exciting draw has found favour amongst its growing and established clientele as one of the most rewarding, extravagant and superior lucky draws in the country, consecutively carried forward with much momentum.
With super luxury brand new Benz Cars on offer as giveaways for the winners of Mobitel Cash Bonanza 2018 draw, Mobitel Cash Bonanza continues to make its mark as one of the most successful loyalty programmes in Sri Lanka in the past years. Furthermore, the daily and the quarterly draws reward lucky winners with over 190 Million Rupees in cash prizes, giving away rupees 500 each for 220,000 lucky winners year around, making Mobitel, the only telecommunication company to run such a finely executed loyalty rewards scheme and a mammoth marketing campaign.
The carnival was marked with a hoard of engaging and entertaining activities throughout the day, inclusive of Bunjee jumping, art competitions, IOT workshops, kids play area and Mobitel services and product kiosks. The beauty culture kiosk and the special medical consultancy clinic organized free of charge were some of the unique experiences and services provided for the enjoyment and the benefit of the crowd. The highlight of the event was the special eye clinic organized by Mobitel as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility initiative. The eye clinic with the participation of renowned optometrists saw the distribution of 1000 eyeglasses amongst Upahara customers. In an effort to add convenience to the lives of many, residents of Angoda, were allowed to apply and receive national identity cards at the event. The gaming zone powered by the high speed Mobitel 4G internet connection, was another favourite amongst the crowd and saw the much animated participation of the young and the old alike.
All prepaid, post-paid and broadband connection and every recharge of 50 Rupees automatically qualify the customers for the Mobitel Cash Bonanza draw. The customers with pre-paid connections would be entitled to an equal talk time reflective of the amount recharged and post-paid connections are entitled to a discount from the consecutive bill reflective of the amount won. The winners would be contacted by post and through the Mobitel customer care hotline 071 27 55 777 with no extra charges levied for any of the prizes won.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel partners with Cinnamon Life as official telco partner for hit Theatrical Mamma Mia!
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:18 am
Mobitel partners with Cinnamon Life as official telco partner for hit Theatrical Mamma Mia!
	
Committed to supporting and uplifting the arts and culture in the country, Mobitel, is proud to step forward as Official Telco Partner for London Westends hit theatrical, Mamma Mia! from 23rd-30th December 2018 at the Nelum Pokuna Mahinda Rajapakse Theatre as part of its international tour.
MAMMA MIA! is Judy Craymers ingenious vision of staging the story-telling magic of ABBAs timeless songs with an enchanting tale of family and friendship unfolding on a Greek island paradise. To-date, it has been seen by more than 60 million people in 50 productions in 16 different languages. Inspired by its credo, We Care. Always. Mobitel engages with the citizens of the country by supporting and facilitating a range of high profile art, cultural and sporting events that bring new and exciting experiences to audiences. Mobitels innovations and leading technology is transforming peoples lives for the better while empowering a wide variety of sectors such as education, leisure, healthcare, IT, communications and more.
In terms of the partnership with the hit theatre masterpiece, Mobitel is pleased to partner Colombos lifestyle hub, Cinnamon Life, to present Mamma Mia! for audiences in Colombo. Mobitel believes that values are not meant for corporate walls, but that they should be experienced and felt every time you come in contact with the brand. By facilitating this hit musical. Mobitel is fulfilling peoples aspirations of witnessing world-class entertainment shows right here in Sri Lanka. Customers today want to feel the humane side of technology and associate with a caring brand, which is what Mobitel  as the National Mobile Service Provider - strives to achieve. The company is confident that Mamma Mia! will offer unforgettable moments of entertainment and joy for audiences in Colombo during the festive season.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Museum in Los Angeles to present exhibition on Sri Lanka
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 04:25 pm
Museum in Los Angeles to present exhibition on Sri Lanka
	
The first comprehensive survey of Sri Lankan art organized by a US museum-The Jewelled Isle: Art from Sri Lanka-would be presented by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA), Art Daily reported on Monday.
Drawn in part from LACMAs collection of Sri Lankan art, and including numerous domestic and international loans, the exhibition presents some 240 works addressing nearly two millennia of Sri Lankan history.
The Jewelled Isle presents a timely exploration and celebration of a geographically complex, ethnically diverse, and multicultural South Asian hub.
The exhibition is curated by Dr. Robert L. Brown and Dr. Tushara Bindu Gude, of LACMAs South and Southeast Asian Art Department, and is designed by Los Angeles-based architecture firm Escher GuneWardena Architecture.
LACMA has a long history of collecting South and Southeast Asian art and its Sri Lankan holdings are more expansive and diverse in range than those found in any other U.S. collection, said LACMA CEO and Wallis Annenberg Director Michael Govan. These works are at the heart of this exhibition.
According to the exhibition curators, Sri Lankan culture developed in a complex web of foreign influences and local customs that have never been fully explored in previous exhibitions. These multiple influences were woven together in a fusion that is uniquely Sri Lankan. The art shown in The Jeweled Isle reflects this development and also offers a window onto Sri Lankas rich history and culture.
The image of a bejewelled isle, invoked in ancient Sanskrit texts and in Greco-Roman accounts of Sri Lankas precious gems, inspired numerous literary descriptions of the islands wealth and lush tropical beauty.
The notion of jewels is apparent throughout the exhibition, which includes precious decorative objects fashioned from gold, silver, and ivory, and 19th-century photographs documenting Sri Lankas extraordinary monuments, people, landscapes, and flora.
Following the introductory gallery, The Jewelled Isle is loosely organized around three chronological sections that examine the major capitals of Sri Lankan history: Anuradhapura (3rd century BCE10th century CE), Polonnaruwa (11th13th century), and Kandy (15th19th century).
 
		
==============================
## Title: Petition in CA on Presidents state of mind
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 03:02 pm
Petition in CA on Presidents state of mind
	
A woman named Thakshila Lakmali Jayawardena filed a writ petition in the Court of Appeal (CA) today seeking an order directing the IGP to go to the District Courts to inquire into the state of mind of PresidentMaithripala Sirisena. 
Ms. Jayawardena filed the writ petition seeking the CAto issue a mandate in the nature of a writ of Mandamus against Fort Police Head Quarters OIC and the IGP directing them to institute judicial proceedings in District Courts by virtue of section IIof the Mental Diseases Ordinance for the purpose of inquiring state of mind of President Sirisena. (Shehan Chamika Silva)

Video by Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM, ministers not removed; only functions suspended: GL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 10:19 pm
PM, ministers not removed; only functions suspended: GL
	
The Court of Appeal's restraining order had only stopped the prime minister and the ministers from functioning in their offices and had not declared them unlawful, the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) chairman G. L. Peiris said today.
He said there was a misconception that the posts of prime minister and those of the ministers had fallen vacant.
This is completely false. The court order has not removed the PM and the ministers from office but had stopped them from carrying out their duties and functioning in their posts, Prof. Peiris said and added that there had been instances in world history where prime ministers had been removed but said this was the first instance where a prime minister was suspended from carrying out his duties.
Once, a Pakistani Court removed a prime minister. However, this is the first time in the history where a prime minister and ministers were suspended from functioning. Though we respect the court order, we dont agree with it. Thats why we filed an appeal in the Supreme Court, he said and added that the only solution available to the current political crisis was to hold a general election. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez making bogus claims about 19A : JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:00 pm
Prez making bogus claims about 19A : JVP
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) said today the Presidents claim that 19th Amendment to the Constitution was brought in haste was baseless and said it was discussed for months prior to its approval in Parliament.
JVP MP Vijitha Herath told a news conference that the President was trying to take the credit for positives in 19A while passing the buck on the negatives to others.
The discussions on the 19A were ongoing even before the death of Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera. It was definitely not brought about in haste but there was a delay in the process. The 19A which was to be passed on March 12, 2015 was finally passed on April 27, 2015, he said.
The MP said it was the SLFP MPs who changed the positive aspects of the 19A including that of the clause to prevent crossovers.
The 19A can be considered as an amendment passed in parliament with a remarkable majority. Those who criticize it today also voted for it. Presidents extreme powers were scrapped from 19A while it also removed the Presidents powers to dissolve parliament after one year. The 19A changed it to four and half years, he said.
The MP said the President should at least now admit to his political coup and listen to the majority in Parliament without so blatantly violating the Constitution any further.
At the SLFP convention, the President said he would resolve the crisis within seven days but now he is saying that he is waiting till the Supreme Court decision. He is continuing to consistently contradict himself, he said.
The MP said the judiciary was functioning impartially because of the steps taken to ensure an independent judicial system in the country through the 19A.
He said the President and the Rajapaksa faction are now claiming that a general election was the only solution to the political crisis and if so the President should have dissolved parliament on October 26.
Meanwhile, the MP said the JVP would not support any motion to reappoint Ranil Wickremesinghe to the post of prime minister. (Ajith Siriwardana)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez will request CJ to deliver order soon: Wimal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 06:40 pm
Prez will request CJ to deliver order soon: Wimal
	
President Maithripala Sirisena will request Chief Justice Nalin Perera through the Attorney General to deliver the order on the dissolution of parliament without delay, MP Wimal Weerawansa said today.
He told a news briefing that the President would make the request tomorrow morning.
MP Weerawansa said the entire country was waiting for the SC ruling on the Fundamental Rights petitions filed against the dissolution of parliament. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Promotions, transfers of all govt. servants suspended
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 08:35 am
Promotions, transfers of all govt. servants suspended
	
All transfers and promotions in the Government service have been temporarily suspended.
The Ministry of Public Administration has informed all government institutions not to effect transfers or promotions until such time that the existing political crisis is solved.
It is learnt that promotions and transfers to be given to government employees effective from next January have been put on hold as a result of this circular.(Ranjan Kasthuri)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Railways launches SMS alerts to prevent elephant collisions
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 10:55 pm
Railways launches SMS alerts to prevent elephant collisions
	
The Department of Railways today introduced an SMS hotline 070-4445454 to inform about locations of elephant herds on railway lines countrywide with the help of the Department of Wildlife Conservation.
Speaking to the media at a media briefing at the Railways Head Quarters, the General Manager of Railways (GMR) M.J. Dilantha Fernando said train-elephant collisions could not be stopped 100 percent but it could be controlled.
Therefore, the Railways Department decided to introduce a hotline to minimise the accidents, he said.
Most of the accidents occurred beyond the Maho Junction and the Department had decided to clear 15-meter wide stretch from both sides of the track to enhance a clear vision for the engine driver and people, he said.
He said that measures had been taken to fill railway sleepers filled with metal for an easy crossing for elephants. He added that the railway engines will be equipped with powerful headlights to detect movements of elephants.
People can inform about elephant herds through the hotline 24-hours. As soon as an SMS sent to through this number it will be recorded in a system in the Wildlife Department. Then the SMS will be forwarded to Railways Department and then forwarded to a registered group in the railways.
The group consists of engine drivers, rail guards, rail track supervisory managers, gatemen, people who live near railway lines affected by the elephant-human conflict, station masters where the elephant herd passes, people living along the tracks and all stakeholders who are interested on elephant-human conflict, GMR Fernando said.
The SMS will be delivered among the group as Elephant ALT, he said. He said that a typical SMS Alert would indicate the number of elephants, location, area, and the time and the track. Sample SMS - ElephantALT - Elephant Herd - Seen at 128.5 mile post - Between Galgamuwa-Tabuttegama at 19.34 - North Line (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)


 
		
==============================
## Title: Ranil wont be PM even confidence motion passed: PHU
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 02:40 pm
Ranil wont be PM even confidence motion passed: PHU
	
United National Party (UNP) leader Ranil Wickremesinghe would not be appointed as the Prime Minster even if the confidence motion would be passed in Parliament, Pivithuru Hela Urumaya (PHU) said today.
The UNP is to move a Confidence Motion on Wednesday in Parliament pledging solidarity with its leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister.
Addressing a news briefing, PHU Leader Udaya Gammanpila said according to the internal sources of the UNP, the MPs who would vote in favour of the motion were to file a Fundamental Rights petition in the Supreme Court in order to receive an order that Mr Wickremesinghe would be appointed as the Prime Minister.
There is no appropriate requirement for the Supreme Court to deliver an order to appoint a new Premier because there is a Prime Minister, whose privilege to function as the Prime Minister has only been nullified through an Interim Order issued by the Appeal Court, Gammanpila said.
Most of people are of the opinion that the interim order has restrained Mahinda Rajapaksa from being the Prime Minister. It is not so. It has only retrained Rajapaksa from functioning as the Prime Minster, he said.
Gammanpila reiterated that even though the motion of confidence passed in Parliament, Wickremesinghe could not be appointed as the Prime Minster. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Samsung QLED TV Re-launched
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 04:36 pm
Samsung QLED TV Re-launched
	
The worlds leading Electronics Company and Sri Lankas preferred electronics brand, Samsung, had a mini second launch of its QLED TV at the Singer Lifestyle Exhibition, held from 23rd to 25th November 2018. The Samsung stall, which featured the entire range of Samsungs electronics, attracted high number of footfalls as crowds thronged to witness the performance of the QLED TV for a sensory extravaganza. Some of the top features of this TV are enhanced picture quality, sleek design, connectivity and superlative intelligence, which make it a real asset in your home. The premium metal body coupled with a nearly bezel-less display, places QLED TVs in a class of its own. Samsung offered easy payment schemes to customers for purchase of its latest QLED TV, making it instantly affordable and a real energy saver.
There are many reasons why QLED TV is revolutionizing the viewing experience for customers. For starters, Q-Color, a new criterion for picture quality, can measure minute color changes, three-dimensionally, according to varying degrees of brightness. QLED TV, comes with the latest HDR 10+ technology where it can accurately represent detailed colors that can be hidden from dark or bright images. By using metal quantum dot technology, which is 3 to 4 times that of conventional TVs, there is a more vivid look to scenes such as sunlight reflecting texture and white snowy landscapes. Indeed, this latest Samsung QLED TV achieves the highest level of contrast ratio by improving the quality of blacks on-screen while maintaining brightness.
Commenting on the QLED TV, Mr. Hanbae Park, Managing Director of Samsung Sri Lanka said, Samsung is the No.1 TV seller in the world for a span of 12 consecutive years and we dominate a large segment of the TV market in Sri Lanka due to a growing demand for large screen TVs. I believe the Samsung QLED TV delivers a wonderful large screen experience to customers, elevating their viewing experience to a completely unprecedented level. In response to increasing customer appetite for large screen TVs, Samsung is committed to introducing new large screen TVs in the near future. 
Elaborating further, Mr. Sabry Ansar, Head  Consumer Electronics quotes Samsung TVs are extremely popular in Sri Lanka and we were delighted to have carried out the 2nd wave launch at the Singer Lifestyle Fair in order to offer our customers a captivating viewing experience. More and more people aspire to have large screen TVs to better enjoy sports, music and films, and this is exactly what the QLED TV delivers. Its revolutionary technology and intelligent features make this TV the clear choice for an unforgettable viewing experience.
The Ambient Mode available in the QLED TV transforms a black screen into a meaningful lifestyle screen. This TV blends in harmoniously with the surroundings even when the TV is on standby mode. This ultimately led the design team to develop QLED TVs new Ambient Mode, which makes it seem as if the TV is projecting the wall behind it. This design element creates a sense of spatial consistency by enabling the TV screen to seamlessly blend in with the wall. The SmartThings app features an array of built-in images to suit a wide range of living spaces, and also allows users to take a picture of their own wall to set as their Ambient Mode image. When activated, the screen brightness is automatically adjusted according to the viewing environment to minimize power consumption.
Samsungs QLED technology is guaranteed to be burn-in free, where the users can enjoy the feature without worry. Furthermore, Samsung also offers 10 years warranty against screen burn-in. Whats more, Samsung QLED TVs are composed of inorganic materials to provide consistent, bright, vivid image quality for years.
The One Invisible Connection is a clean-cut design because it gets rid of convoluted cables which are distracting. The One Invisible Connection combines the AV and power lines, along with the cables of peripheral devices (via the One Connect Box), into a single, transparent cable that eliminates visual distractions and keeps the area around the TV tidy. This first-of-its-kind innovation can also be extended up to 5 meters. So, users may freely position their TV without worrying about its proximity to a power source.
The latest QLED TVs can be purchased from Singer, Softlogic, Singhagiri and Damro showrooms and dealers island-wide.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Singapore FTA signed without proper consent: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 07:51 pm
Singapore FTA signed without proper consent: President
	
The report of the Experts Committee appointed to look into the Sri Lanka-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (SLSFTA) has highlighted the agreement has been rushed without proper consent of stakeholder institutions, President Maithripala Sirisena said today.
The President expressed these views when he received the report of the Experts Committee at the Presidential Secretariat this evening.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL woman tortured and forced into prostitution in Bahrain
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:39 pm
SL woman tortured and forced into prostitution in Bahrain
	
A 36-year-old Sri Lankan housemaid in Bahrain has claimed that she was tortured and forced into prostitution for almost two years, the Gulf Daily News reported on Monday.
The victim says she survived only on bread and was made to sleep with up to 20 men every day.
A 40-year-old Bangladeshi is facing charges including forcing the victim into prostitution, holding her against her will, theft, assault and operating an illegal vice network.
His alleged accomplice, a 43-year-old Sri Lankan woman, is still at large and being tried in absentia.
The victim told investigators that she had been tricked by the defendants, who allegedly promised to help her find employment and provided shelter at an apartment.
The 43-year-old called some Asian men and demanded I have sex with them. When I refused she took my money, Bahrain Dinar (BD) 100, my phone, a gold necklace and three gold rings and threatened to beat me if I didnt comply. When the men came in I was forced to sleep with them out of fear of my captors. When I refused the 43-year-old would beat me up, punch me and pull my hair. She would also use pepper, water and salt and burn my private parts to torture me. I did their bidding for two years because I was afraid and, if I refused, they would assault me, the victim said in her statement to prosecutors.
The woman said clients paid anywhere between BD7 and BD30 to have sex with her, but the cash was pocketed by her alleged captors.
I would plead with customers to help me, but none of them did, she said.
When the 43-year-old heard this she would beat me even more.
I tried to escape many times, but I failed and I would get beaten for my attempts.
However, she said she seized her chance to escape in July when another woman, from Indonesia, entered the apartment where she was being held.
She (the Indonesian woman) gave me the key to an apartment and told me to head there because a customer was waiting, the victim said.
She told me she would follow in 15 minutes, but I grabbed the key and ran away to the police station.
I could never run away before because the defendants were always nearby.
The victim added that she first moved to Bahrain to work as a housemaid for a Bahraini family, but ran away just one month into the job.
She said she then spent five months working for an Indian family, but was left jobless when that family moved away.
That is when she says she turned to the defendants for help.
I kept searching for work in Riffa and whenever I would run into a Sri Lankan I would ask if they knew of any job opening, the victim said.
The male defendant said he had a job for me and took me to the 43-year-old Sri Lankan woman at an apartment.
The Bangladeshi defendant has previously claimed during questioning at the Public Prosecution that his female co-defendant was the mastermind behind the vice racket.
He and a 41-year-old Indonesian woman, who has been charged with prostitution, were arrested during a police raid on September 5.
The trial has been adjourned until December 23 for a lawyer to be appointed for the Bangladeshi, while an arrest warrant has been issued for his female Sri Lankan co-defendant.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Softlogic Life completes victorious 2018 by becoming Sri Lankas most awarded life insurer
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:02 am
Softlogic Life completes victorious 2018 by becoming Sri Lankas most awarded life insurer
	

 Becomes Sri Lankas number one insurance company for the second consecutive year at NBEA 2018
 Wins five awards at CA Awards 2018, becomes first insurance company to achieve the feat
 Triumphs at SLIM Brand Excellence 2018 with two Silver awards
 Only Sri Lankan company to be shortlisted at Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2018

Ending the year on a winning spirit, Sri Lankas number one health insurer, Softlogic Life, has become the countrys most awarded life insurance company in 2018. Softlogic Life rewrote the history books recently after it was conferred with eightprestigious accolades at three of the most prominent industry awards ceremonies in Sri LankaNational Business Excellence Awards, Annual Report Awards and SLIM Brand Excellence Awards.

While applauding their expertise in disruptive technologies and smart innovations, which has paved a path for state-of-the-art life insurance solutions for Sri Lankans, these industryawards commend the unique brand excellence and fortitudeSoftlogic Life has displayed during the last few years,ensuring consistency and true commitment for their policyholders countrywide.

Stamping its authority in the life insurance sector, Softlogic Life won the esteemed Gold award in the Overall Insurance Sector at the National Business Excellence Awards (NBEA) 2018, becoming Sri Lankas number one insurance company for the second consecutive year. Whilst securing the Insurance Gold award, Softlogic Life was able to clinch this awardat the 15th edition of this awards ceremony of the National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka (NCCSL), continuing its consistent run of success in Sri Lankas life insurance sphere.

Softlogic Life posted another outstanding win at the 54th Annual Report Awards by theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka), bringing home a total of five awards including the coveted Insurance Sector Gold Award. The other awards won were the bronzeaward for Corporate Governance Disclosure, the bronze award for Management Commentary, the bronze award for Integrated Reporting and the silver award for Integrated Reporting  Best Disclosure on Business Model.


With these five awards, Softlogic Life became the first insurance company to win five awards in the history of CA Awards. Prepared under the theme Spirited, Softlogic Life became the first company in Sri Lanka to present its integrated annual report in video format for its key stakeholders via a QR code in the report.

At the SLIM Brand Excellence 2018, Softlogic Life set new benchmarks for the insurance and corporate sector by winning two Silver accolades for Local Brand of the Year and Service Brand of the Year. These awards were presented to Softlogic Life in recognition of its uniquely compelling brand promise of Choose your Life, which relates to wellness, fitness and nutrition, and the continuing elevation of standards of Sri Lankans through a range of industry-first services as one of the top home-grown brands of Sri Lanka.

Commenting on these significant industry recognitions, Softlogic Life Managing Director Iftikar Ahamed said, It is indeed a great privilege for Softlogic Life to be recognized with these industry-leading awards at three of the most prominent award ceremonies of the country. These awardsnot only stand as a clear demonstration of Softlogic Lifes novel offerings as a proud Sri Lankan brand but also the delivery of the promise we have made to commit to excellence in all fronts.

We also take pride in the fact that our spirited approach has transcended our industry and helped us to stand out as one of Sri Lankas leading brands. Over the past year, we have continued to take on challenges with enthusiasm in order to deliver winning solutions enhanced by technology. This helped us to bring cost-effective, customer-efficient solutions to the market while reshaping the countrys insurance landscape towards a better and more prosperous future for all Sri Lankans, he added further.

Apart from these high-valued local recognitions, Softlogic Life made its presence felt among the Asian insurance giants after making it to the top three insurance companies at the 22ndAsia Insurance Industry Awards 2018. Softlogic Life was the only South Asian Insurance Brand to be shortlisted as a finalist in the in the prestigious Life Insurance Company of the Year category at this years edition. In June 2018, Softlogic Life bagged the Best Life Insurance Company of the Year and two other country awards at Emerging Asia Insurance Awards 2018, organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce.
Softlogic Life Insurance PLC is a subsidiary of Softlogic Capital PLC and is part of the Softlogic Group, which is recognised as one of Sri Lankas most diversified and fastest-growing conglomerates, with interests in Healthcare, Retail, ICT, Leisure, Automobiles and Financial Services. Significant stakeholders in the company also include FMO and DEG, who are rated AAA Development Financial Institutions from the Netherlands and Germany, respectively. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: STAX Head of Research reaches the finals of the prestigious Bracken Bower Prize
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 10 December 2018 10:34 am
STAX Head of Research reaches the finals of the prestigious Bracken Bower Prize
	
Andrew Leon Hanna (the winner of the Bracken Bower Prize 2018), Christian Busch (finalist) and Piyumi Kapugeekiyana (finalist)
STAX has long been known to attract top talent from some of the worlds most prestigious universities and corporates. Its Head of Research Piyumi Kapugeekiyana is a testament to this.
Piyumi was recently selected as one of three finalists across the world for the prestigious and coveted Bracken Bower Prize. The Bracken Bower Prize, organized yearly by The Financial Times and McKinsey, awards 15,000 for the best business book proposal by an author under 35. Its a dream come true for any budding business writer looking to get off their feet. Apart from the attractive cash prize, the organizers conduct a masterclass for all finalists in London, where leading publishers provide guidance and advice on how to take an idea from proposal to shelf.
The finalists are selected through a rigorous process where each proposal is reviewed by executives from The Financial Times and McKinsey and passed on to the judges only when a green light is received from both parties.
Piyumis proposed book One Billion in Reserve makes a case for rethinking both work and workplaces with a view to including the global talent pool of people with disabilities and the neurodivergent (people with learning and cognitive differences).
Commenting on her journey, Piyumi said, Im thrilled to have made it to the top 3 of the Bracken Bower Prize  its such an excellent platform for aspiring authors. Im especially grateful to my colleagues and mentors at STAX. Ours is a company with a rich history of advising and cultivating double-bottom line companiesones with both economic and social impactand Ive long enjoyed a wide berth to explore and test new ideas. Looking forward, Im hopeful about the prospect of mainstreaming disability and neurodivergence inclusion in workplaces worldwide. For the most part, this is an area that gets little attention in the broader discourse on diversity and inclusion, where race and gender diversity almost always get pre-eminence.
Ruwindhu Peiris, Managing Director and head of the Colombo office said We are truly proud of and delighted byPiyumis significant global achievement. This is a true testament to our STAX purpose statement of Freedom to Dream, Power to Make It Happen! What an exciting time for Piyumi. I cannot wait to see her dream unfold and am happy we are able to give her the power to make it happen.
STAX is driven by a leadership team that encourages a culture of social responsibility. As Rafi Musher, STAX Founder and CEO emphasizes, I dont think you need to wait to be innovative in driving social benefit  in fact  you need to be impatient, rather than patient.
STAX DevCorp, the social arm of STAX, embodies this spirit by creating and supporting new startup companies and joint ventures to address significant needs identified by the companys strategy consulting practice. A case in point is STAX DevCorps role in supporting ULTRA Testinga New York-based provider of software testing services whose competitive advantage stems from employing teams of individuals on the Autism Spectrum. Through a research-driven approach, STAX DevCorp guided ULTRA to successfully launch, secure customers and secure funding.
In 2017, Piyumi also reached the finals of the Peter Drucker Challenge organized by the Global Peter Drucker Forum for her essay on inclusive prosperity Navigating the Battlefield of the Mind. Piyumi holds a PhD in Politics, History and International Relations, and is the Head of Research at STAX Inc. She can be reached at strategy@stax.com for more details.
STAX is a global management consulting firm headquartered in Boston, with branch offices across Chicago, New York and Colombo. With a rich client base comprising 30+ local conglomerates and family businesses, 15 of the top 20 global investors and 25+ Fortune 500 companies, STAX prides itself on being a full service consulting firmfrom strategy to implementation. If you are looking for a nimble, collaborative, and highly focused firm dedicated to finding implementable solutions, we invite you to find out more at www.stax.com

 
		
==============================
## Title: Struggle between national and foreign thinking: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 06:32 am
Struggle between national and foreign thinking: President
	
President Maithripala Sirisena said yesterday that the current political crisis in the country is not a conflict between the political parties or between him and UNP leader Ranil Wickremesinghe as some people attempt to portray, but a conflict between the national and alien thinking.
When I act according to the principles of nationalism without giving into foreign forces and without intimidated by their threats, foreign forces have now become a challenge and the shadows of the old Imperialism stand in our way, he added.
Speaking at a function held at the Polonnaruwa Royal College to give away livelihood development benefits to 4500 persons in his native Polonnaruwa District, President Sirisena said that despite there being criticism on the activities of the government during the last four years, it is well known that democracy, freedom of the people, freedom of the press had been strengthened during the period.
Whatever criticism had been levelled, democracy and freedoms for the people have been ensured in the country during the period compared to the period prior to 2015 and a wide range of development activities such as the Moragahakanda-Kaluganga project are being in progress, he stressed.
The current crisis is the result of the concern by the world powers over the affairs of our country due to Sri Lanka's geographical importance or its location in the world map, President stated.
He added that the issue has come up now as a Constitutional crisis and the entire world is eagerly waiting for the decision of the court. He assured that he would accept the decision of the court whatever it would be and take necessary action accordingly.
He said that he was not satisfied with the powers conferred with the Presidency which should not been the case. "I have been delivering my duties with much more patience and responsibility during the past few days when there is no Prime Minister and a Cabinet" the President stated.(K.G. Karunarathna)

 
		
==============================
## Title: The Present Political Imbroglio... Some random thoughts
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 10 December 2018 12:01 am
The Present Political Imbroglio... Some random thoughts
	

he present Constitutional imbroglio has given rise to a spate of constitutional opinions being expressed by legal experts some genuine others spurious. Democracy is said to be, endangered and the Sovereignty of the people is much spoken of. One wonders what the People in the so called peripheries, i.e. in the northern and eastern parts of the country and in the rural hinterland make of this. Do these constitutional controversies have the surreal quality of an Alice in wonderland experience for them, and do they have any part to play are some questions which come to mind.

"The recent political imbroglio is also interesting for what it has perhaps inadvertently thrown up. Unexpectedly it has energized the UNP and given it greater unity"
The constitutional imbroglio largely revolves around the interpretation of the 19A It must be kept in mind that the principles of statutory interpretation prescribe that it is not only the words but also the intent of the legislature in framing the legislation that has to be looked at. The Amendment was brought in to curb the Presidents powers under the 1978 Constitution and not to increase them. The 2015 presidential election was also fought and won on this basis. So the general public is rightly confounded by the unfortunate turn of events. A subjective interpretation of the words in Article 42 (4) of the constitution namely the President shall appoint as PM the member of Parliament who in the Presidents opinion is most likely to command the confidence of parliament. It would seem that the only way of getting back to firm ground and having a legitimate government in place is, to revert to the pre-October 26 position.

	"The constitutional imbroglio largely revolves around the interpretation of the 19A
	
	
	19A was brought into curb the Presidents powers under the 1978 Constitution
	
	
	Speaker Karu Jayasuriya, showed remarkable courage in spite of the melee witnessed in parliament"
	

It is clear after the Local Government Elections that the people are not happy with the Government as it has not delivered on its promises made in the Presidential and Parliamentary elections of 2015, so a Parliamentary election is what in all probability the people would want. Rather than have to wait for another one and a half years, Parliamentary elections should be held sooner than later, once a legitimate Government is established, in accordance with the upcoming judgements of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal. In a democracy the peoples wishes must be given effect to. President Sirisena who is more suited to gauge the feelings of the common man than others in the previous national Government has, .though in a muddled way brought this matter to the fore. As a man from the farming community he understood the aspirations and tribulations of the rural people and showed sympathy for the villagers and farmers of the Northern province whose lands had been taken over by the military and worked towards handing them back to the rightful owners. Hence he had the goodwill of the Tamil people. Unfortunately this has been largely dissipated by the recent turn of events.

"The President who is more suited to gauge the feelings of the common man than others in the previous Govt. has, though in a muddled way brought this matter to the fore. "
The recent political imbroglio is also interesting for what it has perhaps inadvertently thrown up. Unexpectedly it has energized the UNP and given it greater unity. PM Ranil Wickremesinghe of pre October 26 has shown great inner strength and character in the face of adversity, so it could be said  sweet are the uses of Adversity. Other personalities too, such as the Speaker Karu Jayasuriya, have shown remarkable courage and we cannot leave out the Policemen, who protected the mace during the melee in Parliament. The people too have shown political maturity as there has been no disorder or outbreaks of violence and the bureaucracy have gone on with their administrative duties unfazed by the political convulsions. The Police and Army have maintained strict neutrality in the best traditions. So all in all we have something to be proud of. The only persons who have come out badly are the politicians who created the imbroglio and the Parliamentarians who vandalised the Parliaments chamber and attacked the Speaker, Police and other members. Hopefully they will be given a fitting answer by the people at the general elections which hopefully will come in the not too distant future.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thilina Bandara Thennakoon joins UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 10:35 am
Thilina Bandara Thennakoon joins UNP
	
Former Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) Central Province Minister Thilina Bandara Thennakoon today met with UNP Leader Ranil Wickremesinghe and obtain membership of the UNP.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three men hacked to death in Ratnapura and Peradeniya
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 09:53 am
Three men hacked to death in Ratnapura and Peradeniya
	
Three men were hacked to death and another man was hospitalised in two separate incidents in Ratnapura and Peradeniya yesterday, Police said.
They said two men aged 34 and 35 had been hacked to death while another was injured at Goraka-Ela in Ratnapura last night.
Police said the officers of the Ratnapura Police had admitted three victims who were with severe cut injuries near the Theppanawa Road.
They said two of them succumbed to their injuries after admission to the Ratnapura Hospital.
The deceased were identified as Dewage Sanath Kumara alias ' Podi Man' and Suranga Rasika, who were residents of Dodampe.
The investigation is underway to arrest the suspects under the direction of Ratnapura Division DIG.
Meanwhile, a 27-year-old man from Dangolla in Kandy was also hacked to death near the Pine forest in Peradeniya yesterday evening.
Police said two relatives of the deceased man, were arrested by the Peradeniya Police in connection with the murder. The suspects aged 25 would be produced in the Kandy Magistrate's Court today.(DS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ugly incident in parliament cannot be accepted:Thera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 10 December 2018 08:43 am
Ugly incident in parliament cannot be accepted:Thera
	
Ven. Ittepane Dhammalankara Thera, the Mahanayake of the Kotte Parshwaya of the Kalyani Dharma Gree Maha Sanga Sabha told Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna leader Mahinda Rajapaksa that Sri Lankans who are a part of a great history cannot accept the ugly incidents that took place recently within the chamber of the Parliament.
He reminded the former President who visited the Thera at his Temple, Sri Dharmavijayaloka Viharaya at Pannipitiya that King Dutugemunu had stated that King Elara should not be harmed by any other but himself as the latter was a king and he had built a monument in Elara's name to pay homage to him.
We are a people who have such a great history, as such we cannot condone what happened in Parliament recently, he said and added that the incident created a situation where we cannot go to another country and identify ourselves as Sri Lankans.
He regretted over the division among the Bhikkus who are accusing each other on various platforms. "We won't be able to train the young monks as Bhikkus at this rate" the Mahanayake Thera lamented.
He told Mr. Rajapaksa that the latter's party or any other party would not be benefited by the Bhikkus getting on to the platforms of those parties as the people have started to view those Bhikkus in an unwelcome manner. "The respect that had been earned by the Bhikkus in the past has been diminished and it is not felt by them".
Responding to the Thera Mr. Rajapaksa said that what happened in the Parliament was the result of Speaker's actions and alleged that the no-confidence motion that was brought against him was not communicated even to him beforehand.(Buddhika Kumarasiri)
 
		
==============================
==============================
