## Title: A Good Friday Reflection: Christ  vs  Caesar   A Clash of Two Kings
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:05 am
A Good Friday Reflection: Christ  vs  Caesar   A Clash of Two Kings
	

At his final trial Jesus faced two criminal charges, one of which was forbidding Jews to pay taxes to Caesar and the other claiming to be King. These charges if proved called for the death penalty. These two charges, which are interconnected allude to a profound truth about Gods sovereignty manifested in Christ; his accusers might have failed to apprehend it but his followers cannot afford to ignore it. The first incrimination was based on Jesus enigmatic answer to the question: Is it lawfulto pay taxes to Caesar Before answering that loaded question, Jesus called the questioners hypocrites, because their motive was to drag him into a politically compromising situation between a believing Jews total allegiance to God YHWH and a colonized Jews humiliating submission to a deified emperor. Scholars still debate as to what Jesus really intended when he responded: Give Caesar what is Caesars, to God what is Gods. 
This utterance has often been misconstrued as an evasive answer of a diplomat; or a scandalous concession that the Caesars domain is off limits to God; or that an unbridgeable chasm separates politics and religion. Some have suggested that his answer was crafted to exclude any chance of his being classed as an anti-Roman Zealot. Others reformulate it to read Give only the tax to Caesar, and all else to God adding that as a friend of tax-collectors he would not condemn taxation -- an argument that limps, for just as Jesus sought the company of sinners solely to save them and not to encourage them to sin, so too his friendship with the socially and religiously ostracized tax-collectors did not necessarily imply that he endorsed their actions. 
Biblical Context
Our suggestion is that this Gospel passage makes sense only in the light of two biblical teachings neither of which could be reconciled with the specifically Roman practice of taxation (not any and every form of it). The first is the biblical belief that the land or the earth belongs solely to God and that all people, as Gods community, are its stewards and that no single person can make exclusive claims over it, nor could any civil ruler sell (i.e. make money out of) even a part of it. To attach a price on persons or on the land seemed a violation of Gods sovereignty. This is a corollary drawn from the theonomythat the Bible (particularly the Book of Leviticus) promoted to ensure good governance in ancient Israel. 
Hence it was on theological grounds that Jesus, the Jewish Prophet, felt obliged to challenge Caesars claim to own the Promised Land and its Chosen People, not for narrow nationalist motives as did the insurrectionists such as the Zealots or the Sicarii. After all this Nation was chosen and this Land was promised precisely to become a witness before other nations in other lands to the justice and love which reigns wherever YHWH alone rules as the King, a mission that Israel regrettably failed to fulfil, as many prophets had complained. 


"It was on theological grounds that Jesus, the Jewish Prophet, felt obliged to challenge Caesars claim to own the Promised Land and its Chosen People, not for narrow nationalist motives as did the insurrectionists such as the Zealots or the Sicarii. After all this Nation was chosen and this Land was promised precisely to become a witness before other nations in other lands to the justice and love which reigns wherever YHWH alone rules as the King, a mission that Israel regrettably failed to fulfil, as many prophets had complained"

The other biblical teaching that throws light on Jesus instruction on taxation concerns the role which monetary units played in countries conquered by Caesar. As is true of all colonized countries, Israels national currency was reduced to dust before that of the Roman colonizers. The Jewish shekels collected from the general public had to be converted into Roman currency such as the denarii before the taxes were paid to Caesar, and the resultant financial burden weighed heavily on the Jewish masses. Some have suggested that this foreign-exchange racket, so to say, would have been taking place in the Jerusalem Temple, which was not merely the Legislature, the Judiciary and the Executive all in one, but also the Central Bank that controlled the countrys finances. Jesus called it a den of thieves. This is why, despite the belief that carrying any image was a flagrant violation of the second of Gods ten commandments in Israel, its religious leadership perhaps had no scruples in dealing with the Roman coins (denarii) which bore the image of Caesar as well as the blasphemous inscription that Caesar Tiberius (the reigning emperor) was filius divi Augusti, the Son of God Augustus. Note, too, that the Poll Tax, a personal tax alluded to in the question put to Jesus, was always paid with a denarius which carried that image and inscription. Would fervent monotheists offer such metal idols to a self-divinized Emperor in forced payment for what the Creator alone owns 
Christs Response Decoded
Let us note first that Jesus did not carry such coins. He first invited the man who raised the issue to show him one. Thus Jesus exposed the duplicity of that Jewish questioner, who produced the prohibited coin from his own purse! Then Jesus made him admit that this metal object bore not only an image of the Emperor but also an inscription that trumpeted his divine filiation! The Jewish audience would have immediately contrasted the Emperors claim with Israels firm belief that we humans are all created to the image of God our Maker and that we carry in our hearts the seal or the inscription that we are Gods sons and daughters. Hence the listeners would have easily caught the politically dangerous implication of Christs loaded statement, Give to Caesar what is Caesars and to God what is Gods. Let me spell it out in my own words: 
That piece of metal has the value, which Caesar as its human maker has given to it by imprinting his own human image and inscription on it. He is, therefore, entitled to have it. But you Jews and Gentiles, you who bear your Divine Makers image and carry in your hearts the inscription that you are Gods sons/daughters (the true filii/ filiae divi), belong to God alone and should not allow yourselves to be owned by a mere man, no matter what pompous title he arrogates to himself. Even if the proper place for that piece of metal could be the dustbin of the imperial treasury, you who bear your Makers image and inscription are Gods, not Caesars possession; and therefore neither the land (which God, its true ownerhas given you to be shared in common) nor any person, should ever be allowed to be desecrated by being valued according to the Money Demon (mammon) which bears a human megalomaniacs image and inscription.
Christ the King vs. Caesar the Emperor
Let us come now to the second accusation that Jesus challenged Caesar by claiming to be a king. Though the phrase Kingdom of God is specifically a New Testament coinage, there are frequent references to God as Israels King in the First Testament in critical contrast with the empires of the biblical times (Chaldea, Egypt, Babylon, Syria, Greece, Rome), all of which thrived on slave labour. For YHWH, God of Israel had promised that if Israel obeyed Her commandments (i.e., if YHWH alone was their King), there would never be a destitute class among them (Dt. 15:4). 
Jesus personified that promise by his commitment to spread the Reign of YHWH wherein the Law of Love requires that, in imitation of Jesus, leaders be servants of the people (Lk. 22:24-27) and shepherds die for their flock (Jn 10:11) in stark contrast with the Sadducees (local priests) and Herodians, (local politicians) who consolidated their political power over the masses by treacherously collaborating with Romes imperious regime. Jesus encountered hostility from these two classes of leaders. For the Kingdom of God which Jesus inaugurated in his own person and preached as Good News to the non-persons of his day, was a critical alternative not only to Romes imperial domination and the Zealots violent demagogy but most particularly to the despotism of the Sadducees and Herodians. 
Hence Jesus decided to offer the nation a glimpse of his own unique brand of kingship on the day when the Jewish masses welcomed him into Jerusalem as their royal messiah. The city was in turmoil, says the evangelist. They threw their clothes on his path (reminiscent of the coronation festival of Jewish kings) and waved branches (as did the Maccabean insurgents, celebrating their victory over the colonizers). The climax was the purging of the Temple, which sent shock waves to the whole nation. The message was clear: I am here by divine mandate. And yet the crowd recognized in him a meek messiah and modest monarch who pooh-poohed the pomp and pageantry of princes by riding on a donkeyas prophesized in Zacharia 9:9, yes on a donkey, the much ridiculed and yet harmless beast of burden and the cheapest means of transport available to the poor. Thus Jesus intimated that His Reign dawns among the powerless and is marked by simplicity; that his stern will blended with a gentle heart, that in him justice merged with mercy. No wonder the crowd burst spontaneously into a chorus of prayer, ho-sanna which means Save, we beseech. For in this King they recognized their long awaited Saviour. 


"Among the most irritated spectators of that event were those same priestly hierarchy and political leaders, who were subservient to Caesar to subdue the masses. It was they who were most threatened by this Charismatic Kings sudden (albeit temporary) popularity. Thus on Friday of that same week they reneged Israels implicit profession of faith [We have no King but YHWH] and instigated the crowd to declare in one voice before Pilate the Roman Judge: We have no King but Caesar (Jn. 1 9:15c)"

Among the most irritated spectators of that event were those same priestly hierarchy and political leaders, who were subservient to Caesar to subdue the masses. It was they who were most threatened by this Charismatic Kings sudden (albeit temporary) popularity. Thus on Friday of that same week they reneged Israels implicit profession of faith [We have no King but YHWH] and instigated the crowd to declare in one voice before Pilate the Roman Judge: We have no King but Caesar (Jn. 1 9:15c). There was no room for any other royal claimant. Jesus was, therefore, martyred for being a King who came to save rather than enslave his people. 
Thus the judicial process that eventually criminalised Jesus seems to reveal a clash between two Kingswho wereseeking the peoples allegiance, Caesar, the autocratic emperor and Christ, the Servant-King, each claiming to be the Son of God but using diametrically opposed means to sustain their respective claims: Death-threatening POWER by the one; and death-embracing LOVE by the other. The final outcome of this battle between Imperial Power and Divine Love is registered in the subsequent events and can be summed as follows: 
On that fatal Friday (Sabbath Eve), Caesars Imperial Law, invoked by priests and politicians, nailed Christ to a cross as a fake king, destined to die like a criminal and disappear from history. But on that same Friday, the Cosmic Calendar registered a New Era for humanity as Christ converted that ignominious instrument of torture into his Royal Thronefrom where he would not only promulgate his Law of Love to all nations but continue to live and reignin bold defiance of the Caesars of all times. That was when his Fatal Friday became our Good Friday.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Be cautious when purchasing Avurudu sweets: CMC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 04:45 pm
Be cautious when purchasing Avurudu sweets: CMC
	
The Public Health Department of the Colombo Municipality yesterday warned consumers to be cautious when purchasing sweetmeat during this Avurudu season.
Commenting on this, Colombo Central Medical Health Officer Dr. Subash Mendis said many bakeries and wayside boutiques sold sweets that were prepared at least two to three weeks prior to the festive season.
When the vendors fail to store sweets properly, they get infected with fungus. It is especially oily sweets like Kevum that could get infected. People should be vigilant not to buy such sweets, he said.
Due to the unavailability of ingredients to prepare sweetmeat during the festive season, the owners of several eateries use the ingredients they had purchased some time ago. There is a high chance of them being unhygienic. Therefore, it is better to avoid consuming such food. People should stick to homemade sweetmeat as much as possible, he said.
Under the instructions of Colombo Municipality Chief Medical Officer Dr. Ruwan Wijayamuni, officials of the Health Department are carrying out continuous raids to nab errant vendors and seize unhygienic food items during the festive season.
People may contact the Food Hygiene Unit on hotline number 011-267 6161 to lodge any complaint about violations of food safety regulations. Several on-call PHIs will be available during the season. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Christ is Alive
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:02 am
Christ is Alive
	
Jesus among His Disciples after Resurrection

Christ is alive, is a metaphysical reality. What does it mean by metaphysical reality is that it cannot be authenticated by the existing laws of nature, as one does in the field of science. Yet Christians have borne witness to this reality for more than thousands of years and are still experiencing that reality. It is interesting to see whether, non-Christians too can experience this phenomenon. 
However, if one understands or accepts that man has not only a physical body but an entity which is not physical, there is a definite path on which one can meet the Risen Lord. 
In the post resurrected narratives as given by the evangelists, the people who met the Risen Lord were those who were in touch with Jesus before his death, in one way or another, or those who have vehemently opposed to the upcoming Christian Community. In the case of St. Paul, who was adamantly determined to wipe out the Christian Community, he met the Risen Lord in an extraordinary incident. On his journey, as he was nearing Damascus, a light from the sky suddenly flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me He said, Who are you, sir The reply came, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. Now get up and go into the city and you will be told what you must do(Act 9/3-6) After this incident, Pauls life changed. This change was not superficial but a one hundred and eighty degree turn. It was completelythe opposite of his goals in life. Before meeting the Risen Lord his goal was to annihilate totally the Christian Community from Jerusalem. After he experienced the Risen Lord, his goal became to proclaim the reality of the Risen Lord that Jesus of Nazareth is the Son of God, and He is the Messiah expected by Jews for centuries. St. Paul therefore committed his life totally to the Risen Lord and gave his life for Him. St. Peter who was the prime disciple of Jesus, and who did renounced Him at His trial. Yet with the decent of the Spirit of the Risen Lord vigorously proclaimed the fact that Jesus of Nazareth, who was put to death by the Jews is now risen the Son of God. 


What then is essential to meet the Risen Lord in this earthy life We need to remember that meeting the Risen Lord is a faith experience. Reading and meditating The living word of God is the first step to meet the Risen Lord. Letting that wordto echo continuously in ones inner being is a sure way to find Him. When ones inner self is made aware thatthe universal power of the Risen Lord is in us and around us, one can definitely be in touch with that Power. When one decides, out of mere freedom, to cling on to that Power, the power which created the whole universe, whatever is, and that which sustains everything, he or she is on the correct path to be in union with the Risen Lord. To spell it in a more religious terminology, it is a contemplation of the living word of Jesus without letting that to be an intellectual discourse but making it a part of ones real life. 
The risen Lord is accessible to the rich and the poor, literate and the illiterate, young and old. What matters,is the determination and the free will to constantly search of that Power. When one discovers thishe or she is lit up. The internal being of each person could be directed by our free will and with a strong determination to meet the Risen Lord. The path is His word. Life that is to be lived is a shadow of the life led by Jesus of Nazareth in Galilee. When one meets Him in that sense, life becomes an extraordinary journey to be in union with the Divine.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Colombo envoy wants assault trial transferred from Sepang to KL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 02:46 pm
Colombo envoy wants assault trial transferred from Sepang to KL
	
Sri Lanka High Commissioner Ibrahim Sahib Ansar fears for his safety if he has to testify in the Sepang Sessions Court in an assault trial, the High Court in Kuala Lumpur heard.
The court was told Thursday that the case needs to be transferred to the Sessions Court here for the envoy's safety and convenience.
DPP Suhaimi Ibrahim argued that the diplomat fears for his safety in attending the trial in Sepang on the assault case where three men have been charged with rioting, mischief and causing hurt against him.
"The victim (Ibrahim) should be given a chance to appear and give evidence without fearing for his safety. The convenience to the witness is important for the justice of this case," he argued before High Court judge Justice Nordin Hassan.
Suhaimi asked the judge to use his power to transfer the case from Sepang to be heard in the Sessions Court here.
He said Ibrahim had affirmed an affidavit to support the transfer application.
However, M. Manoharan, who acted for three accused in the assault case, argued that it would set a dangerous precedent if the court allow a witness to choose which court will suit his convenience.
He submitted that it would be an insult to the administration of justice, saying that all should be treated equally before the law.
Manoharan also said that it would be an insult to the judiciary, court staff and police guarding the courts if the transfer application by the Public Prosecutor is allowed.
Three men had claimed trial in the Sepang Sessions Court last year to charges of assaulting Ibrahim at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Sept 4, 2016.
The trio are businessmen A. Kalaimughilan, 26, V. Balamurugan, 33, and V. Ragunathan.
Ibrahim was assaulted at the airport after sending off Daya Gamage, the country's Primary Industries Minister, who was in Malaysia for the International Conference of Asian Political Parties.(The Star)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Crucial discussions with EU in reviving GSP+
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 10:08 am
Crucial discussions with EU in reviving GSP+
	
Coming weeks will be crucial for Sri Lanka as important discussions could take place with the European Union in reviving the GSP plus status, government sources said.
A three member team from the European Union including EU Parliament MP Anne-Marie Mineur, Lola Sanchez Coldentey and Ben Vanpeperstraete are already in town to study the Sri Lanka situation while there is a possibility of Chairperson International Trade Committee of European Union visiting Sri Lanka shortly.
Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Harsha De Silva who confirmed that there may be the possibility of Chairperson International Trade Committee of European Union visiting Sri Lanka shortly told Daily Mirror that the Sri Lankan Ambassador in Brussels has extended a verbal invitation to the chair of International Trade Committee of European Union to visit Sri Lanka though there is no confirmation of his visit yet.
However, it was reported that the resolution on reviving GSP plus to Sri Lanka will be taken up by the European Union on April 19. The Government has already stated that Sri Lanka could regain GSP by May this year. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Forex Bill deprives P'tary powers: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 03:14 pm
Forex Bill deprives P'tary powers: JO
	
A member of the Joint Opposition laments that the Bill titled Foreign Exchange deprives and abrogates the power of parliament to have full control over public finance.
Parliamentarian Bandula Gunawardane yesterday (12) filed a petition before the Supreme Court challenging the impugned Bill which is an Act to provide for the promotion and regulation of foreign exchange; to vest the responsibility for providing and regulating foreign exchange in the Central Bank; to provide for the repeal of the Exchange Control Act.
He says the Bill deprives and abrogates the powers and duties of the Central Bank and the Monetary Board to supervise, regulate and control matters in relation to foreign exchange including Gold, currency, payments, securities, debts and import, export, transfer and settlement of property.
He charges the Bill empowers the Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers with the authority to be in charge of and thereby to regulate and control affairs and matters in relation to foreign exchange and all institutions authorized to act as dealers or otherwise, dealing with foreign exchange.
He states the Bill brings the statutory duties and powers of the Central Bank and the Monetary Board subject to the control of the Minister.
He asserts the Bill shall pave way for money laundering and unethical transfer and utilization of foreign exchange against both the international norms/law and domestic law against money laundering and shall place the national security and the economy in serious danger.
The impugned Bill lifts-off criminal liability with retrospective effect from persons who have already engaged in illegal transactions involving foreign exchange, by violating the provisions of the Exchange Control Act, he says.
It would create an investigation and inquiry procedure that could be conveniently influenced and interfered by the Minister and shall place the independence and impartiality of such procedure under suspicion, he states.
He prays that the entire Bill and/or any one or more of the clause and/or Sections thereof cannot become law unless passed by two-thirds of the whole number of the Members of Parliament and approved by the people at a referendum. (S.S. Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: If fails, people will feel fed up with this Govt. too
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 05:58 am
If fails, people will feel fed up with this Govt. too
	
Issues of Sri Lankan Tamils need quick solutions but if the government fails in giving solutions, the people will feel fed up with this government as well, Opposition Leader R. Sampanthan has said in Vavuniya on Wednesday.
According to PTI, he has said Tamils in Sri Lanka had anticipated a change for the better with President Maithripala Sirisenas election two years ago, but they are yet to receive solutions to their problems.
"We see a difference in the current government from the past one on their policies, statements and standings, but our people are yet to receive solutions to their problems. It has been over two years since this government came," he said addressing a ceremony to handover houses to people displaced due to the LTTE conflict.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan woman stranded on sand dune with three kids, rescued
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 07:06 pm
Lankan woman stranded on sand dune with three kids, rescued
	
MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu police at Mandapam rescued a Sri Lankan woman and her three children stranded on a sand dune off the Dhanushkodi coast in Ramanathapuram district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday morning, The Times of India reported.
Local fishermen spotted the woman and her children on third sand dune beyond Arichalmunai and alerted the marine police.The woman and her children were brought to the marine police station at Mandapam.
Investigation revealed that her name is V Thangam, 30, wife of Vigneswaran of Pandaranayagapuram in Sri Lanka. Vigneswaran is working abroad and Thangam and her children were living with her mother-in-law.
Thangam told the police that her mother-in-law had tortured her and her children. So she and her children decided to go to her mother's house in Maniachi in Tuticorin district of Tamil Nadu. She took and her children took an illegal ferry from Talaimannar on Wednesday night. They were dropped on third sand dune near Arichalmunai.
The police were investigating further. She might be lodged in Mandapam camp.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Let the Avurudu games begin
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:08 am
Let the Avurudu games begin
	
Sri Lankans are indeed blessed with an assortment of traditional games during the Sinhala and Tamil New Year. Reaping the harvest of the Maha season, the rural folk joyfully engage in these games in the month of Bak. While the games are never cutthroat, the significance of them is that they are designed to meet the needs of the peasantry whose sole objective is achieving physical and mental satisfaction after constant toiling in every other month of the year. Cascading like a waterfall from generation to generation, these traditional games are played during the apex period of Nonagathaya (auspicious time) between the old and new year.
Indoor and outdoor games
Chaturanga or Chess, Olinda Keliya (the game of liquorices), Pancha keliya (the game of cowries), Nerenci, Gal Keteema (stone slinging), Guduviduma (driving stones), Gudu Paneema, Kamba Adeema (tug of war), Pora Pol Gaseema, Lanu Paneema, Amba Ata Paneema (Mango Kernel Play), Gas Kotu Bandeema (running from tree to tree), Wala Kadju Gaseema, Kotta Pora, Onchili Padeema, Eluwan Keema and Ang Adeema are some of the traditional games played during this festive season.
Indoor games
Chess, Gal Keteema, Nerenci and the games of liquorices and cowries are a few of the many indoor games. They are usually played among family members, neighbours and at times visitors.
Outdoor games
Outdoor games such as Eluwan Keema (Goat Play), Ang Adeema, Gudu Paneema, Kamba Adeema, Pora Pol Gaseema, Lanu Paneema, Amba Ata Paneema, Elle and Gas Kotu Bandeema are played during the New Year season.
Games related to religious rites
Olinda Keliya, Pancha keliya, Nerenci, Gudu Gaseema, Sokari, Amba Ata Paneema, Muthu Keliya (the game of pearls) and beating Udakki are some of the games connected to religious beliefs and rites. Most of them are played to please Goddess Pattini. Playing the swing is a game dedicated to Sun God -- the ups and downs of the swing indicate the sunrise and sunset respectively.
Pancha keliya
Pancha keliya or the game of cowries is a famous indoor game, mostly played by the Southerners. They start playing by the end of March and continue till Vesak, and sometimes Poson. Pancha keliya has a long history. It is believed that King Gajabahu brought back some 12,000 detainees from the Chola dynasty in India, and as revenge, brought an equal number of Cholas together with the anklet of Goddess Pattini. Thus, Pancha keliya is regarded as a game of Goddess Pattini.
The Tamil word Panca (meaning Oysters or Cowries) is used in this game. It also uses the words Ondru and Rendru to refer to integers one and two accordingly. Panca Peta (draft board) is designed according to Tamil traditions. There is substantial evidence to the effect that the game is greatly influenced by the Tamil community.
Men, women and children play this game together. Peasants believe the blessings of Goddess Pattini could be evoked by playing Pancha keliya. The two sides should have an equal number of players, and no one is left out in the event of an odd number. An additional player is assigned to one side and is called Hungi while a member of the other side is given an additional chance to play.
Olinda Keliya
Another game played during the Avurudu season is Olinda Keliya or the game of liquorices. This too is regarded as a game of Goddess Pattini. Olinda or wild liquorices seeds are played on Olinda Poruwa - a board with two sets of holes to pocket the seeds. According to history, the game had been popular among women including princesses in the royal court. The board used in royal palaces and those of nobles had been decorated with wood carvings. Olinda Keliya is also played as an outdoor game. Two sides are formed by well-attired girls and they indulged in a two-way recital. The leader of one side recites a line of the poem Olinda tiyenne koi koi dese, and the others in the group repeat it. The leader of the opposite side responds Olinda tiyenne Bangaladese and the others in her side repeat it. The game ends when the whole poem is completed.
Gal Kireema
Gal Kireema or balancing of pebbles is yet another New Year game. It is famous among females. Only six pebbles are required to play this game. After deciding the sequence, the first player takes the pebbles in her palm and after throwing them up, collects as many as possible on the side of her palm. She is supposed to collect as many as possible including the compulsory ones marked by the others. The pebbles thus taken by her are those collected by her and the game goes round. Kadju Keliya is a game similar to Gal Kireema.
Elu Kotu Bandeema
Elu Kotu Bandeema or goat fencing is an outdoor game played by girls. It is also called Eluwan Keema. They make a fence to prevent the outsiders from entering it. Those who are inside the fence are imaginary goats and those outside are goat catchers. The catchers recite a line of a poem asking whether they could jump over the fence - Udin Panindo. Those who hold hands to make the fence reply Talla Kadeido- You will break your chin. Then she pleads, Vati wandinnan yaluwe denawada eluwa- I will kneel down and salute Will you give the goat Then the others reply Koccara keewath oyata nodemiya Eluwa - Whatever you say or do you will never get the goat. The game comes to an end when the outsiders break in.
Raban Gaseema
Raban Gaseema or beating the tambourine is another form of recreation enjoyed especially by girls and the elderly women during the festive season. Women, young and old, sit round the large drums and beat them rhythmically while singing to the beat. Veterans beat the drum with their hands, elbows and sometimes with their chins. While beating the drum, they occasionally clap. Songs are worded in keeping with their day-to-day activities. Bolan podi nangi tikak hitapan, Bulath wita kanta tikak hitapan, Kandan goda ganta tikak hitapan- Oh dear sister, wait a moment to chew betel, to take the logs in. Another goes as Udin udin wara pettappu, Bimin bimin wara pettappu. A parrot is requested to fly or walk in this rhyming game. Young men dance to the tune of the music making the scene more melodious.
Swinging
Playing on the swing is another way of merrymaking. This is recreation dedicated to the Sun God. Ups and downs of the swing indicate sunrise and sunset. Girls get on the swing hung on an overhead branch of a shady tree. One of the girls sits on the swing while another stands behind. Others give it a push while singing waram or quatrains. Wawlan lesa karakena onchilla, apith padimu dan ran onchilla Let us play on the golden swing which turns like a bat.
Mewara Keliya
There is yet another New Year game played by the girls with the use of an ornament worn by one of them. This is called Mewara Keliya. More than five girls should participate in this game. One of them hides her bangle in the sand, pretending she had lost it. She then questions the others whether they have found it. Sara sadisi pethi thora nelana kala walagiyado mage mewaraya.  I feel that I have lost my ornament while plucking Pethi thora. Others reply: Nano numbapal nube daruwan pal api dutuwe natha mewaraya. Oh sister believe us, we have not seen your ornament. At last the owner hops to the music of the song and gets closer to the place where she had hidden the bangle saying she had found it.
Pora Pol Gaseema
Pora Pol Gaseema (coconut match) is another traditional game played by throwing husked coconuts at each other until a coconut held by one of the players is broken.
Ang Adeema
Certain villages like Ang Kelipitiya, Ang Warama, Udugambawa and Yatigambawa appear to have been named after the game of Ang Adeema (tugging on horns). This game had been very popular in the past. When King Gajaba brought some 12,000 men from the Chola dynasty, the statues of Kannagi, Goddess Pattini and Palanga, her husband were also brought. Hindus believe these statues have divine power. When Kannagi and Palanga were plucking flowers, their hooked sticks entangled and when they pulled them, Kannagis hooked stick was broken.
In another story, a king had beheaded Palanga, and Kannagi had cursed the king and the country. As a result, the country was set ablaze. The people had Ang Keliya to appease Kannagi.
At the auspicious moment, a five to six feet deep hole is dug and a log of Kekuna is erected turning the top corner of the log towards the ground. This log is called the Ang Kanuwa. Later, an Areca flower is tied to it and it is called Walimala. Close to Ang Kanuwa, another log is erected (Buhukanuwa). Horns are made of Pihimbiya, Andara or Akkiri. Two teams are formed as Udupila and Yatipila. Udupila is Palangis and Yatipila is Kannagis. It is believed that a win for Kannagis Yatipila is a good fortune.
 
		
==============================
## Title: NEC proposes School education be truncated at Gr. 12
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 06:02 am
NEC proposes School education be truncated at Gr. 12
	
The National Education Commission appointed to make policy proposals on education has proposed that the school education be truncated at Grade 12 and admit children to school at the age of 4+ as a move to minimise unruly behaviour among adult students.
Commission Chairman Prof. Lakshman Jayathilake said in Grade 13, children were adults of 18 years which was not good for maintaining discipline in school.
"We have made a suggestion that school should be truncated at Grade 12 and add a year as pre-school or kindergarten to admit children at the age of 4+. This must be the primary school or a separate entity run by the government. These are internationally accepted standards, he said.
He said children were admitted to school at the age of 4 years in other countries and added that early stage of education was most effective in inculcating educational behaviours.
"In other countries, children are admitted at the age of 4 years and educated by very qualified teachers who know child psychology. They have small classes in that age so that they are given a good start in life. Early stage of education is very effective in teaching children socialising and adopting to situations etc.," he said.
He said they submitted its proposals on General Education policy proposals including the above to the President and the Prime Minister recently.
Prof. Jayathilake said both President and the Prime Minister agreed to submit their set of proposals to the Cabinet as an action plan and to work collaboratively with relevant sections such as Education Ministry, National Institute of Education, Department of Publications and the Examinations Department.
He said the commission conducted a research on present requirements, issues in education system and future needs when drafting the proposals.
He said their proposals underpinned education psychology for the country, school facilities and infrastructure and arrangement. (Ajith Siriwardana)

 
		
==============================
## Title: 44th death anniversary commemoration: Dudley Senanayake  A conscionable leader
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:10 am
44th death anniversary commemoration: Dudley Senanayake  A conscionable leader
	

As we approach the Sinhala and Tamil New Year, etched in the memory of a few among us is the closure of a political chapter that left a phenomenal personality - the late Premier Dudley Shelton Senanayake who is sadly yet fondly remembered. This ritual has continued since April 13, 1973, the gloomy day Dudley Senanayake left us following an illness.
The country plunged into mourning. The unprecedented crowd from all corners of the country thronged into the islands capital, Colombo. The sea of heads the writer remembers from Orchid House down Torrington road and the photos captured at his funeral bear testimony of the peoples adoration for the leader. He was not merely the second Prime Minister of Sri Lanka nor an opposition leader, but an opposition MP who represented the Dedigama electorate in the Kegalle District.
Throughout my entire life, the sentiments that echoed in my ear were that tributes to great leaders were essential to be penned for the current and future generations to know of persons they could learn from. Instilled in us was that the leaders who ruled the country must foremost know and feel what the people desired.


There existed leaders with such qualities in our country. That is why we were constantly reminded to appreciate them. In my lifetime, there has been no time as now to feel the dearth of such leaders. The reasons are obvious. We count the blessings that upon reflecting back the least, we find an eminent list of leaders who are renowned for their genuine attempts and intentions for the people while in and out of power.
There may have not been glorious results as the people expected some of the time but hardly were the efforts, the integrity of the then politicians called into question by the majority. That is because almost everyone conducted themselves with a conscience in line with peoples welfare.
Bradman Weerakoon, who served as Secretary to four Prime Ministers including Dudley Senanayake, has authored the book Dudley Senanayake - The most loved leader of our times. The title itself speaks volumes of the great leader. He has quoted a poem of Gilbert Holland as a fitting epitaph to the life of Dudley;
A time like this demands strong minds
Great hearts, true faith and ready hands
Men whose lust of office does not kill,
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy
Men who possess opinion and a will
Men who love honour, and men who cannot lie.
These profound words describe the leader and the deep sadness that gripped the nation with his demise. They prompt us to delve into his life and reminisce what shaped his outstanding character. Not because he was the son of the first Sri Lankan Prime Minister or because he was born into privilege and wealth, but because he was a beautiful soul, a gentleman and a conscionable leader.
Dudley was born to Molly Dunuwila and Don Stephen Senanayake on Poson Poya day, June 19, 1911, in the village of Bothale in Mirigama in the Gampaha District.
Dudley was the eldest of their children -- two sons and a daughter. He was identified as the mischievous one. Both Dudley and his brother Robert received their secondary education at S. Thomas College, Mount Lavinia. An all-rounder, Dudley gained entrance to Corpus Christi College, Cambridge and Cambridge University to read for Natural Science Tripos and was later admitted to Middle Temple as a Barrister.
After returning to Sri Lanka, Dudley entered politics in 1936. He sought nomination and received the same to run for State Council elections, while his father was a minister in the council. As his father represented Mirigama (Dudleys hometown), he decided to represent Dedigama, the adjoining electorate in the Kegalle District (Sabaragamuwa Province) that became vacant following the demise of Sir Francis Molamure.
Thus he entered the State Council when the country was still under the colonial rule. Although Dudleys father was a powerful leader, it did not deter him to act according to his conscience. Faced with the dilemma of having to oppose his fathers views, he had made it known that he opted to give up politics. However, D.S. Senanayake encouraged him to continue his work.


Dudley opposed the decision of his father during World War II to put the entire weight on the British. This he did with the hope that the British will be more acquiescent towards the independence struggle of Sri Lanka. Dudley however opined that the British being an occupying force, Sri Lanka should not be a party to the war.
His type of conscionable politics was well on display when he set about his task in opposing the colonial government of its dictatorial ways. One of the marked incidents in parliament was when Dudley sided with the opposition and rose in defence of his major political opponents and severe critics -- Philip Gunawardena and N.M. Perera who were incarcerated by the British for opposing the war effort under the Defence (Miscellaneous No. 3) regulations dated June 3, 1940.
I would like to ask the members, what is it that the United Nations is fighting for What is the freedom they talk so much about Do we not see the characteristics of Fascism in this act I would class this as the greatest acts of Fascism ever perpetrated in this country. The representatives of the people with hardly any dissidents have suggested the release of these persons.
After his father took office as the first Prime Minister, his son D.S. junior, known fondly as Dudley, became the Agriculture Minister -- a portfolio he held until he was appointed Prime Minister, six years later succeeding his father, after his fathers fatal fall from a horse.
The Prime Ministership was thrust on him at the most difficult time of his life, upon his fathers sudden death.
Elected to Parliament as Prime Minister
Although Dudley was given the premiership on a platter as it were, he desired a fresh mandate from the people to head the country. He called for elections just two months later and was re-elected, receiving even a larger majority than his father did.
Among other things, increased welfare benefits and the rice subsidy in particular, contributed to the resounding success. The government however became unpopular a year later (1953) when the price of rice was raised and subsidies were cut. Within a year, subsequent to the end of the Korean boom, the government found that the burden of the subsidy on the Budget was excessive and decided to curtail its expenditure. The price of rice was increased.
Other subsidies including free meals for schoolchildren were cut. The political protest to this move was explosive. A general strike known as Hartal was launched by trade unions affiliated to the left-wing parties.
Resigns as Prime Minister
The lives lost in the 1953 Hartal caused him shock and grief. His conscience bothered him. Though the UNP remained in power, Senanayake honourably resigned as Prime Minister, left Temple Trees for Woodlands and left politics. After Dudley resigned, Sir John took over as Prime Minister.
By popular request, he returned to politics in 1957 when the UNP lost elections. In March 1960, the UNP managed to form a Government after elections and Senanayake became Prime Minister again, but the coalition fragmented and Dudley resigned as Prime Minister after only four months in office after new elections were held in which the UNP won less seats. He became the Leader of the Opposition and forced early elections in 1965 by persuading 14 supporters of Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike to defect.
An honourable politician
When a UNP-led coalition won power in 1965, he handed over the Prime Ministership to C.P. de Silva as a mark of gratitude towards his service in defeating the leftist coalition government in 1964. Mr. De Silva declined but offered to serve in his government instead.
Senanayake was sworn in as the Prime Minister for a record fourth time on March 25, 1965, at which time he had the longest reign till 1970. However, he lost the general elections in 70 and virtually retired from politics thereafter. But he remained a colourful parliamentarian and loved leader. 
My uncle, late P.C. Imbulana, who served him as Deputy Agriculture Minister, a founder member of the UNP, sported a spontaneous smile on his face whenever he spoke of his dear friend Dudley. Today, whenever I remember the stories my uncle related about his best friend to me, I cant help but smile.
Exceptional sense of humour
The two friends shared the same exceptional sense of humour and innocent mischief. Their loud laughter would thunder the usual quietness of our ancestral house whenever he arrived, my grandma would recall. I could imagine it when I think of some stories, and my own vague remembrance of his infectious laugh.
He had relished relating how, during his very first meal at Cambridge, a piece of meat on his plate did a pole vault to another diners plate he had explained in all seriousness it happened due to a blunt knife kept for him to use. My uncle remembered to relate this when he watched with us the comedy The Party, where a piece of chicken flies off the main actor Peter Sellers dish into the air and gets stuck on a hair-do of a lady.
Dudley loved photography, wildlife, cricket and golf. He was a man of impeccable integrity. Food was a subject of discussion right throughout his life, as he was often jokingly told and known to have quite an appetite. Although Dudley acknowledged even that with good humour, his good friend, my uncle, would dryly say he enjoyed his food, but it was his stomach that gave trouble to his last breath. When he passed away, he was only 62 years old, gone so early, a life that was so worthy.


J.R. Jayawardena had political differences with him. They constantly locked horns and livid when a ginger group within the party was formed by Dudley (of which my uncle was one), but yet, J.R. held Dudley with deep affection and respect, his emotions took the better of him, at Dudleys passing.
J.R. Jayewardene: Here was a colleague who touched the deep sea of reverence in a wider world in our country than possibly any other person in its long history. If a man could draw that affection and goodwill, he has a claim to be known as one of its greatest sons.
Good night sweet prince, said J.R. in his fitting final farewell.
The writer likes to remember him in this tribute with her own line: Greatness was thrust on Dudley Shelton Senanayake. And he lived to be great and moreover he was a conscionable leader.
(The writer is a life member of the Dudley Senanayake Memorial Society Committee)
An Alms-giving will be held today at Vipassana Bhavana Madyasthanaya, Wijerama Road, Colombo 7, to commemorate the 44th death anniversary of late Premier Dudley Senanayake.
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Nazarenes Long walk to Golgotha
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:01 am
The Nazarenes Long walk to Golgotha
	

It was a hot sultry day; the noon-day sun shone in all its parching, piercing intensity. A dry wind blew across the courtyard of Pontius Pilate, ruffling the strands of the shoulder length hair of the Nazarene who stood there; a crown of thorns thrust on his forehead, drops of blood mingled with sweat trickling down his face, matting the straying strands; draped in the seamless garment his mother had woven for him. He stood there shouldering a heavy cross, waiting to undertake his torturous journey- the inevitable journey of the cross. 
The mob came around, shoving and jostling him to proceed. The cross was heavier than he could bear. He dragged it along, now stumbling, now steadying himself, the men goading him on with shouts and whip lashes while the crowds jeered. Exhausted he fell, the cross on his back levelling him down. They quickly helped him to rise; not out of sympathy or humanity-they wanted him to die the shameful death of a criminal on the cross. A sympathetic Cyrenean helped him to carry the cross Nay he was commandeered by the mob to lend a hand to the Nazareen so he would not die on the way. Whatever it was the Cyrenean helped him to carry the cross. The Nazarene bestowed on him a grateful look which would have found an answering echo in the Cyreneans own heart. 


He rounded a bend on the road, pursued by the milling, taunting crowds and there encountered his mother. They exchanged looks of mute sympathy and suffering. The one suffering for the other. He was pained to see his mothers anguished face and she to witnesss her son suffer ignominy, shame, humiliation for no fault of his own. It was a heart-breaking moment for both. 
Veronica a sympathetic woman stepped out from this most unsympathetic, uncharitable crowd on seeing his sweat-moistened blood-moistened visage and wiped it with her towel. He was moved by her gesture, the hardihood with which she stepped forward to extend her sympathy. He gratefully left the imprint of his agonized face on her towel. 
Sore-footed, exhausted beyond endurance, the weight of the cross bearing him down he struggled on; his legs trembling with the effort he made to keep going. He fell again and again but was forced to rise and stumble on. Some women along the route wept tears of sympathy. The Nazarene admonished them to weep for themselves and their children and not for him. 


And so they reached Golgotha-the place of skulls-and there they laid him on the very cross he had borne, having torn away his robe-which the soldiers would gamble for later. They nailed him to the cross; nails piercing the palms of his out-stretched arms and his crossed feet. He endured the excruciating pain unflinchingly. It was his fathers will. He was obedient even unto death. They had dug a hole and jerked the cross into it. And there he simply hung like a common criminal between two thieves-one cursing and the other repentant This day shalt thou with me in paradise be he promised the repentant thief. He was thirsty. They offered him a sponge dipped in bitter gall. His mother stood at the foot of the cross. He commended her to his beloved disciple john. Mother behold thy son; Son behold thy Mother. Behold the man! - the Nazareen. From the cross he forgave those who persecuted him Father forgive them they know not what they do 
As the ruddy shades of the evening sky darkened and the shadows lengthened and unaccountable thunder and lightning rent the air and the Nazarene after three hours of agony gasped forth his last breath. 
Father into thy hands I commend my spirit The long hard journey had ended. 
No greater love than this; that a man should lay down his life for his people.

Crucified for you and for me
Crucified for you and for me 
The lowly carpenter of nazareth 
The mighty architect of the universe 
Left his glory above to hang upon a tree 
He took the pain and suffering 
For all mankind, you see 
He took the pain and suffering 
Just for you and for me 
An agony undescribable 
Pain beyond compare 
Just for you and for me 
The agony defied all reason 
When our sinfulness intersected his holiness 
But he bore it for you and for me 
With body frail and thirst unquenched 
He bore it for you and for me 
His loving eyes looked down from a broken heart 
The pain was the love that we rejected 
So much greater than any other you see 
Nails tore through those precious limbs 
But the pain was greater still 
As they raised the cross for all the world to see 
That we might have eternal life 
He was crucified for you and for me 
Karen
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Peterite Easter Cantata:  A 25-year legacy
## Section: News Features
## Date: 13 April 2017 12:03 am
The Peterite Easter Cantata:  A 25-year legacy
	

The Silver Jubilee of the Peterite Easter Cantata will be a sublime celebration of grateful thanksgiving to the Risen Lord at the College Chapel on the evening of Easter Sunday, April 16 at 7:00 p.m. A joyous choral tradition of the Senior Choir of St. Peters in symphonic harmony with the Peterite Chorale, a dedicated group of Old Boy Choristers, have got together for the past twenty-four Easter Sunday evenings to celebrate the Resurrection of Our Blessed Lord Jesus. 


Music, in its many captivating forms from plaintive Gregorian Chant and the symphonic magnificence of Palestrina to the hypnotic spellbinding romance of Rachmaninov, Chopin, and Liszt have been at the heart of Peterite leisure. This 80-year Peterite tradition of commitment to choral perfection has inspired the visionary Peterite Musical Directors of the ilk of Noel Crusz, Jerome de Silva, Shannon Raymond, and Jehan Bastians to superlative productions such as Oliver Jesus Christ Superstar Evita The Christmas Story and more recently Joseph and the Technicolour Dream Coat. It is this inspiring DNA that produced the amazing Hussain Mohamed and Nihal Abeysundera, the prolific violinist of the 40s and 50s, Douglas de Niese, Tony Don Michael, Nihal Fonseka, and Father Claver Perera, our most sought after tenors, Earl de Fonseka creator of the Sri Lanka Symphony Orchestra and its first Conductor, our brilliant choral Directors George de Niese, Father Mervyn Weerakkody, Stefan Corera, the Founder Director of the Peterite Chorale and more recently Eshantha de Andrado, Jehan Bastians, Sanjive Dabare and Neomal de Alwis who, as a brilliant pianist, has been the prime collaborator and accompanist of the Peterite Chorale since its inception. 


This same DNA has created a younger generation of illustrious musicians  Dilip Seneviratne, Yohan de Alwis, Ishan Denipitiya all versatile and imaginative pianists. On the lighter and brighter side, the most sought after Gypsies, Sunil and Piyal Perera, the pop star of the 50s Bill Forbes, the star studded three generations of the Denipitiyas, Gavin Senn the sensational saxophonist, notwithstanding an illustrious galaxy of other reputed musicians and singers. 


This traditional evening of joy and thanksgiving owes its origin to the untiring dedication and loyalty of the Peterite Choral Director of the 80s and early 90s Priyanthi Seneviratne. Hers was a vocation of dedication and love in continuing a 50 year tradition of choral perfection. It was her brainchild to inspire the choir leavers at the time to continue their singing tradition which led to the formation of the Peterite Chorale  an inspiration to a host of other past pupil choirs. 
With a tinge of humility but justifiable pride, mention is made of the writers contribution to music as the Sri Lanka Representative and the other Peterite, Neomal de Alwis, Deputy Representative of the illustrious Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music London, the prime examining body of the Royal Academy of Music, the Royal College of Music, the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and the Royal Northern College of Music, which take pride in having Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth as Patron and His Royal Highness Prince Charles as President.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two shot dead in Kaduwela
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 April 2017 11:27 am
Two shot dead in Kaduwela
	
Two persons were shot dead by an unidentified gunman in the Kothalawala area on the Malabe-Kaduwela main road this morning, police said.
Initial investigations revealed that both victims were traveling on a motorcycle when the gunman, who also arrived on a motorcycle had opened fire at the victims.

 
		
==============================
==============================
