## Title: A governing style that irks everyone
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
A governing style that irks everyone
	

A meddlesome governing one has become a big headache to a chief purohita and the senior provincial white-collar ones, they say.

This governing one has already taken over some of the functions and responsibilities at the upcountry council which clearly come under the purview of the chief purohita.
The governing one, they say, is a powerful character enjoying free access to the authorities in the highest echelons in yahapalanaya and would report to the latter practically every case of dereliction of duty or real or perceived insubordination on the part of staffers. Therefore, everyone at the council including the chief purohita dread incurring the displeasure of the meddling one.
Incidentally, this character is said to be a close kin of the chief purohita and this happens to be the reason why he is so slow to lock horns with her for encroaching on his area of authority, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: A mora caught as people wished: UNP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 10:21 am
A mora caught as people wished: UNP
	
United National Party (UNP) MP Harshana Rajakaruna yesterday said he did not personally welcome the arrest of United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) MP Namal Rajapaksa but was happy to note that justice prevailed.
Mr. Rajakaruna told a media briefing that one should be happy that the Judiciary had become independent at last.
One should be happy that the Judiciary had become independent at last and rule of law prevails, he said.
The Government was blamed for not taking action against those who are charged with corruption, but the arrest of Namal Rajapaksa proves that the corrupt cant escape, he added.
Responding to a question by journalists that the charge against Mr. Rajapaksa was fairly a minor one, compared to the allegations made against him and the Rajapaksa family, the MP said there were many other charges against MP Namal Rajapaksa and these would come out soon.
MP Mujibur Rahman, who also participated in the briefing, said the Mr. Rajapaksa was a good catch.
Some said the government only nets halmessas (sprats) and let the moras out. But the government had caught a mora, he said. He said that many moras would be netted soon.
Asked whether who would be arrested next, both MPs said it was up to the Police and the Judiciary. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: All's well that ends well
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 11:29 am
All's well that ends well
	
Sri Lankan foreign minister Mangala Samaraweera and visiting United States Asst. Secretary of State share a light moment following the joint press conference held last evening. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Anura challenges Ravi to sue him
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 07:27 am
Anura challenges Ravi to sue him
	
Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) Leader and Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake yesterday challenged Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake to sue him for the revelations Dissanayake made with regard to the Rs.1.2 million worth of controversial financial irregularity, allegedly taken place in the import of luxury vehicles involving Minister Karunanayake.
JVP Leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake was speaking at a meeting held yesterday themed Debt burden, tax burden and collapsing economy at Ginigathhena.
Since I was challenged by the Finance Minister, to speak against this illegal act outside Parliament before the public, I am now going to reveal everything I know about this, so that he can seek Court case against my allegations and later I can prove in courts, who really is guilty, he said.
Among some nine hundred and ten luxury vehicles that were imported into the country, one hundred and thirty 130 vehicles were detained by the Customs for understating value, pending investigations. Minister of Finance Ravi Karunanayake was directly involved in releasing those vehicles at a time the investigations were going on into the case. He summoned the owners of the vehicles along with the Customs Officials, to whom he ordered to stop the investigations soon, Mr. Dissanayake said.
The JVP Leader claimed that Finance Minister had ordered the vehicle owners to pay only Rs.1.6 million instead of Rs.15 million as government import tax for each vehicle and get the vehicles released from the said inquiry.
According to him, if the Customs had calculated and collected taxes for the real value of vehicles, the Government could have earned Rs.1500 million (Rs.1.5 billion).
But since the Minister intervened, the Government garnered only Rs.300 million (Rs. 0.3 billion) as taxes from these imported vehicles.
He claimed that due to Finance Ministers involvement, a loss amounting to Rs. 1,200 million (Rs.1.2 billion) was caused to the Government. (Ranjith Rajapaksha)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Arrest of Namal: Ravi says ministers predict the obvious
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 01:55 pm
Arrest of Namal: Ravi says ministers predict the obvious
	
Minister Ravi Karunanayake said that despite excitement in the Joint Opposition regarding predictions on arrests, people living in the country were aware of the investigations and therefore were able to arrive at reasonable conclusions.
I spoke of this (Namals) arrest two months ago, we live in this country and not overseas isnt it So, we are aware of what is going on in the country, he said.
He made this remarks in response to a question raised by a journalist at a press conference held at the Ministry of Finance recently.
It isnt only Namal, there are a lot of other Rajapaksas, who have to answer, he said.
During the brief questioning Minister P. Harrison intervened and said that any person could assume such arrests, due to the frequency of visits to the FCID and the CID.
You could see the number of times they visit the two places. It is only obvious to assume that the arrests are imminent, he said.
Video by Amantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Attempts to finalize ETCA without Presidents knowledge
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:31 pm
Attempts to finalize ETCA without Presidents knowledge
	
The joint opposition today claimed that an attempt was being made by the Government to finalise the proposed Indo-Lanka Economic and Technology Cooperative Agreement (ETCA) without President Maithripala Sirisenas knowledge.
Former MP G.L. Peiris told a media briefing that some ministers had stated that ETCA would be finalized before October by whatever means despite overwhelming opposition to the agreement.
He said if the agreement was signed the consequences might be very serious and Sri Lankan courts would not be in a position to hear any cases filed against the contents of the trade pact the agreement was with a foreign country.
"If even the parliamentarians dont have a clear idea about the ETCA, the people are undoubtedly unaware of what their country is going to agree to with neighbouring India," he said.
Therefore, it is certain that the people and the politicians will have problems and points that cannot be agreed to in the agreement. But, we will be helpless if the ETCA is finalised behind our backs."
Former Minister Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena speaking at the media briefing called for a referendum to seek public approval for the ETCA.
The JO warned the government that 25 US Congress members had informed US Secretary of State, John Kerry to stop aid to Sri Lanka if the Sri Lankan Government of Sri Lanka does not seem to have begun the implementation of the UN resolution as promised. (Piyumi Fonseka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Country from a working land, now a graveyard: Basil
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 02:36 pm
Country from a working land, now a graveyard: Basil
	
While claiming the Governments priorities have changed after coming into power, former minister Basil Rajapaksa said the country which was once a working land had now become a graveyard.
Addressing the All-Island Samurdhi Development Assistant Officers Council, Mr. Rajapaksa said the Governments priority was to amend the Constitution by abolishing Executive Presidency and to introduce a new electoral system.
Now, the Government has thrown away their promise of amending the Constitution and they are going to revise the national anthem, national flag and the States religion. The Government is also in a political which-hunt, he added.
He said the rules and regulations that have been implemented by Geneva were harmful to the sovereignty of the country.
He said the Government has curtailed the fertilizer subsidy and the farmers could not sell off their harvest.
Students have been deprived to obtain their school uniforms. The current situation in the country under the Government is quite disturbing not only for the public but for us too, he added. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
 
		
==============================
## Title: David Cameron officially resigns
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 09:42 pm
David Cameron officially resigns
	
David Cameron has resigned as Prime Minister after six years in Downing Street.
Mr Cameron went to Buckingham Palace just before 5.00pm on Wednesday to formally tender his resignation to Queen Elizabeth II.
The former Prime Minister made a short final address outside Downing Street, surrounded by his three children and his wife Samantha.
It has been the greatest honour of my life to service this prime minister for the last six years and to serve as leader of my party for the last 11 years," he said.
As I leave for the last time my only wish is continued success for this very great country that I love so very much. Thank you.
Mr Cameron spent just over half an hour in Buckingham Palace speaking to the Queen after making the short trip from Downing Street via motorcade.
He emerged from the palace at around half past five.
The former PM is moving out of Number 10 to make way of Theresa May, who was elected as the new leader of the Conservative party this week.
He announced he would be stepping down after Britain voted to leave the European Union in a referendum on 23 June.
Mr Cameron recommend that the Queen appoints Ms May, the Home Secretary as his successor.
Ms May's appointment as PM was confirmed at around 5.45pm.
She won the Conservative leadership election after her final rival dropped out, and has gone to the palace to formally assume the office of PM.
The new Prime Minister, Britain's second woman to hold the post, is expected to unveil the core of her Cabinet later this evening. (Independent)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Donation by China to DSC
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 09:13 pm
Donation by China to DSC
	
The Chinese embassy donated Rs. 3.2 million to the schools established to educate children of defense forces (Defense Services Colleges), at the Ministry of Defense today. State Minister of Defense Ruwan Wijeyawardene and Secretary of Defense Karunasena Hettiarachi participated at the ceremony. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Embracing mobile trading to trade on CSE
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Embracing mobile trading to trade on CSE
	
The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) will be conducting a range of training programmes around the country to educate investors on the use of mobile trading applications. The series of educational events, which will be conducted free-of-charge, will demonstrate how investors could obtain the full benefits of mobile trading. Trainings in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums will be conducted in Colombo, Kandy, Ratnapura, Matara, Anuradhapura, Negombo, Kurunegala and Jaffna.
The popularity of smartphones is rapidly increasing and with that, tech-savvy investors around the world have taken to mobile trading as a way to conveniently trade stocks using their smartphones. This is reflected in the growth of mobile applications as a whole.
This opportunity is offered to both foreign and local investors investing in the CSE, who have the ability to experience the benefits and ease of mobile trading with CSE-partnered mobile trading applications. These applications, which are provided by broker firms and developed by third party application developers, offer investors the ability to trade securities listed on the CSE on-the-go, from just about any smart mobile device.
Commenting on the initiative, CSE Head of Market Development Niroshan Wijesundere said, With the usage of smartphones growing worldwide, where devices are increasingly utilized to access online services and information, it is only just that we offer investors the convenience of trading from their mobiles. These trainings are an important first-step in embracing mobile trading and in learning how to use the applications effectively.
Why use your mobile to trade
Trade on-the-go!
A common problem for investors has been gaining access to sources through which orders can be placed in real-time. In other words, the lack of the opportunity to trade live, from wherever they are located. Mobile trading offers investors the ease of trading on-the-go, from where ever they may be.
Timing is everything!
Given the active and sometimes volatile nature of the current market, an opportunity could be lost or capitalized on in a matter of seconds. Getting the timing right in terms of when to buy or sell a stock could therefore be as crucial as deciding what shares to buy. Mobile trading offers value to investors who rely on quick buy and sell decisions and those who find it difficult to constantly be in touch with their broker to place trades.
Comprehensive features
The applications offer a range of features that include daily market summaries, portfolio management, buy and sell options, ability to track and view the history of orders, ability to analyse gains and losses in real-time and breaking corporate news alerts.
Safe and secure
The applications are developed by experienced and leading professional developers who are committed to creating and maintaining secure trading facilities for mobiles. The same security protocols adopted by web-based portals and other e-commerce applications are used for mobile trading.
Convenient and easy to use
This facility requires a web-enabled smartphone and a stockbroker trading account. Further information with relation to the applications and their providers could be obtained by contacting the relevant stockbroker.
How to sign up for trainings
Please contact the CSE on 011 2356517 to inquire about how you could attend trainings scheduled in your area or visit www.cse.lk.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Exclusive: Salman Rushdie speaks to Daily Mirror
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:12 am
Exclusive: Salman Rushdie speaks to Daily Mirror
	
World renowned author, winner of the Booker Prize and the 13th greatest English novelist according to the TIME Magazine, Salman Rushdie sits down with The Daily Mirror for his first interview with the Sri Lankan media. Rushdie, currently a Professor and Distinguished Writer at the New York University, speaks on literature, childhood, his views on religious and political freedom among many others.
Read interview...
I learnt to question religious and political orthodoxy and to be a person of ideas".
Salman Rushdie, acclaimed author whose second book Midnight's Children (1981) was awarded the  Booker of Bookers prize, Professor and Knight of the British Empire and Hafeel Farisz of the Daily Mirror speak on, literature, the freedom of expression, his childhood, religion and much more.
Q: You have been very vocal about the idea or notion of the freedom of expression. Where does this voice in you toward the need for unfettered freedom of expression come from
A: I have lived in places where there were a serious attempts to repress speech. I remember, it was at the time I began to write 'Midnight's Children', being in India during the emergency, when press censorship was very heavy. People were put in jail for expressing their opinion, including members of Indira Gandhi's own family. I've had family in Pakistan all my life.-Because of the partition my family was almost split down the middle. Half my family lived in Pakistan, and the other half in India. I had cousins, aunts and uncles in India, and I would go there quite often as a young person. To be in Pakistan during various dictatorships -- the Ayub Khan period, the Zia Ul-Haq period-- was to experience first-hand the stifling effect of censorship. Not just censorship, but the fear of saying what you thought. I remember visiting my cousins in Karachchi, and we were just spending an evening in somebody's house. I can't remember what I asked, but it was a political question regarding what was happening in the country. My cousin who was sitting across the table from me kicked me from under the table. Because I wasnt born yesterday, I changed the subject and asked something about cricket. About 20 minutes later my cousin said to me, It's okay now. I asked, What do you mean it's okay And what he said was that the person who left the room was one whom they had identified as an informer, and now that he had left the room it was okay to talk. So I asked them why they would invite him if they knew he was an informer And they said, If we didnt invite him we wouldnt know who the informer was, and somebody else would be sent along, and that it was better to know who the informer was than not. So I have lived in times of censorship and I've had a very strong reaction against it : the moment one starts to express one's view of the world, whether it's fiction or non-fiction, in my case it's predominantly been fiction, there are plenty of people who wont want you to do that. Indira Gandhi at one point wanted to take me to court. The case disappeared because unfortunately she was murdered. But it's not unusual even for imaginative writers to run up against the power structure. If you look at literature, you see this happening in country after country. Writers trying to say " I think it's like this" run up against people who try to prevent them saying that. In the Soviet Union of course many writers had their lives destroyed by trying to speak up against Soviet power. At this moment in China it's very much the case. Journalists and creative writers are oppressed and disappearing, and living in a very precarious way. For me it seemed natural that one should object to that. Actually the first great writer I met was the Urdu poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz. I knew him as a child because he was a very close friend of one of my aunts, and he became like an extra uncle to me. His work fell into two kinds. On the one hand there were Gazzals  beautiful poetry, much of which was love poetry, and much of which of course was set to music and became popular, and made him such a popular figure. Then on the other side, there was poetry which was political. He directly engaged with the big subjects of his time, partition being the biggest. He quite naturally moved between those two worlds -- the world of the public and the world of the private. And I just thought. "Oh thats what you as a writer are supposed to do"; that you engage both with the public subject and the private subject. I have tried to do that, and of course you know, like everyone else who does that, you run up against people who dont want you to do that.
Q: But doesnt such unfettered freedom gives rise to intolerance A double-edged sword of sorts You would know this, because you have been vocal against bigotry and racism, which in reality spirals through this unfettered freedom
A: One of the problems with any form of liberty is that people will misuse it. Yes, it's true. One of the problems of free speech is that people will use it badly. They will use it to say many things that you or I might find objectionable. Unfortunately, thats the price of the ticket. Because if you want to have the liberty to express your thoughts, then you have to accept that other people will use that in ways you might object to. If you look at the history of free speech, very often the work being defended is, inferior, problematic or reprehensible in some way. I dont see a way around that. Otherwise you have to decide, who is the censor and where is the line going to be drawn Today the line will be drawn at a place you and I could approve of, but once you have accepted the principle that one could draw the line, then it would silence the work of both you and me. Human beings are speech animals. We define and express ourselves with what we say, and anything that makes it hard for us to do that, makes it a kind of existential problem. Its a crime against human nature. And yes it means that people will say terrible things. But I'd rather know sooner who these people are and be able to confront them. For example, take what happened in Europe after World War Two There have been all kinds of Neo Nazi voices denying the holocaust, and there are countries in which (denying the holocaust) it is a crime. I think its a mistake to make it a crime because it glorifies, by making into victim figures, the people who should be allowed to speak so they could be demolished. What Im saying is yes, you have to tolerate your opponents, or people whom you despise. The question then is, what are the limits of tolerance I've always thought the only limit to place on liberty is to deny it to the people, whom if they had the power, would deny it to you. The limit to freedom would be to not give freedom to people who would end the process of freedom.
Pictures by Veda Shastri
Q: So do parties like the Shiv Sena and other extremist parties fall within the definition of the limits you speak of 
A: The Shiv Sena is borderline permissible because they seem to be working within the lines of the electoral system. I'm no fan of the Shiv Sena, but I also know that they are not trying to overthrow the system (free speech). They are rather sometimes effectively using the system. Of course my view is that the period of time in Bombay, after the rise of the Shiv Sena, has been a very sad period. Because it has changed the character of the city -- from being a tolerant inclusive city, to being an intolerant and exclusive city. I worry in India that people have moved so far away from the idea of liberty that liberty has become more and more circumscribed. I dont like to see India turning into Pakistan. It was always the fact that India was unlike the countries around it. Around it there were authoritarian, puritanical regimes, whether it was Burma or Pakistan. To see India become less tolerant is very upsetting. India had always taken pride as the so called, "world's greatest democracy or the world's largest democracy" anyway. It seems less democratic than it used to be. Democracy is not just about elections. It is not just that every five years you get to vote. It is also, that in between those periods, you should feel safe in expressing your views against the government. You should feel safe in saying whatever you want to say about the way you're being ruled, even though they are not the views of the ruling party. In other words, that minority opinion, oppositional opinion, dissident opinion, is a very important part of a democratic society. What is happening now in India is that kind of opinion is now becoming vulnerable. More precarious. Many journalists would say that they havent known a time like this in India -- in terms of the rising level of fear. I think the least worst case is free speech. Now free speech is an imperfect thing, because as you say, people will use it badly. But of the options available its the least bad option. Its the one least capable of tyrannizing us all.
Q: On the same subject- today there is an idea of some sort of western infused liberalism toward the need for political correctness, in everything we say and do, which I find silly. Why do you think this has happened and where do you stand on it
A: I've never been a fan of political correctness and I think it's begun to infect the academia in America. I hope it is a short-term phenomenon, and I have reason to believe that it is a short-term phenomenon. There are signs that students are reacting against it. There is this whole range of new terms -- "micro aggression" (laughs). What is micro aggression These seem like first-world problems to me. There are people across the world that have real problems. I think we have reached an age where people have become very thin skinned. We just need to develop a slightly thicker skin, and not to fly off a handle at tiny provocations. Otherwise we can't talk to each other anymore. Speech is not perfect, and people will talk to each other clumsily. We all do it. Nobody speaks perfectly, and to be held responsible to trivial unimportant misuse of vocabulary just seems pathetic. Also, there is this argument that was put forward, initially, by religious groups -- which is that it was a bad thing to offend people. That if your religious sensibilities were offended, that was not your problem but it was the problem of the person by whom you were offended. That really started off as an argument against blasphemy, in the days where blasphemy was a legal offence. But it seems to be one of the great things that happened in Europe during the period of enlightenment that the Church lost its ability to place those limiting points on people. Then blasphemy ceased to be a crime. My view on the whole is that if somebody says something that offends a person of sincere religious belief, thats their problem, not the others ( the person saying it). I mean everybody is offended all the time. If I go into a bookstore I can find plenty of books that contain material I dont like, which I find offensive. There are books by Donald Trump in bookstores. They contain much material that I find offensive. But it doesnt even occur to me to think that therefore Donald Trump should be punished for having offended me. Or to prevent him from speaking. Maybe that would be a good thing (laughs).
Q: Speaking of people taking offence, you became widely known in Sri Lanka following the controversy surrounding The Satanic Verses. This is despite you authoring 'Midnight's Children' and 'Shame', which were written years before 'The Satanic Verses'
A: Well I've written seventeen books, and I dont think that most of the people talking about 'The Satanic Verses' have read it. Is it banned in Sri Lanka or not
Q: No it isnt...
A: But you know, the number of people who read 500-page literary novels is not that great, but the number of people who can have political opinion is much larger. So one of the problems have been having a book talked about by people who dont bother, or dont seem to feel the need to inform themselves about it. The Satanic Verses was my fifth published book, and my fourth novel. I just published my seventeenth book. I've written twelve books since then. I'm very proud of 'The Satanic Verses', I think it is one of the best novels I've written, and I encourage people to read it, in order to find out whether they actually object to it or not. And if they object to it, I have another suggestion to them, -- stop reading it (laughs). Because books dont offend you unless you try rather hard. If you are going to read 500 pages in order to say you are offended, it means you are doing a lot of work to be offended (laughs). I mean, I read books I dont like, and on the whole I shut them -- I think I can't be bothered with this -- I dont like it. Everybody has the right to do that. The book at that point loses its power to offend you. Actually 'The Satanic Verses' is a damn good novel, and it's funny. People who read it might actually like it. You know, I'm not defending my novel anymore because I dont see anything which I have to defend. I think people who condemn things unread -- they are the ones who have something to defend.
Q: In your memoirs you write about the amount of work you put into that book which took you five years to write it. For it to then be called an insult -- how did you perceive it
A: I can insult people much faster than that. If I want to insult people it doesnt take five years work. I can insult them in five minutes. But you know, all these people failed to read the book. Actually it's anything but that (an insult). First of all, most of it isnt anything about religion at all. Ninety percent of it is about migration. It's about South Asian communities in Thatchers England, and in the middle of this there is this dream sequence -- which one of the characters is having, which was what the fuss was about. It was really a secondary theme of the book. What I am saying is read the damn book. Read the book. Then if you object to it, tell me why.
Q: It's very interesting though that the opposition to the book came from the Government or leaders to the masses- from top to bottom, rather than the other way around. If you take where it all began in India it was a politician, and even in Iran, your work was in circulation before the Government stepped in.
A: Yes, yes. Unfortunately it's easy to mobilize the masses if you talk about their religion being under threat. It's not only in my case, instead it's used all the time. What happened in India was a couple of Muslim MPs, at a time when the Rajiv Gandhi Government was coming up for election, threatened that the Muslim votes would not come their way unless they acted on this matter, and Rajiv Gandhi, rather cravenly, gave in. He gave in without having the book read. He gave in without going through the normal due process which was there in India for this type of thing. So that is where it started. Khomeini of course had all kinds of resources at his disposal. Unfortunately, fanaticism is one of the curses of our time. It seems very easy to mobilise a crowd against almost anybody.
Q: Did it hurt you when you saw this reaction, which came without paying heed to the literature and the literary quality of the work
A: Of course it hurt me. But I have to say it was 27 years ago, so I'm not still hurt (laughs). I've been living my life and writing my books. I have to say I'm a lucky writer -- from a very early age, my second book acquired wide readership, and fortunately for me much of that has stuck around. Fortunately for me I am one of the writers who is able to publish a book and have a sense that it will be widely read. Thats all I've ever wanted to do in my life. I am pleased. I've had one book that hit a kind of rock, but as I say thats 12 books ago. I do think it's one of my better books. People ask me which book of mine they should read, and I never say to read that first. Because there has been too much noise around it. It's very hard to read it without some sense of that noise, if it's is the first time they are reading my work. So I say, read another and read 'The Satanic Verses' later. Truthfully I was a writer who was interested in politics, but I never expected to be so much in the middle of it. My view is that I'm going to write my books and I'm lucky that people read them. If you dont like it, dont read it. I'm done with trying to even explain. I dont want to explain my books. I want people to read them. Leaving aside the political issues, one of the problems for writers these days is that the industry has become such that writers are expected to be the salesman of their books. So when the book comes out, you have to give 100 interviews explaining it. I dont want to explain it. When a book comes out, the book should be read, and the great pleasure of reading is that the imagination of the reader meets the imagination of the writer. In that encounter, the book takes shape for that reader. The book can be different for every reader, because the reader's own sensibility comes into contact with the writer's sensibility, and together they construct a meaning of the book. That is the beauty of literature. It is this meeting between strangers that takes place in the privacy of your own head. The problem with being asked to say "this is what my book is about", is because the voice of the writer is very powerful, if I say my book is not about this but about that, many people would think, It must be about that because the writer says so. That is the prescription of the books, which I dont want to do. I want people to discover the book, not to have it prescribed to them like medicine. The fact that writers have to go on book tour and constantly explain it is a bit difficult. I remember when I started publishing books there was much less of this.
Even when 'Midnight's Children' won the Booker Prize (1981), despite the huge amount of attention, I only had to do one radio interview and one TV interview. Because the amount of space the media gave to books was much greater and so I didnt have to do it -- other people did it. So people would discuss the book. The weight was not so much on the author to explicate the book -- because there was space in which other people were doing it. But now, book pages are shrinking, literary editors are being dismissed from their jobs, book supplements in newspapers are being cancelled -- there is so much less space for that conversation to happen. What replaces it is feature journalism -- suddenly if the writer is well known, newspapers want to do profiles. And these profiles with the writer as self salesman, takes the place of what used to happen, which was the discussion of books as books . To my mind, this world is less attractive to that one. Im just sounding like an old guy saying it used to be better before -- but the fact is, it used to be better before (laughs).
Q: Let me take you back to before then. Your first novel Grimus (1971) was something I found absorbing. Is there some inherent element in you which has fascinated you about mysticism About spirituality
A: Yes. As a confirmed atheist I was very interested in mysticism. Because - mysticism is different from religion. Mysticism is a way of understanding the world non- naturalistically. I have always been interested in literary mysticism. In this case the inspiration was Farid-uddin-Attar, his work The Conference of the Birds, which occupies, in Eastern literature, the place that a book like 'The Pilgrim's Progress' occupies in Western literature. And also it predates, what the Germans came to call the Bildungsroman -- the novel about the getting of wisdom. Where the young person goes into the world and has a series of experiences as a result of which he learns something. 'The Conference of the Birds' is about this group of birds that sets out to discover this Bird God- the Simorgh, and they have an allegorical journey. They go through a number of zones, which are all in some way educational or challenging. They have to overcome moral and physical obstacles in order to get through, and when they get on top of the mountain -- what the poem basically suggests is that -- by going through that series of purifying and enlightening tests  that they have actually become the god the 30 birds seek.
Now I think thats a very non-religious kind of religion. Thats simply saying that if we make ourselves better, we become the thing we are looking for. That is a completely non-religious way of understanding. Anyway, that is where that book came from. I dont think it was wholly successful at all -- I have a lot of problems with that book. ( Laughs)
Q: You mean looking back today
A: Yes. And even then the book was not particularly well received when it came out. And after it I had to really think about why that might have been and what I should do about it. What it made me do was it made me want to come back much closer to something like my own experience. I had the idea to write a novel about my childhood which would be based around a my childhood in Bombay. Initially the plan was for it not to be more ambitious than that. It was going to be a novel of my childhood. But at a certain point I thought, supposing the boy is born at the same time of the country. I wasnt born on the 15th of August, I was born exactly eight weeks before the night of independence (in 1947) .At a certain point I thought that, and immediately I thought on the one hand thats a good idea, and on the other hand it was quite clear that it was the sort of idea that enormously expanded the canvass of the book. Because then It stops being a novel about childhood, It also becomes a novel about history. It becomes a novel about the world that the child is in. I suddenly understood that I had just made it a much bigger book. It was quite frightening because I was a very inexperienced writer, very uncertain about my ability to write that book, and to make it work. It took me a very long time, it took me over five years to write the book. In a way it took me that long because I was finding out how to write it. Thats what became Midnights Children. So in a way, the poor start of the first novel obliged me to rethink my writing, and in a way led to the ideas that became 'Midnight's Children'. You can't have one without the other. One thing leads to the next. And then I felt I found my way as a writer.
Q: Since you brought us to 'Midnight's Children'  in it you write about the role of the press -- which is portrayed in it as being the mouthpiece of the government in times of war. How do you view that perception of the Press today, in comparison to what you wrote over 30 years ago
A: Well certainly what happened with the press during the emergency is that it did succumb to Mrs. Gandhi's censorship without that much protest. Even when she called the election, that in the end she lost, the press until very late in that campaign were genuflecting towards her and describing her as the certain winner. But right at the end, you could see this if you look at the newspapers, four or five days before the vote -- all the journalists at a certain moment realise something else is happening here. They go "oh my god something else is happening here, it may not be what we think is going to happen", and you can see all the newspapers desperately backpedalling in order to not be ludicrously wrong. As you know, Mrs. Gandhi lost that election very heavily. I think we've reached a point of such cynicism that the willingness to dismiss the press as being either corrupt or slanted or ignorant, the desire to dismiss what Sarah Palin calls the "lame-stream" media (laughs) is almost like a reflex. You don't believe it because it's in the newspapers. And in the age of the internet, that has the side effect of making people much more credulous of things outside the mainstream media -- in one of the huge series of websites and some of which are more reputable than others. I find that very worrying. I feel actually that the standards of reportage and credibility in some of the recognised newspapers are far higher than the standards used on the internet. On the internet anything can be said without there being an editorial structure in which the writer has to justify what he is saying. Much of which is said on the internet is full of nonsense. And as flawed as the mainstream media may be, I find them less distorted, and I feel that we are in a very sloppy age -- because there is so much of information out there and because all of us can do it, and have access to it, we begin to look at that as being truer than the really hard work of journalists. And journalism is not easy. To find out things in any kind of reliable way -- there are people trying to conceal things from you, your resources to find things out are limited, the time available to report on something is limited -- there are all kinds of reasons why journalism is an inexact thing, and yet out there every day there are journalists doing their best to tell us the news. And I don't like that their work is now so routinely dismissed, because certainly I will believe something on the New York Times before I believe it on an internet news website. Because who is controlling that Where is the evidence on which these things are put out there There may well come a time when new technology makes financially viable news gathering organisations which may have the same degree of scrupulousness and editorial control as the newspapers. We live in this moment where the old is dying and the new has not been born. I don't think there is any internet based news gathering organisation which has anything like the resources or the scrupulousness of a great newspaper. If you look at the news websites they are all aggregation sites. No one is writing for them, they are stealing stuff from everywhere. So they are on the one hand stealing the work of the mainstream media and then jeering at it, but without that (mainstream media) they don't exist. What we don't have is a news gathering site on the internet which runs like a newspaper used to be run. With journalists in the field reporting back. Now that may come. There may come a time when there is a financial model which makes it viable. The problem right now is that nobody wants to pay for news on the internet. And the truth about life is you get what you pay for (laughs).
Q: You once wrote that English writing has overtaken the vernacular, especially in the Global South. Why do you say this, and on what authority
A: Look, I'm a writer in English. So I am biased in its favour. What I think is quite clear is that English has become the world language. For a while there was a bit of competition with French, and now that argument is over. What is interesting about English is as a language it's very flexible and malleable. So it is possible to make English different to reflect different realities. All over the world people have remade English. Apart from England itself. The Irish were probably the first to do it. Irish- English literature has become very eminent in the world. The way in which the Irish use English is different from the way the English use English. In America there are many differences -- there is a rationality in the way the language is used here. There is also an ethnic variation. English becomes responsive to all those different needs to different constituencies. There is a very rich and extensive English literature in the Caribbean, South Africa, India and Pakistan. I don't know so much about Sri Lanka. But what is interesting is that this is not standard English imposed on the world in a colonialist way. There was a time it was so. But what is happening for a long time now is that countries which have acquired English through whatever means are re-shaping it for their own purposes. That is very interesting. As far as the effect of the dominance of English where other languages are concerned, yes there is some concern there. But if you are talking about dominance of languages, for example in India, the problem is more Hindi than English. The dominance of Hindi is having an unfortunate effect on some of the other languages, even those in North India. The amount of languages people in a given generation, who grow up being fluent in other languages, is declining because of the power of Hindi as a kind of lingua franca. My view is that the world is what it is -- in the sense that whatever you think of globalisation, the world is not going to de-globalise(laughs). Whatever you think of industrialisation, the world is not going back to homespun. In the same way, whatever you think of the English language, here it is -- and it will be a little while before that changes. So the question is how do you make the best of it. The question of globalisation is how do you more equitably distribute the resources of the world. The question of English is how can you use it best for your own purposes, and I think writers around the world are answering that question rather brilliantly.
Q: How important was the need to question for you as a child. In your memoirs you speak of the influence of your father
A: Well I had a difficult relationship with my father. But the more I think about it,-- because he died a long time ago in 1987 aged 77 it has been almost 30 years since he passed away, what I think now more and more is that a great deal of my way of seeing the world actually was his way of seeing the world. I understand now, how much in fact he gave me. He was a difficult man, but I was his only son, and I think I learnt and enormous amount about how to see the world from him. I mean, he was a person uninterested in religious beliefs, he was a person interested as a scholar in the culture of Arabic and Farsi, and unlike me he was a student of Arabic and Farsi and he was able to read those languages in the original, whereas I only read them in translation. So he was a more considerable scholar in many things, including Islam, than me. He was interested in philosophy, so was I. He was interested specifically in the philosophy of Ibn Rushd ( Avveroes, Abu l-Walid Mu<U+1E25>ammad Ibn <U+02BE>A<U+1E25>mad Ibn Rud), and so am I. When he was alive, people used to say that our voices were so similar that people would mistake us for each other on the telephone. I would answer the phone and his friend would start talking to me as if I was him (laughs). It was a difficult relationship that ended well. By the time he died our relationship was much better. And yes I learnt an enormous amount from him. As I've just described him, he was the kind of person who questioned orthodoxy. He was just a businessman. He wasn't an intellectual or a Professor. But he had the wisdom to question religious orthodoxy, to question political orthodoxy, to be a person of ideas. He liked to argue. I would have very long arguments with him during which he always told me how stupid I was. But he enjoyed arguing. He taught me dispute, he taught me to argue properly. Don't argue emotionally, don't argue to the person or attack the person, argue at the level of ideas, -- not at the level of insult. So it was a sharpening of my mind and I know that's why he did it. He would let me sit with him in the evening and he would start an argument because he knew our views on things were quite different. Our politics were different. I was generationally very different from him. You know, I was from the generation of the 60s. That certainly was not him. So we had plenty to disagree about, which he knew, and he would make me have the argument, which I think was very helpful.
Q: Was that inculcation of the spirit of questioning what was before you, which led you to read the subjects that you took as a student in Cambridge
A: Well yeah, I mean what happens with the Cambridge history degree is that in your final year you simply chose three special subjects, and that's all you do. They give you a range of 60 to 80 subjects to chose from, and you chose three, and your whole final year is those three things. I chose three very interesting, to my mind, roughly hundred year periods. One was the history of India from 1857 to 1947, from the uprising to independence -- the 90 year period, a very interesting period. Similarly I chose the first century of American history -- from 1776 to 1877 -- from the declaration to the end of reconstruction. Again an amazing century. And the third thing I chose was, also a very interesting period. Mohammad and the rise of Islam, and the early Caliphate. So from the lifetime of the Prophet just into the first years of Abu Bakr and so on. I just thought these were three of the most interesting periods of time that I could possible learn something about. So that's what I did. And that is of course when I first heard about the so-called incident of the Satanic Verses, which is there in the historical record (of Islam). What interested me, as it interested my father, was to look at Islam as an event inside history. Because it's the only one of the great world religions to have been born inside a period of recorded history. So we know a lot about it. We know a lot about the Prophet, his family, the economic circumstances, and the social, economic and political circumstances of Arabia at the time, the transition from a Nomadic society to an Urban society, the transition from matriarchy to --which the Nomads had -- to patriarchy -- which is what happened in the cities, and the tensions created by those changes, and the way in which the ideas of the Quran reflect that. It reflects that time of great transformation. To me, that was very interesting. To see how the ideas were born. And to do that you have to look at the idea as in its time. So that's what I did. My study was history, but when I left Cambridge I didn't want to study history because my interest in fiction, narrative and storytelling was greater and I didn't want to spend my life in libraries researching old texts.
Q: Before I move on to the last few questions, how important was Ibn Rushd (Averroes ), Gazzali and the rest -- the entire dialogue which took place among them -- to you
A: Well, it became important. The fact that my name is Rushdie because of my father's admiration for this philosopher (Ibn Rushd) obviously attracted me. And then I did find him an attractive thinker. His desire to include Aristotelian ideas of reason and logic into Islamic philosophy -- I thought that was interesting. And then later when my work was being persecuted, it of course was another echo. Because his work was also persecuted during his lifetime. So I felt a kind of affinity with him. But it's not something that has dominated my life, but I wanted to write about it, and eventually I did.
Q: How do you view Islamaphobia as it is today You were a victim of ' Islamism' and today the general Muslim population seems to be victims of both Islamism on the one hand and Islamaphobia on the other
A: I don't like the word Islamaphobia because we have to make a distinction between people and the ideas that they have. I have spent my life fighting racism. I have been involved fighting racism through voluntary work and writing. Anyway, I think clearly there should not be discrimination against any group of people as a result of their ideas or the colour of their skin, and so on. But you can't, I think, protect the ideas. I told you about my father. It was not only my father who taught me to argue but one of the important things the Oxbridge education gives you is that it also teaches you about argument. What it teaches you is that you should be always respectful of the individual, but absolutely savage about ideas. So if you tell me the world is flat, I will be polite to you, but I will also say that -that is nonsense. We have to be able to be completely disrespectful of each other's ideas, while being careful to treat people well as people. Islamaphobia -- the word to me to blurs that line. If I don't like Islam for whatever reason I should be able to say so -- if I then refuse to hire you because you are a Muslim, then that is bigotry, unless you being a Muslim in some way interferes with the ability to do your job. And if that (interfering with the job) is not clear and there should be no reason it would be clear, then it can't be a factor. My view is that you have to separate people from their ideas. At the moment this is a very divided country right now. It's a very polarised country. Half the country holds ideas which the other half detests. If you just look at the gun issue, you've got a very big chunk of this country believing that it is their god given right to have guns, or at least the 2nd Amendment gives them the right to carry guns and it would be in some way - un-American to deprive them of their weapons. There is another part of the country which thinks that it is insane, and all you have to do is look at the amount of gun deaths in this country to understand that there is a big problem. These positions are difficult to reconcile, and are very strongly, vehemently held. The point is, in an open society you must be able to have that argument. You must be able to attack the opinion while remaining respectful of the individual's concerned. That is what I have always thought. I am not respectful of religion, and I think religion is garbage. All of them. And I retain the right to say so. But I don't think you should discriminate against human beings because they hold beliefs that are not yours.
Q: How do you view the importance of literature and art to a society What impact does it have on the evolution of a society

A: If you look at history, it's the art of the past that defines it. We see Elizabethan England through the eyes of Shakespeare as much as from Queen Elizabeth the First. If we look at the early 20th century, we see in France the impressionists and the literary modernists and so on as being the thing that the world takes away from that period. Much more than the politicians and the battles. Art is what in the end defines a culture, it was defines a society. That is what is the most memorable part of that society. The paintings drawn, the books written, the films -- that is what endures. It's the way in which we portray ourselves to ourselves which is most memorable.
Q: And in contemporary terms, how do you view it
A: I think in terms of literature, it is quite a rich moment. In English literature, there has always been a tendency for the literature of England and of the United States to dominate. But what has happened during my lifetime as a writer is that the fact that the English language has spread so far, means that the literature of the English language is kind of the literature of the world. English changes everywhere. So you have in India, Pakistan or Sri Lanka or Australia or the Caribbean. Everywhere that English has spread you have a really rich literature which is becoming the mainstream of those countries. Much of the greatest world literature written in English is not written in England, but everywhere else. I find that to be an interesting development. It's something new in our times. And I think it's a time of really exceptional writers. The problems in the literary fields are industrial. It has to do with economic recession, and publishing companies having financial difficulties, and so on. In terms of the quality of work that is being done, I think this is as richer a time as I can remember. It's not just in English either -- there was a great Latin American boom from the mid 50s to the mid70s. There is an enormous number of talented young African writers emerging now, many of whom are women. Writers like Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. It's not only her, but there are many gifted young African women writers, and that is something new. One of the things I think that is interesting to see if will happen is that in the former Soviet Union -- at the time of the Soviet Union, there was this very rich underground literature that was smuggled outside, the work of Alexander Solzhenitsyn etc. Somehow since the end of the Soviet Union, it seems as if literature lost its enemy, and in a certain sense lost its impetus. Now I am kind of waiting to see what happens next, in the literature of the former Soviet Union. Check literature -- Hungarian literature is having an enormous renaissance right now. Writers like Peter Nadas, Peter Esterhazy, who just passed away, Imre Kertsz who just won the Nobel Prize. In Hungary there is a new rising of literature. Poland also has had a recent great tradition of poetry. Poets like Czeslaw Milosz, Zbigniew Herbert. So there are great literary traditions in parts of the former Soviet Union, but Russian literature itself I think is not as rich as it used to be. But that will change. Everything goes in cycles.
Q: What is the most important work of literature that influenced you or impacted you the most
A: It is very difficult to choose one. I started out being very influenced by the wonder tales of Eastern Literature like the Panchathanthra and the Kathasaritsagara, the Arabian Nights, the Ramayana and Mahabaratha and all of that. And then I think what happened is that my mind connected that with a Western surrealist tradition. So I became interested it writers like Kafka (Franz) and Gogol (Nicolai) and Bulgakov (Mikhail), Marquez (Gabriel Garcia) etc. This tradition of surrealist, non-naturalist writing in western literature, which to me connects to the non-naturalistic writing of Eastern literature. And to me bringing those things together showed me what I wanted to do.
Q: Finally, you have made very few mentions of Sri Lanka. I remember there was one in 'Midnight's Children'. What are your impressions of Sri Lanka
A: I have never been there, and I would love to go. I mean I know about its great beauty because we just made a film there. We made the film of 'Midnight's Children' there. I wasn't there for the shooting, but I can see the incredible natural beauty of the place. And I know from the people who were making the film, what a pleasurable experience it was for them to be there in Sri Lanka making the film. About how helpful the Sri Lankan people were. We found quite a few of the cast from there as well. So it was a very good experience. I'd love to go. I have been invited a few times to be in Sri Lanka for literary events and so on. It just hasn't been convenient. I will come. There is no question because it's a part of the world that I would love to see. Of that whole block of South Asia, it's the bit that I've never seen. I would like to put that straight.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fury of a jilted lover
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Fury of a jilted lover
	

A film star is poised to make a sensational expose about a bigwig in the Blue party who is quite articulate about maintaining discipline in the party. 

The film star had been on intimate terms with the Blue party bigwig for a long time, they say. She is livid that her lover had gone back on a solemn promise made to her.
The Blue man had jilted the film star when he fell under the charm of a much better catch, they say.
On being told about her ex-lovers new catch, the film star is said to have remarked: He normally sees dreams when his bald head is wet with night dew. This is one of such dreams.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gota's security reduced
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:49 am
Gota's security reduced
	
The army contingent provided for former Defense Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa numbering 50 had been reduced to 25 as from yesterday and they had been replaced by the Police STF.
This had been made following a decision taken by the security council to remove army contingents from providing security to VIPs and replacing them with STF cadres. It has also been decided that in the near future the remaining army cadres would also be replaced with STF cadres. (Indika Ramanayake)
 
		
==============================
## Title: He had insult added to his injury
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
He had insult added to his injury
	

A purohita at state level had been evicted from his official residence in the city recently.

This purohita who made a series of hard-hitting statements about his state status in the recent past hails from a district marked for both salt and cement.
The official residence the purohita was evicted from, they say, belongs to the Ministry handling petroleum products which he was attached to earlier.
Furious over the treatment meted out to him, the state purohita had complained to the Big Boss that he and his family were summarily thrown to the street.
The Big Boss had ordered the authorities concerned to give back the purohita the residence he was previously in occupation. However, the state purohita is yet to receive any communication in this regard from the authorities concerned. He is in an ugly sulk over this these days, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: HSBC partners with GoSL for first sovereign bond, dual-tranche issuance for 2016
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
HSBC partners with GoSL for first sovereign bond, dual-tranche issuance for 2016
	
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), on behalf of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, successfully launched and raised US $ 1.5 billion in a dual-tranche five and 10-year bond. The size of the new 5.5-year bond was US $ 500 million with a coupon of 5.75 percent p.a. maturing in 2022.
The size of the new 10-year bond was US $ 1 billion with a coupon of 6.825 percent p.a. maturing in 2026. This marks the first sovereign bond issue in the international capital markets in 2016 by Sri Lanka and the 10th US dollar benchmark offering in the international bond markets by the sovereign. This is also the first-ever dual-tranche issuance by the Government of Sri Lanka.
HSBC was the joint lead manager, bookrunner and the ratings advisor for this bond issuance and the only bank in Sri Lanka to consecutively partner with the sovereign on all its bond issuances. HSBC has also been consistently ranked as the No.1 debt capital markets bookrunner in Asia.
HSBC Sri Lanka and the Maldives CEO Patrick Gallagher said, In accessing two parts of the curve simultaneously, the sovereign has demonstrated its ability to remain nimble and responsive to investor needs. The engagement from different pockets of interest at the short-end and long-end further demonstrates the breadth of the sovereigns investor base and confirms its position as a premier issuer in the capital market.
HSBCs partnership with the Government of Sri Lanka in this landmark dual-tranche issuance is a testament to our expertise in closing large capital market transactions. Retracing our 124-year history in Sri Lanka, this also manifests HSBCs strong and continued commitment to the country.
Fitch Ratings, Moodys Investors Service and Standard and Poors have rated both the issues at B+, B1 and B+, respectively. The final order books stood at US $ 2.5 billion and US $ 3 billion for the five and 10-year issuances, respectively, with an oversubscription ratio of 3.6 times. The numbers remain impressive, given the high volatility seen in global capital markets in recent months.
HSBC Sri Lanka Head of Financial Institutions Group Shamindra Marcelline said, This dual-tranche issuance is a landmark transaction and clearly reflects the continued confidence placed by the international investor community in the countrys strong credit story. This also demonstrates the strength of our longstanding partnership with the sovereign in navigating the current global financial uncertainties and challenges posed. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Iranian spiritual leader meets PM
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 11:08 am
Iranian spiritual leader meets PM
	
Iranian spiritual leader Ayatollah Hussein Khomeini paid a courtesy call on Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at Temple trees yesterday. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ministers making a mockery of the law: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:54 pm
Ministers making a mockery of the law: MR
	
Former president Mahinda Rajapaksa today claimed that it was a mockery of the law for the ministers to have predicted Namal Rajapaksa's arrest by the Financial Crime Investigation Division (FCID) 24 hours before the arrest.
Mr. Rajapaksa told journalist that his son Namal had been arrested by the FCID even without a proper complaint and an aggrieved party.
This is an era in which my son has been labelled as a suspect and made an accused despite there being no complaint and an aggrieved party. Even though the Government is in a political witch-hunt, none of the opposition politicians would run away from politics. These incidents only motivate us even more, he added.
Meanwhile, he said there were many groups all over the world who approve this Government's actions.
They approve whatever this Government does including that of attacking the Rajapaksas, he added.
Mr. Rajapaksa said this Government could be toppled like what had previously happened to even more powerful governments. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)
Video by Janaka
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mother and daughter stabbed to death
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 08:35 am
Mother and daughter stabbed to death
	
A mother and her daughter were stabbed to death in a house at Gurubewila in Ratnapura, last night due a family dispute, police said.
The victims were identified as the 37-year-old mother, Lechchaman Shashikala and the 17-year-old daughter, Suchendran Sanjeewani.
They were allegedly murdered by the mother's ex-husband with a sharp object, police said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Muzammil's bail application refused, re- remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 11:03 am
Muzammil's bail application refused, re- remanded
	
National Freedom Front Spokesman Mohammed Muzammil was further remanded till July 27 by the Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne over the inquiry conducted against him for allegedly misappropriating Rs. 6.1 million public funds.
He is alleged to have committed the fraud by misusing a vehicle belonging to the Presidential Secretariat during the years 2009-2014.
The Magistrate today rejected the two requests made by the Defense lawyers who submitted in a written bail application questioning the arrest made by the police.
They submitted that the arrest was made without proper evidence over the suspect and further submitted that the suspect's child is suffering from an ailment which was cited as a special circumstance in granting bail.
The FCID filed charges under section 5(1), Dishonest Misappropriation, Criminal Breach of Trust, Cheating, Forgery and Falsification of Accounts of the Public Property Act and the Section 3, that Any transaction derived from illegal activity, of the Money Laundering Act. (Shehan Chamika Silva)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: Namals arrest: JO to complain to Geneva
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 04:53 am
Namals arrest: JO to complain to Geneva
	
The Joint Opposition said yesterday that it would complain to the General Secretary of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in Geneva, Switzerland over the arrest of its MP Namal Rajapaksa.
Joint Opposition stalwart UPFA MP Bandula Gunawardena who once went to Geneva and complained to the IPU General Secretary against the government, said they were forced to make another complain to the IPU.
Commenting on the recent arrest of MP Rajapaksa, he said it was a political witch hunt by the government and therefore, they have to seek the assistance of the IPU.
He was arrested not based on a complaint by any party directly involved in the alleged case. He was arrested based on a complaint by the Anti-Corruption Front Convener Wasantha Samarasinghe who is a member of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP). Minister Mahinda Amaraweera once complained to the Bribery Commission against Central Banks ex- governor Arjuna Mahendran. No action was taken so far. These are the results of deal politics, he said.
He charged the democratic values were shattered in the country today based on the lack of management by the government and its poor decisions taken.
MP Gunawardena accompanied by MPs Dullas Alahapperuma and Udaya Gammanpila, who was also arrested recently, went to Geneva and complained about the Financial Crime Investigation Division (FCID) among other allegations of injustice caused towards them by the Government in late March.
When MP Gammanpila was arrested last month on charges of allegedly using a fraudulent Power of Attorney to sell shares of an Australian company, MP Gunawardena said they would go to Geneva again to complain over the arrest. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: National development organization with civil and military personnel
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 03:27 pm
National development organization with civil and military personnel
	
Cabinet approval was granted for a national development organization comprising of both civil and military personnel, Co-Cabinet Spokesman Minister Gayantha Karunathilake said today.
He said the knowledge and resources of the tri-forces could be obtained in nation building and they are ready to take responsibilities.
The proposal made by President Maithripala Sirisena as the Defence Minister to establish an organization in this regard was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, he said.
He said civil/military coordination, the contribution of tri-forces with their resources, training and strength in national development and peace process would be sought when setting up the new organization.(Chaturanga Pradeep) 
 
		
==============================
## Title: No trade pacts without National Policy: President to GMOA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 02:06 am
No trade pacts without National Policy: President to GMOA
	
President Maithripala Sirisena has assured that no international trade agreements with any country would be finalised without upholding a national framework, even if the country was facing severe difficulties economically or politically.
The President had made this assurance on Monday evening at the meeting held at his Paget Road Residence with the members of the Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA).
Speaking at a media briefing yesterday, GMOA Spokesman Dr. Samantha Ananda said that the President was highly concerned regarding GMOAs proposal for formulating a National Policy on international trade agreements, especially on the proposed Indo-Lanka Economic and Technology Cooperative Agreement (ETCA).
President Sirisena has told the GMOA members that he would not give his approval to any international agreement if it harmed the sovereignty, economy and cultural identity of the country.
If there were any shortcomings in the ETCA, President said, he would make an effective intervention into the matter, Dr. Ananda said.
We are satisfied with the Presidents approach to the issue. We hope that President will soon begin formulating the National Policy with regard to international agreements.
International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama and Prime Ministers Economic Adviser Charitha Ratwatte were also in favour of our proposal on the national framework, prior to an international trading agreement. We presented the President a model Gazette notification on appointing a Commission to look into the matter, Dr. Ananda said.
When the issue relating to the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) in Malabe was taken up, the President who was once the Health Minister had said that his stance on the SAITM remained the same.
He reiterated that any medical education institute couldnt go ahead without obtaining the approval from the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC), which is the State independent body of monitoring the medical services of the country, GMOA Editor Dr. Nalinda Herath said.
He recalled his earlier statement, where he said that doctors cannot be produced just like flat breads (rotis). The SLMC approval is essential to function as a medical education institute in Sri Lanka. That is what he emphasized, Dr. Herath said.
It was apparent that the President was in favour of nationalising SAITM, Dr. Herath said.
Meanwhile, the GMOA said it would not stop their fight until SAITM was taken over by the Government because the current management of the SAITM had miserably failed to develop it and meet essential standards, despite continuous notices from the SLMC. (Piyumi Fonseka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Patali involved in coal tender controversy: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 08:25 pm
Patali involved in coal tender controversy: JO
	
The joint opposition today alleged that Megapolis and Western Development Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka was directly involved in the awarding of the tender to supply coal for the Lakvijaya Coal Power Plant (LCPP) when he was Power and Renewable Energy Minister.
Opposition MP Vasudeva Nanayakkara said a parliamentary select committee should be appointed to look into the coal tender controversy and take action against those who were responsible.
The arrangements to award the tender had been made by Minister Ranawaka. But, after the ministries were changed, Ranjitha Siyambalapitiya was draged into the case because he signed and finalized the deal, he said. (Piyumi Fonseka)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Peoples Bank completes Foreign Currency Gold Fortune 2016 1st draw
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Peoples Bank completes Foreign Currency Gold Fortune 2016 1st draw
	
Peoples Bank Foreign Currency Gold Fortune 2016 recently saw the completion of the first draw announcing the winner of the week.
The unique promotion was created to encourage those living and working abroad to use Peoples InstantRemit, Peoples e-Remittance, Swift and Telex, to send money to their loved ones in Sri Lanka. Present to make the draw was Deputy General Manager Process Management and Quality Assurance Renuka Jayasinghe, Assistant General Manager Trade Finance A.S.M.W. Kumarasiri, Assistant General Manager OCS and Financial Institutions Nipunika Wijeratne. The first winner was N. Viyjayavani from the Trincomalee town branch.
The promotion encourages people to make remittances of any amount to be eligible to receive a 22k one sovereign gold coin on a weekly basis for a period of 28 weeks.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Plea to shift Rajiv case convict to Sri Lanka
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 09:49 am
Plea to shift Rajiv case convict to Sri Lanka
	
A representation to central and state governments to transfer the Sri Lankan national Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Santhan, to a prison in Sri Lanka, has been prepared for his approval.
The representation has been sent through jail authorities to Santhan by his counsel for consent.
One among the convicts in the case, T. Suthendraraja alias Santhan, a Sri Lankan citizen, is lodged in the central jail in Tamil Nadu.
"Advocate for Santhan has given us a representation requesting us to forward it to him so that he could sign it.
We have forwarded it to the prisoner," a jail official said requesting anonymity.
"Only if the prisoner (Santhan) signs the petition, appropriate action will be considered in accordance with law," the official told PTI.
The petition urges state and central authorities to shift Santhan to a prison in Sri Lanka. The request is based on bilateral prisoner exchange pacts between New Delhi and Colombo.
Meanwhile, according to official sources, it needed to be seen by top authorities if such a request fits within the scope of bilateral agreements between the two countries as Santhan is a life convict.
When contacted, Sri Lanka Deputy High Commission declined to comment on it.
On February 18, 2014, the Supreme Court commuted Santhan's death sentence alongside that of Murugan and Perarivalan, who were also convicted in the case.
A day after the ruling, Tamil Nadu government had proposed to remit the sentences of life imprisonment on seven prisoners. It included the three whose sentences were commuted by the apex court.
However, the Centre approached the top court against the state government's move and Supreme Court posted the matter to a five-judge bench.
In March this year, Tamil Nadu government for the second time sent its proposal to the Centre to release the seven convicts that also included Nalini, Robert Payas, Ravichandran and Jayakumar, which was turned down.
 
		
==============================
## Title: President leaves for London
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 08:40 am
President leaves for London
	
President Maithripala Sirisena left for London last evening with a delegation of six persons, President's Media Division said. (T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Protest causes traffic congestion in Town Hall
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 01:05 pm
Protest causes traffic congestion in Town Hall
	
The roads in the vicinity of Town Hall, mainly along Ward Place opposite the University Grants Commission (UGC) was chock-o-block with traffic because of a protest march by members of the University Trade Union Joint Committee.(Darshana Sanjeewa)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Rebel is in trouble
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Rebel is in trouble
	

Top brass of a political party is busy carrying out a behind-the-scene operation to oust a chief purohita defying the edicts from the party leadership.

The party leadership has learnt that this chief purohita who had a sudden rise to high political office is also actively engaged in conspiracies and machinations with certain rival political parties and groupings.
The chief purohita said to be nursing leadership ambitions had fallen out with the party leader over giving prominence in the party to a young leading lawyer ever since the latter was given a Diyawanna seat through the national list.
It is no longer a secret for the people in the North that the controversial chief purohitas days are numbered as his political party has already groomed another legal expert as the partys Chief ministerial candidate at the upcoming polls. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rights petition challenges PM's request to Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 11:23 pm
Rights petition challenges PM's request to Speaker
	
A public interest litigant today filed a fundamental rights petition against the request made by the Prime Minister for a ruling from the Speaker on the implication and/or constitutionality of the Singarasa Case.
Petitioner N.Dharshana Weraduwage cited Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and the Attorney General naming him on the capacity as Attorney General as well as for the President Maithripala Sirisena.
The Supreme Court, in the Singarasa Case, made a pronouncement that The Constitution of Sri Lanka and the prevailing legal regime do not provide for release or retrial of a convicted person after his conviction is confirmed by the Highest Appellate Court.
Supreme Court had ruled that therefore the State does not have the legal authority to execute the decision of the Human Right Committee to release the convict or grant a retrial.
It had noted that the government cannot be expected to act in any manner which is contrary to the Constitution.
The Court had also made pronouncements denying the constitutional competence of the President to accede the Optional Protocol of the ICCCPR.
The Petitioner states the Prime Minister had said in Parliament that the government reconfirms the continued validity and applicability of the Optional Protocol to the ICCPR and is firmly committed to implement its provisions.
Petitioner also states that Prime Minister had remarked that these Supreme Courts pronouncements denying constitutional competence of the President to accede the Optional Protocol of the ICCPR are obiter dicta (an incidental or passing remark, opinion, etc) being unnecessary for the determination of the Singarasas application and do not serve as binding authority on the relevant question.
Petitioner complains that in the event of such a ruling, it may trigger a Constitutional crisis.
He maintains that such a ruling may be a clear violation of many Articles of the Constitution including Article 120 on Constitutional Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, Article 125 on Constitutional Jurisdiction in the interpretation of the Constitution and Article 129 on Consultative Jurisdiction as well as Article 3 on the Sovereignty of the People, Article 4 on the Separation of Powers.
He contends that the person (the President) responsible for the appointment of the Prime Minister unable to take prompt and suitable action to prevent the happening of the crisis shall be a breach of fundamental rights of the Petitioner. (S.S.Selvanayagam)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sibling is back in the saddle, but protests continue
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Sibling is back in the saddle, but protests continue
	

This member of the former royal family, the virtual second in command of the previous regime who went into self-exile is now back in the political scene as large as life. Initially there were strong protests against this one-time powerful siblings return to the party fold even from the JO group which, however, gradually died down.

The former powerful sibling made a grandstand show of his presence back in the fold when he organized the JO groups public rally in Badulla.
However, the opposition to the sibling subdued for some time has begun rearing up, they say.
Earlier there were seven or eight JO stalwarts who vociferously opposed the one time powerful sibling being given any high office in the party, but this number has now come down to three, they say.
Of this three member-anti-sibling group, two are big-mouthed former purohitas  one from the South and the other from the Centre. The third one is said to be a first-comer to Diyawanna from the South.
The vociferous one from the South in fact, boycotted the public rally held in Badulla to coincide with the inauguration of the anti-yahapalanaya campaign to register his protest against the return of the author of the partys defeat.
The protesting trio are standing fast to their argument that the return of the sibling had provided additional ammunition to the government to attack the grouping led by the former strongman.

Meanwhile, a JO member had complained to the former strongman that a certain bigwig in yahapalanaya was popping up the anti-sibling trio. However, the former strongman had shrugged it off quoting the popular Sinhala proverb: Seeing one dream does not mean the coming of the dawn.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Stirring the pot
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 04:15 pm
Stirring the pot
	
US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Nisha Biswal today participated in Nuga Sewana TV programme telecast on Sri Lanka Rupavahini where she was taught to make delicious local food by Sri Lankas top chef Dr. Publis Silva.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Then and now
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Then and now
	

The former strongman had been invited to a public function in Rajarata recently. As he had several other engagements to keep on the day of the function, the former strongman decided to take a helicopter ride to the venue of the function.

He wanted to hire an army helicopter, but was informed that all helicopters had been booked for the day.
The former strongman next got a friendly Diyawanna member from the upcountry to hire a private helicopter. However, the authorities had told the former Big Boss that they could not allow him to use the direct air route to Rajarata as part of Rajarata including the air space had been declared a special security zone and he may if he wanted to, make a detour to his destination avoiding the air space and land area coming under the declared security zone.
The former strongman had helicoptered to the venue of the function taking a circuitous route which had cost the member extra money. Being several hours late for the function, he had to travel back to Colombo by land, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: UN hopes SL will follow accountability pledges
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:08 pm
UN hopes SL will follow accountability pledges
	
Despite contradictions in the Sri Lanka political spectrum on proposed accountability mechanisms, the United Nations said that they hoped the country would follow the procedure agreed upon with the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC). 
Spokesperson to Secretary General Ban Ki Moon, Stphane Dujarric said that he was yet to see the exact comments made by President Maithripala Sirisena on the involvement of international judges in the accountability procedure.
I haven't seen those exact comments. There are issues between the international community and Sri Lanka and agreements to ensure accountability. And we hope those are followed, Dujarric said. 
He expressed these views when questioned about President Sirisenas remarks during the daily press briefing.
Journalists questioned if the comments could be seen as the country taking a step back from the commitments made to the international community.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US will continue to support SL in economic development: Bishwal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 02:38 am
US will continue to support SL in economic development: Bishwal
	
US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Nisha Biswal said yesterday United States would continue to support Sri Lanka as it takes meaningful and concrete steps in response to concerns of its people related to democratic governance and advancing respect for human rights, for reconciliation, justice and accountability.
She said Sri Lanka itself had been on a remarkable trajectory of addressing not only internal issues that had challenged it but also was engaged in broader international community in spirit of partnership and dialogue.
We will continue to make substantial investments in multiple sectors from agriculture to enterprise development, education, healthcare, energy, nation resources and humanitarian activities, she said.
Ms. Biswal said as Sri Lanka moves ahead with its plans for constitutional reforms for justice and reconciliation, the US continue to partner with the government to faster economic development and encourage foreign investment and to work to advance opportunities for all Sri Lankans, she said.
Participating in a joint press conference with US delegation headed by Ms. Biswal, Foreign Minister Mangala Samaraweera said since the Presidential and Parliamentary Elections in Sri Lanka last year, a series of steps have been taken by the Government, with the support of the people, to uphold, promote and protect fundamental freedoms, strengthen democracy, good governance, justice and the rule of law. Our two countries have managed to elevate the traditionally friendly Sri Lanka-US relationship to a historic high, in a little more than one-and-a-half years.
It is in a sense, a new beginning for both countries; and we are now engaged in building this relationship as natural partners, he said.
We also discussed matters pertaining to reconciliation in Sri Lanka; as well as international and regional issues and events that impact on our countries. Apart from discussing ways of making our partnership stronger, including enhancing bilateral trade and investment, we also discussed about enhancing maritime cooperation and Sri Lankas participation in the Our Oceans Conference aimed at preservation of Oceans, to be held in September, in Washington DC, he said.
Minister Samaraweera said they also discussed the importance of providing an economic peace dividend for the people of Sri Lanka as we progress in the process of reconciliation where he emphasised the interconnected nature of reconciliation and development, and the resources required for the success of both.
The two Assistant Secretaries will call on Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe today at Temple Trees. They will also meet the Leader of Opposition; Senior Parliamentarians and Ministers; and the Secretary of the Ministry of Defence and the Commanders of the tri-forces. They will also travel to Trincomalee on the 14th where there will meet the Governor and Chief Minister of the Eastern Province. (Ajith Siriwardana)
Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Vehicle transfer registration concessionary period extended
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:00 pm
Vehicle transfer registration concessionary period extended
	
A concessionary period of three months had been given for vehicle owners to apply for vehicle ownership transferring, cabinet co-spokesman Gayantha Karunathilake said today.
While addressing the media at the Cabinet briefing, Minister Karunathilake said the government has lost a large amount of revenue and also it has caused several difficulties for the law enforcement authority as ownership-transferred vehicles are being used by the new owners for a longer period without being registered.
A late fee was introduced by the Motor Traffic Regulations published in 2011to minimize the trend. But it had not achieved its target, the Minister said.
The proposal was made by the Transport and Civil Aviation Minister Nimal Siripala de Silva to grant a concessionary period of three months and a concession on the additional late fee to encourage the vehicle owners to register transfer of motor vehicles. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Video: Italy train crash leaves at least 20 dead
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 10:06 am
Video: Italy train crash leaves at least 20 dead
	
Two trains have collided head-on in southern Italy, killing at least 20 people and injuring many more.
They collided in an olive grove in countryside between Andria and Corato in the Puglia region, close to the so-called heel of Italy.
The line has only a single track and it is thought the crash was due to either a signalling error or a mistake by one of the drivers, both of whom are thought to have been killed. 
A seven-year-old boy was rescued from the wreck of one of the trains and airlifted to hospital by helicopter.
Italy's prime minister Matteo Renzi said: 'This is a moment for tears in which we need to work to recover the victims and wounded.'
Mr Renzi, who interrupted a visit to Milan, said: 'We will not stop until we know what happened.' (Daily Mail)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Video: Protest against SAITM
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 06:43 pm
Video: Protest against SAITM
	
Inter University Students Federation(IUSF) staged a protest at Colombo Fort today against the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM). Pix by Kushan Pathiraja
Video by Indika Sri Aravinda
 
		
==============================
## Title: Warne-Murali Trophy launched
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 13 July 2016 07:36 pm
Warne-Murali Trophy launched
	
Australian cricket captain Steven Smith and Sri Lankan cricket captain Angelo Mathews stand next to the Warne-Murali Trophy at a launch ceremony held at the Sri Lanka Cricket headquarters today ahead of the first test which begins on July 26. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will the cut-throat move backfire on him
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 13 July 2016 12:00 am
Will the cut-throat move backfire on him
	

A white collar bigwig at secretarial level at a nerve-centre in yahapalanaya is all out to take it out on the secretarial one handling public administration for some statements the latter made to media.

This bigwig at the nerve-centre was black-listed for certain doings of his that had the blessings of the former strongman whom he served faithfully until the eleventh hour. However, he was so clever that he made his way to the highest secretarial position in the nerve-centre after making a U-turn when the yahapalanayatook office.
Meanwhile, the authorities in the highest echelons had received a communication from a high political source saying that the secretarial one at public administration was a better choice for the highest white- collar job at the nerve-centre than its present occupant. The bigwig who learnt about this missive was waiting for a chance to cut the wings of the secretarial one at public administration and he swung into action when the latter expressed some candid opinions to the media.
However, it appears that the secretarial one at public administration has decided to dig in and fight back. In the meantime, a few skeletons in the black-listed bigwigs cupboard are likely to come out, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Yes we are happy now: Ajith P. tells MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 13 July 2016 04:35 pm
Yes we are happy now: Ajith P. tells MR
	
Power and Renewable Energy Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera today in response to a question -- asked by former president Mahinda Rajapaksa as to whether the government was happy now that his son Namal had been arrested on charges of misappropriation -- said, "Yes of course we are happy because it clearly shows that the law of the country prevails and that the law takes its course."
He told todays weekly cabinet news briefing that there was prima facie evidence against Mr. Rajapaksa on three counts -- the misappropriation of funds, money laundering and cheating.
"It is true that it was not the Krrish Group the Indian real estate developer in Colombo who made the complaint with regard to its payment of Rs.70 million to Namal but the president of the JVP-affiliated Voice Against Corruption President Wasantha Samarasinghe. It is the right thing to do in the public interest where any citizen has a right to complain to the law enforcement authorities against any kind of crime committed by whoever the person is, the deputy minister said.
He said that though there was no complaint by the Krrish Group, it fully cooperated with the FCID inquiry and five witnesses -- former associates of Mr. Rajapaksa had given extremely incriminating evidence against him on the fraudulent transaction. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
==============================
