## Title: Allianz Junior Football Camp brings together talented young footballers from across Asia
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:14 am
Allianz Junior Football Camp brings together talented young footballers from across Asia
	
The nine young footballers who were selected to represent Asia at the Allianz Junior Football camp in Munich along with the CEO and the Head of Market Manager of Allianz Ayudhya and the coaches.
Talented young footballers from across Asia came together for the regional Allianz Junior Football Camp - providing a chance to develop their games and learn new skills under the tutelage of FC Bayern.
Fifty-seven talented teenagers in the region trained together in Bangkok  with nine young footballers selected to represent Asia at the Allianz Junior Football Camp in Munich. The chosen few will also get to meet some of the teams best football players and watch them live in action at Allianz Arena  FC Bayerns home stadium.
The young players, aged between 14-16 years old, came together for the regional camp after finishing top at their home country events in China, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore and Sri Lanka.
Risinu Kudagama of Mahinda College - Galle and Senuth Jayasundara of St. Annes College  Kurunegala represented Sri Lanka at the Asia camp and Senuth Jayasundara was one of the nine footballers who were selected to represent Asia at the Munich Camp in August.
Allianzs annual camp in Asia is the first to be held in the Thailand capital and included fitness workshops, footwork techniques, technical and tactical skills  ending with a tournament on the final day. The training was led by FC Bayerns youth coach Carsten Lakies with the aim to take talented teenagers to the next level and set them up for future success.
While we are happy that both Risinu and Senuth participated in the Allianz Junior Football Camp  Asia, we are also proud that Senuth secured a spot in the Asian team for Munich. Allianz has organised this programme for the 10th consecutive year and we are sure that these children will carry the lessons they learnt on and off the field at the Allianz Junior Football Camp Asia throughout their lives. We are proud to have a hand in helping shape their future, said Surekha Alles, Managing Director - Allianz Lanka. She further said that, Allianz is a responsible corporate citizen that is deeply committed to the community in which we operate. The Allianz Junior Football Camp Asia is one facet of that commitment. It represents our ongoing efforts to uplift the level of sports in the country and create greater opportunities for everyone.
Carsten Lakies, Former Player and Coach, International Program, FC Bayern, said, We all have something in common - a love for football  and Im delighted to have seen this enthusiasm throughout the four day camp and wish all the best to everyone who took part.
The camp included presentations on the final day for high achievers who showed outstanding performance across the four days.
The Allianz Junior Football Camp is part of the global financial services companys long-term partnership with FC Bayern.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Are they playing Good Cop, Bad Cop Has President Maithripala Sirisena declared war against the medi
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Are they playing Good Cop, Bad Cop Has President Maithripala Sirisena declared war against the medi
	
President Maithripala Sirisena has declared war against the media and has done this in a subtle manner. President Sirisena cautioned the media about negative reporting and attempts made by them to attack, weaken and destroy the Government. This accusation was made when he launched the Moragahakanda Reservoir, on Monday. 

Cautioned the media about negative reporting 
	Attempts to attack, weaken and destroy the Government
	Fails to understand what is news to Govt. doesnt sell newspapers 
	The President and Media Minister are politicians and working for their survival
The President wants the media to only highlight the good things that the Government does. But what he fails to understand is that what is news to the Government doesnt help to sell newspapers. The most important fact that decides the survival of a newspaper is readership. Journalists working hard to produce news have had to do justice to readers. Their responsibility is not to keep the Government happy. 
It is true that a few journalists who have personal agendas might be working towards contributing towards a regime change. If this can be proven, such journalists have to acknowledge the fact that theyve been very unprofessional. 

It is true that a few journalists who have personal agendas may be working towards contributing to a regime change. If this can be proven, such journalists have to acknowledge the fact that theyve been very unprofessional. 
But when we read in-between the lines regarding what the President has uttered we are compelled to bring to the picture the Government media arm, which State Minister for Finance and Mass Media Mangala Samaraweera affirms has been a failure. The minister once said that the State media failed to accurately convey to the people information about the Governments development programmes. 
This confirms the fact that what the Government sees as news doesnt appeal to hardcore journalists (Serving state media) who dont have personal agendas. The Government should fear journalists who have personal agendas and dont adhere to media ethics. It is these journalists who do more damage to the country, not the scribes who perceive the truth and write about it. 
The media experienced severe hardships during the war because defence columns were subject to Government censorship. The former controversial Minister Mervyn Silva once said on television that the media shouldnt highlight the fact that the bakery, which starts supplying bread to the nearby Army camp had recorded an unusual rise in the sale of bread. The Minister said that this type of details, when reported in the media, would help the LTTE rebels to figure out how many were in the Army camp. 
The President wants the media to only highlight the good things that the Government does. But what he fails to understand is that what is news to the Government doesnt help to sell newspapers. 

We came to know that Prince Harry was whisked away from a camp in Afghanistan, where he was engaged in military duties when his presence there was leaked to the media. Harry was removed from that camp because the mention of his presence there would have prompted rebels to carry out attacks in full force, which would have exposed other security personnel to unwanted danger. 
The media plays a significant role in the survival of a government. We have seen in the past that people were undecided till the last minute about whom to vote for at an election. A classic example of this was the last LG Polls. This is when opinion published in the newspapers helps readers -who are also voters - to take a decision. What readers need during such times is a critical appreciation of how the government has functioned and not sunshine stories that praise only the Governments development work. 
We have a similar situation now even though the next Presidential Election is scheduled for 2020. We have already started speaking about potential presidential candidates. One of them is already busy showing the citizens that he is the most suitable, given his no-nonsense approach to whatever he undertakes. 
The scholars in the country and the minorities, who now form the majority vote base (This writer is going by statistics available from the last LG Polls) still prefer the present Government to a dictator from among the top brass of the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna, at the 2020 Presidential Election. 
Months before the President gave that subtle warning to the media, Minister Samaraweera told the media that the Government had no intention of restricting the democracy and the freedom that the media were enjoying. Quite rightly he had said that the people could take the good from news reports and reject whats bad.
The scholars in the country and the minorities, who now form the majority vote base .still prefer the present Government to a dictator from among the top brass of the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna, at the 2020 Presidential Election.
But at the end of the day, we must not forget that the President and Media Minister are politicians and working for their survival. Its strange that Sirisena sees something unhealthy in the environment that the journalists have created which is a contrast to what the Media Minister sees; a healthy environment where the Government sees no need to restrict journalists. 
Are these two playing the roles of Good Cop and Bad Cop 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Book Fair at Public Library
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 26 July 2018 09:47 pm
Book Fair at Public Library
	
The Colombo National Education Book Fair organised by the Public Library Welfare Society, Colombo was launched at the library premises on Tuesday. It will be held till July 30. Pix by Kushan Pathiraja

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dubai police recover $20 mn stolen blue diamond in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 06:32 pm
Dubai police recover $20 mn stolen blue diamond in SL
	
The Dubai Police have recovered a diamond estimated to be worth $20 million after a security guard pulled off a near-impossible theft from the vault of the company he worked in and smuggled to Sri Lanka inside a pair of sneakers in a shoebox
After stealing the 9.33-carat diamond, the suspect handed it over to his relative to smuggle it in a shoe by sea. A video of the investigation released by the police shows an officer taking the sports shoe out of its box and recovering the pouch containing the diamond that is hidden inside.
The police arrested the Sri Lankan suspect, who was holed up in a neighbouring emirate after switching off his phone. Tracing him was no mean task as the police had to scour through more than 8,620 hours of surveillance camera footages and question over 120 people.
Colonel Mohammed Aqil Ahli, deputy director of the department of criminal investigation, said the police were notified about the daring theft from the company's vault at its headquarters in Jebel Ali. The company officials were baffled by the crime, as the suspect had to go through multiple layers of security gates to get to the vault. As per the security protocol in place, the number of employees authorised to pass through to the vault reduced with the passage of each gate. The final gate could only be opened by three security guards together: The first had to have a key, the second a manual secret code and the third an electronic code that automatically changed frequently.
Despite these security precautions, the suspect managed to enter the vault and carry out the theft. After the police identified him, they came to know that he had cut off contact with all of his acquaintances. The police managed to trace him and arrested him.
During his interrogation, the suspect told the police that he carried out the theft a week before he was to go on vacation. The plan was to escape to his home country to "realise his dream of becoming a millionaire".
Though the police did not disclose how he managed to bypass all the security layers, Col Ahli said the suspect's background as a security guard helped him carry out the theft.
The stolen diamond was a subject of dispute between two companies, Khaleej Times can reveal. A source said the Dubai Public Prosecution had ordered that the diamond be deposited in the vault of the company till the dispute was resolved.
Days before he was to travel, a top official at the company asked the three security guards authorised to enter the vault to check on the diamond. When they opened the safe, they found that the box in which the diamond was kept was missing.(Khaleej Times)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Executions and Article 11 of the Constitution
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Executions and Article 11 of the Constitution
	
Recently, a large volume of writing has taken place discussing the merits and demerits of executing the death penalty imposed upon prisoners languishing in the countrys jails for committing a variety of capital offences. When I read those comments my mind immediately went back to the note of resignation submitted by Her Majestys executioner, Albert Pierrepoint, which he later had included as a preface to his Autobiography. In that note he wrote I do not believe that anyone of the 400 executions I carried out has in any way acted as a deterrent against future acts of murder. Capital Punishment, in my view, achieved nothing except revenge.
 
The last execution inSri Lanka took place in 1976
	There was no determination of the constitutional validity of the imposition of capital punishment, under Article 11
	Above all the degree of international criticismto which Sri Lankamay be targeted willnot be a suitable proposition to face
	Therefore, it is important that a decision of the Supreme Court isfirst obtained
	The basic question therefore is, is capital punishment, in keeping with Article 11 of the Constitution
Aside from any number of ethical, religious or such other reasons for decrying the execution of Capital penalties there is a Constitutional hurdle that one has to leap before legally, a noose is put around the neck of a human being, in Sri Lanka. 
Article 11 of the Sri Lankas 1978 Constitution reads: No person shall be subjected to torture or to cruel inhuman or degrading treatment of punishment. Those very same words are found in Article 11 of the present South African Constitution. 
In The State vs Makwanyanne and Another,reported at (1995)3 South African Reports at page 391, the two accused were convicted of the offence of Murder, under the South African Penal Code, by a Court sitting in the Province of Witwatersrand. At their conviction they were both sentenced to death. The sentencing judge wrote on the report that the murders they had committed were so gruesome that they do not deserve to be commuted. They both appealed to the South African Court of Appeal, but the hearing was held back until a constitutional issue as to the constitutional validity of capital punishment was determined, by the South African Constitutional Court. Learned counsel argued that Article 11, of the South African Constitution, which as pointed out earlier was identical with the same Article of our constitution, made capital punishment unconstitutional, it being cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.
Last execution
As it is in the Sri Lanka Constitution, what constitutes cruel, in-human or degrading conduct has not been defined and that it was up to each court upon a case by case basis to determine, if and when that matter came before them. Therefore, the first question that required to be determined, before any executions takes place, is whether under Article 11 of the Sri Lanka constitution, capital punishment is constitutional The last execution in Sri Lanka took place in 1976 which was two years prior to the promulgation of the 1978 Constitution. There was no determination of the constitutional validity of the imposition of capital punishment, under Article 11. 
Returning to Makwanyane, the Constitutional Court of South Africa, after examining a very large number of authorities held that Article 11 of their constitution made capital punishment, unconstitutional. 
As for the present trend regarding the abolition of the death penalty, there is a large measure of material which learned counsel in several jurisdictions had utilized
The first question we have to seek answers from our Apex Court is whether under Article 11 of our own Constitution the imposition of capital punishment was valid under Article 11. Unless the answer to that question is first obtained any rush to put into effect a sentence of death may well change the nature and character of that act, from one of a judicial execution to one of an extra judicial act of murder. In such an event a large contingent of persons from the executioner, in the first degree, and other officers as participating in a criminal act may become liable under the Criminal Law and also under the Civil Law for the payment of compensation. Above all the degree of international criticism to which Sri Lanka may be targeted will not be a suitable proposition to face. 
Decision of the Supreme Court
As for the present trend regarding the abolition of the death penalty, there is a large measure of material which learned counsel in several jurisdictions had utilized, and are available for our courts and our learned counsel to consider.. In the Caribbean, the Bahamian and the Courts in other Islands have found against the retention of capital punishment. So have the courts in Africa: Uganda, Malawi and Kenya. In a seminal judgment delivered by the Privy Council in The Attorney General for Belize v Reyes [2002] 2 Appeal Cases 235, the Law Lords, after an extensive perusal of the available law found that sentences of death were unconstitutional where there is in any Constitution, as we have a fundamental human right to life. 
Therefore, it is important that a decision of the Supreme Court is first obtained, before the State rushes to execute convicts under sentences of death, for whatever offences they may have committed. The basic question therefore is, is capital punishment, in keeping with Article 11 of the Constitution That question could be answered only by our Apex Court to which resort could be had by anyone of the 19 persons earmarked for execution, or some other interested party, or by His Excellency himself under Article 129 of the Constitution.
(The writer is a Professor of Law from the University of Windsor)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Feeding less-fortunate mouths
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:50 am
Feeding less-fortunate mouths
     	 
  At the Daily Mirror, we believe that climate change is one of the greatest threats that we, as Sri Lankans, will face in the future.  Therefore, we intend to provide our readers with local and international content with the objective to educate and inspire. We would also like to learn from our valued readers about any ongoing initiatives in making Sri Lanka a more sustainable nation.   
 We aim to explore sustainable ways of living that have the most positive impact on not just our natural environment, but also for humans and animals.  
While topics such as global warming, pollution, and inequality are confronting, we believe it's time the media stopped shying away from these issues and became an active participant in finding solutions - and we hope you will join us. 
     
				 		 
	
	
The Robin Hood Army inSri Lanka


Meals are important to keep us going throughout the day. But for some people in our society, having at least one meal for the day could be an unachievable dream. Being an agricultural society, Sri Lanka for years has boasted of its paddy and other grains that are harvested to feed the citizens. But as in the rest of the world, whether these resources are being distributed equally remains a question. The United Nations declared the global hunger emergency as the largest humanitarian crisis back in 1945 and the figures havent changed since then. According to the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), figures of stunting and wasting especially among children in Sri Lanka remains at an alarming level while the country is already experiencing a nutrition deficit. Keeping this in mind, The Robin Hood Army was initiated in India, another country with a similar fate. Two years ago, The Robin Hood Army in Sri Lanka took lead in this vision to eliminate hunger and the global wastage of food.
Speaking to the Mirror for Hope, Hanzalah Haroon, Lead Volunteer of Robin Hood Army (RHA) Sri Lanka said that the initiative started two years ago in Colombo. The global body is present in over 70 countries and we recently reached Brazil as well. We have seen a lot of untouched food in buffets, restaurants, weddings and other functions which often get thrown away. The objective of The Robin Hood Army is to collect surplus food and distribute to less-fortunate people. We are a volunteer-based organization and anybody from five years onwards can help us out. We have mothers coming with their children and even the elderly coming in to volunteer with us. We collect food every day and go to an area where people would need food the most. These include the waththas and sometimes people inform us about people who need food and we go and distribute accordingly.
RHA is currently active in Colombo and Hanzalah believes that its important to strengthen the volunteer base first. We have requests from all over the country but eventually we want do develop a hypo-local concept where we have volunteers in every locality. Whats quite interesting about RHA is that we have gone against all principles of a non-governmental organization. We dont have an office and we usually have weekly meet-ups at a restaurant in Colpetty and we dont collect money.
Everybody dedicates their time to feed another person. We receive smiles and gratitude in abundance and that is more than enough. So far we have 15-20 active volunteers and we want to increase this group eventually. We have three teams for scouting, volunteering and managing the restaurants. Collections start at 9.00pm every day and distribution depends on the number of people available. If its less than 30 we can go as planned but if the number exceeds more than 100 people we make sure that we have enough food to give everyone first. We dont like to give half of the people and expect them to share.

The objective of The Robin Hood Army is to collect surplus food and distribute to less-fortunate people
Some of our volunteers are still studying and the core team includes a group of university students. It is a known fact that food is wasted and we have people who can afford three meals a day and those who cannot. Therefore if you have the resources, giving away the excess is your responsibility. So far we have fed more than 35000 people and this keeps increasing. Volunteers are the backbone of this initiative and they can really add to this pace.
The Mirror For Hope team recently joined them on one of their food rounds and we were impressed by their commitment. I make dhal and put them in small cups to be given along with the bread, said Dila Weerasinghe, another volunteer of The Robin Hood Army. I go on Mondays and Thursdays along with my team and we usually cover Galle Road, Galle Face and the Fort Railway Station. Its mainly done for the passion and we are trying to attract more restaurants to give us their excess food. It was a heart-melting experience to see less fortunate people falling asleep on the roadside and grabbing food packets the very moment they are given to them. Although it is past their meal times they accept the food packets and some start munching as soon as they receive it.
This is a corporate social initiative that every star-class hotel and any big or small restaurant could join hands with. After all why throw away the excess food when it has been cooked to feed somebody anyway
I go on Mondays and Thursdays along with my team and we usually cover Galle Road, Galle Face and the Fort Railway Station. Its mainly done for the passion and we are trying to attract more restaurants to give us their excess food

Pix by Damith Wickramasinghe
Volunteer today and be a part of the global fight to eliminate hunger and food wastage. Click http://robinhoodarmy.com/ for more details.
 
		
==============================
## Title: FIFA World Cup 2018
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:39 am
FIFA World Cup 2018
	

With the Football World Cup now over, its easy to focus on the disappointments on your team not taking the top spot. While most stories are focused on a triumphant win for France, theres also been some wonderful stories of humility and kindness from those who found themselves on the losing side.
By far the most impressive story comes from the Japanese team who were beaten by Belgium 3-2. Always a class act, the Japanese team bowed to the Brazillian team before they headed into the change rooms. Heartbroken fans then took to the stands to clean up the rubbish left behind as a mark of thank you to Russia for hosting the cup. It didnt stop there either, the Japanese players also cleaned up their dressing room and left a note in Russian with the simple words of thank you.
French striker Kylian Mbappe - a patron of the Premiers de Corde association. (An organisation that offers hospitalized and disabled children the opportunity to participate in sports) has donated his fee for the seven World Cup games and championship bonus roughly USD500,000 to the organisation.
The players entourage and his family made us aware of his gesture a few days ago, Sebastien Ruffin, director general of Premiers de Corde, said: We are touched by Kylians gesture. This is something very personal - we never ask for any financial help from our ambassadors. Kylian is a great person. When his schedule allows him to, enjoys getting involved with us. He is very good with the children and always finds the right words to encourage them.
It seems Mbappes generosity has had an impact on his teammates as well - according to LEquipe, some players are donating part of their earnings to fund an educational trip to Russia for 25 students of the Jean-Renoir College in Bondy, the underprivileged suburb that Mbappe was born in.
The next generation of football stars competed against each other recently at the Under 12s Junior Soccer World Challenge. Barcelona recently beat the Japanese Omiya Ardija Junior team 1-0 in Japan. The young boys representing Omiya Ardija were visibly distraught at the loss and in a touching show of encouragement, the Spanish side personally comforted their rivals with hugs and encouraging words.
Let all these teams set an example for players and fans alike around the world on the gracious way to win and to lose.
Source: Internet
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. cannot deny Federalism to Tamil people -Gajan Ponnambalam
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Govt. cannot deny Federalism to Tamil people -Gajan Ponnambalam
	
All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) leader Gajan Ponnambalam, in an interview with the Daily Mirror, shares his views on the political developments of the north. Mr Ponnambalam, whose party made significant gains at the local government elections, speaks about Federalism. The following is what he shared:
Tamil people are not going to ask for an armed struggle
	If there isgoing to be an armed struggle,it is the Sinhalese who are pushing them to it
	UNHRC has been used as a political tool
	UNHRC resolutions not aimed at addressing accountability issues here
	They are aimed at regime change in Sri Lanka only
	TNA is part of the government
	Law and Order was good in LTTE controlled areas
	There is nothing controversial about Vijeyakalas statement
Q As the leader of All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC), how do you assess the current political situation
When you consider the last elections in 2015, we see the way the people voted and the expectations they had in the rejection of Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa to usher in a new political culture in the south. Later, people voted for the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) on the basis that they would have a good relationship with the party in the south and deliver on Tamil expectations. As far as the benchmark for the 2015 elections is concerned, there is total disillusionment certainly in the north and east, and also in the south. There is a very clear shift away from the TNA in all the districts in the north and east. In the case of the south, there is a resurgence of Mahinda Rajapaksa. The voting terms may be different. In a real political sense, there is a total resurgence of Mahinda Rajapaksas party.
Q You mentioned that there is a resurgence of Mahinda Rajapaksa. How do you view that phenomenon from your partys point of view
Even from 2010 onwards, Mahinda Rajapaksas political position in regard to the solution to the ethnic problem is fundamentally problematic to the Tamil people. There is absolutely no doubt about it. We reject that position. We see him pandering to the Sinhala nationalist sentiments. I personally do not have a problem with Sinhala nationalism. I do not reject nationalism. I am also a Tamil nationalist. There is nothing wrong in being a nationalist. Various forms of nationalism must be prepared to co-exist. Unfortunately, Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa has an ultra-nationalist position where he rejects any other form of nationalism. That ultra-nationalism is nothing but racism. The question is whether the alternative to it is any different. That is the key question.
If the coalition government had taken a different line and said, Mistakes have happened. The LTTE might have been defeated. But, the Tamil people are different. We have to deliver on their rights. If we do not deliver, the country will find it difficult to move forward. The international community did not like Mahinda because he did not deliver on the Tamil question in terms of war crimes, accountability and political solution. Therefore, they came down hard.
If they (the new government) had said that, I think there could have been a genuine change. They went on a totally opposite narrative. Their position is that it was they who protected Mahinda Rajapaksa. It is they who had safeguarded the military from any form of prosecution. They are trying to outbid Mahinda.
In our view, it is not a regime. It is really the change in personalities. For us, it is unfortunate.
Tamils are the vast majority living in the north and the east. If you look at upcountry Tamils, they are living in the south in fairly large numbers. You have a significant number of Sinhalese in the north and the east. No one is asking them to be chased away. Our accusation is that their settlements are State-aided colonization.
Q Yet, the present government has undertaken certain projects such as the Constitution-making process. The TNA is part and parcel of that process. How do you respond
Kelum, I left the TNA because they said soon after the war was over that they were going to accept the 13th Amendment to the Constitution as the basis for a solution. The 13th Amendment is well within the Unitary State. You cannot be within a Unitary State and talk of devolution or Federalism. No one is talking about separation. Clearly, we are not talking about separation. Certainly, to exercise the right to self-determination in the north and east, you cannot be within a unitary state and do it. Yet, the TNA accepted it. So, we left the TNA. I cannot understand why Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa or any Sinhalese reject these political proposals backed by the TNA. These are proposals Tamil people have to reject. They are within the Unitary State. The TNA is lying to the Tamil people by calling it Federalism. But, it is not. After we told the truth to the Tamil people, they began to realize that they had been cheated. I dont understand what the Sinhalese are worried about.
Q What are the parameters of devolution you expect
In any Federal constitution, except for foreign affairs, currency and national defence to protect the country from foreign invasion, everything is devolved. Then, for convenience sake, there are subjects like national highways cutting across Federal units. In such matters coordination is needed. That has to be vested with the centre. There has to be self-rule to the region.
Q You talk about self-rule to Tamils in the north and the east. But, a vast majority of Tamils live outside the north and the east. What about them
Kelum, Tamils are the vast majority living in the north and the east. If you take upcountry Tamils living in the south, there is a significant number of Tamils in the south. You have a significant number of Sinhalese in the north and the east. No one is asking them to be chased away. Our accusation is that their settlements are State-aided colonization. Yet, we are not asking the Sinhalese to run away. We are not saying that Tamils in the south must come to the north and the east. We have to make sure that the Sinhalese in the north and the east are comfortable and safe. When we say self-rule, it is not to disenfranchise the Sinhalese people living in the north and the east. They will be protected and given equal rights. But, the north and east, as a region, is Tamil speaking. That identity must be protected. Within that identity, non-Tamils can live. The same sort of arrangement will be there for Tamils in the south.
Q How realistic is a Federal solution without cooperation from politics in the south
That is something the Sinhalese people have to think about. If they want this country to solve its problems without external interference, they must find a way to solve the ethnic problem. We are not talking about separation. Federalism is not separation. I do understand the Sinhalese people having a problem with a Separate State. But, you cannot deny Federalism. We are prepared to give all the guarantees you want, provided, that Tamil people can exercise their right to self-determination within a united Sri Lanka. We will ensure the Sinhalese people that we will not seek separation.
In any Federal constitution, except for foreign affairs, currency and national defence to protect the country from foreign invasion, everything is devolved. Then, for convenience sake, there are subjects like national highways cutting across Federal units. In such matters coordination is needed. That has to be vested with the centre. There has to be self-rule to the region.
Q Support for a Federal constitution is unlikely in the south as things stand at the moment. Then, how are you going to pursue your goals
Tamil people must have their rights.
Q How are you going to achieve such rights in the absence of support from the south
That is something we will have to see. During the time of the LTTE, the international community told us that the Sinhalese people were willing to grant Federalism. It was the LTTE that was not ready to accept a Federal solution. The LTTE was only interested in separation. There is no LTTE today. Merely because the LTTE is not there, you cannot deny Federalism. The justification for the war was that the LTTE was for separatism.
Q How are you going to get Federalism without cooperation from the south
Our view is that we must get Federalism. We will struggle to achieve it.
Q Through democratic means
Absolutely.
Q Some people express fear that there is the possible resurgence of the LTTE to fight for it. What do you think of it
Tamil people have been subjected to genocide in our view. If they have been subjected to genocide, they are recovering from it. Tamil people are not going to want an armed struggle. They want their right to make sure that they wont suffer again. If there is going to be an armed struggle, it is the Sinhalese people who are going to push them to it.
Q Today, the United States has pulled out from the UNHRC. That India is having a different attitude was said by some Tamil leaders. India is bent on resisting the Chinese rise in the region. In that context, how favourable is the international situation for you to fight for your rights
If you take the US and India, China is their fundamental concern. The US accusation is that the UNHRC is a political tool. Our accusation is that the UNHRC has been used as a political tool. The resolutions, passed in the UNHRC, were primarily aimed at regime change in Sri Lanka. That was also a political tool. It is ironic that the US makes the same allegation against the other countries. For the Tamil people, it is not a major loss that the US pulled out. The ultimate goals are not in Tamil peoples interests. The UNHRC resolution is not aimed at addressing accountability issues. It is aimed at regime change in Sri Lanka. The UNHRC resolution, as it stands, falls well short of accountability for the victims.
Q The Northern Provincial Council will stand dissolved by October. How are you planning to contest the elections then
We will contest. I think there have been calls that current Chief Minister C. V. Wigneswaran has to get together with us. We have said that we are willing to work with him. We are willing to come to a coalition. Of course, it all depends on whom he is trying to accommodate. We are prepared to work with him if he creates a party. We are also prepared to work with civil society organizations and unions within the Tamil Peoples Council.
Q What about various parties in the TNA if they defected to join hands with you
Why are they defecting We want a political culture in which Tamil politicians are held accountable to people. We left the TNA because their policies were wrong. We believe that they are cheating on the Tamil people. During election times, they said they were for Federalism. But, after the elections, they agreed to a unitary constitution. These parties never had a problem with the TNA policies. They had various other problems with the TNA. There were problems regarding the leadership. There are ego problems. Some parties were not given equal status. None of it had to do with policies. Our view is that any coalition should be based on policies.
Yes, of course. You ask any woman in the north and east whether she felt safe now or then during the LTTE time. The answer will be unanimous. Even those who were opposed to the LTTE will tell you that they felt safe at that time.

Q The TNA is the main opposition in Parliament. You also represented the TNA in Parliament at one point in the past. What do you think of their role
What have they done They are part of the government. Only after they got a trouncing at the local government elections, have they started criticizing the government. They do it because they cannot come here otherwise.
They won elections after the war on frauds. They lied to the Tamil people. They gave assurances to the Tamil people.
Q What is the reason for criminal activities to rise in the north
We are talking about a situation. There is so much intelligence gathering in the north and the east. You could not have won the war without having such good intelligence. If there are these gangs, they cannot function without the knowledge of the military and the Police. That is a fact. It is impossible for anything to happen without their knowledge.
Q UNP MP Vijayakala Maheswaran recently called for the resurgence of the LTTE. She said there were no criminal activities at that time. It became a controversial statement. What is your position
That is not controversial. In the LTTE controlled areas, the law and order situation was so good that women could walk at midnight alone on any road. That was how safe it was. That is a fact, Kelum. Today, when you have the military ratio of ten to one, criminal activities take place at this rate. You have to ask the military what they are doing.
Q It means you also stand for the same viewpoint
Yes, of course. You ask any woman in the north and east whether she felt safe now or then during the LTTE time. The answer will be unanimous. Even those who were opposed to the LTTE will tell you that they felt safe at that time.
Q But, there were so many political killings. Your father was also assassinated. How do you say the situation was good then
My father was assassinated by the Chandrika Kumaratunga Government. There were a lot of assassinations in the south. During the war-time, you cannot compare even. The Government did white van assassinations. That is a different thing. Those are matters associated politically. We are talking about law and order in the normal sense.
Q What is your view on the next Presidential Election
Our view is that we will take a decision at that time. It will depend on what the candidates offer to our people. As far as how people voted at the previous elections, they did it by trusting the TNA. Today, people have lost their trust in the TNA. Dont expect the people to behave as they did at the previous time at the dictates of the TNA! It will not happen.
 
		
==============================
## Title: GPW recognises AIA Insurance as Best Workplace for Women
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:06 am
GPW recognises AIA Insurance as Best Workplace for Women
	

AIA Insurance is proud to have been recognised as a Great Place to Work in Sri Lanka for the sixth consecutive year. This achievement comes on the heels of being inducted into the GPW Hall of Fame last year, having been recognized for five successive years.

This year too AIA was adjudged one of Sri Lanka's Best 25 Companies to work for, in addition to the Bronze Award in the Large Enterprise category. The highlight for AIA most definitely was winning the title of Best Workplace for Women in Sri Lanka, which came as a welcome reaffirmation that everything the company does for gender parity has been recognised and appreciated.

Director HR Thushari Perera commending all at AIA for winning these awards noted AIA is about being pre-eminent and constantly raising the bar. It is about empowering its people and creating the most conducive work environment, so everyone can be the best they can be.

Thushari added We have a very special culture here at AIA. It is a bond between people that surpasses the business of the organization and is prevalent across all functions, across all employees regardless of position or designation. I believe its what keeps us together, moving towards one common goal and we value the feedback we receive from surveys such as GPW and we use the indicators to constantly raise the benchmark in our employee satisfaction.

Chathuri Munaweera, Director & Chief Officer Legal, Governance, External Relations commenting on AIA being recognized as the Best Workplace for Women said Gender parity is central in having a dynamic balanced workforce. Female employees and female Wealth Planners play an integral part in our business success. AIA recognised early, the narrowing trends of female participation at work and took many sustainable steps over the years to ensure that our female colleagues have a work environment that provides leverage and flexibility to arrange work within family circumstances, at times of life where such support is needed most. It is not just about fixing the basics and having the best of support for our employees during key stages of motherhood, but also ensuring that there is room to grow in careers whether in sales or in support functions.

Chathuri proudly stated On the sales front, we have female Wealth Planners and Financial Planners who have achieved international acclaim. Across the Company, most of our key functions have a strong first or second line female succession including our Executive Committee which has two female leaders. Our female employees have increased by 8% over the last two years to make up 35% of our workforce. 

Chathuri and Thushari congratulated all at AIA for the spirit of company before self, adding that the consecutive awards alongside the growth and performance of the company shows that we continue to get the balance right. Its safe to say that our consistent recognition at the GPW awards is testament to the companys commitment to doing the right thing, the right way and most importantly, with the right people.
 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Grade 5 Scholarship Exam; are we to continue
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Grade 5 Scholarship Exam; are we to continue
	
A ten-year old child finishes school at 1.30 pm. Then he/she takes a bite from his/her lunch and gets ready for the after school class slated for Grade 5 students. That class goes on till 3.30 pm. Afterwards the mother picks him/her and takes to a tuition class that starts at 4.30 pm.
Theres no time to go home and change his/her uniform. So in his/her uniform the bleary-eyed, exhausted, stressed up child studies till 9.00 pm in the class. Picked up by a tired father who has returned home after work, by the time the child goes back home, bathes and sleeps its way past 10.00 pm. 
Another batch of such harassed children, some 300,000 will sit for the Grade 5 Scholarship Exam on August 5 this year as well. On their little heads is the weight of sky high expectations of parents and teachers. Enough and more has already been written about this torturous lifestyle of a Grade 5 student in Sri Lanka.
The race now starts in Grade 3 with a pattern already set with parents picking the eight-year olds after school and rushing for tuition class to groom the child for the grade 5 Exam. Theres hardly any time for the child to play or interact with siblings or grandparents at home or neighbours. The child has become a machine that should be on the go at the push of a button by parents and teachers.
Psychiatrists in Sri Lanka have already protested against the Scholarship Exam which more often than not is the only way a bright rural child can get into an elite school in the district capital or in Colombo before the Ordinary Level exam. They argue that besides the strain of preparing for the exam for three years, the post exam blues of the students who fail to get the cut off marks, who form nearly 90% of those who sit, badly affect the personality of the child. Failure after such strenuous sustained effort is not something that the children at that tender age are capable of coping with.
Three years ago, Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam conceded that not only Grade 5 scholarship exam even the GCE Ordinary Level Examination added too much strain on students.
Several countries in the world have done away with challenging exams such as GCE O/L and Grade-five scholarship exams which impose a mental pressure on the students and parents as well. We have still not decided on anything yet, but a decision will be taken on the two exams after speaking to educationists, the minister was quoted as saying.
The world is moving more and more towards informal education with special emphasis on outdoor activities for primary students. Here in Sri Lanka, where the system is yet to gear towards such a trend, the solution is to improve the quality of education in outstation schools so that there would not be such a rush to enter city schools.
In the absence of a nation-wide campaign to reach that goal due to financial and other constraints the government it appears is yet to make up its mind to scrap Grade 5 Scholarship Exam forthwith. Of late, Minister Kariyawasam has been saying that he would make the decision around 2019. However the decision is still pending. After all scrapping the exam outright without an alternative for the rural student is likely to earn the wrath of the parents.
On the other hand since already there are tuition classes for the exam starting at grade three, at the rate that the parents and teachers are pushing the students in another year or two we may hear about such classes starting from grade two. One may not be surprised if we hear about kindergarten students attending Grade 5 scholarship preparatory classes in another five years or so. 
Surely we need to do something immediately to put an end to this harassment meted out to our children in the name of education.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Handover mobile phones, SIM cards: Notices in Welikada Prison
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 11:10 am
Handover mobile phones, SIM cards: Notices in Welikada Prison
	
Welikada Prison officers had displayed notices inside the prisons premises ordering the inmates to handover any mobile phones or SIM cards to officers immediately, if they had any.
Prisons sources said the notices were put up in places where inmates and prisoners frequent.
The notices said that those who handed over mobile phones or SIM cards before raids in the cell, would be pardoned and those, who failed to do so and caught with such devices after the given date, would receive maximum punishment.
Earlier, the Justice and Prisons Ministry said that it would take action against inmates and prisoners, who used mobile phones and SIM cards.
Proposals were also made to fix electronic equipment to prevent the use of mobile devices within prison premises. (Chamara Sampath)
 
		
==============================
## Title: HAPPY Clicks
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:43 am
HAPPY Clicks
	
A priceless smile


Let me fix your sole


Differently-abled, yet hopeful


Listen to our prayers

pix by samantha perera
 
		
==============================
## Title: HSBC Premier Customers to enjoy priority access to the world renowned musical - Mamma Mia!
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 26 July 2018 02:01 pm
HSBC Premier Customers to enjoy priority access to the world renowned musical - Mamma Mia!
	
Pictured here are four of the cast members and Producer holding the official HSBC Premier Credit Card with Nadeesha Senaratne, Country Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management together with the management of Cinnamon Life, signifying the partnership at the launch event held recently.
HSBC Premier has partnered Cinnamon Life to present the world renowned musical - Mamma Mia! for the first time in South Asia. HSBC Premier Customers will have exclusive presale access to book the best seats to the show through the Box office counters open at Cinnamon Lakeside with a special 15% discount valid until 8 August. In addition they could also enjoy Rewards redemption through HSBC Premier Concierge service with priority access to all shows. All other HSBC cardholders will receive a 10% discount on tickets. HSBC customers could enjoy the nine day run of the popular musical from 22  30 December 2018 at the Nelum Pokuna Mahinda Rajapakse Theatre.
HSBC Premier the global flagship proposition, continues to support the personal economy of customers through events that create exciting and unique lifestyle experiences encompassing culinary, photography, fashion and sports and the much loved musical from Londons west end will be yet another Premier entertainment experience for customers.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Imran Khan claims victory in Pakistan elections
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 05:55 pm
Imran Khan claims victory in Pakistan elections
	
Pakistan cricket legend turned opposition stalwart Imran Khan claimed victory Thursday in the country's tense elections, following accusations of poll rigging by rival parties.
We were successful and we were given a mandate, Khan said during a live broadcast.
I came into politics because I wanted Pakistan to become the country that Jinnah had envisioned. This has been a historic election, said Khan in a televised speech in Islamabad, referring to the countrys founding father.
I want to thank Allah for this opportunity to serve the nation. Through its ups and downs; I am grateful for being given this chance, he said.
Khan, 65, campaigned on populist promises to build a New Pakistan and vowed to eradicate corruption, clean up the environment and construct an Islamic welfare state.
Khans support from the Pakistan Armys and his support to Islamist voices have given rise to apprehensions that he would take a harder position on engagement with India than the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz.
He has been an outspoken critic of the US-led war in neighboring Afghanistan as well as Chinas massive investment in Pakistan, which has racked up millions of dollars in debt to Beijing.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Inaction on  Vijayakalas  LTTE cravings
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Inaction on  Vijayakalas  LTTE cravings
	
UNP Member of Parliament and former State Minister for Child Affairs Vijayakala Maheswaran (VM) dropped her bombshell on July 03, during the Janapathi Nila Mehewara gathering in Jaffna, in the presence of the Foreign Minister, Internal Affairs Ministers and NPC Chief Minister. 
Upon securing his release, she made no effort to produce him (Swiss Kumar) before acourt of law
	Not a single member in the audience, who applauded and cheered VM,had the presence of mind to ascertain where she and her three children lived till May 2009
On July 05, this writer in an opinion piece titled Vijayakala and LTTE: What is govts position urged President Sirisenas Government and Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghes United National Party to state their positions on VMs assertions and if she would be held accountable if found to be wanting. Following a meeting held behind closed doors with Prime Minister Wickramasinghe, she announced her resignation from her post of State Minister. Speaker of the Parliament announced, he had written to the Attorney General seeking legal advice. 
What would be VMs explanation for her efforts to intervene and have a key suspect in the rape and murder of a 17-year-old school girl released
Based on a complaint filed by Sihala Ravaya, the Colombo Chief Magistrate ordered the media to submit unedited recordings of the speech made by VM for translation. Party Leader and Prime Minister Wickramasinghe appointed a four-member committee of UNP ministers to study the statement and submit a report. Nothing has been heard of thereafter. President Sirisena has maintained a stoic silence on the issue. 
Meanwhile, VM continues to be an MP and enjoy all perks and privileges. Given the gravity of the issue, it behooves the Speaker and Leader of UNP to provide reasons for not suspending her from the position of MP and Party Membership respectively, pending the Attorney Generals opinion, the verdict from the Magistrates Court and recommendations of the UNP committee. 
Suspension from duties pending an investigation for offenses deemed severe is customary in both public and private sectors. It doesnt seem to be the case with politicians even when purported offense relates to sedition. 
Not a single member in the audience, who applauded and cheered VM, had the presence of mind to ascertain where she and her three children lived till May 2009, how her family escaped conscription by LTTE and if her children had regular schooling. An honest response would have brought to light; initially in Wellawatte followed in a house worth around Rs 20 million down Gregorys Road in Colombo 7, living in comfort and safety in Colombo and children attending the Colombo International School (CIS). 
Rape incident
17-year-old school girl Sivaloganathan Vidya was gang-raped and murdered on her way to school on May 13, 2015. The Trial-at-Bar case ordered by the Attorney General was concluded on September 27, 2017, with seven of nine accused being found guilty and handed the death penalty. Jaffna High Court Judge Manikkavasagarn Illancheliyan stated, one of the principal accused Swiss Kumar had confirmed in court, VM had saved him from residents of Velani who had captured and tied him up. Upon securing his release, she made no effort to produce him before a court of law or hand him over to the Police.www.newsfirst.lk/2017/09/28/state-min-vijayakala-interrupted-free-suspect-wanted-rape-murder-vidya/Swiss Kumar was one of the seven accused found guilty and sentenced to death. 
What would be VMs explanation for her efforts to intervene and have a key suspect in the rape and murder of a 17-year-old school girl released in May 2015 and her call to revive the LTTE in the aftermath of the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in July 2018 
VM is indeed a typical politician with ulterior motives. She has mastered the art of playing to the gallery. Whereas she does have specific legitimate concerns for which answers are required from both the Central and Provincial Governments, her call for the revival of LTTE is seditious and calls for a public retraction or prosecution. 
Since VMs call for the revival of LTTE on July 03, there have been numerous essays in the print media including several from prominent commentators. Whereas some argue for punitive action, others advocate caution on grounds prosecution would not help reconciliation. 
The contention of nays has merit if this incident is taken in isolation and a one-off case. A regular columnist in a Sunday publication recently wrote threatening those who campaign for secession with imprisonment is undemocratic and an impediment to freedom of expression. Such laws should be repealed. Should two million voters in Catalonia in October 2017 (90%) and 1.6 million in Scotland (45%) in September 2014 be put behind bars 
Impractical
Putting two million Catalonians behind bars is as impractical as placing behind bars, over half a million Tamil persons who lived outside the North and East,for the duration of the conflict. However, it must be borne in mind, the Catalan independence referendum was declared illegal by the Spanish Constitutional court and proponents of the cessation referendum led by Catalonian President Puigdemont, charged with sedition, rebellion, misuse of public funds and perjury are living in exile today, unable to set foot inside Spain or else facing treason charges. 
The Scottish independence referendum was held following an agreement between the devolved Scottish Government and the UK Government. 
A former Snr. DIG and Chief of Intelligence in a well thought out opinion piece wrote, based on Realpolitik, There may be prudence in giving priority to considerations which may safeguard the national interest, as against taking legal action for the contravention of the law. 
However, the yeas, to which group this writer belongs, see matters differently. 
In the name of reconciliation or Realpolitik, several past incidents have been overlooked by the centre. Some such instances are; Despite LTTE being a banned organization, celebrating the birthday of Prabhakaran as well as Mahaveer Naal commemoration in the North. Refusal by NPC Education Minister Kandiah Sarveswaran of the EPRLF to hoist the national flag during a function at a school ceremony in Vavuniya. The quasi-endorsement of this act by NPC Chief Minister. Proposing and tabling by NPC Chief Minister of a Tamil genocide resolution and enactment with an overwhelming majority in the council. The celebration of Black Tiger Day on July 05 in Jaffna and Killinochchi Districts and the painting of LTTE logo and Eelam map on roads and walls. 
Such acts hitherto perpetrated by elected officials in the periphery has now arrived in the parliament. Aiyo, who said that lie.What I said was that we did not have any problems those days(stated by VM to Ranjan Ramanayake) notwithstanding, given her position as an MP, what was said must be established beyond doubt speedily and necessary action taken forthwith. Any action taken must also act as a deterrent to prospective offenders. 
Unlike Sri Lanka, Germany today is a five-star democracy. Suffice to state, even an act such as throwing the Nazi salute could result in a six months prison sentence. 
In the USA, no Congressman, Senator, Governor or state legislator refusing to hoist the Stars and Stripes will be permitted to remain in office. Public opinion will not allow it. 
The Sri Lankan state erred big time in permitting the JVP to commemorate their dead cadre. Notwithstanding peoples right to remember their dead ones, such eventsshould be withoutlabels such as JVP, LTTE, Black Tiger, etc. and sans banners, flags, cutouts, pandals, and photographs of dead LTTE cadre in uniform. 
Germans may commemorate their war dead. Photographs of dead family members in Wehrmacht (German regular army) uniform may be displayed. However, display of photos of deceased family members in Schutzstaffel or SS uniform (Paramilitary organization of the Nazi party) or any other Nazi symbols is prohibited. 
It is time to call a halt to anti-state and unlawful activities and act decisively against elected state officials on state payroll who commit such acts. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: 174 Indian boats in SL custody to be released
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 09:40 am
174 Indian boats in SL custody to be released
	
Sri Lankan government has ordered for the release of 174 boats that have been taken into their custody from 2014 to June, 2018, Indian Today reported.
Based on the order, 50 boats were released on Wednesday and 27 more boats are likely to be released on Thursday.
By Saturday all boats need to be handed over to the Sri Lankan external ministry, said the Attorney General of Sri Lanka today.
Five trawler owners have been summoned to the Sri Lankan court for illegal fishing and crossing the international maritime borderline, these five trawler owners will have to assemble as per the earlier order and the fate of their boats will be decided by the Sri Lankan court.
Most of the trawlers belong to fishermen from Pudhukottai, Nagapattanam, Ramanathapuram, Karaikal, Tanjore.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Inmates: Good readers to get remission of sentence
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:47 pm
Inmates: Good readers to get remission of sentence
	
Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam today said he would request the President to grant a remission of sentence for the prisoners who read the highest number of books from the prison library.
Addressing the media at the Welikada Prison premises during a book launching ceremony, he said making prisoners addicted to reading would make them knowledgeable and wise.
He said that he hoped to request the President along with the Justice and Prison Reforms Minister Thalatha Atukorale to grant remission of sentence for prisoners who read the highest number of books from the prison library. He further said thirty prisons were found to be suitable for establishing libraries and ten have been selected to set up libraries.
The prisoners should provide comments and criticism of the books they read to have their prison term reduced. Even the National Library and Documentation Services Board requested me to implement procedures to establish libraries in all the Prisons in the country to increase the prisoners reading habit, he said.
That will be easier to rehabilitate them, he said.
Minister Kariyawasam said he would request the President to reduce the prison term for those who read the highest number of books.
I told the National Library Services Board to put Thripitaka, Mahawansaya, stories of the Lord Buddha's past births Pansiya Panas Jathaka, the Holy Quran, the Holy Bible, biographies of political leaders like Nelson Mandela.
We will see how many days of sentence remission we can get for an inmate, who read a lot.
For the inmates who were sentenced to life imprisonment, the government can consider reducing their term, because no one would like to be in prison for long, Minister Kariyawasam said.
While speaking at the ceremony Prison Reforms Minister Thalatha Atukorale said the Ministry had already started collecting information of inmates to get them released considering their stay at the Prisons.
We will consider releasing the inmates except those who were involved in organised crimes, she said.
She said that following a field investigation, the Ministry had found that some families of inmates were not willing to accept them. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

Video by Buddhi

Pix by Ishan Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: JO to support PM if he came out with proposal on PC polls
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 02:58 pm
JO to support PM if he came out with proposal on PC polls
	
The Joint Opposition said today that they would support Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to obtain a two-thirds majority in Parliament if he came out with a proposal to hold the Provincial Councils Elections.
Addressing a news briefing, JO member MP D.V Chanaka said the Premier Wickremesinghe had the power to come out with a proposal in Parliament.
As per the pledges placed by PM, the PC elections were supposed to be held last April, but the elections were not held.
The Government seems to be evading elections because they know that they would be defeated at the elections, the MP said.
The UNP Executive Committee held a meeting recently where the UNPers discussed the PC polls. There is no point in discussing PC Elections at the UNP Executive Committee meeting, he said. 
He said the PM should take the initiative to come out with a proposal so that they could cast their vote in favour of the proposal and get it passed with a two-thirds majority. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: London-bound Dhammaloka Thera asked to disembark flight
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:55 am
London-bound Dhammaloka Thera asked to disembark flight
	
Ven. Uduwe Dhammaloka Thera, who was to leave for the UK, had been asked to disembark the flight this morning over an issue in the travel ban date on the court order.
Immigration and Emigration official said even though the travel ban on the Thera had been temporarily lifted between August 26 and September 12, he could not be allowed to leave earlier than that. (T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mannar mass grave: Skeletal remains of 53 unearthed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:17 pm
Mannar mass grave: Skeletal remains of 53 unearthed
	
Skeletal remains belonging to 53 individuals had been unearthed by yesterday from excavations of the mass grave in Mannar Sathosa Building Site, Judicial Medical Officer S. Rajapaksa said today.
He said the excavations of the site were being done under the supervision of Mannar Magistrate T.G. Prabhakaran.
He said 34 out of 53 skeletal remains that had been unearthed were sealed and placed at the Mannar Magistrates Court.
The excavations of the site began after some skeletal remains were found while digging a foundation for the Sathosa building by workers in March. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel takes Esports to the next level with the Xstation Football Championships
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 26 July 2018 04:07 pm
Mobitel takes Esports to the next level with the Xstation Football Championships
	
Mobitel Xstation Football Championship, which was organized by Mobitel in partnership with Gamer.LK, kicked off on Sunday the 15th of July with well over 380 registered participants ready to showcase their skills and a chance to win it all. This tournament followed on the heels of the previous Mobitel Xstation Esports League, which was held in March reaffirming Mobitels commitment towards Esports in the country.
Proceedings kicked off at around 11:30 am with contestants being placed into 6 qualifying brackets, with the winners of each moving onto the final bracket, where they would fight it out to claim the grand prize. Xstation was abuzz with the number of contestants who had kicked into gear and were ready to take on the challenge. The reigning champion, Dishan Nithrananthan was also ready to defend his title, but seemed to be recovering from an injury to his arm.
After an early start with some amazing FIFA action, the competition finally came around to the final qualifier where 24 contestants went head to head against some of the best FIFA talent Sri Lanka has to offer which sparked up new rivalries and reignited old ones.
The most exciting match of the day was however the finals. Coming down to the wire we saw PnX. Dishi the reigning champion going up against nA.Sultan, who had already displayed some marvelous skill and patience in his semi-final game against clan mate and rival nA.VeNoM. The end of the day saw Sultan mount up an offence, sealing the deal and taking the title once again.
The day was filled with a lot of excitement and competition with every participant giving it their best and showcasing the tier of talent that the FIFA 18 scene in Sri Lanka had to offer. Xstation having a very comfortable setting, giving you that ambience of gaming from home which was definitely a positive as players could concentrate on the matches at hand and give it their maximum effort.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Over 600 migrant workers die annually abroad: State Min.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 01:01 pm
Over 600 migrant workers die annually abroad: State Min.
	
More than 600 Sri Lankan migrant workers died annually due to several issues they faced during employment abroad, Foreign Affairs State Minister Vasantha Senanayake yesterday.
State Minister Senanayake said immediate steps should be taken to mitigate this situation and action should be taken to safeguard Sri Lankan migrant workers.
The migrant workers face many issues when they have to visit the Consular Affairs Division of Foreign Affairs Ministry in Colombo to complete the formalities. Accordingly, we have taken steps to establish mobile consular divisions at district levels, he said.
He said initially a District Consular Division would be established in Polonnaruwa.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Party leaders fail to arrive at decision on PC polls
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 11:27 pm
Party leaders fail to arrive at decision on PC polls
	
Political parties representing Parliament failed to arrive at a decision as to under what electoral system the provincial council elections are to be held, Minister Mano Ganesan said yesterday.
Mr. Ganesan said the party leaders decided to meet again on Wednesday, August 1 to decide on the system.
Most of the minority parties and the UNP had insisted that the election should be held under the old system while Minister of Local Government and Provincial Councils Faizer Musthapha and the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna had wanted the election held under the new mixed system.
However all the parties had agreed that the provincial council elections should be held without further delay according to Mr. Ganesan.
MP Dinesh Gunawardane who had represented joint opposition had insisted that the polls should be held soon. He had also highlighted that shortcomings of the new mixed system should also be rectified.
The meeting has been chaired by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremeisnghe while Ministers Kabir Hashim and Akila Viraj Kariyawasam represented UNP, While Ministers Faiszer Musthapa and Nimal Siriplala De Silva had represented the SLFP.
MP Douglas Devananda had represented the EPDP while Minister Rauff Hakeem and Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake also participated in the meeting.
Earlier the Chairman of Election Commission had informed the party leaders that it would be possible to hold the election by December this year or by January 5 next year if the final decision on the system under which the poll should be held is arrived at by October this year. (Yohan Perera)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: PC Polls: Mercury Rising Govt to face increased pressure to have PC Polls
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
PC Polls: Mercury Rising Govt to face increased pressure to have PC Polls
	
The Government is bound to grapple with increased pressure to conduct the elections to the Provincial Councils this year. It is likely to happen particularly after the Northern Provincial Council (NPC) stands dissolved in October, this year. Already, the elections are overdue for three councils-North-Central, Sabaragamuwa and Eastern Provincial Councils.
Elections cannot be conducted because the Government enacted fresh legislations last year
	PC elections are overdue for three councils
	NFF led by MP Wimal Weerawansa is trying to conduct a protest rally in Colombo
The elections cannot be conducted to them because the Government enacted fresh legislations last year seeking to introduce a new electoral system. The evolution of the new system is now stuck halfway, creating a pall of uncertainty over the possibility to have elections in the near future.
By October, the Northern, Central and North-Western Provincial Councils will stand dissolved, totalling up the number of bodies with pending elections to six. As
obvious from all what it does, the Government lacks the political will to conduct the elections fearing negative results that could deteriorate its political standing in the country ahead of the presidential election scheduled to be conducted towards the end of next year. In fact, two Government MPs who were planning to
contest as the Chief Minister candidates to the Central Provincial Council have reportedly backtracked from their positions after the United National Party (UNP), despite being the ruling party, got a trouncing at the local Government elections on February 10, 2018. State Minister Lucky Jayawardane is one MP who aspired to be the Chief Minister of the Central Provincial Council. Now, it is learnt that he is hesitant to contest.
Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran has already objected to any delay in conducting the polls on the basis that it would even deny the meagre amount of power shared with the periphery
Come what may, it will be an arduous task for the Government to withhold elections to the NPC which is the only Provincial Council controlled by a minority party. Actually, there is no political clamour from people living outside the north and the east for the strengthening of the Provincial Council system. Let alone, it is very much the case in the north and the east.
In fact, politics is based upon the agitation for devolution of power to the Provincial Councils in the north and the east. In case, the elections are not conducted in the north, it will be seen and interpreted as a move denying political rights to the Tamil people.
As such pressure will build on the Government to have elections. Likewise, the government, only with the support of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), secured the required two-thirds for the enactment of legislation that enabled the postponement of elections to three Provincial Councils last year. The TNA is a party agitating for extensive power-sharing with the central government.
As such, if the TNA acts in a manner that is favourable to the postponement of elections in the north, it will go against the grain. It will cost dearly to the TNA in political terms. Also, the TNA has accepted the 13th Amendment, which provided for the establishment of Provincial Councils, as the basis for a solution to the ethnic problem. It will undoubtedly face political heat in the event the elections are withheld in the north.
It is more so as Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran has already objected to any delay in conducting the polls on the basis that it would even deny the meagre degree of power shared with the periphery in terms of the constitution.
Though he was nominated to the post by the TNA, there is animosity between him and the TNA leadership at the moment. His accusation is that the TNA is pandering to the whims and fancies of the Government rather than agitating for the rights of Tamil. Mr Wigneswaran has carved out his political niche in the north at the moment. Against the backdrop, the TNA will face fierce objection from Mr Wigneswaran in case it maintains a stoic silence over any move to delay the polls.
Ahead of the elections, there are new political dynamics emerging in the north. Mr Wigneswarn has clearly spelt out that he will form a new party in the event he is not given nomination by the TNA. Against the backdrop, talks have been undertaken with the parties such as the All Ceylon Tamil Congress to form a broad alliance as an alternative to the TNA at the future elections.
No finality has been reached in this regard, though. Mr Wigneswaran insists that the TNA should agree to proposals to be put forward by him if he is to remain with them at future elections. In the meantime, it is learnt there are efforts by some countries, having political interests in Sri Lanka, to unite the TNA and Mr.Wigneswaran.
Ranil introduces Sajith to Singapore PM 
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe undertook a tour of Singapore recently to attend an international summit. During his stay, he received invitations for officialdinner meetings.
On one such occasion, Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong commended Prime Minister Wickremesinghes statements and opined that Sri Lanka would become a global hub if the proposals outlined there were implemented.
In case, the elections are not conducted in the north, it  will be seen and interpreted as a move denying political rights to the Tamil people.

Mr Wickremesinghe was accompanied by Housing Minister Sajith Premadasa. The Prime Minister introduced Mr Premadasa to the Singapore leader. At the dinner table, Mr Premadasa and the Singaporean premier were seated next to each other.According to sources, the Prime Minister referred to Mr Premadasa as a potential future leader of Sri Lanka.
Wimals party to have a separate protest rally 
The Joint Opposition appears to be having differences of opinion on the move to conduct a rally in Colombo. Initially, it was planned by the youth MPs of the party to be conducted on August 17, 2018. Yet, it was put off till September 5 due to the G.C.E. Advanced Level Examination falling in between. MP Namal Rajapaksa said the protest, if conducted on August 17, would put A/L candidates through a difficult process.
No, it is learnt that National Freedom Front (NFF) led by MP Wimal Weerawansa is averse to the postponement. Instead, the NFF is trying to conduct a protest rally in Colombo. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM at Vel Festival
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 26 July 2018 05:51 am
PM at Vel Festival
	
The annual Vel festival of Murugan Kovil in Pettach was held yesterday with the participation of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe and IGP Pujith Jayasundara. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana.




 
		
==============================
## Title: Power upgrade tomorrow; disruptions expected in several areas
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 08:54 pm
Power upgrade tomorrow; disruptions expected in several areas
	
The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) is set to upgrade its 132 kilo-volts (kV) cable network system that feeds electricity to the Colombo area in a bid to reduce the wastage of power during transmission and distribution.
Power and Renewable Energy Ministry Media Secretary Pathum Pasqual said the upgrade would take place tomorrow (27) from 9.00am to 3.00pm. Accordingly, the power supply would be disconnected in several areas including Colombo 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 during the period the upgrade is taking place.
We advised the public living in the above-mentioned areas to expect power disruptions until July 31. We take this opportunity to apologize for the inconvenience caused to the public during this period, he said.
The upgrade was to ensure a better quality service and a continuous supply of power to the public. The nature of the network is such that all such utilities cater almost exclusively to the needs of the City of Colombo, he added.
The unique feature of the City of Colombo is that the entirety of its medium-voltage distribution network, as well as majority of its low-voltage network, is underground. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Queens Young Leader Awards.  Nalandians receive huge recognition
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Queens Young Leader Awards.  Nalandians receive huge recognition
	
Nalandians have always been top among the new innovators throughout the world. In proof of this contention a group of Nalandians recently marked another milestone when their achievements were recognised at the Queens Young Leader Awards. 
The group of Nalandians was able to bring pride to Sri Lanka by achieving top awards for excelling at the young scientists Research Tournament held in Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia recently. Members in this group competed against participants from 30 countries. The reason behind them being successful is that they have been able to directly address certain burning issues that Sri Lanka is currently faced with. 
Dineru Susiriwardhena, Akila Dulsara and Januka Dharmarathne of year 10 have been able to invent a product which promises the maximum benefits whenscraping coconuts.
The Sri Lankan representatives at the competition comprised only Nalandians. The group had to compete against children from affluent countries who enjoy all the facilities. The team from Sri Lanka comprised M.M. Tharindu Deepaloka Munasinghe, Maneesha Pramuditha Rajapaksha, Senith Nimneka Rajapaksha, Ayodya Panchla De Silva, Dinera Susiriwardhena, Akila Dulsara and Januka Dharmarathne. 
Tarindu Deepaloka introduced a special barrel to address the garbage problem in Sri Lanka. According to Tharindu mounting fumes, as a result of burning polythene, is a huge contributory factor towards environmental pollution. Anyone using the barrel is capable of burning even 1 kilogram of household polythene without releasing fumes to the air. 
Alerting lifesaving authorities
Senitha had been thoroughly moved by watching how death comes quickly to people when they sink into rivers while travelling in vehicles. He was troubled by the fact that during such incidents there was no way that a party in trouble could send a message. Senith had been able to introduce a system which gives the opportunity for the party in trouble to send a message to life saving authorities. This message can now be sent at the moment the accident takes place. The new system enables passengers to open up doors and shutters of the vehicle automatically. This action automatically passes the message to the authorities.
Maneesha Pramuditha Rajapaksha (Year 13), Senith Nimanka Rajapaksha (Year 12) and Ayodhya Panchala De Silva (Year 10) obtained silver medals for their new invention which helps to separate chemicals from drinking water and purity it. This system is capable of separating Trichloromethane or Chlorofoam by using solar power.
The benefits of this equipment can be obtained by placing it on a household water tank. This is a low cost product and it can even be utilized to purify a small quantity of water. This equipment will help users drink a cup of pure water which is not contaminated with cancerous germs. Dineru Susiriwardhena, Akila Dulsara and Januka Dharmarathne of year 10 have been able to invent a product which promises the maximum benefits when scraping coconuts. Through their finding they have shown that if a coconut is blended at a low speed for a longer time, one can obtain better coconut milk which is full of protein and low in fat. 
Its noteworthy that Sri Lankans recorded these wins at a time when the Sri Lankan Embassy of Malaysia marked its 60th anniversary. 
Nalanda College Principal Thilak Watthuhewa said that Nalanda College does not make their students focus only on classroom education, but guides them towards extracurricular activities too. He said that the Research Guild of the school deserves the credit for all these achievements.
He also mentioned about the guidance these students received from the Research Guild. He said that he is also indebted to the Ministry of Education and other research persons who rendered enormous support to these students. According to him, Nalandians have also obtained the Queens Young Leader Award at the 2017 edition of the event. 
The Research Guild of Nalanda College was commenced by the former principal of the school Ranjith Jayasundera. Upeksha Abesekera is in charge of the guild at present. She has mentored the students who come under her charge. 
Upeksha said, We started this in 2011 with a specific aim. Each year we take a batch of 50 and get them to pool their ideas. Then we cooperate with the resource persons and direct students for national competitions.
The Sri Lankan representatives at the competition comprised only Nalandians
Those who are successful in national competitions are selected for international competitions. By now our students have recorded many victories. But these students havent been properly recognized and appreciated by thecountrys authorities.
Thus their future isnt certain. The achievements of the students must be given due recognition. However the principal and the staff of the school have always encouraged these students to take part in international competitions. This is the result of those efforts. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Railway unions launch two-hour sudden strike
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 03:12 pm
Railway unions launch two-hour sudden strike
	
Railway Trade Unions have launched a two-hour sudden strike over a land issue, Railway Trade Union Alliance Co-Convener Lal Ariyaratne said.
All train services starting from Colombo Fort have come to a standstill due to the strike.
He said the strike would be effective from 2.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m.

Video by Susantha, Janaka
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ranjith Rubasinghe, or Ruba to most
## Section: News Features
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
Ranjith Rubasinghe, or Ruba to most
	
Ranjith Rubasinghe

In his introduction to his collection of essays Our Films, Their Films, Satyajit Ray argues that the cinema is not a cerebral craft and, far from being so, it is reliant on movement and labour. The gist of his contention is that words are hardly enough by way of salvaging the medium, and regardless of what critics and philosophers can do, it can only be salvaged by people who are willing to risk everything for nothing. In that sense, probably the worst thing to happen to the medium was the misconception that art could be divided from craft, and that movies could be made in the minds of their directors.
What this misconception conveniently leaves out, Chandran Rutnam told me years ago, was the fact that when shooting a film, everyone, from the editor to the tea boy, is important. The director who doesnt account for this fact, Rutnam put it to me rather frankly, is a fool, and is hardly deserving of the title of director.
More than literature, more than music, more than even the theatre, the cinema is a heavily collaborationist art. It is as dependent on creativity and imagination as it is on an army of technicians and labourers. After all, lets not forget that the worlds first filmmakers didnt consider themselves as artistes, but as businessmen who were there to enthral audiences using whatever means possible. They worked, they sweated, and in the end, when they achieved popular success, they triumphed. None of that would have been possible if, like the Cahiers du Cinema critics and auteurs, they considered the filmmaking process as an act of faith by individuals. It needs a Bach to write a Sarabande that needs a Casals to do it justice, Ray wrote in his introduction. That statement, multiplied 10 times over, proves valid for the cinema. From Griffith to Hitchcock, from Spielberg to Nolan, the cinema is thus both a craft and an art.
Creativity and craftwork
Sri Lanka, in particular, is no exception to this rule. Particularly after 1956, right after Lester James Peries revolutionised the way we made movies, there came about a rift between creativity and craftwork, corresponding to a larger rift between art and entertainment, in the industry. As has been pointed out, one of the most lamentable results of free education was the abandonment of a cohesive project to come up with technical terms in Sinhala (and Tamil, though Im not too sure). I believe it was D. B. Nihalsinghe who contended that free education did more damage than good when it came to the cinema, since it virtually made unnecessary any effort made at translating such terms. Particularly when it came to directors who did not view the medium as a means of self-enrichment, seeking a proper contingent of technicians thus became a challenge, because movies were, for quite some time, seen as something anyone could do. These directors were visionaries in the truest sense of that term, and in the end, by taking in those technicians as their students, they did what free education could not: bring about an alternative perspective to the movies within their crew members.
These crew members are probably the last reminder we have of how subtly intricate the filmmaking process was in the early days (before the late nineties), and from them, I can point out at one name in particular. Ranjith Rubasinghe. This piece is for him.


Ranjith Rubasinghe was born near Akuressa, in Matara. He was educated at three schools, ending up in Rahula College, and in all three of them, he indulged in various sports and other activities, in particular drama and music. But while his teachers nurtured his love for the arts, it was his parents who instilled in him that love from an early age. His father, a peon, was a rabid follower of the theatre, and exerted a rather considerable influence over him. He could sing, he could act, he could craft, Ranjith remembers for me, adding that he and his friends would invariably help him out in, for instance, designing the sets of the choreography for his plays. Since lighting was a problem, we used Petromax lamps and coloured paper to accentuate whatever mood a scene evoked. I still remember the cues I was given to turn the set green, red, or even yellow, depending on the situation the characters were in. In other words, as these early encounters vividly proved to him then and there, young Ranjith viewed the arts as a field of human activity dependent on both creative power and physical labour. A highlight was the thorana they would design and unveil at the Maramba Wewa near their home, a thorana that is still unveiled there, almost as a ritual, every year.
Decision to pursue arts
Eventually, having left Matara, he found himself working at Sathosa as a security officer, his first job and one he didnt really take to. I was restless, fidgety, blunt, always looking for ways of soothing my love for the arts. This was a problem, given that it was, after all, a nine-to-five job and he needed to conform to a routine. I quit a short while later, vowing to pursue the arts no matter, he tells me, and as the months rolled by, that is what eventually happened. The man could not have picked a better time to make this decision, since the early eighties, owing to the introduction of television, saw production houses popping up here and there. In the midst of this chaos, Ruba began working for Selacine, Telecine, Telestar, and Rupavahini, in that order. At Telecine he was under D. B. Nihalsinghe, at Telestar he was under Bandula Weerakkody, and at Rupavahini, he was under Athula Ransirilal. I ask him as to how he managed to secure his life financially during this time, and with a casual shrug he tells me We didnt care how we led our lives outside work. One night we would be at a directors residence, the next night we would be at Sudarshi. It didnt matter where we slept or what we ate or drank. What mattered was how we did our job. That is the price for going freelance, but that is a price I was only too willing to pay at the time.
From these stints in television, he moved to the cinema, and soon enough, he was working under various established directors: Lester James and Sumitra Peries, Vasantha Obeyesekere, and Dharmasena Pathiraja, among others. It was at then and there that he decided to obtain a professional qualification, obtaining diplomas and qualifications in journalism from the University of Colombo, the Open University, and the Press Council. While not strictly a journalist, Ranjith was, I think, perfectly fitted for these qualifications, given his sharp, aquiline penchant for research. This proved to be important in his next, and arguably most important, career shift, as he moved from working under others to working for himself. He took off as a director in 2003, with the television serial Ruwan Sakmana, where he was helped by the late H. D. Premaratne (he was working at Swarnavahini at the time, and it was telecast there). Four years later, his second serial, Mosam Ralla, was telecast on Rupavahini, which he himself scripted and which starred, among others, Tony Ranasinghe and Daya Tennakoon. Since I have not seen either, I asked Sumitra Peries for her opinion, and she at once observed that they were pretty good, not because they are technically proficient, but more importantly because they reveal his penchant for storytelling.
I ask him as to what the most important lesson hes learnt so far is, and he replies, First and foremost, that filmmaking is not a nine-to-five job. You can have 20-hour shoots with only short breaks. If you are planning to enter this industry, you have to learn to work on time, overtime, and with a plan. According to Ranjith, these values are deteriorating in the industry, a problem he attributes to the race for popularity actors and directors today get entranced by. They are interested in what they can buy with the money they earn, he opines, Not in sustaining the industry that sustained them.
Accentuating this, he argues, is the point that unlike his time, when Ruwan Sakmana and Mosam Rella were being telecast, now what is in vogue are mega serials which operate on the profit motive and the lowest common denominator. These are problems the man himself has encountered with his latest production, Pitastharaya, problems which, given spatial constraints, need to be explicated in full elsewhere. Ruba, vociferous and frank no matter where he is, is modest to a fault. I insist on calling him Sir, no matter how much he asks me not to. The truth is that I rarely call anyone sir or madam, regardless of age or gender, and if I do, it is for someone whose work is befitting of such titles regardless of how inadequate they are in summing up the full worth of such persons. In that sense, for the foreseeable future at least, Ranjith Rubasinghe, Ruben and Ruba to his colleagues and compatriots, is a sir in my book.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Secret Trump-Cohen tape revealed
## Section: International
## Date: 26 July 2018 11:01 am
Secret Trump-Cohen tape revealed
	

US, Daily Mail), 25 July 2018- A secret audio recording of Donald Trump discussing with his attorney Michael Cohen how they would buy a Playboy models story about her alleged affair with him has been revealed.
In the tape, obtained and aired by CNN on Tuesday, the president can be heard speaking to his lawyer about the proposal to buy Karen McDougals story. Trumps campaign had previously claimed it knew nothing about any payment to McDougal.
Cohen is heard on the recording - made in September 2016 - telling Trump he plans to set up a company to purchase the rights of the story from American Media who bought it from McDougal for $150,000.
McDougal is a former Playboy model who allegedly had an affair with Trump from 2006 until 2007 while he was married to Melania.
At one point Trump appears to tell Cohen pay with cash but the presidents lawyer Rudy Guilani insists he says dont pay with cash - sparking a fierce debate.
Trumps new lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, insists the president never paid McDougal but had acknowledged that the audio, which dates back to September 2016, captured a discussion related to the buying the story rights.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sudden rise in gold imports: Bandula asks Prez to intervene
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 10:35 am
Sudden rise in gold imports: Bandula asks Prez to intervene
	
The joint opposition said yesterday gold worth of USD 1,087 million had been imported in the recent past and that this was strange because the jewellery industry had not been developed in line with the colossal amount of gold imports.
JO MP Bandula Gunawardana said USD 650 million worth of gold had been imported in 2017, which was an increase of 73.7 per cent when compared with the previous year.
During the first quarter of this year, a staggering USD 437 million had been spent on gold imports. This is an increase of 126 per cent when compared with last year. In total, USD 1,087 million worth of gold had been imported. If the government had saved this colossal sum, we could have almost settled the USD 1.4 billion loan obtained for the Hambantota Port. Although a large amount of gold has been imported, the industry has not been developed nor has Sri Lanka made any re-exports of gold. Several reports mention that gold is being smuggled in to India as well. President Maithripala Sirisena should pay attention to this and take immediate measures to prevent foreign exchange from being misused, he said.(Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Leo Burnett MasterClass programme kicks off for another year
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 26 July 2018 09:42 am
The Leo Burnett MasterClass programme kicks off for another year
	
Leo Burnett is proud to announce the commencement of its MasterClass programme from 18th July 2018 at its office in Colombo. Launched in 2013, this multi-disciplinary 5-week internship programme is designed for youth interested in joining the advertising and related industries. This initiative was conceptualized by Leo Burnett as a means to nurture new talent in the industry. The primary purpose of this internship is to provide hands-on experience to young Sri Lankan undergraduates who are keen to pursue a career in the industry.
The number of applications for the programme has seen a steady growth over the years. This year too, 10 high potential candidates were selected from a large pool of applicants to participate in the MasterClass. The candidates were selected after an interview with a panel of mentors from the Leo Burnett team. The programme covers all advertising industry functions as well as other areas of marketing communications such as media, publishing, broadcast production, market research, event management and marketing. Interns have the opportunity to pursue their interests in the industry not just within the various departments within the agency itself but also within the industry at large which includes the marketing teams of client organizations, research agencies, TV production houses, stations, newspaper houses, digital production agencies and recording studios.

Buoyed by the tremendous success of the past programmes, Leo Burnett is holding the Leo Burnett MasterClass this year for the 6th consecutive year. The programme commenced with an induction at the Leo Burnett office on 9th July and will conclude on 17th August 2018 with the awarding of certificates to those who have successfully completed the full programme at the graduation ceremony.
As Leo Burnett celebrates its 19th year of operations in Sri Lanka and looks ahead to the future, the agency continues to focus on its HumanKind approach to help build meaningful partnerships to garner peer recognition in the industry. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: The recent controversy over the Galle International Cricket Stadium has created much debate. Do you
## Section: Poll
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
The recent controversy over the Galle International Cricket Stadium has created much debate. Do you
	
==============================
## Title: Thewarapperuma stranded outside Yala National Park
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:20 pm
Thewarapperuma stranded outside Yala National Park
	
Wildlife Deputy Minister Palitha Thewarapperuma was left stranded outside the main entrance of Yala National Park on Tuesday, after he sent back to the ministry the crew cab in which he arrived.
The Deputy Minister said he sought the ministrys permission to get the crew cab released so he could explore the park in search of an injured sloth bear.
Speaking to journalists outside the national park, the Deputy Minister said a video of a sloth bear with injuries on its head was sent to him by a group of trishaw drivers.
The injured bear is in Horowpothana. I came here with the crew cab and my other vehicle which cannot be used to explore the park. However, I was told by the ministry to return the vehicle immediately. Since it is not my property, I sent it back, he said.
The Deputy Minister and several other visitors remained outside the national park because the entrance was locked and there was no gateman.

Video by Roshan Gunesekera
 
		
==============================
## Title: Top-level Chinese CP to tour SL from August 1
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 08:00 am
Top-level Chinese CP to tour SL from August 1
	
A top-level delegation attached to the Communist Party of China (CPC) will undertake a tour of Sri Lanka starting from August 1, it is learnt.
According to political sources, a delegation attached to the International Department of the CPC Central Committee would arrive here to interact with the leaders of the Sri Lankan political parties.
The delegation is led by Guo Yezhou, who is the Vice-Minister of the International Department.
The CPC is maintaining relations with all the major political parties in Sri Lanka.
The CPC has sought to tie up with Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) which is the newest political force to reckon with in Sri Lanka. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UGC releases minimum Z-score of 2017 A/L
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 09:55 pm
UGC releases minimum Z-score of 2017 A/L
	
The University Grant Commission (UGC) today released the minimum Z-scores for the selection to courses at State Universities in respect of each district based on the GCE (A/L) Examination 2017.
The detailed information of courses can be accessed through the websites of www.ugc.ac.lk and www.selection.ugc.ac.lk.
For more information, the UGC can be contacted at 011-269 5301, 011-269 5302, 011-269 2357, 011-267 5854.
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP WC to decide on action against Vijayakala next month
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 06:47 am
UNP WC to decide on action against Vijayakala next month
	
The United National Party (UNP) Working Committee (WC) is to make the final decision on former State Minister Vijayakala Maheswaran when it meets next month, UNP Chairman Kabir Hashim said yesterday.
Speaking to journalists, Mr Hashim said the WC was informed that
Ms Maheswaran would be summoned for questioning by the party soon. Action will be taken thereafter, he said.
Former State Minister Vijayakala Maheswaran was at the centre of a controversy after she called for the resurgence of LTTE recently.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe had informed the working committee that the provincial council election could be held in December if the polls for councils other than the North are to be held while it could be held in January next year if it involves all the provincial councils.
This was the response of the PM when the members of the working committee stressed that the election should be held as soon as possible. The party had also decided that the election should be held under the present proportional representation system.
UNP Spokesman Harin Fernando, who spoke to the media, confirmed that the working committee had discussed the conducting of the provincial council election as well as the development programmes of the government including the Gam Peraliya programme.
The working committee had also decided to look into the possibility of increasing Samurdhi benefits to the people. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: US-China combine  getting Yahapalanists to cough up sovereignty
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 26 July 2018 12:00 am
US-China combine  getting Yahapalanists to cough up sovereignty
	
Sovereignty is about authority. In usage it is about a people or a nation or a state being able to control affairs independent of outside influence. In this globalized world there are no sovereign states, if you really think about it. 
What we have is the appearance of sovereignty even in the best of cases; if you think for example that the USA has it, then delve into the history of the US Federal Reserve and of course its present day operation. 
The truth is that if one digs deep enough people as a collective have little say. Its some people who have authority or who exercise it on behalf of other people not necessarily identifiable as being part of those whose sovereignty is being discussed. So what we have are degrees of sovereignty or states of sovereignty compromised in various ways. 
Its a word that gets quite a bit of carry from time to time. We had the usurpation of sovereignty and the usurpers returning it without really letting go, putting in place a system, grooming loyal agents of sovereignty-retention and creating a culture of servility. They gave us democracy, a neat anaesthetic that moreover had all the trappings of sovereignty without much substance. And they fixed us well and good with the Bretton Woods institutions. 
Would Hashim or anyone else in the Yahapalana Government care to detail the contents of the draft Colombo International Financial City Law
We had alignment, non-alignment and re-alignment. We had JR Jayewardene opening doors to the robber barons and later genuflecting before Indian hegemony, agreeing to (in Rajiv Gandhiswords) the beginning of the Bhutanization of Sri Lanka. The sovereignty-usurpers were invited and kept by successive governments. 
The words are fine. For example, three years ago, commenting on the US-authored UNHRC resolution which Sri Lanka co-sponsored, Rajitha Senaratne said The US-initiated resolution clearly recognizes sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. In effect it was a shameless agreement to force Sri Lankans to inhabit the so-called international communitys version of Sri Lankas reality.
Just the other day, we had Kabir Hashim using the word. He claimed that Mahinda Rajapaksa had not only accepted a bribe from China Harbour Engineering Company, but had violated the countrys sovereignty by getting into a framework agreement with the Chinese company which by the way is owned by the Chinese state. The problem he says is that the framework had clauses which denied Sri Lankan Navy the access to Hambantota Port. He adds that after Rajapaksa was defeated Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was able to change the agreement and see to it that Sri Lankan Navy had access to the Hambantota Port.
When a country funds politicians of another country it is a problem, especially if there are benefits to the funding nation. China is not the first. We have it from John Kerry, former US Secretary of State, that the United States gave money to campaigns that sought to overthrow the government. Thats not a first for the United States of course, but lets not get into all that. Its wrong.
Heres the key question: is access of the Navy to Hambantota the only issue pertaining to sovereignty-loss Would Hashim or anyone else in the Yahapalana Government care to detail the contents of the draft Colombo International Financial City Law
We are talking about 239 hectares leased for almost 200 years (99+99). PM Ranil Wickremasinghe who is also the Minister of National Policies and Economic Affairs is to be in charge of regulating the financial hub that the government envisages the Colombo Port City to become. We are told that theres an Operations Office regulating the legal framework and the operations methodology to be pursued in bringing about the International Financial City.
Nothing of the legal framework has been made public so far. Now what if the entire agreement will come under British law with disputes to be resolved in British courts, outside the purview of Sri Lankas judicial system What if there are clauses that require relevant lawyers, judges and professionals to be British qualified
Lets ask some more questions. Is it true that the US based multinational law firm Baker & McKenzie was hired to draft the laws, quite in contradiction of accepted procedure and indeed in violation of the constitution Let us note here that Baker & McKenzie works lockstep with the US State Department and has been working with China to forge partnership agreements in Europe.
Is it true that the Chinese company paid them US $ 2.3 million for their services Did this company operate in violation of the Rules of Supreme Court and in contravention of Article 169 (foreign lawyers cannot be employed) Is it true that a local company funded by Chinese and US interests is advising the Cabinet Committee on Economic Development on these matters and that among the directors are, a former Attorney General, former Chairman of BoI and a former Secretary to the Treasury What would that tell us about the levels at which treachery is being perpetrated What would that tell us about the nature of the threat at hand
Perhaps those in the know would share with the general public all relevant details so that we can come to informed conclusions regarding the true state of our sovereignty. We do need to know because if, for example, this Law sanctions the annexing of any territory in Sri Lanka in a context where the same terms and laws referred to above are applicable, then Rajapaksa coughing up a port is a mere tickle in comparison. 
Hypothetically, China could under this law annex the Trincomalee Harbor and trade operating right to India in return for, say, concessions in the South China seas, for example Indias drilling operations off the coast of Vietnam. Of course the President would have to ratify such a move, but then again since Independence weve had many leaders who were weak, corrupt, unimaginative and happily servile. We can reasonably expect that in the next 200 years there will be many leaders who through purchase or arm-twisting will sign relevant document to facilitate such annexing. 
For those who are puzzled by the China-US connection in all this, lets offer some bullet points. Barrack Obama touching on foreign policy in his inauguration speech clearly stated that the USA and China will not be on a collision course any longer. A top level team headed by Hillary Clinton hammered out the details of what was called The pivot to China with Chinese counterparts. Part of the agreement was that China would control of the region and along with the USA would globalize the world which is another way of saying ensure that the super rich will continue to call the shots and become richer. It was about burying all vestiges of sovereignty and not just that of Sri Lanka.
As we said, our leaders have coughed up bits and pieces of sovereignty for decades, either for reasons of personal gain or because of ignorance, timidity and a marked reluctance to trust the people. Weve had outright invasion by the Europeans, retention through proxy post-1948, India playing schoolyard bully, the slick maneuvering through the Bretten Woods institutions and weve had democracy, that cost-effective anesthetic that lulls into complacency through the inducing of myopia. The Colombo International Financial City Law may not facilitate guns-in-booty-out operations, but it could be a coughing up of sovereignty thats unique in character and possibly of unprecedented proportion. 
Lets see the document. Kabir Hashim, sir, will you oblige Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, sir, can we see the draft
Malinda Seneviratne is a freelance writer. malindasenevi@gmail.com. Twitter: malindasene. www.malindawords.blogspot.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Welikada prisons Intelligence unit disbanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 26 July 2018 07:35 pm
Welikada prisons Intelligence unit disbanded
	
The Welikada Prison Intelligence Unit was disbanded with immediate effect by Justice and Prison Reforms Minister Thalata Atukorala today.
The ministry said the decision was taken following the findings of an investigation conducted into several corruption and irregularities reported in the Prisons Department.
Recent investigations alleged that several prison officials have reportedly maintained contacts with prison inmates who are accused of drugs trafficking. It was also reported that with the help of some prison officials, the inmates were getting mobile phones.
Earlier, the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) also found a list of about eight contact numbers suspected to be of prison officials, from a mobile phone of the the main suspect arrested with the stock of 103 kg of heroin early this month.
The Prisons Department has been informed to carry out an internal investigation regarding these Prison Officials.(DS)
 
		
==============================
==============================
