## Title: Three killed in car-train collision at Veyangoda
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 09:58 am
Three killed in car-train collision at Veyangoda
	
Three persons including two women were killed and another was injured in a car-train collision at the Pattiyagoda railway crossing in Veyangoda this morning.
Police said the car travelling towards Veyangoda had crashed with the Colombo bound train which was transporting oil.
The injured were admitted to the Wathupitiwala hospital.

Video by GS
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trusts to come Under CB intelligence
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 06:12 am
Trusts to come Under CB intelligence
	
The Government had sought to introduce fresh legislation that, if enacted, would provide for the submission of information of Trusts, upon request, to the Finance Intelligence Unit of the Central Bank, an official said yesterday.
Additional Secretary (Legal) of the Justice Ministry Piyumanthi Peiris told Daily Mirror that the new Bill would be brought as an amendment to the Trusts Ordinance. She said that an Asia Pacific Forum had come to the conclusion that the Trusts Ordinance had lacunas, leaving scope for money laundering and terrorist financing to take place if not addressed.
Therefore, she said the Ministry had come out with the Trusts (Amendment) Bill which has now been gazetted. It is observed internationally that there are loopholes in the current Ordinance that can be exploited for money laundering and terrorist financing, she said.
According to the provisions of the Bill, the Registrar-General should prepare and maintain a register containing information of every Trust. The trustee of any immovable or movable property should forward all information relating to the Trust to the Registrar.
According to the Bill, the Registrar General is bound to share such information with the Financial Intelligence Unit or any other authority related to any trust upon request.
A trustee has to keep records of several persons at the time of creation of the trust. It includes the Trustee, the Co-Trustees, the Author of the Trust as well as the Trust Beneficiary. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Union Assurance sees new business growth in 3Q; Fairfirst performance encouraging
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 20 November 2017 10:30 am
Union Assurance sees new business growth in 3Q; Fairfirst performance encouraging
	
Union Assurance PLC recorded growth in new business during the July-September (3Q17) quarter over its preceding three months as the life insurer posted strong gains in premium incomes for the period.
Union Assurance, one of the top three life insurers in the country, posted gross written premiums (GWPs) of Rs.2.63 billion for the quarter under review, against Rs.2.14 billion in the same period last year and recorded a 22 percent year-on-year (YoY) growth.
Meanwhile, on a quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) basis, the company reported a modest 14 percent growth in GWPs.
The QoQ growth in premiums is a clearer indication of the new business added on during 3Q17 compared to 2Q17. This is despite the much challenging economic circumstances, where the need for life insurance is not even among the top five of the priorities of an average middle-income earner in Sri Lanka, amid dwindling disposable incomes.
Union Assurance has a total life fund of Rs.35 billion. Meanwhile, the company paid net claims and benefits of Rs.745 million during the quarter under review, up from Rs.437 million YoY. Profit from operations rose by 29 percent YoY to Rs.48.7 million before adjusting for the surplus from the life insurance business, which is adjusted only at the year end.
The quarterly financial accounts of the group showed that its associate company, Fairfirst Insurance Limited (FIL), in which Union Assurance holds a 22 percent stake, has carried out its business activities successfully.
The share of profit from Fairfirst Insurance for the quarter rose by 29 percent YoY to Rs.42.7 million.
Subsequent to the regulatory call to split life and general insurance businesses across the industry, Union Assurance divested a 78 percent stake in its general insurance business before it amalgamated with Fairfirst Insurance Limited this February.
Following that, Union Assurance General Limited ceased to exist as a legal entity and Fairfirst Insurance Limited was recognized as the continuing entity.Meanwhile, the investment income earned by Union Assurance from its Rs.35.4 billion financial assets portfolio grew by 19 percent YoY to Rs.912.8 million.
In 2017, the insurance companies investment income was helped largely by the higher government securities yields among others. For the nine months ended in September, the company posted GWPs of Rs.7.2 billion, up 20 percent YoY.
While the investment income grew by 24 percent YoY to Rs.2.7 billion, the total revenue for the period, which also includes realised and fair value gains of its investment portfolio, rose by 26 percent YoY to Rs.9.93 billion.
Fairfirsts share of profits for the nine-month period was Rs.116.7 million, against Rs.85.5 million YoY.
For the nine months, the company paid Rs.1.68 billion as net benefits and claims.
The operating profit before adjusting for the surplus from the life business rose by 44 percent YoY to Rs.149.9 million.
As at September 30, 2017, John Keells Holdings held a 86.51 percent stake in Union Assurance while its subsidiary Whittall Boustead Limited held another 7.28 percent stake.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ajith P. Perara writes to Bond Commission
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 04:18 pm
Ajith P. Perara writes to Bond Commission
	
UNP Deputy Minister Ajith P. Perera today wrote to the Bond Commission and denied of having any conversation with Perpetual Treasuries Owner Arjun Aloysius on Bond issue.
The Deputy Minister also requested that he be given an opportunity to cross examine the relevant investigating officers at the earliest opportunity.
The letter sent by the Deputy Ministers counsel is as follows,
 
		
==============================
## Title: Business Top 30
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 20 November 2017 10:40 pm
Business Top 30
	
Business Top 30 awards ceremony organised by the Business Today magazine was held at Shangri La Hotel in Colombo. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe attended the event as the Chief Guest of the awards ceremony. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: ComBank engages in knowledge sharing with Kilinochchi farmers
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 20 November 2017 10:39 am
ComBank engages in knowledge sharing with Kilinochchi farmers
	
The on-going initiative of Commercial Bank of Ceylon to develop entrepreneurship in the Micro and SME sectors has benefitted the farmers of Kilinochchi by empowering them with information on best practices that make paddy cultivation profitable.
Commercial Banks Kilinochchi branch with the assistance of the Banks Development Credit Department recently organized a multifaceted seminar for 154 members of the Farmers Association in the areain collaboration with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. The first of its kind in the district, the programme included segments on technical knowledge and skills related to paddycultivation and post-harvest techniques, discussions on new agri machinery andequipment that reduce cultivation cost, and a session on how to attract the younger generation to actively participate in paddy cultivation; all conducted by two resource personnel from the Rice Research Station.
The main presentation on financial literacy was made by B. Sivatheepan, the Kilinochchi Regional Manager of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Adding value to the experience of the participant farmers, officers of Commercial Banks Agriculture & Micro Finance Unit alsomade a presentation on the banks many financial products and tools available for farmers to develop their agribusinesses.
Commenting on the programme, Delakshan Hettiarachchi, Assistant General Manager Personal Banking and SME said: We look at this as an opportunity to not only create awareness about financial best practices in farming, but also as an opportunity to meet new micro entrepreneurs. Sri Lanka is an agricultural nation, and as the largest private bank in the country, we are proud to be associated with adding value to one of primary sectors thatsustain the island.
The participating farmers from Kandawalai, Periyakulam, Makilankadu, and D3 Panankandy farmers societies were hosted at the Kandawalai Maha Vidyalayam, Kandawalai, with B. Sivatheepan; S. Nirogen, Technical Officer and A. Ponnegipirenthirarajah, Research Officer from the Rice Research Station, Paranthan; Mohan Fernando, Senior Manager and Prasanna Jayamaha, Executive Officer Development Credit Department of the Commercial Bank gracing the event as guests of honour. The Commercial Bank has been conducting similar programmes for entrepreneurs in many areas of the country. The bank has to-date conducted 62 such programmes which have benefited nearly 5,700 entrepreneurs. The bank conducted similar programmes specifically designed for women entrepreneurs in Tissamaharama, Monaragala and Vavuniya, which were attended by over 380 participants.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Crooked Hillary is the worst (and biggest) loser of all time
## Section: International
## Date: 20 November 2017 01:21 pm
Crooked Hillary is the worst (and biggest) loser of all time
	
US, (Daily Mail), 18 November 2017 - President Donald Trump hit out early Saturday at crooked Hillary Clinton, his defeated election opponent.
Trump called Clinton the worst (and biggest loser of all time for saying that his election victory has lots of questions about its legitimacy. She just cant stop, which is so good for the Republican Party, Trump tweeted on Saturday.
Hillary, get on with your life and give another try in three years!
Trump reacted Saturday to an interview Clinton gave to Mother Jones.
Clinton said that Trumps election victory was tainted because of voter suppression and alleged interference by Russia.The former secretary of state and Democratic nominee said in the interview Friday that the outcome of the election was impacted by a very successful disinformation campaign mounted by the Russians. American intelligence agencies are unanimous in their conclusion that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his government to undermine Clintons campaign and help Trump get elected.
Russia has denied interfering in the election, and Trumps campaign rejects claims that it received help from Moscow.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dirijaya Prathiba 2017: Basking in reaped success
## Section: News Features
## Date: 20 November 2017 12:02 am
Dirijaya Prathiba 2017: Basking in reaped success
	
Segregation due to differences is commonly seen among people. People with disabilities are often shunned by society as helpless beings.
With hopes of creating a society where people can get along with everyone despite their differences, the organisation Enable the Disabled (ETD) hosted Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 (The Journey Continues) on October 21 at the Nelum Pokuna Theatre.
The talents of adults and children with disabilities were brought to centre stage where they were recognised and appreciated by the public.
ETD envisions in creating all-inclusive children parks where children with disabilities are enabled to play alongside other children. This motivated the event to raise funds for ETDs initiative in implementing disabled-friendly play equipment in parks. Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 was graced by the presence of Minister of Local Government and Provincial Councils, Faiszer Musthapha as the Chief Guest.

"Absorb them into our mainstream. We are all Gods children. Lets move forward as one"
Local artistes from the drama and music fields performed alongside the participants. Musician Dushyanth Weeraman was the brand ambassador for Dirijaya Prathiba.
The event was beautifully organised. The members of ETD were so enthusiastically involved. There was no doubt that the event would be a success. The audiences were so involved with the performances.
When we sang Heal the world, the audience also joined in. We had members of the audience coming up to the stage to join in on the songs. The entire event was so beautiful. I had tears in my eyes, Weeraman recalled.
He added that Dirijaya Prathiba was an event where talent was appreciated and not judged.
It was an event where the concept, you and I are one was celebrated. We received so much support and appreciation. The government has also shown a lot of interest in the cause. As the brand ambassador of the event, all I can say is if I am given the opportunity I would like to represent Dirijaya Prathiba as the brand ambassador until I die, he commented.

The event became possible due to the efforts of ETD. Jezaayar Hassendeen, President of ETD, expressed her delight over the success of the event.
The inaugural event was held in 2013 but the event this year was bigger and better. The success of the event this year exceeded our expectations. We received a lot of positive feedback and support. The fund raising was very successful. The all inclusive park project will become a reality soon. Minister Faiszer Musthapha pledged his fullest support.
Our participants were excellent. Everyone had a good time. There were people who personally admitted to me that they had reluctantly bought the tickets initially. But they were impressed by what they witnessed and they told me that they did not regret it. It was an amazing show, she said.
She urged the general public to accept people with disabilities without discrimination.
Absorb them into our mainstream. We are all Gods children. Lets move forward as one, concluded Hassendeen.
The journey for Dirijaya Prathiba 2017 reached the end as the curtains came down to much appreciation and applause.
Hopefully there will be many more shows of this nature to come up in future where hidden talents will be uncovered. Though the show may have come to an end, Dirijaya Prathiba has marked the beginning in the creation of a society where every human being is equal.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dozens of prisoners freed from Taliban jail
## Section: International
## Date: 20 November 2017 01:19 pm
Dozens of prisoners freed from Taliban jail
	
Policemen gather near a damaged jail gate after inmates escaped from the prison. 

KANDAHAR AFP Nov19, 2017-Dozens of prisoners were freed by Afghan special forces during a raid on a Taliban jail in southern Afghanistan, officials said Sunday.
Up to 30 civilians and police were rescued from the prison in Helmand province, where the militants have a large presence, during the operation late Saturday. Among those released were four teenagers, Helmand police spokesman Abdul Salam Afghan told AFP. Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai, commander of the Afghan National Armys 215 Corps, said 20 civilians who had been chained up and a number of police were sprung from the jail in Nawzad district.
The inmates had been accused by the Taliban of committing various crimes, Ahmadzai added.
In a statement the Taliban said the prisoners were all criminals. The Taliban operates its own courts and prisons in areas under its control. While punishments can be harsh the system is often seen as being more efficient and less corrupt than the official one.

 
		
==============================
## Title: GCE O/L exam from Dec.12 to 21
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 02:35 pm
GCE O/L exam from Dec.12 to 21
	
The GCE Ordinary Level Examination will be held from December 12 to 21, the Examinations Department announced today.
It said 688,573 candidates will sit for this year examination which would be held at 5,116 examination centres countrywide.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Had to raise money to pay for unaccounted expenditure: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 08:52 pm
Had to raise money to pay for unaccounted expenditure: PM
	
Testifying before the Bond Commission, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe today said he had directed former Central Bank Governor Arjun Mahedran to consider issuing Treasury Bonds by way of public auctions in accordance with the Economic Policy of the Government but expected that he would comply with due process in implementing the policy decision.
Premier Wickremesinghe said that he rested on the assurance of Governor Mahendran regarding the divestment of Arjun Aloysius ownership in Perpetual Treasuries and had insisted on the divestment prior to Mahendran taking over as Governor. He further said that he relied on the assurance given by Mahendran that there would be no conflict of interest. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said that he made the same assumption regarding Ravi Karunanayake, when he questioned Karunanayake regarding the Penthouse allegations when it was first made by MP Mahindananda Aluthgamage.
 I asked him ( Karunanayake) about it and he said no. There was no reason to go further, Prime Minister Wickremesinghe said in response to a question posed by Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya.
The Commissions Chairman Justice K.T Chithrasiri read out from a list, the questions to the premier after which Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya followed suit.
At the onset of proceedings, Chairman of the Commission Justice K.T. Chitrasiri marked two affidavits submitted by the Prime Minister.
It was explained that the Prime Minister had answered by way of affidavits to 28 questions framed by the Commissioners ( handed over to the Commission on October 20, 2017) and to 20 questions formulated by the Attorney Generals officials (handed over to the Commission on November 18, 2017).
Following the markings at around 10.25 AM Chairman Justice Chithrasiri read out questions which had been prepared by the Commissioners which sought clarifications to the answers given by the Prime Minister by way of affidavits. .
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Now in the question number 5 (1) and (2) framed by the Commission, interalia inquired whether you were aware that Mr. Arjun Aloysius was a director and share holder of Perpetual Treasuries Ltd in 2014 and of some times in January 2015 and resigning from PTL after January 16, 2015 and also had questioned whether were you aware that Aloysius was a director of Perpetual Holding companies (Perpetual Capital Holdings and Perpetual Capital Pvt Ltd) even after January 2015. In your answers to question 5 (1) and (2) now you have stated that you were aware that Mr. Aloysius was a director of PTL and that when Arjuna Mahendran who was to be appointed Governor of the Central Bank you insisted that Mahendran must ensure that Aloysius resigns from the office of PTL and not involve himself with business activities of that Company in anyway and also that Aloysius should diverge himself from shares in Perpetual Treasuries Ltd. You have also stated that you have conveyed this to Aloysius also. And further you went on to say in the affidavit that Mahendran assured to you that Aloysius would not under any circumstances play any role of the business activities of the PTL and that you relied on those assurance given by Mahendran.
Now these are the clarifications we need. The first one is were you aware about the holding companies of PTL were Perpetual Capital Holding Pvt Ltd and Perpetual Capital Pvt Ltd 
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: No, I was not aware about the holding structure of those Companies
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Were you aware that Aloysius continued to be a director and share holder of those holding Companies even after January 2015
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: No, I was not aware but Mr. Aloysius did say to me he need bit of time to dispose his share holding to get good price. (shares of Perpetual Treasuries Ltd or shares he held in other entity in the name of PTL). I met him ( Aloysius) at one or two parties, and there he told me that he was pursuing his interests in Mendis distilleries.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Now, the 10th question framed by this Commission to Prime Minister earlier asked you whether you instructed Mahendran on February 24 , 2015 to immediately stop the practice of Private Placement (Direct Placements). And In reply you have stated that you were aware at the time the practice of the CBSL was to issue the Majority of treasury bonds by way of private placements and that you were of the view that this system was unsatisfactory because it lacked transparency and also artificially suppressed market forces which should ideally determine interest rates and exchange rates. You have stated also in the affidavit that for these reasons you advocated the issuance of treasury bonds at public auctions. You have then stated that you directed Mahedran to consider issuing treasury bonds by way of public auctions in accordance with the economic policy of the Government and that you expected that he would comply with due procedure
And also replying to our 11th questions you have stated that in the circumstances it was expected Mahendran would take appropriate steps in accordance with due procedures to give effect to the objectives of the Government as possible.
So, now we need clarifications on following: first, were you aware that the Monetary Law Act clearly specifies that it is the Monetary Board which vested with the sole authority to determine the policies and the measures of the Central Bank taken under the Monetary Law Act and that it is the Monetary Board which is the sole authority vested with powers in supervision commission of the CBSL under the Monetary Law Act
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Im aware of it but we have gone on the basis that in the constitution that the Government or the cabinet Ministers can determine the policies which applies to all institutions under the Government and in the light of the Secretary to give directions on general policies. So that applies to all institutes. We are on transparency which has to be implemented by the authorities. And secondly, also based on the constitution the control of the public lies with the parliament and it was in question that CBSL was acting and functioning without answering to Parliament. Therefore, all these bodies had to become answerable to parliament and the Auditor Generals powers have to be strengthened.
Justice Prasanna Jayawardena at this moment questioned the PM.
Now that you have given directions to Mahendran, would you expect that the implementation of that order would be carried out in terms of the due process followed by the institution (CBSL)
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes, he would have consulted. But there are three members in the Monetary Board. Two members were there including Secretary to the Treasury. Im not aware as to how they proceed in the Monetary Board. But certainly the three members were aware because they were attending meetings. Beyond that I dont micro manage institutes.
Justice Prasanna Jayawardena: So, would you expect what ever normal procedure had been followed in the CBSL when taking such decision would be followed
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes I would expect
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Were you aware Monetary Law clearly specifies that the function of the Governor of the Central Bank is primarily to execute decisions and other tasks with the Monetary Board
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes I was aware of it and wanted that to be restored, because in the previous era the Governor did not act with the Monetary Board but only informed the Monetary Board as to what happened. So, we committed that the Governor functioned under law, subject to what government policies are but we did not interfere in deciding interest rates or others things.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri : Were you aware that as at February 2015, the policy of the Monetary Board to issue majority overwhelming treasury bonds by way of private placements, in fact in your answer you have acknowledged that it was the practice up to February. So were you aware of that
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes, I was aware. Because, even in Parliament we have been informed on this. And I did ask Mahendran for all copies of every private placements up to 2008 and he gave details up to 2008. Subsequently, Governor Coomaraswamy also produced only up to 2008. So, there was a gray area as to how they were proceeding. Virtually, trillions of dollars have been taken from this and was in question.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Were you aware of the established practice followed by the Monetary Board that when a major decision is to be taken which can effect the Monetary, the Monetary Board will first direct the relevant department of the CBSL about the relevant area to study the issue and submit a detailed board paper and then the Monetary Board will consider that board paper and discuss the relevant issues and only thereafter reach a decision
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes. This was the procedure that they had followed earlier.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: In those circumstances, when you directed Mahendran to consider issuing treasury bonds by way of public auctions in accordance with the economic policies of the Government and would you have expected that he would comply with the due process and take appropriate steps in accordance with the due procedures And did you advise him to give the Monetary Board the first directions and discuss at the Monetary Board
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Well, I advised him to go ahead and I thought he would follow whatever the procedure which had been followed at that time.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: If So, did you expect Mahendran to also discuss at the Monetary Board on how to proceed with the possible shift from the overwhelming dependence on private placements to primary public auction system
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: No, I did not. I just told him what the policies are.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Then, the question number 12 framed by this Commission about the money which was needed from February 2015 onward to fund payments to contractors on account of road projects and other constructions which may have not been previously accounted for and provided by the Ministry in 2014. Then question number 13 also states according to the evidence led before this Commission, the fund required were not included in the some of Rs. 13.5 billion, which the Department of Treasury Operations (TOD) requested the Public Debt Department to raise on March 2, 2015 for which purpose the February 27, 2015 bond auction was held.
This appears to be conferred by the fact that daily cash flow for the month of March 2015 which reflects the Rs. 13.5 billion by march 2 had been prepared by the TOD on or before February 20, 2015 , it was several days prior to the Cabinet sub Committee meeting on February 24, 2015 and breakfast meeting held on February 26, 2015, which you have referred in your answers. Then further, in daily cash flow forecast for the month of March 2015 states that the sum of rupees 13.5 billion required on 2 March, 2015 was primarily to fund the payment of capital expenditure.
So, we need clarifications on these, first is, in the view of aforesaid circumstances would you agree that the requirement of Rs. 13. 5 billion, required on March 2, 2015 which had been computed by department of Treasury Operations on or before February 20, 2015 was not connected with the requirement of additional funds in an amount of Rs. 15 billion which was urgently required as determined at the meetings on 24, and 26 February 2015.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes, those are two separate requirements.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Would you agree that the additional funds in the amount of Rs. 15 billion which was urgently required as determined in the meeting at the February 24 and 26 meetings, had to be raised separately or in addition to the sum stated in the daily cash flows prepared by the TOD
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes, if the Commissioners would allow me I would like to explain. Generally, all the Government expenditure must be stated in the budget. What had happened in the previous years was that there were many projects approved which were not shown in the Appropriation Bill and the Act for the simple reason there was an agreement with the IMF on certain limits. You got around from the limits by not putting them in the books. Then when the money was collected you paid off but you have a problem. Actually we have two streams of payments to make. One is what is in the Appropriation Bill and one is outside that. I think for highways they were talking of primarily for that year including land compensation something around Rs. 75 billion -100 billion, in fact, last week I received a letter from a Singaporean company which had to be paid for doing a part of the Northern part of the expressway in 2013 or 2014. Actually no one knew about it till we got the letter. Even now we have various claims coming in and in the case of Sri Lanka this is not in the books but all the liabilities on the bag, if anything goes bad we still have to fund from the banks about Billions. We are going through it. Its a forensic examination.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri: Now, as we had questioned you in the 13 questions in the list, whether you had contacted Mahendran on February 26, or 27 2015 prior to and after the bond auctions, in your answers you have stated that in the evening of February 26, 2015 Mahendran said to you that it may be possible to raise the part of the additional funds required for the ongoing road works at the auction to be held on the next day. Then you have stated after the auction held on February 27, 2015 he informed that he had raised Rs. 10.5 billion.
So, now we need clarifications on that there had been a call from Mahendrans telephone to a number at 12.39 p.m. on February 27 and then there had been three calls later in the afternoon on that day from Mahendran.
Is that the phone number that you can be contacted
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: Yes. I was contacted on this number and I have different phone numbers in use. But this was the number I was contactable on this day.
Justice Prasanna Jayawardena: Do you answer calls
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremasinghe: I dont answer calls personally. Generally since I work in my office room. There is someone outside who would check on the phone and deal with it.
Justice K.T. Chitrasiri : Do you recall the content of the four telephone calls
I remember in the first call (12.39 p.m.) he told me dont worry that we have enough money that we have raised. Then in the afternoon he gave me a call and described the details of what has happened and that they have taken Rs. 10 billion. And that was the two calls I remember. Other calls may be on some other issues.
At this point the Commissioners said they had concluded their questioning and requested the Attorney General if he had any questions.
Attorney General Jayantha Jayasuriya PC thereafter commenced his questioning, following the pattern of the Commissioners, the Chief Legal Officer of the country read out the questions to the Prime Minister. During the reading out of the questions, Jayasuriya PC did not ask many follow up questions to the answers provided.
Following are the excerpts of the questions put forth by the Attorney General
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: You were questioned about the change of system that existed in 2015 and that the Governor had affected the change on the instructions that you have provided. And also you explained the due process for the Governor to follow in the new process when he was giving effect to the instructions you have given him. Now in 2017, another change had taken place with regard to the system that is adopted in relation to the Treasury bond auction. In your answer to question 26 (a) in the affidavit you have sent on 18th of November you had said that following past experience and on expert advise the current modified system was devised by the Monetary Board after reviving the working of the ongoing auction based system. That describes the way or the effort that had been taken to effect the change that was done in July 2017. Have you come to know or were you informed at any stage by Mr Arjuna Mahendran when he affected the change in 2015, whether a similar exercise had been carried out or not
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe: What happened was, first we went over to the public auction system. We still did not know what the extent of the debt was, or what we had to pay. That was being done by him. It was done by him. It was complete only later on. He told me for instance that it might take upto 2021. Even we had the long term debts, the short term debts. We are going on and on and he advised us that unless we have a growth to pay we will become an indebted state like Greece. So While the Central Bank was working that out we now have developed a growth strategy also. Then subsequently Governor Coomaraswamy took on, but we had a big discussion on this. I think I have referred to it on a discussion with C. P. R. Perera who was called in and that was continued after Mahendran left and we got down a specialist from the US Treasury. The specialist finally gave us this system. The reason for this is when it became clear I would like my staff to hand over to Hon. Commissioners these three papers with figures on liability management , loan placement and also I would like to get agreements done which shows how we had to go ahead with this macro economic liberalization to get integrated into the global economy.
However it said the whole problem came from 2017 onwards because of the large amount debts and the bunching that treasury bonds subscribed for 2018 and 2019 were substation including annual bunching figure, and de-financing such debts on maturity date at a reasonable cost will be a difficult task, if not it may impact on domestic debt market expectedly on the interest rates.
The figure also shows that there is an annual and monthly bunch in the Sri Lanka development bond payments. In 2018 T bond maturity exceeds Rs 90 billion in six days throughout the year.
Then on commercial debts, annual interest bills of ISBs amounts to US $602 million in 2018 , further from 2019, matured amount stand at US $ 1000 to 1500 each year till 2027 except the year 2023 and 2024.
A pro active policy is needed to refinance risks of ISBs from 2019 onwards and then they suggested on the advice of this American that there should be a medium term debt strategy. This is something that evolved from 2015 till 2017.
I have given the commission the debt document, growth document and the agreement with the IMF both in 2016 and in 2017. That shows the whole economic policy of the government.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: That shows that you would agree that introducing this change would need extensive studies as well as sustainability of the mechanism that is going to be implemented. Are you aware whether in 2015 , when the change took place a similar exercise had been conducted by the Governor
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe: We could not conduct any exercise in the treasury or in the Central Bank because the figures were not there. It took us the whole of 2015 and a part of 2016 to dig up all the figures and this was done as a result of what we did from 2015, that everything was available, transparent, and the Us Treasury advisor had come in, the IMF people had come in. It was not possible to have done it in 2015.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: Also you were questioned with regard to the conflict of interest situation that prevailed when Mr Arjuna Mahendran was appointed the Governor of Central Bank and also that in your answer to question 21 of the November 18 affidavit, you said that you believed that Mr Arjun Mahendran acted in good faith with regard to the assurances given to you. However there were at different stages like the public uproar after the auction of February 27 2015, then March 21 and March 31 2016 and then with the meeting with Mr C P R Perera that you referred to and as well as at a later stage when member of Parliament Mr Mahindananda Aluthgamage made a statement in the House in June 2016, the continuation of this conflict of interest situation were traced. Now in that context did you expect ( Now you expected Mr Mahendran to keep the assurances given to you). Was there any opportunity for you to verify whether these assurances were met with
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe: Well this happened at the end of February and I did speak to him earlier in January and they told me that Aloysius was resigning from Perpetual Treasuries, which he had done.
He has resigned as a director. I was also told that he was going to spend his time developing the Mendis Distillery. He did once or twice and showed me some of the products and talked to me at some parties but not this. However that was all that I knew. Other than that I did not know he had shares. It was the same thing that Arjun Mahendran told me.
This conflict of interest is something which we raised because the sister of earlier governor was a member of Perpetual Treasuries and it was we who said there should not be any conflict of interests and we asked him to resign. When this happened I appointed the Gamini Pitipana Committee and the committee went for investigation. The Governor went on leave. If there was anything wrong against governor Mahendran he had to resign but there was nothing against him. However regarding other matters there were various issues that came up with regard to the issues raised by Mr Mahindananda Aluthgamage was about the Minister of Finance who was being questioned about his statement. These documents tabled did not have anything like that but I did ask the minister and the minister (Ravi Karunanayake) said no. so I accepted that. Because with Mr Mahindananda Aluthugamage also there was an inquiry going on and the file had come to your department and you have to decide whether to prosecute him or not.(in a sarcastic manner)
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya Therefore there was no specific information that Mr Arjuna Mahendran in fact did keep those words about the assurances he gave
Prime Minister Wickremesinghe: I had no information that he deliberately misled me and the Pitipana committee also did not have any information to that effect and I dont think even the COPE, although it did make some comments, had any findings of that matter.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: So, in the backdrop of concerns being raised, did you at any stage consider whether it would be necessary to instruct Mr Mahendran to check how the ongoing issues should take place in the context of the allegations
PM: Once I finished the Pitipana Committee I put to the hands of Parliament to tell me whatever it thinks wanted. The First COPE committee got Arjun Aloysius down and examined him, the second COPE committee did not get him down but examined Arjun Mahendran extensively. So once it came to Parliament I did not go to interfere again and I also wanted it done by the House as it had control over public finance. We wanted to establish the principle that Parliament has control over finance. We are now passing a legislation to give the House a budget office so that they will be in complete control in the new monitory law where there will be provisions for them to give the information from the Central banks. Therefore what happened earlier will not happen again in this country.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: In your affidavit of October 20 2017, answering questions 21 and 22 and the affidavit of the November 18 2017, answering question 33, you informed this commission that and the various steps that you took in relation to Pitipana report. You have detailed the fact that it has been referred to the Attorney General and also with regard to the reference to the House.
The Pitipana report, in paragraph 19, deals about serious concerns about Perpetual Treasuries securing 50 percent of the accepted bid (Rs. 5 billion out of Rs. 10 billion which was accepted at the auction).
Then paragraph 27 spels out a need of high level of integrity in the conduct of the officials of Central Bank which includes Deputy Governor and the Governor. Then in paragraph 38 of the committee report, the committee makes a humble request from you to take all necessary steps within the powers vested in you, taking further remedial measures that may be necessary. In that regard did you contemplate or have you taken any steps other than what you have described in the two affidavits, I referred to, by taking measures to ensure the integrity of the issuance of treasury bonds or under continuation of Mr Mahendran as the Governor
PM: As I explained to you earlier, Mr Mahendrans continuance as the Governor was dependent on the findings in Parliament because the Pitipana committee specifically did not make any recommendations. And when they handed over the report, I asked them is there anything for us to ask Mr Mahendran to resign. They said we cant tell you that and this is all that we found. They told me kindly to go into the relationship between Perpetual Treasuries and the Bank of Ceylon as to how it could be obtained and what happened there. Pitipana Committee wanted to really to go into that relationship between Bank of Ceylon and Perpetual Treasuries. The question I think was whether this bond issue was in good faith or bad faith. So we had to establish bad faith. The matter came up and once it went into Parliament I left it there. With regard to remedial measures, Pitipana Committee had made certain recommendations. However since the mandate of the commission involved making recommendations we thought we will wait till the report comes out and then study those recommendations, the recommendations of the Pitipana report and some other recommendations that we have had and go ahead with whatever legislative measures we have to make because we are in the process of drafting a new monetary law, I have asked the Central Bank for its inputs and once that is there we will get the foreign consultants also take into account these views and bring it in.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: So in fact the Pitipana report of course confines themselves to the mandate that was given to them by you when you appointed the commission
PM: Yes, but at the same time COPE was probing it. Mr D. E. W. Gunasekera was chairing it and therefore, I could not run a second inquiry parallel to it as they would have accused me of bad faith. However, COPE went into it. COPE issued a report but there was a big controversy whether they have done it officially or not. On the second occasion we told COPE to go ahead and Mr Sunil Handunetti was made Chairman and they went ahead. I think all the members came to a conclusion that further inquiry was required. They could not come to a final finding there.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: At any stage were you made aware of any policy decision to ask the state banks to coordinate and bid at low yield rate at the treasury bonds auction which was to be held on 29th March and 31 March 2016
PM: No. There was no policy decision. State Banks were told dont get into speculative bids and to discourage speculative decisions. Beyond that our principle was to be market friendly and let market determine the rates as far as possible.
AG Jayantha Jayasuriya: In your affidavit of November 18 2017, answering question 14, you referred to a meeting with Mr C. P. R. Perera and another official. So such policy decision was not disclosed even at that meeting, or fact that such instructions given to banks
PM: No, we talked about the monetary affairs. The only thing that came out was that the bank supervision division was weak and with regard to the monitoring of non banking financial institutions were not existent and we should really go in for non banking institution supervision. Many of them were on the verge of collapse and now the present governor is taking steps. We still have some shaky institutions. (Shehan Chamika Silva, Yohan Perera and Hafeel Farisz)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: JO questions change of AGs dept counsel to question PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 03:56 pm
JO questions change of AGs dept counsel to question PM
	
Joint Opposition MP Udaya Gammanpila said the questioning of the Prime Minister before the PCoI by the Attorney General who was appointed to the post by the Prime Minister was a blow to the dignity of the Attorney General's post.
He told parliament that it was Senior Additional Solicitor General Dappula De Liveraled the Attorney Generals team thus far and asked why the prime minister was given a special privilege.
"According to the clause 12 (1) of the constitution, everyone is considered equal before the law. Then why was the prime minister given a special privilege The Prime Minister was questioned by the person who was appointed to the Attorney General's post by the Prime Minister himself," he said.
He said Senior Additional Solicitor General Livera questioned witnesses with aptitude and added that thieves were afraid of Mr. Livera
Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella, who made a point said that there was a tradition that Prime Minister should questioned by the sitting Attorney General.
Meanwhile, Justice Minster Thalatha Athukorala responded saying that President of the PCoI had made a written request to the Attorney General to be present before the commission to question the Prime Minister.
Earlier during proceedings the Commission also read out a statement which said that the Attorney General was requested to be present to question the Prime Minister.

Video by RM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Medical students return to lectures: MFSAC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 10:17 pm
Medical students return to lectures: MFSAC
	
Medical Faculty students today resumed the studies after ten months lapse, Medical Faculty Student Action Committee (MFSAC) Convener Ryan Jayalath said.
Addressing a press conference, he said the students agreed to attend the classes following the Governments final decision to abolish the SAITM.
However, he said it was noticeable that the government was attempting to allegedly continue the institute in a different form against the agreement, and therefore it is possible to boycott the lectures without prior notice, if the governments double standard continues.
The government is attempting to handover SAITM to SLIIT despite its assurance to abolish it completely. If it happens in that manner, the Government should keep in mind that we are capable in taking stern action more vigorously than we did in the past. There is a possibility for the students to boycott the lectures again, he said. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Nita Oblivion and resurrection
## Section: News Features
## Date: 20 November 2017 12:03 am
Nita Oblivion and resurrection
	
People believe Nita quit at the peak, in fact, she is now artistically at her peakIt is our cinema thats found wanting.
Nita posing for a pic at the National Awards held on March 20th, 2017 after receiving the Kalashoori at Nelum Pokuna given to her by the President.

In Sri Lankan cinema, acting careers usually follow a linear path. When a name has been made after the initial breakthrough, an actor or actress can expect a lengthy career, which will last a lifetime, though that is changing now with fewer films being made though the competition is still not comparable to the West, where careers are shaky due to fierce competition.
Nita Fernando is one exception to that general rule. She enjoyed extraordinary success in the first eight years of her career, making over 40 films and running neck to neck with Malani Fonseka. Then she married and migrated to Canada, and returned after a break of 21 years. Her comeback film Pauru Walalu brought her critical acclaim and revived her career. In this interview, Nita talks about her artistic resurrection and the motivation behind it.
In 1965, an attractive schoolgirl from Holy Family Convent, Wennappuwa was introduced to film producer Robin Tampoe, the head of RK Studios, by a relative.
Despite strong parental objections, particularly from her mother, Nita was signed on to act in Robin Tampoes Landaka Mahima with Joe Abeywickrema, though her first screen appearance was in a song sequence in the film Sathutai Kandulai.
Her first film would have been Gamini Fonsekas Parasathu Mal, but she missed the opportunity.

Nitas ambition was to be a dance teacher. She comes from a family of teachers. Her grandfather was the first teacher appointed to the Government School at Katuneriya.
Though she excelled as a dancer (As one can see in the film Matara Aachchi) her childhood ambition was cut short by entry to the world of films. Her rise as a film star was so hectic that she could not even complete her Advanced Level examinations.
Prior to her entry to films, she had only a limited exposure in stage plays and no training in the art of acting. While schooling, she took part in Pantalion Kurukulasuriyas Narabilla. Her best-known stage effort was in Gunasena Galappaththis Sandakinduri.
Though she became a film star almost overnight, Nita was essentially a product of the 60s culture, obedient to her parents and peers, but she became a film star at a time of social upheaval and rebellion.
Not that she became a rebel; like many actresses of the era, she was accompanied by her mother to film locations. But she was different nevertheless from the established stars of the time because the Sinhala film, though slow to change, allowed more leeway from the 1960s to newcomers than it did to Rukmani Devi, Florida Jayalath, Jeevarani Kurukulasuriya and Sandhya Kumari, who worked within a cinematic straitjacket of formulaic roles  the dutiful wife, the wicked-mother-in-law etc.
Landaka Mahima was made in 1968. What followed was a dizzy time, when she acted in 40 films within five short years.
But this celluloid reverie came to an end when she married in 1973.
When she left for Canada in 1975, Nita had the option of doing 13 more films but decided to turn them down. Her husband had given her two years to complete what she had already signed up for.

"Thats a trait she shared with Malani Fonseka. She could be sexy without really knowing how to, a trait which attracted men in the audience without posing a threat to the women."
It must have been a hard decision for a young actress at her peak. In the intervening years, she appeared in just one film, content to work as a receptionist in Montreal.
My husband told me, she says with a smile,
I want to take you out of this celluloid world and bring you back to Sri Lanka one day with dignity.
He kept his promise by producing Pauru Walalu, directed by Prasanna Withanage, the story of a middle-aged woman rediscovering love. Her co-star was Tony Ranasinghe. This poignant, understated performance won her the best actress award at the 1998 Singapore International Film Festival plus the Vishawa Kirthi award, the Presidential Award and the OCIC award for best actress.
She has subsequently appeared in Saroja (2000), Nisalagira (2007) and Bambara Walalla (2010). If the film industry had been healthy, this spectacular comeback would have guaranteed her a steady run of mature roles.
But the film industry is hardly healthy, and the kind of roles an actress of the calibre of Nita Fernando now needs come only rarely.
Panshu directed by young filmmaker Visakesh Chandrasekharan offers her one such role, that of a working-class mother looking for her disappeared son.
Actors mature and grow while acting. Nita Fernando has shown that, if they can keep their inner focus and drive, they can do it even if they take a long break from their profession.

Talking to her, one can sense a professionalism and dedication to her craft which can hardly be called typical in Sri Lankan acting, whether on stage or in a film. In the recent stage play Handa Eliyata Wedi Thiyanna, she acted the role of a much younger woman convincingly.
Nita Fernando goes to a gym and believes in physical fitness.
Her role in Panshu demanded swimming skills. She has a natural aversion to water, but she went to a swimming pool until she learned swimming.
While most of her contemporaries have retired or live in semi-retirement, this kind of grit and determination keeps her professional life alive. I learned to do the backstroke, and am now glad that I can actually swim, she laughed. While her main interest is film, she wont miss any opportunities in the theatre. But there again, with Sri Lankan theatre leaning heavily towards entertaining comedies, the kind of demanding roles she would like are rare.
Looking back, Nita mentions three films that stand above the rest  Vijaya Dharmashris Duhulu Malak, Pauru Walalu and the yet-to-be-released Panshu.
Duhulu Malak is one of only two Sinhala films with a lip kissing scene, and is a testimony to Nita Fernandos daring, as one can think of many would have turned down that role because of that kiss.
While one might conclude that her decision to leave for Canada robbed her of opportunities to appear in the serious (i. e. artistic) cinema stream, an assessment of her commercial film roles (the bread and butter of all top actors and actresses) reveal a number of roles with sensitivity and some depth.
Nita in the new stage play Handa Eliyata Wedi Thiyanna
Within the commercial straight jacket with its song-dance sequences and two-dimensional and predictable characterisation, she strove to get some artistic leeway. The thinking actress that she is can be glimpsed occasionally in these films, which isnt her fault since weak and formulaic script writing didnt leave her with much scope to explore her artistic sensibility.
Hadawath Nettho, where she plays a domestic servant forced into prostitution, is one which rises above the commercial formula, allowing her some scope. Shanthi, another tragedy where she is jailed for murder, too, gave her some acting leeway.
Other early films such as Matara Achchi, where she plays a sophisticated, westernized young woman, gave her an opportunity to display terrific dancing skills and little else.
But this, along with Rajagedara Paraviyo (Also directed by Sathischandra Edirisinghe), and those directed by the talented Titus Thotawatte (Lasanda, Mangala and Sagarika) offered her roles with great charm where she could best use her girl-next-door ambiance to the full. Thats a trait she shared with Malani Fonseka. She could be sexy without really knowing how to, a trait which attracted men in the audience without posing a threat to the women.
Her early success and rapid rise can be attributed to both talent and looks  a tropical lushness which stopped just short of being sultry. With a change of make-up, dress and hairstyle, she could portray the sophisticated urbanite or the unspoilt village girl (Always an endearing part of our film mythology) equally convincingly.
In Hadawath Neththo, she is a village girl turned-domestic forced into prostitution. When Robin Fernando, a hard-boiled worker from the Colombo Port, falls in love with her even though he meets her as a streetwalker in crude makes up, this is entirely in character because her demeanour naturally suggested a victim rather than a predator.
She carried an air of vulnerability in whatever mode. People believe that Nita Fernando quit at the peak of her film career. In fact, she is now artistically at her peak, able to get under the skin of demanding roles. Its our cinema thats found wanting.
 
		
==============================
## Title: No phones were tapped: PCoI clarifies
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 11:17 pm
No phones were tapped: PCoI clarifies
	
Responding to insinuations by several persons, the Bond Commission issuing a special statement said no phones of parliamentarians were tapped as alleged, and instead all the data revealed were from extracting data from the phones of Arjuna Mahendran and Arjun Aloysius.
The statement which was read out after the conclusion of the evidence of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, stated that the extraction of the data was done on the orders of the Commission.
The statement said that the statements made alleging the tapping of phones were based on misconceptions and are factually erroneous.
The full statement follows:
Our attention has been drawn to various statements made by several persons in the political arena, which have been published in the media, and which relate to the evidence with regard to telephonic communications between Mr. Arjuna Aloysius and several persons including several Members of Parliament and also telephonic communication between Mr. Arjuna Mahendran and several persons.
Many of these statements appear to have been made based on misconceptions and are factually erroneous.
We wish to make it clear that, on the orders of the Commission of Inquiry made in terms of the Provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, the mobile telephones and other electronic devices used by Mr. Arjuna Aloysius and Mr. Arjuna Mahendran were examined by the CID.
This examination revealed the telephonic contact and electronic contacts which Mr. Aloysius and Mr. Mahendran had with a large number of persons.
The identities of the persons who received or initiated such telephonic and electronic communications with Mr. Aloysius and Mr. Mahendran were ascertained where the officers of the Hon. Attorney Generals Department who are assisting this Commission of Inquiry considered that doing so was relevant to the mandate issued to this Commission of Inquiry.
This entire process was based on the data found on the mobile telephones and other electronic devices used by Mr. Arjuna Aloysius and Mr. Arjuna Mahendran and also information provided lawfully by Telecommunication Service Providers.
The telephone records of any Member of Parliament were not obtained and were not examined.
With regard to the evidence led on the last day of proceedings- i.e. on 16th November 2017, only the dates and times of telephone conversations and electronic communications were produced in evidence.
The contents of any conversations or communications were not obtained and have not been produced in evidence before us.
It is only this evidence which was presented to the Commission of Inquiry by the officers of the Hon. Attorney Generals Department who are assisting this Commission of Inquiry on 16th November, 2016 i.e. 4 days ago.
In the case of Mr. Aloysius mobile telephone, some text messages had been extracted several month previously. Those text messages were produced in evidence in August of this year  i.e. more than 3 months ago.
The claims that the telephones of several Member of Parliament and other persons have been tapped or recorded in the course of this examination, are utterly false.
This Commission of Inquiry does not intend to make any further investigations in this regard as we have now terminated the reception of Evidence and will, from now on, engage solely in continuing with the preparation of our Report.
Our mandate does not require this Commission of Inquiry to embark on any such further investigation.
 
		
==============================
## Title: No shortage, three ship loads to arrive within two weeks: Arjuna
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 05:14 pm
No shortage, three ship loads to arrive within two weeks: Arjuna
	
Petroleum Resources Development Minister Arjuna Ranatunga today assured the people that there was ample stocks of fuel to last the next three weeks and said three more ships carrying fuel would arrive in the country within the next two weeks.
He said his Ministry had requested the CID to investigate the rumour mongering by miscreants who were sending text messages via social media websites to cause panic among motorists.
The minister said President Maithripala Sirisena had promised to launch an investigation into this matter.
He told a news conference held at the ministry yesterday that anti-government elements were using the social media to embarrass the government.
I assure all stakeholders that there is no fuel shortage and that I will not hesitate to inform the people even if there was a remote chance of a fuel shortage. However, fuel stations have had to release extra fuel due to the increased demand during these two days. Usually, we release 2,500 metric tonnes of fuel a day but we have released up to 4,000 metric tonnes of fuel to cover any extra demand, he said.
The minister said they had received reports of some privately-owned fuel stations refusing to release fuel though they had enough stocks.
We will acquire these fuel stations if this state of affairs continues, he said.
The minister said in the past there had been a business mafia in the fuel sector and that the ministry was now in the process of doing things right for the benefit of the people.
He said at the next Cabinet meeting he would submit a proposal for the construction of fuel storage tanks in various parts of the country. (Lahiru Pothmulla)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM at PCoI
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 20 November 2017 12:46 pm
PM at PCoI
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe arrives at the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) into the Issuance of Treasury Bonds this morning. Pics by Pradeep Dilrukshana


 
		
==============================
## Title: PM off to India tomorrow
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 06:18 pm
PM off to India tomorrow
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe would undertakean official visit to India tomorrow, Prime Ministers Media Division said today.
It said the Premier wouldmeetIndian Prime MinisterNarendra Modi and wouldcall on Indian President Ram Nath Kovind during his stay in New Delhi.
Mr.Wickremesinghe will be taking part at the opening ceremony of the 5th Global Conference on Cyberspace to be held in The Aero City, New Delhi which the Prime Minister of India will inaugurate on Thursday, it said.
The Prime Ministerwouldbe accompanied by Prof. Maithree Wickramasinghe, MinisterSagala Ratnayaka, Prime Minister Secretary Saman Ekanayake,AdditionalSecretary Saman Athaudahetti and Special Assistant Sandra Perera.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Refusing to hoist National Flag: AGs advice sought
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 12:46 pm
Refusing to hoist National Flag: AGs advice sought
	
Advice would be sought from the Attorney General's Department with regard to the Northern Provincial Education Minister who had refused to hoist the national flag, Northern Province Governor Reginald Cooray said today.
He said this at a news briefing held today to announce the stance of the NPC in connection with this incident.
Education Minister S. Sarveshwaran, who was the Chief Guest at a function, held at the Perakum Maha Vidyalaya in Irattaperiyakulam, Vavuniya on November 16, 2017 is alleged to have refused to hoist the national flag. (Sheain Fernandopulle)



 
		
==============================
## Title: SAITM: GMOA says AG must act as it does at PCoI
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 07:10 pm
SAITM: GMOA says AG must act as it does at PCoI
	
The GMOA said today the Attorney Generals Department should show the same efficiency as it shows in the PCoI with regard to the lawsuit filed by a SAITM Graduate requesting provisional registration by the SLMC.
GMOA Assistant Secretary Naveen de Soysa said it was Mr. Sanjaya Rajaratnam who represents the AG in the case filed by the SAITM graduate. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

Video by Janaka
 
		
==============================
## Title: SampathCards begins season with host of offers
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 20 November 2017 10:30 am
SampathCards begins season with host of offers
	
SampathCards is enabling the cardholders begin the holiday season with a host of amazing offers that help them indulge themselves in the best that the season has to offer.
This season, Sampath Mastercard and Visa credit cardholders and Sampath Bank American Express credit card members can create unforgettable experiences, indulge in the most exquisite delicacies, be in vogue with the latest styles and much more, while saving with every purchase they make.
Redefining Sri Lankas credit card landscape for over a decade, SampathCards continues to offer the consumers the highest levels of security, convenience and peace of mind. We have always focused on helping them make responsible choices while indulging them with unparalleled benefits and privileges.
With an amazing array of deals on offer this festive season, we would like to invite our cardholders to revel in the holiday spirit with their friends and family with SampathCards, said Sampath Bank Head of Card Centre, Remittances and Bank Notes Operations Kusal De Silva.
As the styles change with the season, SampathCards looks to help the cardholders stay in vogue while enjoying discounts of up to 25 percent at partnering retail and fashion outlets like House of Fashions, United Colors of Benetton, Urban Trendz, Shirt Works, Crocodile, Cotton Collection, Leather Collection, Plus Cotton Collection, Diliganz, Mondy, Kelly Felder, Levis, Nike, Mango, Giordano, Mothercare, Charles & Keith, Tommy Hilfiger, Reebok, Puma, Hameedia, Envoy Mansion, Avirat, Clarks, Arrow, US Polo Assn, Dilly & Carlo, Triumph and many more.
The cardholders can also indulge in the finest footwear with discounts up to 20 percent at Bata, DSI Premier, Genelle and DI Leather.
Watches are also more affordable this season with discounts of up to 40 percent at Turret, GMT, Wimaladharma & Sons and International Watches.
Everyone is looking to take a much-needed annual break during the season and SampathCards is helping the cardholders make those flights of fancy a reality by offering discounts of up to 50 percent at some of the countrys most loved holiday destinations. Spread across the island, the partnering destinations include MaaluMaalu Resorts& Spas  Passekudah, Club Palm Bay  Marawila, Fishermans Bay  Weligama, Sigiriya Village, Suriya Resorts  Waikkal, The Palms  Beruwala, Kithala Resort  Tissamaharama, Mountbatten Bungalow  Kandy, Scottish Planter Glendevon Bungalow  Nuwara Eliya, Aliya Resort & Spa  Sigiriya, Tangerine Beach Hotel  Kalutara, Tea Bush Hotel  Nuwara Eliya, OZO Kandy, Arie Lagoon  Negombo, Calamander Unawatuna Beach, Calamander Lake Gregory, Amaara Sky Hotel  Kandy, Amaara Forest Hotel  Sigiriya, Villa Pinnawala & Restaurant and The Rainforest Ecolodge  Deniyaya.
Those looking to leave it all behind and explore the world this season can enjoy savings of up to 25 percent on flights and hotel bookings on findmyfare.com, earn 10 times the ultramiles on IWS Helicopters as well as 12 months interest-free instalments on travel transactions at selected partner outlets.
The season is not truly complete without time spent with friends and family and as you share a meal with them, SampathCards wants you to do so while saving up to 25 percent when dining at Tea Avenue, Asylum, rare, Bommu at OZO Kandy, EAT at OZO Colombo and Kandy, ON14 at OZO Colombo, Cloud Caf, Scarlet Room, Amber Poolside and Loft Lounge Bar at Colombo Court, Bappas, Navro Seafood Restaurant, Earls Regency Restaurants, Red Orchids, Bommu Rooftop, Ahara Gourmet Gallery and Shoreline Beach Club at Amari Galle.
The cardholders can save on their grocery bills too with a discount of 10 percent on the total bill at Cargills Food City.
SampathCards has also partnered with some of the most exclusive jewellers in town to add to the festive glow this season. The cardholders can avail discounts of up to 50 percent and up to 12 months zero percent interest instalments at Vogue Jewellers, Raja Jewellers, Chamathka, Raddella Jewellers and Aminra.
As this is the time of the year people look to make changes around the house, SampathCards seeks to help them do so with special discounts at Celcius Luxury Bedding, Hants Showroom, Comfort World and Orange Electric.
They can also avail themselves to discounts of up to 50 percent and 20 months zero percent interest instalments when purchasing electronics or furniture at Softlogic, Singer, Abans, Damro, Arpico Furniture, Singhagiri and Koala.
The cardholders can avail greater offers online with up to 15 percent discount and 12 months, zero percent interest instalments at Retail Genius, wow.lk and Goyo.lk.
Going beyond the festive purchases, SampathCards is also offering a host of discounts and privileges at several other partners covering healthcare, eyewear and hearing aids, baby and kids items, books, education, motor care  spares, service and accessories and motor insurance.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Scholar appointed as Director General of National Archives
## Section: News Features
## Date: 20 November 2017 12:01 am
Scholar appointed as Director General of National Archives
	
Dr. Nadeera Rupesinghe has been appointed Director General of the Department of National Archives.
Dr. Rupesinghe began her studies in history (Honours) at the University of Colombo and passed with a Second Class (Upper). She obtained an Encountering a Common Past in Asia (ENCOMPASS) scholarship from 2007 to 2010 for a postgraduate qualifying year BA and Research MA at the Institute for History at Leiden University, which she passed with distinction.
Thereafter she was an Assistant in Opleiding (AIO/PhD candidate) at the same institute, a position funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) and the Leiden University Fund. She obtained her PhD in January 2016.
Her PhD was on Legal Pluralism in eighteenth-century Galle under Dutch rule. She has published on land rights in the Portuguese Journal of Social Science and has other pending articles in indexed peer-reviewed journals.
Dr. Rupesinghe has studied hitherto unused sources in the Dutch language to write a nuanced history of judicial practice in the eighteenth-century.
She was previously attached to the Faculty of Engineering Technology at the Open University of Sri Lanka before taking up the position at the archives.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tapping MPs' phone calls a breach of privileges: Kiriella
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 09:21 pm
Tapping MPs' phone calls a breach of privileges: Kiriella
	
House Leader Lakshman Kiriella said today the recording of phone calls of COPE members was a breach of their parliamentary privileges and that the Speaker's permission should be obtained before seeking information on telephone calls of MPs.
He tabled the details of the telephone conversations between Mr. Aloysius and COPE members between May 6, 2015 and October 28, 2016.
The minister in his statement to parliament, said the CID or the Attorney General's Department should obtain the Speaker's permission before seeking information on the telephone calls of MPs but neither of them had done so.
He said the forensic report presented to the PCoI by the CID had stated that five COPE members had received calls from Arjun Aloysius, but if his intention was to contact these members hoping to make changes to the COPE report in his favour then he had failed with none of the members obliging Mr. Aloysius.
The minister pointed out that COPE had made one unanimous recommendation with even these five members agreeing that action must be taken against the wrongdoers.
He said the PCoI's mandate was to investigate and report and that there was no finding against any of these MPs.
"It is not a court of law and no one has been found guilty of any offence. This brings us to the question as to on whose instructions and for what purpose was a tab kept on the telephone records of these MPs. It is clearly a breach of their parliamentary privileges," the minister said.
He said communication between parliamentarians and constituents was privileged and added that there had been instances where administrative action had been taken to preserve the rights of the constituents communicating with MPs.
"The telephone had been recognised as the one of the means by which a constituent can communicate with MPs," the minister said and added that it was highly improper to publish the details of MPs' telephone calls as the PCoI had arrived at any conclusion.
"The confidential information had been put out for public consumption. Media is now in a frenzy giving all sorts of twisted interpretations to this information," he said.
The minister requested the Speaker to convene a party leaders meeting to discuss the matter and summon all parties including the MPs whose names had been mentioned and take appropriate action after a proper inquiry.
He said it was his duty to safeguard the privileges of all MPs irrespective of party differences and that they were not against the investigations but the information should be kept secret and submitted to the PCoI and it should carry out an investigation. (Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tax reduction on beer- Alcohol consumption will increase by 22%
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 20 November 2017 08:08 pm
Tax reduction on beer- Alcohol consumption will increase by 22%
	
According to the economic experts, the Per Capita Consumption of liquor would increase by 22% in next two years as a result of the proposals appeared in the budget 2018 in connection with the reduction of tax on beer, representing the Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA), the Director for National Drug Prevention and Operation Unit Dr. Manoj Fernando said today.
Addressing the media, he said that although the reduction of tax on beer was done in view of promoting the tourism industry and discouraging the consumption of moonshine, it would not anyway become an effective approach to attract the foreign population and to reduce the consumption of moonshine.
Introduction of new flexible procedure to issue license would provide more room for anyone to put up a liquor shop, consequently the consumption of alcohol would rapidly boost in Sri Lanka. We cannot fathom as to why the Finance Minister has come out with such proposals to which the consent of both President and the Minister of Health has not been given, Dr. Manoj Fernando said.
Meanwhile, the CEO of the Alcohol and Drug Information Centre (ADIC) Pubudu Sumanasekera said that the proposals of the Budget 2018 to decrease the tax on beer from 40% and to issue license to alcohol with a new strategy would drag the country to a tragedy.
He further said that the system of monopoly in the tobacco industry in Sri Lanka would change with allowing new tobacco companies to import liquor from abroad with easy access of license. (Sheain Fernandopulle)

Video by Buddhi
Pic by Nisal Baduge
 
		
==============================
==============================
