## Title: Abduction of 11 Tamil youths Twists and turns in the investigations
## Section: Expose
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:10 am
Abduction of 11 Tamil youths Twists and turns in the investigations
	
Following the statements made in open courts by the defence counsels Shavendra Fernando PC and Attorney-at-Law Asitha Siriwardena, against the Criminal Investigations Department (CID), when the magisterial inquiry into the abduction of 11 Tamil youth in 2008 was taken up two weeks ago, blaming the latter for not naming certain tangible suspects in the B reports submitted in courts while naming those who were not involved, the CID has once again come under severe criticism for their continued failure to obtain a statement from Navy Intelligence Officer Lt. Commander Sedililage Don Sumedha Sampath Dayananda, who is one of the main suspects wanted for the abduction of two Tamil youths from Wattala in 2009, for ransom
Speculation is now rife as to why, though vital evidence have surfaced regarding the abduction of two Tamil youths in Hendala, Wattala in 2009 allegedly by navy officers, the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) has taken a step backward from the initial investigations by not recording a statement from the main suspect, Navy Intelligence Officer Lt. Commander Sedililage Don Sumedha Sampath Dayananda. 
According to the facts reported to Colombo Magistrate Court No: 3 by the CID (Case No: 2109/2009), Lt. Commander Dayananda is the most wanted person into the abduction of the two Tamil youths. Despite the strong material unearthed during the initial stage of the investigation, the failure to obtain a statement from the suspect, over the past one year, has raised doubts whether the CID is now attempting to defend Lt. Com. Dayananda from interrogation. The B report reveals details into how Dayananda had used one of the victims mobile phone for several months since the abduction took place while he was attached to the Navy Base in Wattala. 
Meanwhile, Lt. Com. Dayananda has reportedly told his contemporaries at Sri Lanka Navy (SLN), that he would never be questioned nor arrested by the CID as the present Chief of Defence Staff is looking after his interests. 
Highly reliable Naval officers on strict condition of anonymity exclusively revealed to the Daily Mirror last week how this Navy Intelligence officer, against whom sufficient evidence has surfaced for his alleged involvement into the abduction for ransom, had been boasting that the then Navy Commander Vice Admiral Ravindra Wijegunaratne- who is now the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), is safeguarding him against being summoned to the CID for interrogation and that he would never be arrested. 

The fate of Pakkilisamy Yoganathan and Ratnasamy Pramanandan is yet unknown
The fate of Pakkilisamy Yoganathan and Ratnasamy Pramanandan, who were abducted on January 11, 2009 while on their way to Wellampitiya, is yet unknown. They had left their home, situated at No: 73, 7th Lane, Bloemendhal Road Kotahena, to go to Wellampitiya on January 11, 2009 afternoon in the formers Toyota van bearing registration number WP PA 6023. But they never returned nor was the vehicle they were travelling in found. Later investigators uncovered that they had been abducted in and around Hendala Wattala, for ransom together with the vehicle they were travelling in. The investigators, going by the B report, believe that the gold sovereigns that were in the possession of the victims-worth of Rs.2.5 million at that time-is alleged to have been taken over by the abductors. According to Yoganathans wife, two Navy officers had visited her few months after her husbands abduction demanding a ransom to release the two victims. The CID in the B report, filed in the Colombo Magistrates Court, states that they believe the two youths had been killed thereafter- the same fate that had befallen on the 11 Tamil youths who had been abducted by the Navy the year before. 
Following the information received regarding the Navys involvement in abduction of five students from Kotahena and six more from other parts of the country in 2008 for ransom, the CID- whilst conducting the investigation at the Sri Lanka Maritime Naval Academy at Trincomalee, where the victims are said to have been kept under detention- had received anonymous information about a vehicle belonged to Kasthuriarachchige John Reid. He was among the 11 abductees. According to the information received, the abductors had not only kidnapped Reid, but also had seized the vehicle bearing registration number 56-5536. This vehicle had been used in Trincomalee by Sri Lanka Navy under a forged registration number plate- Navy 2016. The anonymous informant had also told the CID officers that few parts of Reids vehicle had being hidden in a safe house at the Navys Gemunu Base at Welisara. 
Forged registration number 
According to the B report, following the tip off, though the CID investigation team- lead by Inspector Nishantha Silva -discovered John Reids vehicle within the Sri Lanka Maritime Naval Academy, the Navy could not produce any legal document to claim the ownership to the vehicle they were using with the mentioned forged registration number. The Navy had deleted the chassis and engine numbers of the vehicle which were beyond recognition, but John Reids brother and brother-in-law had identified the vehicle which was owned by the victim. The original paint, which was white, had been changed to blue. 
The facts reported to courts further state as to how the CID investigation officers, after obtaining a court order from the Colombo Magistrates Court, examined Gemunu Base at Welisara for the hidden parts of the vehicle. When going in search of the spare parts, the CID had discovered a heap of vehicle parts hidden in a room adjacent to the Navy Intelligence Sailors Hostel. Upon inspecting the closed room, the CID had been able to unearth 72 pieces of a dismantled vehicle. When inquired from the navy officers what those spare parts were, the CID had been informed that they were parts of a vehicle laden with explosives that was taken into custody on an alleged information during the height of the war. But, there were no records to show that the Navy had informed the police or the bomb disposal unit about the vehicle. 
Meanwhile, the Government Analyst had been able to discover the chassis number of the dismantled vehicle. Using the information, the Department of Motor Traffic traced the name of the owner and found out that it was Pakkilisamy Loganathan of 73, 7th Lane, Bloemendhal Road, Kotahena. Later it had come to light that the owner of this vehicle had gone missing since January 11, 2009. Through further investigations, it was allegedly discovered how Pakkilisamy Yoganathan and Ratnasamy Pramanandan were abducted by the Navy and how the vehicle they were travelling in was seized and how it was dismantled and hidden in the safe house to conceal evidence of the two abduction. From the evidence the CID had recorded statements from the Navy officers, attached to the Gemunu base in Welisara, at the time of the abduction. 
When the abductions in which the Navy was involved in were unearthed as per the B report, the then Commanders Vice Admiral Wasantha Karannagoda and later Ravindra Wijegunaratne had reportedly told President Maithripala Sirisena that all those who were abducted were involved in terrorist activities. They had said that there was no ransom involved regarding these arrests, although the State Intelligence Service, Terrorist Investigation Division, Colombo Crimes Division, Police Narcotic Bureau, Kotahena Police, Intelligence Unit Western Province, Army Intelligence Unit, Air Force Intelligence Unit, Navy Intelligence Unit and Police Special Investigation Unit have cleared their names against any involvement in crimes or terrorist activities. 
Promise not kept 
The B report further states as to how all requests made by the CID to the then Navy Commander Vice Admiral Wijegunaratne, demanding the release of Navy Intelligence officer Lt. Commander S.D.S.S. Dayananda, fell on deaf ears. The CID has also informed the court that although Vice Admiral Wijegunaratne had once given an assurance that the suspect would be handed over once he finishes a training course he was undergoing, the high ranked Navy official had not kept his promise. 
Be that as it may, the court had been informed through the B report as to how former Colombo DIG Anura Senanayake, who was arrested and is now on bail for concealing evidence in Wasim Thajudeens murder, had prevented the officers of the Colombo Crimes Division (CCD) from inquiring into the abduction of these two Tamil youths in Wattala when there was clear evidence against the Navy officers. 

What is the fate of the Tamil youths abducted by officials of the sea going force in separate incidents in 2008 and 2009
On a complaint lodged by Rajagopal Chitradevi, the wife of Pakkilisamy Yoganathan, on May 9, 2009, the CCD had initiated an investigation. It had revealed how the inquiring officer Sub Inspector CCD, Sumudu Sudesh Wijesinghe was not allowed to record a statement from the accused Lt. Com. Dayananda by the then Director CCD, SSP Anura Senanayake and the task was handed over to SI, Samantha Kulatunge Hettiarachchi, who was on probation.. 
According to the statements made to the CID by CCD officers, the then SI, Wijesinghe, SI, Hettiarachchi and the former ASP CCD, Asoka Senarath Jayathilake, had Anura Senanayake not intervened in the inquiry and the investigation, the CCD could have saved the lives of Loganathan and Rathnaswamy and also the vehicle from being dismantled. 
According to SI Sudesh Wijesinghes statement, the disappearance of the two Tamil youths was handed over to the CCD on the request of the Ceylon Workers Congress MP, R. Yogarajan. On the instructions of the then SP, Ravinda Karawita, Wijesinghe was assigned to investigate the complaints lodged by the wives of the two victims. 
The statement further states, Going through Loganathans mobile phone IMEI (international mobile equipment identity) number, it was discovered that the phone had been used with a different SIM card -071 6887811 by S.D.S.S. Dayananda of 19 C, Pdagoda, Beruwala, Kalutara. This number had been used from January 15, 2009 for four days since Loganathans disappearance. It was later revealed that Dayananda is a Navy officer. Although Dayananda was asked to report to the CCD to give a statement, he absconded for several days and had later met SSP Anura Senanayake. When Senanayake informed SI Wijesinghe that Dayananda had picked up the phone from a bus he was travelling and since he could not find out the owner he had made use of the phone. SI Wijesinghe had refused to accept what Dayananda said. As a result Anura Senanayake had repeatedly not allowed Wijesinghe to record the suspects statement but asked SI Hettiarachchi to record Dayanandas statement. 

In the meantime the CCD had been able to find out the IMEI number of the mobile phone used by the other victim- Rathnaswamy. This phone had been used with another SIM card- 0773952046 which was registered under Secretary to the Commander of the Navy, Commander of the Navy Office, Navy Headquarters, P.O. Box 593, Colombo 1. 
Although the new developments had been informed to Anura Senanayake, he had not given any instruction to investigate into the abduction. Even Sri Lanka Navy did not reply to any of the letters the CCD wrote to them on this matter. 
According to the statement made by ASP Ashoka Jayasinghe, he had confirmed what SI, Wijesinghe had said in his statement and had further added as to how he, as the ASP CCD, was in a position to investigate the complaints, but could not on the directives of Anura Senanayake, who had wanted only to discharge the work that he (Anura Senanayake) had assigned, but not any other unnecessary work. According to the statement, Anura Senanayake had worked closely with the then Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa and Head of National Intelligence Kapila Hendawitharana. 
Meanwhile, it has come to light how the then Director Intelligence, Sri Lanka Navy Commander Ananda Guruge, who is also accused of having a hand in the abduction of 11 Tamil youths in 2008 too was involved in the Wattala abduction as well, according to the B report filed in courts. 
Chitradevi speaking to the Daily Mirror said how two Navy officers visited their Kotahena residence, a few months after her husbands alleged abduction, seeking a ransom to release him. However the conversation between Chitradevi and the said naval officers had come to an abrupt end when Mr. Mohan- brother of the then UNP Provincial Council Member Y.P. Ram- intervened. 
Two middle aged men said to be from Sri Lanka Navy came to our door step one morning and wanted to find out details of my husband. When I asked who they were, I was told that they are from the Navy. They were in civil attire I could not understand what they were saying in Sinhala. I sent a message to Mr. Mohan who is a businessman in the vicinity. When Mr. Mohan wanted these two navy officers to show their identity cards, they refused and left immediately. We still dont know whether they were from the Navy. After the CID informed us that they had found my husbands dismantled vehicle within the Welisara Navy Camp, we believe that it was the Navy that sent these two men to gather more information about my husband and also seeking ransom, Chitradevi said. 
According to Chitradevi, following her husbands failure to return home, she had lodged a complaint at the Kotahena Police the following morning. 
When I took a call to my husband around 5pm the phone was not working and since I could not contact him thereafter and as he did not return even by midnight, I became impatient. My husband had never stayed a night away from home other than at times when he travelled abroad, Chitradevi said. 
She further described as to how SI Wijesinghe had told her that he had been stopped from inquiring into the disappearance of the two by the then Director CCD, SSP Anura Senanayake. 
I lodged the complaint at the Kotahena Police and met MP, R. Yogarajan. He gave a letter to the CCD requesting to take over the investigation. I lodged a complaint at Sahana Mediriya at the Police Headquarters, but to no avail as Anura Senanayake had prevented the CCD Officers from further investigating, Chitradevi said. 
When contacted Navy Spokesman Com. Dinesh Bandara, to obtain a comment with regard to the Navys failure to assist the CID to apprehend suspects involved in the abduction of the two Tamil youths in 2009 and the 11 Tamil youths in 2008, Com. Bandara said that he would direct the questions to the relevant departments at SLN and make a statement to theDaily mirror . Although several reminders were given to the Navy Spokesman during the past week seeking a statement from them, the Navy Spokesman did not respond to any of the calls made thereafter nor sent a comment till the paper went to print. 
Meanwhile all attempts made to contact Police Spokesman SP Ruwan Gunasekera for a comment to find out as to whether the CID is dragging its feet by not recording a statement from the main suspect into the Wattala abduction, were unsuccessful as SP Gunasekera did not respondto Daily mirror calls.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Beyond  the classroom:  The imperatives of science
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:10 am
Beyond  the classroom:  The imperatives of science
	
Mrs. Malathi, who taught us biology but whom I never had the chance of studying under, was quite a character. Hardy, confident, stern, but understanding, she was easy to irk and hard to please. In fact, that was one of her virtues. She was one of those rare teachers, from a now all-but-completely bygone era, who encouraged us to go beyond the classroom when it came to her subject. The result was that all her students, and I mean every one of them, grew to love her.
I remember an O/Level seminar I attended in Grade Eight. Nearly every teacher spoke on why we should choose their fields and on the careers they would open us to. Mrs. Malathi did no such thing. I dont remember her exact words, but in essence, what she said amounted to this: If you dont have a green thumb, if you dont know which plant and flower is what in your own garden, sorry, but dont come to my class. I distinctly remember my mother looking and frowning at me. Im sorry to say that after all these years, she is still frowning at me.
I strongly believe that no society can prosper without actively engaging with hard subjects. In particular, science. There is some truth in the contention that society needs artists, but without industry and production, which since the 18th century have facilitated the evolution of modern science, there can be no environment conducive to artists in the first place. As a friend once put it to me, No culture without industry!
To be sure, Sri Lanka is not far behind here. But not far behind is not full speed ahead. The truth is that we are grappling with a serious problem on three broad fronts: the pedagogy, infrastructure, and interest of and in science.
Lets get some perspective. Of 10,162 schools, only 867 have enough facilities for science subjects. On average, a student from the Western, Southern, Northwestern and Sabaragamuwa Provinces is more likely to choose science for his or her A/Levels than a student from another province. In Colombo and Gampaha, theres one science stream school for every 10 kilometres, while in Moneragala, Mannar and Mullaitivu there is one for every 250. The disparity between the favoured and the unfavoured provinces, with all this, amounts to a shocking 20% (in terms of regional pass rates). As for teachers, the majority of them, once they gain experience, depart for more popular schools. The less popular schools have to do with part time teachers hired on a dubious, at times even illegal basis. In the end, the students lose out. Free education rakes up inequalities, someone once wrote somewhere. I would agree.

The Science Association of Royal College is doing something. By something I mean going beyond what is usually done. And by what is usually done I include those seminars and quizzes and interactive events which, relevant at one level, deteriorate at the end of the day to a series of fun skits and shows which serve little to no purpose
The solution, however, isnt the privatisation of privileged institutions to concentrate on the less-privileged ones (as some advocate), but an efficient transfer of resources from those who have to those who do not. It is futile to think that the government, despite its efforts at combating structural anomalies, can solve every issue. Our best bets instead are the administrators, teachers, students, and science associations of the more favoured schools. No, they are not miracle workers. But they can help. Big time.
In that sense, the Science Association of Royal College is doing something. By something I mean going beyond what is usually done. And by what is usually done I include those seminars and quizzes and interactive events which, relevant at one level, deteriorate at the end of the day to a series of fun skits and shows which serve little to no purpose. By contrast, members of the Royal College association are tackling both the issues I highlighted before: resource anomalies and interest in the subject. Thats not just commendable, thats also smart. And relevant.
True, theres very little that a single organisation can do. But at a time when similar organisations engage in self-congratulatory projects elsewhere, the little that these boys do is worthy enough. Two months or so back, for instance, they paid a visit to Amaragedara Kanishta Vidyalaya in Bulathsinhala. That they conducted an O/Level seminar is not that important. What is important is that they soon came to terms with the issues and the deficits which beset such far-off schools.
Bulathsinhala, as statistics will confirm, is not exactly teeming with poverty, and as the boys in the Association told me a couple of weeks back, the road leading up to the vidyalaya has been paved and virtually polished so well that onlookers get baffled once they pass the school gates. Its like entering a new world.
Yohan Chanaka, this years chairman, explained. There were about 30 O/Level students there. Its such a small population because most of them either leave before their O/Levels or graduate to better schools elsewhere. To be honest, we were not prepared to encounter such an environment when we planned the visit. We conducted the seminar just before the interval. During the interval, we walked around and talked with students from lower grades. They all had the same thing to say. They lack library and lab facilities. They dont have enough teachers. They deserve better.
Obviously, theres very little that a single group can do: We cant perform miracles. We cant change people. We cant persuade administrators. If that is so, however, what is it that they can contribute Apart from seminars (they are planning on another one at a more distant school in the coming weeks), they can contribute, the way I see it, by changing the way science events in schools are organised.
Again, the Association at Royal is miles ahead. With one or two projects organised each month, the boys are adamant that such events must be geared towards the subject they are engaged with. I couldnt agree more. What are Science and Commerce Days, after all, than exercises in noise and colour When was the last time such a day actually stuck to its objectives without meandering to band shows and theatrical pieces No, it is not that such items should not be encouraged, but then they do tend to detract one from what the day should be involved with in the first place.
On June 28, the Science Association, seeking something different, thus came up with Sci-ETCA. With the aim of demonstrating the practical component of science (which as academics have argued is missing, woefully, in the way the subject is taught here), ETCA saw the participation of a great many schools, around 15 stalls from sponsors, and sessions which actively involved invited students. We wanted an event that would encourage participants to ascertain how experiments are conducted. What we did basically was transform their interest in those experiments into an opportunity to engage with experts in the field who are approachable.
Sci-ETCA wasnt isolated, incidentally. There had been seminars organised for students within the school before. The event had thus been an opportunity to project those seminars to the world outside, something these boys will continue through the sequel of sorts to ETCA, ENIGMA. Bigger and more ambitious in scope, ENIGMA is set to involve a quiz, a few lectures on important but tough areas in all three science subjects, and a motivation session.
Science is not easy. As Professor Deepthi Matthew observed not too long ago, parents spend almost two billion rupees every year on science tuition classes for their children. This, coupled with the rift between the number of students who do science at their A/Levels and the proportion who obtain adequate results to enter university, is a national issue, and for these boys, determined as they are to promote the subject in new, interesting ways, it is a problem they have to reckon with every day. As a final point then, I ask Yohan how students cope with the pressure this entails, and he points out that more often than not, they simply cant: Some of us go for two, even three classes over the same subject. There are those among us who cut school to attend these classes. They are not in the minority.
Resource deficits outside the privileged provinces, and resource gluts and pressures in the privileged provinces: this is the rift at the heart of science education in the country, something Yohan touches on when he tells me, Most of us do these subjects because it is felt we should do them. How can one address this two-pronged problem I feel tempted to ask these boys, in particular Yohan, but I desist. That is not up to them to elaborate. That is up to us to find out.
Suffice it to say, then, that the only real hope we can have when it comes to solving the issues of science education at school level, apart from efforts by OBUs and OGUs, are the clubs in more privileged institutions. Going by that, the Science Association at Royal is doing something. And that something, apart from being better than nothing, is probably the only thing we can claim as a veritable solution. Right now.

UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM
 
		
==============================
## Title: Book author now caught in a love triangle!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 August 2018 10:29 am
Book author now caught in a love triangle!
	

This young politico was in the news in the recent past when he became a book author overnight inspired by a sensational scam. Now caught in a love triangle he is coercing the husband of his ladylove to divorce her forthwith, they say.

The politico is said to have bought two hotels both in the East and West in the name of his crush and his involvement with her has become inextricable.
Meanwhile, a constantly harried legal husband has developed heart trouble and is under treatment.
A top political authority has now come to know about this sordid affair, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet rescinds age limit on trishaw drivers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 07:12 pm
Cabinet rescinds age limit on trishaw drivers
	
The Cabinet is reported to have today rescinded the gazette notice that barred those below 35 years from obtaining three-wheeler driving licenses.
Although the Transport Ministry had issued a gazette notice on the minimum age to drive three-wheelers, the Cabinet was of the opinion that there should not be a bar on any age group. It was revealed that some 550,000 people below the age of 35 were engaged in this driving trishaws as a means of self-employment and as such should be allowed to carry out their work without any hindrance. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Clinical waste  washed ashore in Jaffna and Puttalam Districts
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:10 am
Clinical waste  washed ashore in Jaffna and Puttalam Districts
	

clinical waste was washed ashore previously in Vadamarachchi, Thondaimanaru and other parts of the Jaffna District

The Daily Mirror of 15 August 2018 reported that the Maritime Environmental Protection Authority (MEPA) would request the Ministry of Environment to discuss with the Indian High Commission to urge India to prevent clinical waste from India being released towards Sri Lanka. It was also reported that MEPA had started collecting and sorting the waste that had been washed ashore on the coastal areas off Puttalam. The India Today news website reported that the waste included a large stock of expired drugs, manufactured in India. 
It was also reported that similar clinical waste was washed ashore previously in Vadamarachchi, Thondaimanaru and other parts of the Jaffna District. 
In the northern west coastal belt of the Puttalam District the MEPA had started cleaning the beach in Uddappuwa to Cinna Paddu and the clinical waste is to be examined later. 
The ocean currents in the Indian Ocean
The Indian Ocean is half an ocean, hence the behaviour of the North Indian Ocean currents is different from that of Atlantic Ocean Currents or the Pacific Ocean Currents. .Also monsoon winds in Northern Indian Ocean are peculiar to the region, which directly influence the ocean surface water movement. The currents in the northern portion of the Indian Ocean change their direction from season to season in response to the seasonal rythm of the monsoons.The effect of wind is comparatively pronounced in the Indian Ocean  Ref  (http:// www.pmfias.com/indian-ocean-currents-effect-of-monsoons -indian -ocean-currents/ ) 
The above behaviour of ocean currents in the northern Indian Ocean has a direct bearing of the deposition of clinical waste on our northern and north western shores. Moreover, according to the strong winds experienced during the past few days the drifting of such waste as indicated above would have been aggravated. This may be the reason why such material drifting to our coasts was not detected in the past. It could also be concerned with climate change which has given rise to erratic monsoonal rains with strong winds. 
Legal implications in protection of the Marine Environment
The protection and preservation of the marine environment is clearly indicated in Part X11 of the United Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) which entered into force in 1994 and has been ratified both by Sri Lanka and India. Accordingly, both countries are legally bound according to international law to effectively prevent any marine pollution within this continental shelf as well as near and off shore areas. According to Article 193 States have the sovereign right to exploit their natural resources pursuant to their environmental policies and in accordance with their duty to protect and preserve the marine environment. 
The present issues that are related to toxic waste are specifically covered under Article 194 titled Measures to prevent, reduce and control pollution of the marine environment Clause 2 of this article specifically mentions that States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that activities under their jurisdiction or control are so conducted as not to cause damage by pollution of the marine environment. These measures shall include inter-alia to be designed to minimize to the full possible extent (a) the release of toxic, harmful or noxious substances, especially those which are persistent from land based sources, from or through the atmosphere or by dumping 
Article 195 is also relevant which states that In taking measures to prevent, reduce and control pollution of the marine environment, States shall act so as not to transfer, directly or indirectly, damage or hazard from one area to another or transform one type of pollution into another. Attention is also drawn to Article 210 titled Pollution from Dumping which specifically state that States shall adopt laws and regulations to prevent, reduce and control pollution of the marine environment by dumping. 
Finally Article 216 clearly indicates the laws and regulations according to UNCLOS for enforcement with respect to dumping. 
Conclusions and recommendations
In this short article I have attempted to outline the possible causes of the clinical waste that has been washed ashore possibly from India to the coastlines in Jaffna and Puttalam Districts. According to the monsoonal winds as I mentioned above it is rather difficult to conclude whether the material came from the western or eastern coastal belt. Further, because of the strong winds that are presently being experienced in the region especially in the western Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal, it is rather difficult to precisely pin point to any region as it is the first time that Sri Lanka has experienced such form of marine pollution. The UNCLOS which has been ratified by India and Sri Lanka legally binds both countries on their rights and obligations under this international law which entered into force in 1994. 
I would strongly recommend that this matter be taken up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and handled by an expert, conversant and experienced with the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), preferably involved with the negotiations of UNCLOS at the very early stage.
(The writer is a Retired Economic Affairs Officer United Nations ESCAP who was in Charge of Marine Affairs up to 2003)


 
		
==============================
## Title: Construction of knowledge through Scientific method Scientists go on guessing until they come across
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:05 am
Construction of knowledge through Scientific method Scientists go on guessing until they come across
	
In western science, induction is called into play in generalizing from a limited number of observations of a property of a sample (s) to the entire population very often infinite in numbers. These are usually abstract inductions. A good example is the falling of objects to the earth. 
Isaac Newton would have observed some apples falling when released from the trees. What he did was to generalize this experience to all objects (not merely apples) near the earth, and to make the generalized statement that all objects near the earth fall to the earth when released. That was abstract induction, and the population was the objects near the earth. Then of course he had the problem of the moon that did not fall. 
This is the first stage of western science. The population is identified, samples are considered, some property of the sample (s) is observed, and the property is generalized to the entire population, very often of infinite number of members. With respect to populations with infinite number of members we are dealing with abstractions. 
As can be seen in induction it is assumed that the relevant property is common to the entire population. As has been said induction belongs to rationalism in western philosophy. In western science, it is assumed that with respect to a certain property the entire population behaves the same way. This is nothing but another axiom. 
In the second stage scientists attempt to give an explanation of the generalized abstract observation. This is where abduction comes in. Abduction is guessing and nothing else. It belongs to rationalism in western Philosophy and by abduction scientists arrive at axioms. In guessing it is assumed again that the axiom applies to the entire population. 
Why do the objects near the earth fall to the earth Newton had an answer to the question. Others might have given different answers to the question, which did not work. Finally, it was Newtons guess on gravitation that worked. 
However, it did not work for the entire population. The moon does not fall. Newton could have excluded the moon from the population by taking the moon not to be near enough to the earth. However, he did not do that, as he wanted his guess to be universal, and gave an explanation as to why the moon does not fall to the earth. It was with his laws of motion and by considering circular motion.

Newtons guess could be considered as an abstract generalization valid for any two objects in the universe. However, it has to be mentioned that Newton did not explain how this force operates, and it was nothing but spooky action at a distance, if we use a later expression by Einstein with respect to Quantum Mechanics. 
Abductions are guesses, and the scientists go on guessing until they come across a guess that works. However, these guesses are culture dependent, and abstract. Very often, it is those scientists in cultures that help abstract thinking who come out with successful abstract guesses. The guesses are made in a certain paradigm in Thomas Kuhns sense, and when a guess cannot be made in the existing paradigm, the scientist has to make a guess with respect to the paradigm as well.
Paradigms are also guessed and guessing of a new paradigm is considered as revolutionary science by Kuhn.
A paradigm prescribes the Game Rules that have to be adhered to in making guesses of axioms. A change of paradigm or paradigm shift is a change of the Game Rules. In the Newton paradigm all velocities were relative to the so-called inertial frames, but in Eisenstein paradigm this rule was changed, and the velocity of light remained constant in all so-called inertial frames of reference. 
Axioms and paradigms are guessed in a culture. Both Newton and the Eisenstein paradigms were created in western Judaic Christian culture, while Quantum Mechanics was created outside Judaic Christian culture with its Aristotelian Logic.Bohr who was a pioneer in creating Quantum Mechanics was influenced by Ying -Yang idea in Chinese culture. 
Any guess is subject to correction, and would not hold for the entire population for all situations. Guesses, and hence axioms which are sometimes called theories, are valid only for limited cases. It can be said that the guesses work only for a limited number of cases, approximately, and one should expect them to fail in some cases. This is somewhat similar to Karl Poppers falsification, and guesses or axioms or theories are subject to falsification, after particularization as explained below. The guesses are never right but only work under certain circumstances. However, an axiom is not thrown away, simply because one of its particularization does not work. It is used wherever it works, leaving aside the case when it does not work. The theory of gravitation due to Newton was not thrown away just because its particularization with respect to the orbits of the planets around the sun did not work. It is still used wherever it works. 
This is based on pragmatism, and abduction is based on pragmatism as a Philosophy. It does not come as a surprise to note that abduction was introduced in US that follows a pragmatic philosophy. Quantum Mechanics, though not understood by western scientists within their culture continues to be used for its pragmatic features in western science mainly because US is the dominant force in science today. 
Verification of axioms
Guessing of axioms belong to rationalism and not empiricism in Western Philosophy. The axioms are abstract statements, and one can go on deriving results as in Mathematics using rules of inference, as Greeks used to do with Euclidean Geometry. However, Science is not Mathematics, and one is interested in finding out whether the axioms have any sense with respect to observations. 
We have previously said that axioms work in certain situations, and one should have wondered as to what is meant by working. This is a tricky question and involves a jump from general to particular. It is the reverse of induction, and may be called particularization, for want of a better word. 
As axioms are abstract statements, what are deduced from them using rules of inference are also abstract statements. For example, from Newtons theory of gravitation one could derive that an object is attracted towards another object with a certain acceleration that increases as the distance between them decreases. From this abstract statement scientists jump to the particular case of an apple falling to the earth, and say that the apple falls to the earth with increasing acceleration. 
The axioms are not verified by observations. The axioms are abstract statements in western science, while observations are concrete experiences. An axiom has to be first particularized before an observation is made. Thus, what is verified or falsified is not the axiom but a particularization of the axiom.

Karl Poppers falsification of theories could be valid only for particularization. However, even then the axioms are not thrown away completely, but are made use of under special circumstances. This is a consequence of the nature of axioms. As axioms are guesses, they can be guessed only as far as certain situations are concerned, and not to cover the entire ambit of the population. 
In western science the axioms are not supposed to be true or false but to work under certain conditions. Firstly, the axioms do not reflect a reality as such and the old inference that if a theory P implies a certain result Q, and if Q is observed, then P is valid does not hold. It is not obtained from any rule of inference as such, as the rule of inference states that If P is valid and P implies Q, then Q is valid. Secondly axioms can be guessed only within a limited range of observations to work.
The so-called Scientific Method
Paul Feyerabend said anything goes in science. However, there is a method in western science, though that method is used by others as well. It is a guessing game called abduction, that is practiced by rats in finding out the way to escape from a maze, by the children in learning a new technique or acquiring new knowledge, by search engines that throw out thousands of guesses, by artificial intelligence and people etc. The difference between the others and the western scientists is that the guesses of the others are concrete, while the guesses of the western scientists are abstract. Western doctors in diagnosing use the method of abduction, though concrete. 
In western science from a limited number of observations of a property of the members of a very large population, very often infinite, by induction generalized abstract statements are made. In generalizing it is implicitly assumed that the property holds for the entire population. Having made generalized statements with respect to the relevant property, western science looks for explanations for the property. These explanations are not causes as such but some guesses that work. The guesses unlike in the case of rats and ordinary people are abstract. Having guessed working axioms a jump is made through particularization to test whether the axiom in a concrete form works in a limited range. No axiom will work in the entire range. 
Western Science is said to be pattapal boru since the theories are only abstract guesses that cannot be even imagined, and do not exist. Boru or Asath is the opposite of Aththa or Sath, sath meaning existence. However, it has to be emphasized that existence does not refer to an objective existence (ontological). In this essay we have considered Western Science as a set of constructions (guesses) that attempt to explain an already existing (pre or post Kantian) nature, and not natures constructed by the observers as described in Nirmanathmaka Sapekshthavadaya (Constructive Relativism).   
 
		
==============================
## Title: Customer injured during bank robbery in Gandara
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 04:26 pm
Customer injured during bank robbery in Gandara
	
A customer was injured when four armed men opened fire inside a state-owned bank at Parawahera in Gandara, Matara this evening, police said.
They said the 60-yeat-old victim suffered gunshot injuries to her leg from a bullet that ricocheted off the floor and was admitted to the Matara General Hospital.
The men had arrived on two motorbikes wearing full-face helmets and according to the police had escaped with more than Rs.300,000.
Gandara police said none of the suspects were arrested but that they were conducting investigations. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Customs seize 18 tons of Beedi Leaves in containers
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 02:18 pm
Customs seize 18 tons of Beedi Leaves in containers
	
Sri Lanka Customs Preventive Mega-Port Surveillance Unit today detained two containers with 18 tons of Beedi Leaves worth Rs.13 million, while being attempted to smuggle into the country, Customs Spokesman and Deputy Director Sunil Jayarathne said.
He said one 40-foot container was detected attempting pas Customs Security Gates declaring as an empty.
Due to the huge tax imposed on the Beedi Leaves, smugglers used to import them hidden among the low-tax goods such as onion, Mr Jayarathne said.
The container detected at the gate was found with 4,000 kilograms of Beedi Leaves packed in cardboard boxes and sacks.
The evaded tax amounted to Rs 45 million, he said.
It was detected based on the intelligence gathered by the Mega-Port Surveillance Unit officers.
The container was destined to Indonesia as transshipment cargo after reworking at the Colombo Port.
However, the container had been declared as empty at the De Seram Gate at the examination yard at Thotalanga.
Three suspects, including a wharf clerk and the lorry driver, were arrested and produced before the Colombo Magistrate and remanded, Jayarathne said.
Meanwhile, another 20-foot container was detained by the Customs Preventive Mega-Port Surveillance Unit with 4,000 kilograms of Beedi Leaves worth Rs. 3 million after the container deviated from the common route.The evaded tax amounted to Rs 13 million, he said.
The contraband was declared as onions by a trader at the Bankshall Street, Colombo 11.
The container was detected by the Preventive Mobile Unit while conducting the regular mobile inspection, he said.
The container was detected while it was deviating from the common route, on its way to the customs examination Yard at Orugodawatte from the Colombo Port, Mr Jayarahthne said.
The container was intercepted at Mahawatte in Colombo 11 and the goods were declared as arrived from the Port of Nhava Sheva (Jawaharlal Nehru) Port, India.
The Beedi Leaves were found concealed in the front part of the container among the onion sacks.
The detections were made by Customs Officers Sasanka Kiyanaarachchi, Lamahewa, W.R.P. Wickramarathne, Ajith L. Siriwardane, A.S. Liyanaarachchi, A.K.G Indika, L.S.J. Aravinda, Vipul Gunasekera, Sahan Jayasinghe, Sumith Waragammana, Palitha Kodikara, Y.S.D. Alwis, Customs Deputy director Wasantha Silva and Malik Perera, Janaka Fernando and Sreelal de Alwis. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Daraz.lk offers Happiness on the Go with Daraz Mobile App
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:16 pm
Daraz.lk offers Happiness on the Go with Daraz Mobile App
	
The Daraz Mobile App has enabled the fastest growing online retail store to get closer to its users with its user friendly features and amazing offers. Since its entrance to Sri Lanka in 2016, Daraz.lk has taken online shopping to the next level by continuing to be innovative and setting trends in customer behavior.
Themobile app keeps shoppers up to date with the latest exclusive offers along with daily and weekly deals allowing app users to be instantly notified. The amazing daily promotions include category specific promotions such as Techy Tuesdays, Fashion Thursdays, Electric Fridays and Shopaholic Weekends, offering exclusive discount vouchers between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 5,000 in addition to free delivery. The user experience is more rewarding with the in-app games like Flip the Card and Scratch and Win allowing chances to win something every day in forms of vouchers and freebies. Free delivery is offered exclusively for sales and selected products. Since app exclusive deals are unavailable on the desktop site, app users are given exclusive chances to get the best deals available.
The online shopping experience is further enhanced through the synchronization of the shopping cart between the website and app where purchases from either platform by a single user will not be duplicated. In addition, the ability to check Recently Viewed items helps customers to keep tab of their searches. Browsing for the next mobile, accessory, fashion item or anything available on Daraz.lk is made simple with the category and brand based browsing option. Searches can also be filtered by price, discounts and popularity making shopping through the mobile app more focused and less time consuming.
Since customer commentsare crucial in improving services, the Daraz mobile app also allows users to rate and give feedback on their shopping experience.
With our growing activities on the website, our aim is to take the experience closer to our customers and the mobile app is an easy access platform. Daraz has expanded operations in Sri Lanka both online and offline. We continuously focus on offering a seamless shopping experience with Daraz.lk. The Daraz Mobile App is one of the latest additions to the exercise of uplifting online shopping for Sri Lanka, commented Bart Van Dijk Country Manager Daraz
The investments and innovation that Daraz.lk is bringing to the online retail industry in Sri Lanka assures its commitment to stay and grow in the country. It is further enhanced by the backing it receives by Alibaba through the recent acquisition, making it part of one of the largest e-commerce conglomerates in the world.
To download the Daraz Mobile App visit https://www.daraz.lk/mobile-apps/.

 
		
==============================
## Title: eChannelling PLC marked history for launching its digital services at District Hospitals
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:21 pm
eChannelling PLC marked history for launching its digital services at District Hospitals
	
Official launch of the eChannelling for Government Hospitals by Secretary of the Ministry of Telecommunication, Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment Hon. Wasantha Deshapriya. Also present were (from left) Director of Projects ICTA Sri Lanka Mr. Indika de Zoysa, Chief Medical Officer in charge of "Digital Hospital Project and Ampara General Hospital Dr. Sampath Dematapaksha, Director of Ampara General Hospital Dr. P. K. C. I. Jayasinghe and Chairman Sri Lanka Telecom and Mobitel Mr. P. G. Kumarasinghe Sirisena
For the first time in history eChannelling PLC launched its service at Ampara General Hospital marking it as the first district Hospital in Sri Lanka to have the service. eChannelling PLC, the largest Doctor Channeling Network in Sri Lanka, along with Mobitel, and Information and Communication Technology Agency of Sri Lanka (ICTA) have embarked on a national endeavour  eChannelling for Government Hospitals - as a service provider for OPD time reservation at government hospitals. This project is carried out under the guidance of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure and Foreign Employment, and ICTA to build a healthier nation by upgrading the existing health care system in Sri Lanka and enhancing its position in global rankings. This historic partnership will vastly facilitate smooth access to medical care for government hospital patients. eChannelling believes this service will enhance convenience for government hospital patients and save time and energy spent waiting in queues..
Patients can make OPD time reservation via 0715 225 225 from any network without waiting in queues for OPD treatment in government hospitals, thanks to eChannellings digital platform. The service is offered free-of-charge. The time reservation facility has been extended to the internet (www.echannelling.com) and smartphones (eChannelling App), boasting the latest technology for further convenience of users.
This service offers greater convenience for hospitals as they are able to enable modern healthcare facilities through technology to the general public free-of-charge. This would also help hospitals to better utilize physical infrastructure and human resources more effectively and efficiently. This service also greatly benefits patients as it saves them time otherwise spent waiting at the OPD for hours, and keeps the hospital informed in advance about their service requirements. The facility will be launched island wide in the future as a national endeavor to revolutionize the health care sector and build a healthy nation. 
Boasting a network of 200+ recognized hospitals, more than 5500+Doctors, over 2000+ outlets and coverage of any telecommunication network, eChannelling is the easiest way to channel a Doctor dial 225 from anywhere at any time.
Mobitel, the National Mobile Service Provider, has taken digital healthcare to the next level by including eChannelling PLC into its portfolio and strengthening its vital position in the telecommunications industry in the country.
 
		
==============================
## Title: First Randoli Perahera paraded the streets
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 August 2018 09:58 pm
First Randoli Perahera paraded the streets
	
The first Randoli Perahera of the historic Esala Maha Perehera of the Sri Dalada Maligawa paraded the streets last night. The procession set off from the Sri Dalada Maligawa at the auspicious time of 7.37 pm and proceeded along the Dalada Veediya, D.S.Senanayake Street, Colombo Street, Yatinuwara Street and return to the Dalada Maligawa through Raja Veediya. Pix by L.B.Senaratne and J.A.L. Jayasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fishmonger-war hero and other cases of  squandering militarys human resources
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:10 am
Fishmonger-war hero and other cases of  squandering militarys human resources
	

A media expose about a celebrated war hero who now makes ends meet by selling fish at the Matale Junction has struck a chord in the public conscience. Amurtha Hastha Navaratna Abeykone Mudiyanselage Sagara Nuwan Bandara, formerly of the Commando regiment once became the public face of military valour when he was photographed in full military gear during a military offensive in the East. Those images and many other impromptu shoots of random and often nameless military men, who risk their lives and limbs to rid the country of an egregious terrorism made their way to pandals, posters and a staple of file photos. Once the war was over, those men were conveniently forgotten, some were jailed, cashiered and sent on compulsory retirement. A few others rendered themselves unto the politicians of the former regime, deliberately or not, becoming tools of a political propaganda to prop up the dynastic ambitions of ex-president Mahinda Rajapaksa.
The story of Mr Nuwan Bandara is nonetheless one of ambiguity. An army commando who took part in a series of daredevil small group operations in Thoppigala, Mannar and deep inside the LTTE heartland of the Wanni also had a chequered record of insubordination and desertion, which resulted in his demotion and later de-listing from the army.
While his plight may not be synonymous with those of his comrades in arms, who stayed in the uniform or retired with a honourable discharge, Sri Lanka as a whole has not treated its military men and women fairly. Nor has the country adequately utilized the skilled human resources of one of the few battle-tested military forces in the world for the benefit of the country, or to the economic and social well-being of those very men and women.
There are of course retraining programmes for retired military personnel, and opportunities of overseas employment and much hype about reintegration. However, what the policymakers, both of military and civilian types, often overlook is decades of military service itself provide their own unique set of skills which are high in demand in a world from Sub Saharan Africa to Afghanistan, mired in conflict and chaos.

It is mind boggling why the government which covets a few hundred UN Peace Keeping opportunities, obviously because the money that comes with it, overlooks these better paying opportunities
Where the state militaries are poorly trained, ill equipped and not up to the task, governments and private firms operating in the most inhospitable lands have turned to the private military companies (PMC) to guard their back. With its reputation as the only state force that annihilated a well-armed terrorist group, Sri Lanka can easily tap these opportunities. And our soldiers have more combat experience than what it takes to prevail there. Instead, our policy makers are busy turning seasoned soldiers into juki machine operators. A rational strategy would have been to explore the vast market of private military contractors. That is also a more honourable way of filling the countrys coffers, than sending our women to toil in Arab houses. 
Liberal naivety places private military companies in a negative light. Such prejudice is magnified some times by the infractions of Black Water and other trigger happy mercenaries. However, private military companies have played a pivotal role in fighting Sierra Leones Revolutionary United Front, known for its cold blooded amputation of children, and have recently fought back Boko Haram in Sub Saharan Africa. PMCs provide useful services for governments that are cash-strapped to maintain large scale armies, by restoring a semblance of order and defending economic and strategic installations. The idea that the government has outsourced its monopoly of legitimate violence to armed mercenaries may not impress some. However, if that is the last desperate effort, reason should prevail over idealism.
This government has destroyed even the nascent effort of private military contracting. Avant Garde was demonized as eating into the Navys revenue. Sri Lanka that desperately needs better paying job opportunities for its men, should move beyond its comfort zone in search of opportunities for skills we have in abundance and are underutilized. Private military contracting is one such.And those jobs pay well, and come with dignity. The government should create a regulatory framework for Private Military Companies, remove existing bottlenecks, and help them find overseas opportunities.Then, retired army commandos who are now being sneaked into Iraq to serve in PMC can use legitimate channels. 
It is mind boggling why the government which covets a few hundred UN Peace Keeping opportunities, obviously because the money that comes with it, overlooks these better paying opportunities.
This is only one instance where skills are squandered. Consider another; Sri Lankan armed forces tend to have a very pedestrian view of the militarys role of the countrys economic development. The current practice of soldiers being assigned to manage parks and clean drains are debasing the the security forces. And the military-run hotels, cafeterias and farms in the North are counter- productive in the economic sense and explosive in terms of ethnic relations.

Military runs businesses in Jaffna enjoy an undue advantage over civilian enterprises. Their salaries are paid by the army payroll and they have no mortgage to pay. They effectively stifle the growth of private business. And army operated farms in land acquired from the displaced Tamils breed resentment.
At the end, both economic and social returns of these ventures are minimum and if counted against their adverse economic and social impact of the people in the region, the balance sheet is negative. 
This is also a model that has drastic long term implications. In countries such as Myanmar and Pakistan which operate vast empires of military run business, the militaries economic interests have clashed with the national interest. Corruption is also a problem. Others, such as Indonesia, gradually dismantled its military-run enterprises due to the same reason.
There is another way that the military can effectively contribute to the economic and scientific development.
Take the Israeli Defence Forces Unit 8200, considered as its Signal Intelligence Unit, but also believed to be the fountainhead of Israelis majority of tech startups. According to some estimates, alumni of this unit have founded more than 1000 world class tech companies. Effectively, Israelis reputation as a start-up nation is centered on this unit and Israeli defence forces ability to hire and harness the best of the tech talent.

Where the state militaries are poorly trained, ill equipped and not up to the task, governments and private firms operating in the most inhospitable lands have turned to the private military companies (PMC) to guard their back
Countries learn from successful experience of their peers, and then emulate and improvise them. Sri Lankan policymakers should ask what lessons they can learn. Sri Lanka, of course, lags decades behind the technological sophistication of Israel. Nor does it has a ready supply of top talent through measures such as compulsory military service as in Israel nor do the armed forces inspire enthusiasm of the best minds to join ranks (which hardly happens anywhere else, anyway). 
However, army has a fat defence budget, and there is plenty of promise in places like University of Moratuwa, where, unmistakably the brightest of every generation end up. Unfortunately, even the best of Sri Lankan universities operate in isolation from technological clusters, and run on paltry research budgets. By linking up with places like Universities of Moratuwa and probably Colombo, the defence ministry can create a synergy of financial resource and tech prodigy that can be harnessed to create a technological incubator, perhaps with thehelp of the private sector However, those projects are of the long haul, and need the continuous nurturing by a visionary government. Their presence may not be readily evident, as military run barber shops in Kilinochchi would do. 

But, great things and great nations are built gradually, painstakingly and one block at a time.
Follow @RangaJayasuriya on Twitter

 
		
==============================
## Title: Gota, Sajin, Nishantha noticed to appear
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 11:52 pm
Gota, Sajin, Nishantha noticed to appear
	
The Presidential Commission to inquire into allegations of large-scale frauds and malpractices in SriLankan Airlines, SriLankan Catering Ltd and Mihin Lanka (Pvt) Ltd has issued notices to four persons including former Defense Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and former SriLankan Airlines Chairman Nishantha Wickremesinghe to appear before it.
In addition to the former defense secretary, the commission has issued notices on former Monitoring MP of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Sajin Vass Gunawardena, former Chairman of SriLankan Airlines Nishantha Wickremesinghe and its former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Kapila Chandrasena.
It is reported that the commission has informed them to appear before the commission on Aug. 23, 24 and 29. (Manopriya Gunasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Govt. won't build power plants in future: Dr. Batagoda
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 04:36 am
Govt. won't build power plants in future: Dr. Batagoda
	
As a matter of state policy, the government will not build any power plants in the future but will provide facilities to the private sector to invest in small, medium and large-scale power plants, Power and Renewable Energy Ministry Secretary Suren Batagoda said yesterday.
He said Sri Lanka was likely to face a power crisis in the next two years pointed out that his Ministry had put in place a strategic plan to mitigate or control the power crisis.
Dr. Batagoda said and plans were afoot to launch a major power generation plant with a total capacity of 1,700 MWs under the recommendation of the Long-Term Less Cost Power Generation Plan that would meet the power requirements or power demands during the next few decades.
If the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) did not sign the power purchase agreement with the 100 MWs ACE Power, Embilipitiya Power Plant on April 15, there was a possibility of their being a power outage in the entire Southern Province. The decision to extend the power purchase agreement with Ace Embilipitiya was a Cabinet decision approved by the Cabinet-appointed Procurement Committee (CAPC). If the CEB had not signed the agreement the power plant would have been shut down by the management and the country would have been in the midst of a major power crisis, he said.
The CEB has managed to purchase power at the lowest cost possible under its mid-term power procurement mechanism by extending the power purchase agreement with Ace Power, Embilipitya MWs at Rs. 22 per unit. If this agreement was not signed, the CEB would have had to make emergency purchases at a unit cost of Rs.28. It may have increased up to Rs.36 or 38 a unit depending on the demand, Dr. Batagoda said. "A 300 MWs LNG power plant will be constructed at Kerawalapitiya with investment from China. Four heavy fuel power plants with the installed capacity of 25MWs are set up at Monaragala, Horana, Pallekekele and Nambuwa. There will a barge-mounted furnace oil power plant of 100 MWs at Galle Port and two 100 MW solar power plants at Sampur and Monaragala. Indian, Chinese, Korean and Japanese investors will invest in the majority of these power plants. The government expects to close tenders for these power projects before the end of 2019."
He said the CEB had already started work on a 100 MW wind power plant in Mannar and two private companies have invested in two solar power plants of 10 MWs in Sampur and Chunakam and that under the Power and Energy Ministrys ambitions Suriya Bal Sangramaya 150 MWs are to be generated with roof mounted solar panels of private houses.
Our target is to offer tenders to foreign investors before the end of 2019 with the target to commission those major power generation plants after 2003, Dr. Batagoda noted.
Quotes -- If the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) did not sign the power purchase agreement with the 100 MWs ACE Power, Embilipitiya Power Plant on April 15, there was a possibility of their being a power outage in the entire Southern Province. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hajj: Fifth pillar of Islam
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:04 am
Hajj: Fifth pillar of Islam
	
It is noteworthy that Hajj, the pilgrimage to Islams holiest site, Mecca, is celebrated annually by all Muslims around the world. It is commemorated to mark the sacrificial life of Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) and his family. Let us research such a sacrificial life through Al-Quran:
Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) wedded Hajara (RA), but Allah tested them by not giving a baby. However, when the prophet invoked blessings from the Almighty, he was blessed with a baby boy though at the age of 80.
Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) and his wife named the baby boy Ismail. Once, Hajara (RA) was in Mecca with her son and when he cried in thirst, she ran between Safa and Marwa mountains in search of water. Spotting a mirage, she rushed towards it, but there was no water. She was fooled. Similarly, she ran seven times between these mountains until the boy dipped his toes on the soil and water miraculously gushed from the ground, continuously. Hajara (RA) uttered, Zam Zam (Stop! Stop!). Thereafter, they both quenched their thirst from the sacred water, which was then called Zam Zam water.
Once Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) had a dream of slaughtering his son. The dream repeated for three consecutive days. He deemed it a divine order. He discussed this with his wife and son, and they agreed. Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) asked his beloved son if he could tie him with a rope and hang him upside down for slaughtering. The brave son said there was no need for such. Prophet Ibrahim (PBUH) tried to sever his sons neck, but the knife didnt permit him. He then threw it away, only for the knife to split a rock into two halves. The knife then said to him that God did not give it permission to decapitate his sons neck. And then, Angel Jibreel descended from heaven with a sheep by reciting Takbeer. He conveyed the message of God; that his obedience and efforts were lauded. It was indeed a great test of Allah.
Hajj pilgrims should wear Ihram (unstitched white cloth) to show simplicity and unity. They should perform certain rituals during Hajj. Upon completion of them, pilgrims should visit the Raudha Shareef (tomb) of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) and Jannatul Baqi (cemetery) in Medina and stay there for eight days.
It is believed that the sins of those whose Hajj pilgrimage is accepted would be wiped away. Therefore, if we have the means of going on this pilgrimage, we should. May Almighty Allah give all Muslims the opportunity to perform Hajj!
 
		
==============================
## Title: He is an irksome barrier to them!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 August 2018 10:30 am
He is an irksome barrier to them!
	

A khakied one playing sentinel at the residence of a high political authority in Rajarata is reportedly chasing away the constituents calling over there.

This cop, who seems to hate the very sight of the hoi polio calling over, seeking the help of the politico has made it a practice to rudely turn them away saying that boss is not in, they say.
However, some constituents assured that the politico is available inside because of the presence of his security detail and official vehicles outside, would boldly head for the residence brushing aside his objections resulting in frequent noisy altercations, they say. 
 
People in the area have reportedly complained to the politico about the rude conduct of the cop, but no action appears to have been taken against the man so far.
 
		
==============================
## Title: IP, two constables arrested over robbery
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 09:53 am
IP, two constables arrested over robbery
	
A Police Inspector (IP) and two police constables have been arrested by the STF this morning in connection with an alleged robbery in Kalutara.
Police said the IP attached to the Panadura Division Anti Corruption Unit and the constables were handed over to the Police Organized Crimes Unit for further investigations.
The suspects would be produced in the Kalutara Magistrates Court today.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Japan keen to strengthen security cooperation with SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 06:15 pm
Japan keen to strengthen security cooperation with SL
	
The visit of the Japanese Defence Minister Itsunori Onodera has drawn attention to the need for further strengthening maritime security cooperation between Japan and Sri Lanka.
This was the main focus at a meeting between the Japanese Defence Minister and President Maithripala Sirisena held at the presidential secretariat today.
The Japanese Minister was warmly welcomed by the President and at the meeting the progress on the agreements entered into during the President's recent visit to Japan was also reviewed.
Resulting from the discussions between President Maithripala Sirisena and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the Japanese Government provided two patrol boats costing some Rs.1.8 billion to the Sri Lankan Cost Guards. The President expressed his gratitude to Minister Onodera. and said he was happy to learn that he would be visiting the Hambantota and Trincomalee ports.
Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera said the official visit of Japanese Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera to Sri Lanka was a significant development in further strengthening defence, trade, diplomatic and cultural ties between the two countries.
He told reporters that this first official visit by a Japanese Defense Minister to Sri Lanka augurs well for the unity government.
The government led by President Maithripala Sirisena does not have enemies in the global community but only friends, the minister said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Japanese Defense Minister meets PM
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 August 2018 06:06 pm
Japanese Defense Minister meets PM
	
Japanese Defence Minister Itsunori Onodera met Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe at Temple Trees today. State Minister of Defense, Ruwan Wijewardardene also participated in the discussions. Pix By Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Japanese naval ship arrives in Trinco
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 08:38 am
Japanese naval ship arrives in Trinco
	
Japanese naval ship Ikazuchi arrived at the Trincomalee port yesterday for a three-day good will visit.
The ship belongs to Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force, was welcomed in accordance with naval traditions on arrival.
The Mission Commander of the ship Captain Ryoko Azuma accompanied by the Commanding Officer and other officers paid a courtesy call on Commander Eastern Naval Area, Rear Admiral Sumith Weerasinghe at the Eastern Naval Command Headquarters.
They held cordial discussions focused on enhancing bilateral cooperation.
Further, The Mission Commander of Ikazuchi and the officers of the crew met the Training Captain of Naval & Maritime Academy Captain Kosala Wijesooriya at the Commandants conference hall. They discussed the matters related to training of Navies of both countries and exchanged mementos as a gesture of goodwill.
During the 3 day official visit the ships crew is scheduled to visit the important places in Sri Lanka and to participate in several special programmes arranged by the Sri Lanka Navy in enhancing mutual relationship.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Macron and Merkel Made for Each Other
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:25 am
Macron and Merkel Made for Each Other
	
Impossible is a word to be found only in the dictionary of fools
 Napoleon Bonaparte

Together they hold a crisis-ridden Europe together.The weakened German Chancellor Angela Merkel needs not to worry. Her liberal democratic mission for Europe will not die down all too soon. The boy whom she was planning to take by hand and show the world is not a minion. Barely fifteen months into the presidency, French President Emmanuel Macron has proven he is capable of leading the continent on his own terms or on Merkels lines. 
Be it his latest move to woo Turkey, much to the annoyance of Donald Trump or his awe inspiring speech at the US congress that snubbed the Republicans or his no-nonsense attitude towards Brexit and the manner he brokered a deal between France and four other EU countries last week regarding the stranded migrants on a Mediterranean rescue vessel, the 40-year-old French President has already won over the world. Global leaders and the media are awakening to reality that Macron is all but mediocrity. Though nowhere near Napoleon who became emperor of France at the age of 34, Macron fans are making comparisons and claim that in terms of youthful political versatility and innovativeness, Macron certainly is the closest the French have ever got closer to the emperor. 
The degree at which the 40 year old French President Emmanuel Macron and the 64 year old German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been complementing each other too is unprecedented in the history of Franco-German relations. Such camaraderie was last seen in global politics largely between United States and United Kingdom during Clinton-Blair and Reagan-Thatcher eras. 
The past week was a crucial one.

In the wake of a boiling immigrant crisis in Spain and the Syrian refugee issue taking centre stage in Putin-Merkel talks, Germanys far right-wingers once again held protests against their Chancellor demanding that she resigns. The domestic protests saw Merkel promising to accelerate the pace of the deportation of rejected asylum seekers. 
Meanwhile, Macron brokered a deal between France and four other countries  Germany, Spain, Italy and Luxembourg to harbour 141 migrants stranded on a Mediterranean rescue vessel ending a five-day tug-of-war among European countries as to what was to be done about them. Macrons dexterity in handling this crisis was lauded by many parties. The European refugee crisis is largely attributed to Merkel by opponents. Its the price she had to pay for saving humanity. Its obvious that instead of being the protg of Merkel, the French President is fast becoming her saviour. 
As per the phone conversation between Merkel and Macron on Friday, both leaders call for a combined European solution as regards rescue two ships and smugglers. The European situation regarding refugees has been compounded with the decision by Italy not to allow private ships into its ports. 
Following last weeks domestic protests and refugee crisis in Spain, Chancellor Merkel is now expected to suggest tighter border controls to Macron as well. 
She is reportedly planning to reintroduce border controls in boundaries it shares with France and also Switzerland. The German chancellor is already working with Greece and Spain on repatriation of asylum seekers and also holding negotiations with the Italian government. 
France and Germany account for around 50 per cent of the Euro Zone output and hence call the shots in the union. However the growing refugee crisis is seeing a new low in Merkels popularity and she certainly must be thanking her stars that theres an Emmanuel Macron to stand by her. Macrons election last year came at a time when an isolated and battered German Chancellor was desperately looking for an influential partner to back her and carry forward her liberal democratic mission. The young French President has certainly fared beyond her expectations. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Maldivian election   It is a contest between constitutional change and economic development
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:08 am
Maldivian election   It is a contest between constitutional change and economic development
	

Contestants Solih and Yameen

Yameen replaced chaos by orderliness and economic development
	From 2008 to 2013 there was a lot of politics but little or no economic development,

In the Maldivian Presidential election to be held on September 23, the contest is between the need for a sweeping change in the countrys constitution to make it more democratic on the one hand, and the need for rapid economic development under stable and orderly conditions, even if these conditions do not accord with notions of democracy prevalent in the West, on the other. 
The former line has been adopted by the Joint Opposition led by former President Mohamed Nasheed and its Presidential candidate, Ibrahim Mohamed Solih. The latter line is touted by the ruling Progressive Party of the Maldives (PPM) led by the incumbent President, Abdulla Yameen.
Yameens rule has been marked, on the one hand, by intolerance of internal dissidence and of the formal opposition, and on the other hand, by administrative and policy stability, rapid economic development and expansion of social services. In other words, Yameen replaced chaos by orderliness and economic development. 
But his intolerance led to the oppositions appealing to the international community to help overthrow him by naming and shaming him and threatening to impose sanctions. Nasheed went a step further than his colleagues and sought a military-backed diplomatic intervention by India. 
That hyperbolic demand came after Yameen jailed virtually all major opposition leaders and prominent dissidents on charges of terrorism and conspiring to overthrow the government by surreptitious means. 
Prior to this, Nasheed had wanted to oust Yameen by constitutional means and promised that the constitutional coup was round the corner. However, it wasnt long before Yameen discovered that the scheme to overthrow him constitutionally was to get the Supreme Court judges to give rulings which would nullify all his anti-opposition actions. 
The government charged the self-exiled opposition Jumhoory Party (JP) leader, Gasim Ibrahim, of bribing the judges to get the verdict. The judges had also delivered the verdict without hearing theAttorney General. 
Yameen declared a State of Emergency and arrested the Chief Justice and one of the judges. He also used a special provision in the law to get measures passed by parliament without the requisite majority. 
Move to replace Presidential System
It was a series of dictatorial actions of this sort which forced the opposition Maldives Democratic Party (MDP) to include in its Presidential election manifesto, the goal of changing the constitution from the Presidential system to the Westminster-style parliamentary system.
Hamid Abdul Ghafoor, International spokesman for the MDP, said that one of the main tasks of the MDP and the Joint opposition candidate, Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, would be to get the parties in the opposition alliance to accept the proposed constitutional make over. 
I do not know if he would be able to do it, but it will be his and the MDPs endeavour to get the constituent parties of the joint opposition to agree to the switch over to theparliamentary system, Ghafoor said. 
The MDP favours the parliamentary system because in it, power is not concentrated in any one office, while in the Presidential system it is concentrated in the office ofthe President. 
Moreover, the Maldivian political system is based on constituencies where members of parliament represent particular constituencies. Pluralism is thus built into the Maldivian political system, Ghafoor pointed out. 
As per the MDP manifesto released in June, which the Joint Opposition had unofficially accepted, the constitution should be changed in the first 18 months of the joint opposition candidates assumption of office as President of the Maldives.
The next parliamentary elections should be held under a parliamentary constitution in which the various parties would contest against each other. The already elected President is expected to be a titular head. 
But MDPs coalition partners are silent on the change over from the Presidential to a parliamentary one. 
JP leader Gasim Ibrahim would like to be the Executive President and wield the kind of power which Yameen now wields. Therefore, it remains to be seen if the JP and the other parties in the Joint Opposition will go along with the MDPs plan to change the constitution, an MDP leader, who did not want to be identified, said. 
If Gasim agrees to a constitutional amendment at all, it will only be in regard to the age bar for contesting. He would seek the deletion of the clause which says that no one who is 65 and above can stand for the Presidency. Gasim is over 65, the source added. 

The next parliamentary elections should be held under a parliamentary constitution in which the various parties would contest against each other. The already elected President is expected to be a titular head.
But ruling PPM sources say that governments in a parliamentary system will be necessarily unstable as they will be rickety coalitions. Coalitions have failed in the Maldives because they had invariably broken up as leaders with vaulting ambitions had jockeyed for power. Coalitions had jeopardized economic development. From 2008 to 2013 there was a lot of politics but little or no economic development, it is pointed out. It was thanks to the ascendency of a tough leader like Yameen in 2013, that the Maldives began to witness economic development, the launching of many mega infrastructural projects (with Chinas help) as well as small grassroots level welfare projects. 
Yameens developmental effortsAccording to official statistics, Yameens government has completed 2757 projects costing US$ 5.7 billion since it came into being in 2013.
There have been 565 sports infrastructure projects in 160 islands, totally costing US$ 240 million. The government has spent US$ 1.04 billion on 212 projects in the health sector in 137 islands. The Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH) has expanded its capacity to 500 beds. There are now facilities in the Maldives to treat kidney, cancer and heart patients. A cardiac centre has come up in the IGMH. A 100-bed tertiary hospital is coming up soon in Addu Atoll. Regional hospitals are being upgraded and refurbished. Health Centres have come up in the smallest islands.
The government has given a lot of importance to education. The 174 educational projects in 114 islands have got a total allocation of US$ 1.69 billion. Books have been replaced by tablets. Virtual classrooms and libraries have been established. The government has created 22 new schools with a total of792 classrooms.
Social housing is another area which has been given great importance by the Yameen regime. The governments 34 social housing projects spread over 20 islands are being executed with a budgetary allocation of US$ 1.3 billion. The ongoing HIYAA Social housing project will solve the housing problem of 160,000 people. This massive project is expected to be completed in 2019. 
Land has been reclaimed from the sea to meet emerging requirements. 240 hectares of land was reclaimed under the Hulhumales Phase 2 scheme and 493 hectares was reclaimed in another four islands. 
Addressing the issue of public health, the government put up 82 sewerage systems in 57 Islands. There are 193 waste management projects; 83 harbour development projects; and 61 clean water projects. 
Road development has been completed in 22 Islands. It is ongoing in 13 other islands. Domestic airport construction, theVelanaa International Airport expansion, and the China-Maldives Friendship Bridge are nearing completion.
However, what the people think of these developments is still a mystery. The ruling PPM and President Yameen hope that the people are appreciative and will vote for the PPM candidate. A source close to the President said that while the younger generation may opt for the opposition because they tend to be dazzled by Nasheeds advocacy of democracy and his dare devilry, the middle aged and older voters would prefer a stable and performing government to a democratic but non-functioning system in which politicians enjoy the freedom of the wild ass. 
While the Maldivian media is generally against Yameen and his government, it cannot be automatically concluded that the voters too are against the regime. The people are silent. The mystery will be solved only when votes are cast and counted. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Missile attack launched at Presidential Palace in Kabul
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:32 pm
Missile attack launched at Presidential Palace in Kabul
	
At least a dozen missiles have been fired in Kabul, with some targeting the Presidential Palace and diplomatic zone in the capital of Afghanistan, the RT news reported a short while ago. 
The attack came as President Ashraf Ghani was speaking at an Eid prayer ceremony.
The attack on the palace and the diplomatic zone occurred early on Tuesday, RT news said quoting Tolo news.
According toofficials, at least 12 missiles exploded in the area. Locals have said that there might have been more than 20.
No injuries were reported in the attack.
 
		
==============================
## Title: MR's brother Chandra Rajapaksa passes away
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 01:42 pm
MR's brother Chandra Rajapaksa passes away
	
Chandra Tudor Rajapaksa,one of the brothers of former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, passed away at the age of 70in Tangalletoday, familysources said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Oman Air introduces a range of inflight comfort amenities
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 02:55 pm
Oman Air introduces a range of inflight comfort amenities
	
Oman Air, the national carrier of the Sultanate, makes premium comfort amenities available for all on selected flights in time for Eid Al Adha. Effective from 15 August, Oman Air will launch the sale of sleepwear, an exclusive amenities kit, and other Oman Air branded merchandise at attractive prices on a selected number of routes to mark the festive season.
The airline is committed to maintaining its award-winning standards and continues to offer an enjoyable onboard experience. The new amenities, which have been carefully researched and developed, will be available on all long-haul flights to and from Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. The product offering reflects Oman Airs commitment to provide all guests with the best in luxury and comfort.
The elegant Business Class Amouage amenity kit, designed especially for Oman Air, contains a set of luxurious travel essentials including hand and body moisturiser, face cream, a sleeping eye shade and shaving razor. A Colgate dental kit and mouthwash are also included in the kit, to keep Oman Air guests refreshed.
Fatigue is an unwelcome companion when travelling. With this in mind, Oman Air is introducing comfortable, yet stylish sleepwear on selected flights which can be bought at a nominal price. The new sleeper suits will provide Oman Air guests with plenty of comfort and ease when travelling on long haul night flights. A set of soft slippers is also included to guarantee comfortwhen resting or moving during the flight.
Xia Cai, Senior Vice President Guest Experience and Branding, said: Oman Air is always looking at new ways to give our guests more choice and value to build their personalised journey. In addition to providing extra comfort and choice in the air, some of the items are great gift ideas, particularly in the run up to the holiday season. We will monitor guest satisfaction and aim to expand the range of items for sale in the future.
Inflight amenities play an important part in the passenger experience and Oman Airworks hard to ensure that the best possible experience is offered to its valued guests.
Oman Air is committed to constantly improving its product, developing its brand and offering its guests an unrivalled experience. The new offerings, coupled with the quality of the service, make a significant difference to guests onboard experience.

 
		
==============================
## Title: PM not satisfied with govt.'s performance in employment generation
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 07:18 am
PM not satisfied with govt.'s performance in employment generation
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday said the governments performance with regard to employment generation is far from being satisfactory.
The Prime Minister said this during a ceremony held at Temple Trees to give letters of appointments to unemployed graduates.
Some 430,000 people have been employed after this government came to power. If the number of people who began self-employment schemes and those who found employment overseas are added it will come to around 700,000. The number of EPF account holders before 2015 was 7.8 million. There are 8.2 million EPF account holders today. However this is not enough, I am not satisfied and the government also cannot be satisfied with it. We have to generate more employment the Prime Minister said.
There was a debt servicing issue when we took over in 2015. There were no sufficient funds to meet the debt services. Some thought that the government would fall by end of 2015. We accepted the challenge. We have managed to stabilize the economy. The target for the end of 2018 is to reduce debt servicing up to 70 per cent of GDP. We hope to reduce it up to 60 per cent of GDP by 2025. We are confident about the future. The country faced a difficult situation as a result of natural disasters. We were criticized for taking difficult decisions. We have to face these realities in politics and there are times when we have to make difficult decisions. We even lost an election. However we will go forward now, he added.
Private sector investment has to be enhanced in order to achieve a speedy development. We have to go for exports. The countrys revenue has to be doubled. We got an export revenue of $ 11,73million in 2017. This is hardly sufficient. This has to be doubled. Bangladesh economy was in shambles in 1978 but now they have jumped up to 34th slot in the global economic position rankings. Vietnam will beat us before long. Indonesia is set to become a developed economy. We have set the stage for economic resurgence but it is essential to take off now,  he also said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Police use tear gas at IUSF protest
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 03:01 pm
Police use tear gas at IUSF protest
	
Police used tear gas and water cannon to disperse the protesting university students outside the University Grants Commission (UGC) a short while ago, Police said.


Video by Buddhi, Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Protesting undergrads tear-gassed again
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 04:19 pm
Protesting undergrads tear-gassed again
	
The university students were tear-gassed a short while ago outside the University Grants Commission (UGC) for the second time, police said.


Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Radio dramas insult to Buddhism: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 02:32 am
Radio dramas insult to Buddhism: MR
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa said it was regrettable that an organization headed by the daughter of former prime minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike had acted to produce radio programmes bearing titles that insulted Buddhism and its culture.
He was referring to the radio drams produced by the Office of National Unity and Reconciliation (ONUR) headed by Chandrika Bandaranaike.
He said it was better for those with authority to look into such matters.
People regret that the daughter of a pious Buddhist lady Sirimavo Bandaranaike is involved in such matters, he said. (UpaliP Ranaweera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Reminiscing the Past and looking forward to the Future
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 03:00 pm
Reminiscing the Past and looking forward to the Future
	
The Chairman of FACETS, Mr. Mushtaq Jabir
The FACETS International Gem and Jewelry Exhibition is mere days away, and the excitement and anticipation is steadily rising to fever pitch. Amidst the storm of organization and enthusiasm, stands Mr. Mushtaq Jabir, the Chairman of the FACETS Committee and the zealous leader of the army of planners, organizers and promoters, all working tirelessly to make the 28th edition of the Sri Lankas premier gem and jewelry exhibition a success. Mr. Jabir is no stranger to the world of FACETS and he was kind enough to spare some time from his busy schedule to address some of the primary topics about FACETS, its origins, current status and future.
The inception of FACETS and its purpose
It all started when an Indian gem dealer was seen organizing a gem show at the Lanka Oberoi in Colombo, now known as the Cinnamon Grand. He was surrounded by gem dealers, tourists and locals alike who were peering at the gems andjewels he had on offer, with much interest. A few likeminded individuals and well known dealers were watching the spectacle in disbelief.
They knew instantly that Sri Lanka, being the leading Sapphire producing country, should have its own exhibition to showcase its valuable gemstones to the world. After all, where is the best place to buy gems from than its very source This was a diamond in the rough and they knew all it would take would literally be good faceting.
The team came up with a few names and finally suggested that the exhibition be named FACETS, and so it was. The then Sri Lanka Gem Traders Association took it on and forged ahead with the idea of hosting a gem show, possibly an annual one. The motive of organizing an exhibition of wholesale dealers was to keep it purely for traders with an aim to encourage exports. To give them an opportunity to showcase their fine gemstones and forge long term relationships with overseas dealers. The show also creates exports for local entrepreneurs, developing an international image for our industry and country, and to attract the global Gem and Jewellery audience to our very own stage.
The very first FACETS International Gem & Jewelry Exhibition
When FACETS was first held in 1991 under the chairmanship of the late Mr. Faizel A. Cader, it was the first international exhibition of gem and jewelry ever to be held in Sri Lanka. The show was held at the Hilton Colombo in September and it had 50 booths made up of leading gem dealers. From then on some of the biggest Sapphire dealers from all over the world became loyal visitors to the show.
The exhibition created awareness in the country and among the gem merchants of Sri Lanka, of the importance of holding an annual exhibition of this nature and international reach. This event was the flagship activity of the Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Association, which organizes this show with the support and assistance of the National Gem and Jewellery Authority and the Sri Lanka Export Development Board, and continues to this day.
The growth of FACETS over the years
Over the years, the show has steadfastly developed in to one of the best international gem and jewelry exhibitions in the world. A very significant factor in the history of the event is that it is the only exhibition in Sri Lanka, which has been held uninterrupted for a period of 27 years. As a result, the local Gem and Jewelry trade has benefitted immensely, reaching appreciable heights in the international arena. Over the past 27 years, the brand profile of the show has developed to a great extent, gaining international recognition as a world class exhibition and has now grown to nearly 200 stalls.
The role of FACETS in the development of the Gem &Jewelry Industry
Facets Sri Lanka plays a pivotal role in making Colombo a regional Gem &Jewelrycapital and Sri Lanka the Sapphire Capital of the World.
FACETS strengthens and promotes industry development with special focus on the industry's prime resource, the Ceylon Sapphires, as well as to increase the sale of other gemstones and jewelry products to overseas markets, attract more international buyers to Sri Lanka and facilitate a level playing field among the different segments of the industry.
FACETS today
FACETS Sri Lanka has now earned international recognition as the showcase event of Sri Lankas Gem and Jewellery industry, which is one of the most important contributors to the Foreign Exchange of our national economy.
FACETS was given a brand new-look - significantly enhancing the value of the show. There were several new developments and value additions; by way of the introduction of a Premier Jewellery Pavilion, Premier Gem Pavilion and the Gem & Jewellery Mart for the SMEs. The show is constantly reviewed and reformatted with new branding in all areas from time to time.
The show, which has both state and private sector patronage is accommodating local and foreign exhibitors showcasing their gemand jewellery products.Furthermore, a sizable number of high-profile and influential buyers from around the world visitthe show. A footfall of Close to 10,000 local and foreign visitors is recorded at the show.
The event this year, will take place from the 30thof August to the 02ndof September at the BMICH Exhibition and Convention Centre in Colombo, from 10.00am to 6.00pm.
The future of FACETS
The way FACETS is expanding, I foresee a greater challenge to all international exhibitions, especially in South East Asia. FACETS is on the road map to many international and country pavilions in the future, thereby opening up to one stop shop for gems, jewellery and all other related services to buyers around the globe. I also foresee FACETS expanding its roots to Premier Exhibitions in the future.                                                                            Let me personally wish FACETS the very best in all its future expansions.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC ruling on MS clearly shows MR can't contest again
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 09:54 pm
SC ruling on MS clearly shows MR can't contest again
	
The Supreme Court's ruling delivered earlier this year on the term of office of President Maithripala Sirisena makes it clear that former president Mahinda Rajapaksa cannot contest the next presidential election, UNP MP Thushara Indunil told a media briefing today.
President Sirisena sought SC's ruling on whether his tenure was for six years or five years.
The SC ruled that his term will end in five years even though he was elected prior to the enactment of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which limited the tenure of the executive president to five years thougah previously it extended to six years. This determination makes it clear that former President cannot contest again even though he was elected to the presidency on two occasions prior to the enactment of 19th Amendment, the MP said.
He said former president Rajapaksa would only damage his reputation if he contested again.
Responding to a question asked by a journalist, the MP said his party was in no way worried or alarmed about Mr. Rajapaksa contesting for a third term.
We keep talking of Mr. Rajapaksa whenever a new topic surfaces among the public, he said and added that speculation about his third term has come up because of divisions among members of the joint opposition who are unable to select a presidential candidate.
Some want former defense secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa to be the presidential candidate while others are promoting former minister Basil Rajapaksa. The name of former president's wife Shiranthi had also popped up from time to time. All this shows that the joint opposition is divided, the MP said.
When asked why the UNP was not talking of its candidate, the MP said it was too early for the UNP to decide on a candidate.
At the proper time, we will decide whether it is Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe who should contest or some other member of the party. There is no need to rush, he said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SLIM PGDIP Inauguration: Creates leaders for the next generation!
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 11:50 am
SLIM PGDIP Inauguration: Creates leaders for the next generation!
	
The Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM) recently held its Inauguration for the 2nd intake of Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing. The event was organized on a grand scale with a large crowd of Advanced Level students, marketers at executive and middle managerial levels of corporates and other members of thebusiness community participating. Non-Marketers who were interested in a career change, also gathered together to take the step forward which would enhance their Marketing careers and boost their futures.
The PGDIP curricular is made to bestow students with a knowledge that extends beyond the fundamental theories of marketing. The 24 month part time programme consists of four levels. It gears participants with marketing competencies that are needed from operational to managerial level. Students are provided with a detailed understanding on marketing tools. The strategic level focuses on concepts such as Sustainability and Strategic Marketing Planning. The final level of PGDIP is an individual research study, which every student is required to be carried out.Thus the PGDIP is highly recognized by the Sri Lankan corporate sector as it paves the way for any individual with career prospects in the corporate sector.
Special invitee for the PGDIP 2018 inauguration was former General Sales Manager of Fonterra Brands (Pvt) Limited, Stephan Paulraj. He is also the Founder of Cloud Consultancies and the Head of the Panel of Judges for SLIM NASCO 17/18. Inhis speech, he explained that SLIM-PGDIP has made a reputation among the corporate sector including multinational and local organizations, universities and other professional bodies as the qualification to create corporate leaders.
SLIM President, Pradeep Edward who is the CEO of Lanka Hospitals Diagnostics highlighted the importance of bestowing persons with advanced marketing knowledge to excel in the existing vibrant business environment. SLIM has designed the PGDIP programme to groom quality marketing personnel who could add value to the marketing fraternity in Sri Lanka. Postgraduate Diploma holders of SLIM are employed also by companies beyond our territories.He shed light on a wide spectrum of activities that SLIM students are exposed to, beyond their studies. Such as the SLIM-NASCO, Marketers Night, EFFIE and SLIM Toastmasters club.
He reiterated that marketing as a field has globally evolved to become a way-of-life and PGDIP caters to this reality. The cream of resource personnel in the country is conducting the programme. You can learn from their wealth of experience in the local and international spheres and through the multiple support sessions conducted by them to enhance your knowledge in marketing, he added.
SLIM Vice President Education and also aBusiness Consultant, Suranjith Swaris said, We live in a world full of challenges. Especially the corporate sector is very demanding, having stiff competition. A fully-fledged marketer could make his company stand out from the clutter by differentiating himself, his brand and his company from the rest.And also SLIM obtained both ISO 9001:2015 certification in recognition of SLIMs superior quality management systems and ISO 2990:2010 for Learning Service Provider (LSP), proving non-formal education and training services, which enablesa high standard of quality education as SLIM
SLIM CEO and Executive Director Sanath Senanayake commented, The right blend of assignments, individual/group presentations and exams have elevated the PGDIP qualification to its pinnacle. The programme evolves with the changing marketing scenarios in the world to produce fully fledged marketers who could rub shoulders with veterans in the sphere.He added, Marketing is a lucrative profession. It is one of the highest paid and rewarding field in the professional world. Marketing also is a very disciplined and vibrant profession. It has produced corporate heads and entrepreneurs who are respected by the society.
Fresh intakes for Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing are now on and students would follow classes at SLIM Business Schools in Colombo, Kandy and Matara.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Special High Court declared open today
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 August 2018 03:41 pm
Special High Court declared open today
	
The first Special High Court was declared open today at the Hulftsdorp Court Complex in Colombo under the patronage of Justice Minister Thalatha Atukorala. Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Special high court to hear fraud cases, declared open
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:04 pm
Special high court to hear fraud cases, declared open
	
The first special High Court established to hear financial fraud and corruption cases, was declared open by Justice and Prison Reforms Minister Thalatha Athukorale a short while ago at the Hulftsdrop court premises in Colombo 12.

The ministry said it would establish three high courts to hear corruption cases and this was the first.
 
		
==============================
## Title: TAD Lanka, Official Event Partner forRound Table International World Meeting 2018
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:36 pm
TAD Lanka, Official Event Partner forRound Table International World Meeting 2018
	
Seen from left: Atheeq Ansar, Managing Director of TAD Lanka and Shezad Hameed, President, Round Table Sri Lanka 2018/19 exchanging the banner of 'Friendship and Partnership'.
AtheekAnsar, Managing Director ofTAD Lanka commented, The RTI World Meeting is the most important event in the RTI calendar. It is also a very important occasion for Sri Lanka to showcase its potential for tourism and investment to more than five hundred young and upwardly-mobile businessmen. Many delegates will be touring the country over two weeks including in Wilpattu, Anuradhapura, Sigiriya, Dambulla and Trincomalee. During these visits they will enjoy the beauty of Sri Lanka and the warm hospitality of the people. There will also be many business meetings during this time where Sri Lanka is expected to be the biggest beneficiary. TAD is privileged to be associated with RTI Sri Lanka in organising this event and we are sure that it will be a memorable event for all the delegates.
Set up by Toshiaki, Atheek and Dhanuka, today TAD Lanka operates as the local partner of a number of ventures incorporated with Japanese FDIs handling the management, administration and operations of several sub-brands of one holding company. In addition to Japan, TAD has also expanded to the Maldives, Myanmar, Kenya and Uganda to attract FDIs from those countries.
Round Table International
Round Table is a non-political, non-religious and non-sectarian organisation that cultivates the highest ideals in business, professional and civic traditions and aims to develop fellowship among young men through community service and business activities. The organisation which began 91 years ago in Norwich, England, has spread across the world and now has over 35,000 members. It was inaugurated in Sri Lanka in 1983.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tear-gassed
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 21 August 2018 05:40 pm
Tear-gassed
	
The protesting university students are seen tear-gassed by police at the University Grants Commission (UGC) this afternoon. Pix by Damith Wickramasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: They are in dire straits now!
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 21 August 2018 10:28 am
They are in dire straits now!
	

Two siblings active in politics at the national level are openly complaining that they are in severe financial difficulties, they say.

The sibling out of office now, but continuing to run an office, is said to be so hard pressed that footing the office staffs monthly pay bill has set a big poser to him.
He also has to maintain at his own expense the private security detail continuing to serve him.
Meanwhile, his sibling holding a political office too is said to be lamenting about the difficulty in making both ends meet.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three police officers arrested by mistake: Police
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 08:21 pm
Three police officers arrested by mistake: Police
	
The three police officers who were arrested by the STF this morning in connection with an alleged robbery in Kalutara was a mistake, Police said.
This was revealed during the investigation carried out by the Organized Crimes Investigations Division.
The three police officers were released after they were produced in the Kalutara Magistrates Court.
Five civilians were also arrested in connection with the incident and four of them were remanded till August 23, 2018.
 
		
==============================
## Title: To Dr. Ramya Kumars Article Doctors, MOH, Free Education et al
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:04 am
To Dr. Ramya Kumars Article Doctors, MOH, Free Education et al
	
Right of Reply
Read with much interest a response to my article of July 27, 2018, in particular and to most other articles of mine on the health sector and medical profession in the DM, titled Do away with Medical Officers of Health A response to Kusal Perera by Dr. Ramya Kumar, an academic in the Medical Faculty of the University of Jaffna. Appreciate very much the initiative to engage in discussion on this very vital topic that most have kept away to date.
Reading through Dr. Ramya Kumars response, I feel there is some misreading of what I have been arguing and making observations on, and that needs brief clarifications and explanations.
1) Dr. Kumar says in yet another article I have been slamming the medical profession, implying I have always been slamming the medical profession. In conclusion, Dr. Kumar says I urge Perera to separate his contempt for the medical profession and the Government Medical Officers Association(GMOA) from his analysis of the public health sector..
I have always been holding the GMOA leadership as a medical mafia. I would continue to do so, until and unless the GMOA leadership changes course to play a responsible, civilized role within the health sector and in society. As for the medical profession, yes, I do say, it is no more the noble profession it was. As a profession the medical profession has over the past decades given up its moral and ethical standards and is no more different to all other corrupt professions; the legal, accounting, engineering, the academia etc. Yet I do accept there are very good medical doctors as very good lawyers, engineers, accountants, academics et al. Where I hold good doctors at fault is on their silence and their reluctance to stand up to the GMOA mafia. My criticism of the medical profession and the private practise is valid says Dr. Kumar.
2) Yet Dr. Kumar says his writings are confused and often unsubstantiated. A point made is that, my antipathy to the medical profession led me to undermine the students call to protect free education. I was thus supporting the governments effort to privatize medical education says Dr. Kumar, taking a questionable position on SAITM.
Glad Dr. Kumar raised this issue of free education along with private medical education. My position on free education had nothing to do with simplified sloganizing of free education by not only the students, but by the academics and the GMOA too. Free education in the anti SAITM protests was only a popular cover for the very sectarian demand by GMOA. 
My position on free education is based on Sessional Papers No.43 of 1944, commonly known as Kannangara Reforms. Sadly, most in the anti-SAITM campaign did not know what this Sessional Paper is about and those gullible students brought on to Colombo streets have not even seen a copy of it. In June 1944, when it was adopted by the State Council, there were over 1,100 private schools managed by Missionaries and the Buddhist Theosophical Society along with State owned government schools. Kannangara Reforms never ever proposed to nationalize these private schools. It never proposed education free of charge. It allowed even government schools to levy facilities fees. Private schools that could not afford a well paid tutorial staff was assisted by government. All schools levied fees, with government schools not making it compulsory. 
Free education was NOT free of charge education as these students and Dr. Kumar would want to believe.Today we have more than 44 totally private schools (including Chundikuli Girls School) within our national education system, even after PM Bandaranaikes government in 1962 nationalized a vast majority of assisted and private schools. Pupils in these private schools are taught the same curriculum and the same syllabi. They sit the same G.C.E O/L and A/L exams with all other students from government schools and compete for admissions to all faculties in State universities. 

Free education and private medical education issues raised as matters of life and death have no relevance and validity in the context of present day education

The call against private medical education Dr. Ramya Kumar stands with, has no validity with eight medical faculty Deans sitting in the SLMC accepting and registering private medical colleges and universities for Sri Lankan students to graduate as medical doctors with only the ERPM (another tuition industry monopolised by medical doctors) required to practise medicine and join government service. Is it where the private medical college is located that decides privatizing of medical education If private medical education is opposed on principle, why wasnt the KDA fee levying medical faculty opposed along with SAITM
Free education and private medical education issues raised as matters of life and death have no relevance and validity in the context of present day education where everything has been com-modified with absolutely no protests from any quarter during the last 30 years and more. Private companies own International schools that have yet to be opposed by this fake Free education campaigners. Nor do they question, the massive private tuition industry that makes a mockery of Kannangara Reforms that established a national education system, accepted the right to education with equal opportunities on a level playing field. The role of the State was to create that opportunity for the majority who could not afford such education to their children. 
Lets also not forget,those who fight to safeguard free education never speak nor oppose fee levying courses in their own universities and the academia that sympathized and supported student campaigns never avoided teaching in these fee levying courses for extra income. They also ignore all foreign university degrees offered and privately tutored here and professional degrees and diplomas from private institutes and organizations held valid in local employment. 
There always was a market-based education sector that had expanded without limits within the free market economy and without any opposition from free education campaigners.
3) The present role of the position MOH and that of the medical doctors holding that position needs serious dialogue. Dr. Kumars details as to why and how the British colonial rulers came to establish a Medical Officer Health (MOH) post in preventive healthcare is accepted and is history.The 50s and the 60s, was when even politicians were honourable men and women unlike today. Not only the MOH, everyone else in the health service from top to bottom were duty conscious and discharged their duties honestly. The whole public sector was that then. Monitoring of field work then came under an OIC who was a Senior PHI in the MOH division. This responsibility was brought under the MOH from around 1964.
My assumption, Medical Doctors of today as MOH have failed miserably in their discharge of duties, with spread of Dengue used as one example is based not only on numbers I quoted, but on pathetically degenerated professionalism and politics of the GMOA that results in medical officers as MOH neglecting their duties and responsibilities. The claim by Dr. Kumar that They oversee service delivery at the community level, including maternal and child health, family planning, and communicable and non-communicable disease prevention, while carrying out medical consultations at maternal and child health clinics is therefore the point of contention. Except attending maternal and child health clinics, MOH is an almost absent officer in all else. They are comfortable remote controlling all monitoring work from their offices. May be Jaffna is different, as noted by Dr. Kumar. 
Rapid and unplanned urbanisation mentioned as reason for recent spread of dengue, is only half true with MOH rarely seen or heard in most anti dengue campaigns carried out with police personnel, Local Government Councillors and DS office personnel. It is a fact that dengue cannot be successfully controlled without community support and participation. It is also a fact, community support and participation have to be mobilized by MOH and his staff. That is what goes missing with medical doctors as MOH. Their ego with the tie and the stethoscope do not allow them in the field as the PHI and the Public Family Health Officers (Mid wives) do.
True the post of MOH is no glamourous post for medical doctors. But that gives them enough time for PP in their own area, especially in rural society. And in Colombo and suburbs that provides them an added reason to demand National schools for their children. 
As for my proposal to shift medical doctors posted as MOH to area GP work, does not in anyway reflect Colombo dinner table talk. That also does not replace the medical doctor with para medics in curative health. Instead it provides people with a government GP in their own area, they now have to pay for, unless they go to a government hospital, where the OPD often doesnt run for more than three hours a day. Well trained para-medics for community preventive healthcare, is one I borrowed from J.H.L Cumpston (Director General, Health Services of Australia) who was commissioned by then Ceylon government and whose Report in 1950 explains the rational for it. Yet it was only a proposal, and is open for dialogue, without doubt.
 
		
==============================
## Title: TSG hosts gala anniversary celebrations
## Section: News Features
## Date: 21 August 2018 12:01 am
TSG hosts gala anniversary celebrations
	
Sri Lankas pioneering sustainable seafood farming company, Taprobane Seafood Group (TSG) proudly unveiled an eventful occasion on July 22 at the Mannar Public Ground in commemoration of its eighth anniversary. 
The milestone event hosted by media mogul J. Yogaraj underpinned the platform for a tapestry of musical, theatrical and phenomenal dance performances, the staging of cultural heritage and stimulating sporting challenges to display diverse talents and artistry of its employees attached to eight processing facilities throughout Northern and Northwestern Provinces.
The celebrations kicked off with the unfurling of the national and TSG flags amidst a distinguished gathering including Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development Minister Gamini Vijith Wijayamuni Zoysa, State Minister Dilip Wedaarachchi, MPs Selvam Adaikalanathan and Charles Nirmalanathan, Northwestern Provincial Minister Sumal Tissera, Mannar Urban Council Chairman Gerard, NAQDA Chairman Madawan Arachchi, Fisheries Department Managing Director Marcus, V. Ketheeswaran from the Manthai West Divisional Secretariat, Malith Fernando from Manish Group and officials representing the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency (NARA).
The high-ups were then escorted to light the traditional oil lamp to the tribal drumming of bejewelled Kandyan dancers twirling in elaborative garb. Once they settled in their allotted seats, a troupe representing TSG performed a Bharatanatyam act, a pre-eminent Indian classical dance form, as the curtain-raiser.
Addressing the gathering, Minister Zoysa lauded the untiring efforts of TSG to resolve the pressing issue of unemployment in the country. He also underscored the yeoman services rendered by the corporate giant to a socially-responsible nation.
Sri Lanka is a strategic location, well-endowed with natural resources. However, people seek employment across borders owing to the dearth of greener pastures in the country. A majority of these job aspirants is hired as housemaids. Thanks to the dignified jobs offered by Taprobane Seafood Group, the number of migrant workers has plummeted steeply. Over the years, TSG has recruited at least 1500 youths, and this sum will soar to as high as 10,000 in the event 3,000 more acres are acquired for seafood farming. TSG has also pledged to generate a staggering US$ 1 billion in annual revenue through canned crabs, thus liberating Sri Lanka from the gaping maws of commercial loans, he said.
Fostering friendly rivalry among its employees, TSG organised several games including Football, tug-of-war and Elle at the event laden with much pomp and pageantry. While many vying participants registered thrilling victories, others displayed true sportsmanship.
Adding glamour to this enthralling encounter was TSG Arunalu, the inaugural annual scholarship scheme launched for the children of TSG employees who excel at the Grade 5 Scholarship, Ordinary Level and Advanced Level examinations. In a bid to guide and empower the graduated children of its staffers, Taprobane has decided to provide management trainee placements. They will be absorbed into the permanent cadre based on performance. However, the days proceedings culminated with a grand musical extravaganza.
Taprobane Seafood Group was founded in 2011 by Timothy O Reilly and Dilan Fernando with the shared vision of reaching the highest standards of sustainable seafood farming. It is the first Sri Lankan entity to receive the most prestigious certification for food standards (FSSC-22000). In 2014, Taprobane clinched the Presidential Award for the Highest Foreign Exchange Earner in the seafood sector.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ward place blocked due to protest
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 21 August 2018 02:25 pm
Ward place blocked due to protest
	
Ward Place in Colombo was blocked as a result of a protest staged by the University Students outside the University Grants Commission (UGC), Police said.
Meanwhile, police said they had obtained a court order on the IUSF protest and said the protest should be carried out peacefully and legally without obstructing the people and vehicular traffic.
They said according to the court order protestors should refrain from forcibly entering government offices and obstructing public servants from carrying out their duties.

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
==============================
