## Title: Best of luck to Pakistans new Prime Minister Imran Khan
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Best of luck to Pakistans new Prime Minister Imran Khan
	
Once, I was interviewed by a popular Television Channel in Sri Lanka in a morning show. The young presenter asked me this question.
You are an International Cricket Commentator for nearly five decades. Who is your best all-rounder and your idol in the game of cricket and why
I replied Imran Khan. He is a charming gentleman and an all-rounder par excellence. He is a fearless and a committed complete cricketer, great fighter who always put the country before self.
Today, Imran Khan, a man of honesty and integrity, is the Prime Minister and leader of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Pakistan is divided into four provinces geographically - Baluchistan, North-West Frontier Province, Punjab and Sindh. Its area is 796,000 sq km or 307,304 sq. miles and the main ethnic groups consist of Punjabi (60%) and Sindh (12%). Punjabi is their official language and Sindhi is also spoken in the country. As far as religions are concerned, the majority are Sunni Muslims. There are also Shia Muslims.
Pakistan does not have summers and cold winters. Rainfall is sparse, except in the monsoon season from June to October. Forests snow on mountain slopes, but most of Pakistan is covered by dry grass land.
The blue-blooded Imran Khan, was born on November 25, 1952 in the Garden City of Pakistan Lahore. It boasts of a very proud history during the Moghul Era.
Imran Khan a man who belongs to a sterling stock, made his test debut for Pakistan in 1971. He played for Worcestershire (1975-1977) and Sussex (1978-1979). He captained Pakistan from 1982-1992. One of his greatest achievements in the playing field of cricket was annexing the Plum of Cricket  the World Cup in 1992.
Undoubtedly, the charming all-rounder Imran Khan was one of the most brilliant cricket captains that I have seen. As an all-rounder, Imran Khan has captured 325 wickets. A handsome and ticking dynamo in 1977 January, he took 12 wickets in Sydney. I class this as one of his best pieces of sustained swing bowling. This Prince of Cricket Imrans finest hour indeed was in 1992, winning the World Cup.
Imran Khan hung his cricket shoes when he was forty, after scoring 3,807 runs at 37.69 in 88 Tests - 100x6 136 historic score  362 wickets  22.81 average. He captured 5 wickets in an innings 23 times and 10 wickets in a Test six times (best 8 for 58) and held 28 catches.
Imran Khan was among the four elite all-rounders. Others were Ian Botham, Kapil Dev and Richard Hadlee. They have achieved the Test Double of 3000 runs and
300 wickets. 
Imran Khan was among the four elite all-rounders. Others were Ian Botham, Kapil Dev and Richard Hadlee.
His one-day international figures were also very impressive  3709 runs at 33.41 and 182 scalps at 26.6, best being 6 for 14, in 175 matches. Undoubtedly, great Imran Khan was an adornment to cricket.
In my opinion Threeinones all-rounder in the modern era were Miller, Benard (Australia), Botham (England), Mawakad, Kapil Dev (India) Sobers (West Indies), Jacques Kallis (South Africa), Daniel Vittori (New Zealand), Imran Khan and Chaminda Vaas (2815 runs  331 wickets).
I had the big fortune of meeting the legend Imran Khan thrice. I met him for the first time when he toured Sri Lanka in the 1970s  1980s. The second occasion was in Sharjah. I still remember the good Samaritan Imran told me that he is planning to construct a Cancer Hospital in memory of his beloved mother. I mentioned his social service venture and mentioned it in my Sharjah Commentaries. 
The third occasion was in 1996 when he walked into the Sri Lanka commentary box and thanked me once again for the publicity I gave with regard to the construction of the Cancer Hospital.
Imran Khan represented the prestigious University of Oxford from 1973  1975. He captained the Oxbridge side and blasted the Indian attack with a blistering 160 and 49.
He was among the recent four great allrounders Ian Botham, Kapil Dev, Richard Hadlee to achieve the Test Double of 3000 runs and 300 wickets.
His ODI figures were equally impressive - 3709 runs at an average of 33.41 and 182 wickets at 26.71 in 175 matches. 
Undoubtedly, Imran Khans greatest achievements in the field of cricket was winning the 1992 World Cup, on March 25, 1992 in the presence of 90,000 spectators at the panoramic Melbourne Cricket Grounds (MCG). Pakistan had a disastrous start losing four matches out of five. But, the never say die Imran Khan, the gutty fighter, led his team to victory later by scoring five wins. In the finals Imran Khan top scored with 72. He had a partnership of 139 with Javed Miandad.
A man of honesty and integrity, great Pakistan cricket was an adornment to cricket. He will be an added beauty to his beloved country as Prime Minister and will guide the destinies of Pakistan. 
The color green, the crescent moon and the five-pointed star are all traditional symbols of Islam. The white stripe represents the other religions in Pakistan. The new Prime Minister Imran Khan will keep this flag flying high.
Wish you good luck Prime Minister Imran Khan. May you go from strength to strength!
 
		
==============================
## Title: Briefing note to presidential hopefuls
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Briefing note to presidential hopefuls
	
Three adults were discussing politics in a quaint holiday house in Kabalana, Koggala named Octopus Reef a few days ago. The son of one of these adults tapped his fathers knee. The father handed over a mobile phone to his son saying this is what you wanted, right The son responded thus: Yes. You were talking about ideology, whatever that means.
The boy is just 11 years old. He didnt know this, but the truth is that very few talk ideology and fewer still know whatever it means. One might add, and even fewer would really care. Thats what ideological hegemony has done  persuaded the abandonment of ideology even as the dominant ideology is affirmed in practice if not in word and more perniciously endorsed by those in contexts of subjugation.
In the classic Marxist model of understanding things and processes, the economy is the base and ideology refers to religious, legal and political systems determined by that base. The dominant ideology would be the projection of the consciousness of the ruling class whether or not the majority of that particular class clearly understands the operational logic of the overall system or the interests of the collective.
Lets keep it simple though. Ideology refers to a system of ideas and ideals, especially pertaining to things economic and political. It could include among other things beliefs, tenets, principles, doctrines, creeds and theories.
Now even a cursory examination of Sri Lankas political landscape would show that ideology, in this simplistic sense, is conspicuously absent or consistently bested by fixations with personality and political collective. Theres talk, especially when elections are at hand, and thats about it. Perhaps Mangala Samaraweera for all his ideological posturing was the one who came closest to describing the state of affairs: manifestos dont count after elections are done (or words to that effect).
The state of ideology can be ascertained by the fact that nothing has dominated elections and even politics in recent times than that sad and humiliating notion, default option. We dont need to elaborate.
Today, the talk is about what or who comes next. The talk is about presidential hopefuls. Theres also talk about known devils and lesser evils. Theres also the cursory talk about programs, more from the Opposition than from the ruling coalition which has all but come undone.
Its nothing more than a recycling of old buzz-words and slogans. Check these out: democracy, reconciliation, rule of law, equal before the law, abuse of power, nepotism, cronyism, combating bribery and corruption, accountability, transparency, separation of powers, separating state and religion, independence of the judiciary, good governance. Now lets ask some questions. Do we have true representation Does the law actually rule Is the judiciary independent and without blemish Are we rid of nepotism and cronyism Are we reconciled Have we resolved the issues of power-separation Have we unshackled state from the burden of religion as some would put it And what about yahapalanaya
When will we get to the hard questions, when will we start looking seriously for answers I do not know, but there are things that presidential hopefuls and parties considering pathways to political victories would do well to consider. In the coming weeks, in this column, these issues will be discussed in greater detail. For now, they shall be flagged. Fleshing out is in the final instance in the hands of those who operate within the political equation and hopefully in the hands of those they seek to or claim to represent, i.e. the people.
The State
When we talk of the State it is a discussion that seems sadly limited to one of two things: should it be secular or not, should it be unitary or not. The nature and the role of the state given both local and global realities is never discussed outside academic circles, if indeed they are discussed even in such rarified spaces. What does the state do, really What should it do and what is it made to do and whom These are questions that are ignored. They are questions people like to pretend dont exist. Indeed, even those discussions that focus on the placement or otherwise of religion and the pros and cons of unitary/federal arrangements are marked by sectarian interests.
The Cabinet
The focus has been on size. The pledges have been on limitation. The mechanism to limit has loopholes which make the rhetoric sound hollow and worse, manipulative, contemptuous of the people and deceiving. The issue should be about legislating not just for a limiting of size but the specification of subjects and rules over assigning institutions to the relevant ministries.
Reconciliation
Thats been a buzz word for a long time since it replaced that other politically tainted term, peace. Theres talk of grievances and aspirations. Theres talk of historical injustices. Theres talk of traditional homelands. The relevant histories, grievances and aspirations are seldom fleshed out, are frequently inflated or deflated as per the interests of the particular articulator, and are less about substance than about sloganeering.
Separation of powers
Thats about the legislative, judicial and executive arms of the state. All three are out of order. Perhaps out of fear, the judiciary is left strictly alone when it comes to pointing out flaw, but the truth is that the judiciary is not independent and moreover is marked by institutionalized wrongdoing. The same goes for law-enforcement, with the Police Department severely compromised when it comes to expertise in regular police work, multiple avenues for the fattening of the corrupt, scandalous submission to political authority and even the underworld, and a system of appointments and promotion which has undermined the fundamental principles of policing.
Environment
It seems to be an after-thought, coming into play only when those affected by development or those who are concerned about environmental issues raise their voices. It does not frame national policy at every turn. As it should, if sustainability is a key as politicians, academics and experts here and abroad make it out to be.
Foreign Policy
Ad hoc seems a good descriptive. Is it only about doing things that please those whose friendship is limited to securing access to resources, better terms of trade and furthering strategic interests Should not foreign policy be designed after considering larger global issues, in particular the play of nations and corporates in robbing the commons, as it were Should it not be about making choices that make sense not just for the resolution of immediate concerns but the overall wellbeing of generations to come Thats not the case, sadly.
Education
Thats a brag. The discussion has been reduced to a simplistic argument: private or public Where is the comprehensive occupational classification that is a prerequisite for scientific planning pertaining to the education system as a whole as well as its constituent parts Why hasnt new knowledge about the objectives of education, methodologies and overall streamlining become central to discussions
Health
Its another brag. A simple question would reveal a lot about current policy on the health sector: who makes the bucks
There are of course other areas that need to be examined, and these we shall come to in the coming weeks. However, one important element has to be flagged in this initial enumeration.
The people
They are kings and queens from the moment elections are announced and until the polls close. They are taken to be of little consequence in the relevant before and after. Politicians and parties claim to represent and to do things in the name of people, but people are not trusted.
The people are an important part of the nation. There are, therefore, attendant questions. Who are we as a people and a nation Are we simply multi-ethnic and multi-religious Who made this nation Who died in the making and defence of this nation Is history important or irrelevant and why is it so (either way)
We can indulge in caricature. We can sweep things under the carpet. We can say whatever that means not in the honest manner of a child but in the irresponsible, frivolous and ultimately damaging way of an adult.
Let us see how serious politicians and political organizations are.
Malinda Seneviratne is a freelance writer. malindasenevi@gmail.com. www.malindawords.blogspot.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet decides to appoint high level Salaries and Anomalies Committee
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 11:36 pm
Cabinet decides to appoint high level Salaries and Anomalies Committee
	
The cabinet has decided to appoint a high level Salaries and Anomalies Committee (SAC) to review salaries and remove salary anomalies of the entire public sector with the aim of giving a considerable pay hike to all government employees from budget 2019, a senior cabinet Minister said today.
Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe told the media at the weekly SLFP news briefing at the party office that the SAC will be appointed after the cabinet approved it and decided the composition of it next Tuesday.
The decision to appoint an ad-hoc committee to review and remove salaries of public servants was taken on Tuesday after Finance and Media Minister Mangala Samaraweera pointed out that increasing of salaries of employees of Sri Lanka Railways alone was unfair and it would create further anomalies and disappointment among employees of other services. Minister Samaraweera also told the cabinet that salary anomalies were found in 25 other services in the public sector and he was ready to release funds from budget proposals 2019 after a proper and across board salary structure was established for all public employees, Minister Samarasinghe said.
Commenting on certain media reports that President Maithripala Sirisena rejected a proposal made by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to the cabinet to pay an extra allowance to monitoring MPs -the back benchers of the government - who check the progress of rural development projects carried out under the governments Gamperaliya project that has allocated Rs. 200 million to all Divisional Secretariats.
Monitoring MPs are necessary as Divisional Secretaries cannot monitor rural development projects single-handedly with their other responsibilities, he noted.
Proposal to pay an allowance to monitoring MPs was a recommendation contained in a report submitted to the cabinet. It had been prepared by Treasury Secretary, Dr R.H.S. Samaratunga, Lands Ministry Secretary W.H. Karunaratne and Secretary to Prime Minister Saman Ekanayaka. Prime Minister Wickremesinghe did not submit a cabinet paper on this matter as reported by the media, Minister Samarasinghe stressed.
However, the first salvo against the proposal in the cabinet was fired by Agriculture Minister Mahinda Amaraweera who noted that the time was not right to give an allowance to monitoring MPs while the country and people in dire strait. President Sirisena accepting the views of Minister Amaraweera said the proposal could be taken up later with amendments.
Responding to a journalist on the ongoing trade union action by railway employees, Minister Samarasinghe said Minister Samaraweera had convened a meeting last afternoon and expressed hopes that the strike would call off by last afternoon.
Commenting on assault by commuters on trade union representatives at Fort Railway station, Minister Samarasinghe said it was how commuters vented their anger and disappointment after learning that they had no train to return home after days hard work.
Minister Samarasinghe said the SLFP annual convention was scheduled to be held in early September on a grand scale and the partys reorganization from the grassroots level to the top will be fully in place by then to ensure partys victory at the forthcoming PC, Presidential and Parliamentary polls. (Sandun A Jayasekera)

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Citizens arise, apocalyptic dangers facing us
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Citizens arise, apocalyptic dangers facing us
	
Expert scientists are warning that the global warming catastrophe may be reaching a point of no-return with some western countries going through their hottest summers in history and some of them getting as hot as 46 degrees Celsius while California and Greece face their worst ever wildfires. Meanwhile the world this week marks the anniversary of another apocalyptic danger -- nuclear weapons.
According to a Washington Post report, Hiroshima marked the anniversary of the 1945 atomic bombing with a sombre ceremony on August 6 to remember those killed and injured, with a call to eliminate nuclear weapons amid hopes of denuclearizing North Korea.
Nuclear deterrence and nuclear umbrellas are inherently unstable and extremely dangerous approaches that seek to maintain international order by only generating fear in rival countries, the Mayor said, urging world leaders to negotiate in good faith to eliminate nuclear arsenals instead, according to the Washington Post report.
The United States Hiroshima attack killed about 140,000 people and the August 9 Nagasaki bombing killed more than 70,000. Hiroshima Mayor Matsui said in his speech that Japans government should do more to achieve a nuclear-free world by helping the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons to take effect. Japan, which hosts US troops and is covered by the US nuclear umbrella protecting it from attack, has not signed the treaty, the newspaper says. 
Japan should live up to the spirit of its pacifist constitution to lead the international community towards dialogue and cooperation for a world without nuclear weapons, the Mayor said. About 50,000 people, including Hiroshima residents and representatives from 58 countries, including US Ambassador William Hagerty, attended this years ceremony. The anniversary comes amid hopes to denuclearize North Korea after US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, at their Singapore meeting, made vague aspirational statements about denuclearizing the peninsula.
According to a report in the British Express newspaper website the United States and Russia account for 92 per cent of nuclear weapons. Russia has about 6,850 nuclear weapons with the countrys tough-talking dictator Vladimir Putin boasting that Russia now has super-smart nuclear weapons which could penetrate any defence mechanism and hit any part of the world. US has about 6,450 weapons. With President Trump widely known to be inconsistent and dangerously unpredictable, analysts have expressed concern over his power to order a nuclear attack. Some analysts say the US and Russia have some weapons which are tens of thousands of times more powerful than the atom bombs which caused an apocalypse in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
The Express report says France has about 300 nuclear weapons, China about 280, Britain about 215, Pakistan about 150, India about 140, Israel about 80 and North Korea about 60. Addressing the United Nations General Assembly, Pope Francis said nuclear non-proliferation treaties were totally inadequate and he urged world religious leaders to come together in seeking a ban on nuclear weapons. The worlds major religions have no doctrinal differences relating to nuclear weapons. They need to meet together more regularly and apply pressure on the world leaders to impose a ban while inspiring the people to carry out massive protests in their countries. Pope Francis has also appealed to world religious leaders to work together in the battle against global warming, though President Trump recently pulled out of the 2016 Paris Climate Change Accords, which virtually all countries have signed.
President Maithripala Sirisena speaking at a national ceremony on Tuesday to mark the launch of the sustainable development programme said he was proud to proclaim that Sri Lanka was one of the first countries to sign the Paris Climate Change Accord. If global warming trends continue, many countries including the Maldives will be submerged within decades. Sri Lanka also will lose a large section of its coastline. Therefore there is a need for the worlds people to be eco-friendly and act as responsible citizens by putting pressure on leaders and holding demonstrations to curb climate change and bannuclear weapons.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Duties on small cars to be revised soon: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 06:27 am
Duties on small cars to be revised soon: PM
	
The government intended to revise the import duties imposed on small cars and hybrid vehicles in the near future, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe informed Parliament yesterday.
The Prime Minister expressed these sentiments in response to a question raised by Joint Opposition MP Bandula Gunawardane in the House last afternoon.
The Prime Minister said the minimum duty rate of Rs 1.5 million for small cars with the engine capacity less than 1,000cc and the minimum duty rate of Rs 1.25 million for hybrid vehicles would be imposed as the increase of vehicle import expenditure had pushed the balance of payments to more negative levels.
Accordingly, he said the vehicle import expenditure within the first five months of 2018 had gone up to the US $ 666 million compared to the US $ 316 million recorded within the first five months of 2017.
The Prime Minister said that the expenditure incurred for the importation of small cars with engine capacity under 1,000cc and hybrid vehicles had accounted to 51 per cent of the total vehicle importation cost in 2017, while it had increased up to 78.9 per cent of the total vehicle import expenditure in 2018.
The Prime Minister refuted the claim made by Mr Bandula Gunawardane that those who opened Letters of Credit to import small cars before August this year were allowed to clear their vehicle by paying the earlier duty rates has been aimed at giving a concession to a selected group.
Mr Wickremesinghe assured that the Government would look into the gold importation scam, which Mr Gunawardane talked of.
Earlier, Mr Gunawardane said gold was being exported hidden in the sand, while the number of gold biscuits, coming into the country, had increased drastically. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Eight trains to operate this evening: Railway Dept.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 05:02 pm
Eight trains to operate this evening: Railway Dept.
	
The Railway Department will operate eight trains by this evening despite the work stoppage by the railway trade unions, Railways Additional General WijayaSamarasinghe told Daily Mirror.
He said trains would operate services on main lines -- Chilaw, Puttalam, Matara, Galle, Rambukkana, Kandy, Mahawa, and Avissawella.
Another oil train will also take off from Kolonnawa. The other office trains will leave from Fort and Maradana railway stations, Mr. Samarasinghe said. (Pushpa Weerasekara)\

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Finding Refuge in a Khaki Jungle
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Finding Refuge in a Khaki Jungle
	
First-ever Child Protection Unit inaugurated at Ragama Police Station
We refer to children as the future generation. Therefore we say that they need to be nurtured under the proper environment to become better citizens. While all this is being said and in most instances done at the higher strata in society, the children at lower strata, who also falls into the future generation category, treads on an entirely different path. For most of them, abuse, incest, violence and rape are common occurrences. Childhood trauma is one of the causes of depression, anxiety and other psychological disorders in the long run. In Sri Lanka, although there is an established department of Police for people to make their complaints, seeking the assistance of law enforcement officers may not be a pleasant experience at times. Identifying the need to establish a friendly environment for children to demand their rights, the Rotary Club of Colombo Metropolitan was working on an idea presented to them in 2015. The result was the newly established Child Protection Unit at the Ragama Police Station. This unit was established largely due to the collective effort of its members, donors, well-wishers, Sri Lanka Police and the Ministry of Public Administration, Lawand Order.
Child Protection Unit
Built at a cost summing up to Rs. 10 million, the Child Protection Unit is furnished with modern equipment. Designed under careful supervision and attention to detail, the interior of the Unit appears to be more like a pre-school. The Unit consists of five rooms which serve different purposes. The child or the victim visits this place in shock, pain and grief. Hence the environment, including the officials working at the Unit should ensure that the child doesnt experience more pain and mental suffering. Hence the Unit comprises the following areas :
Rest room : As soon as the child enters the premises, the Rest room is on the right. As its name suggests, the child is allowed to rest here for a while, playing with toys and getting used to the environment before he or she is taken in for interrogation.
Interview room :The Interview room is on the left side of the premises and is equipped with two tables and seats, similarly to those at montessories. This is to make sure that the Police officer who is conducting the interrogation is seated at the same level as the child. This way the child feels even more comfortable to talk and speak out. This room is equipped with a recorder and a
one-sided mirror.
Observation room : This room adjoins the Interview room and it is from here that the Officer-In-Charge observes the proceedings that take place at the Interview room. The observation room is equipped with all recording equipment.
OICs room : This room is for the OIC to occupy and is equipped with an attached bathroom and other office furniture. It has been requested that a female officer takes this position.
Office room : This is where all the ground work is done once a child makes a visit and a complaint is made.
A beacon of hope for children who have experienced abuse
Addressing the gathering Project Chairperson and Past President Kumar Mirchandani said that the Rotary Club of Colombo Metropolitan has always worked for the benefit of the children. We therefore want this Child Protection Unit to be a beacon of hope for children who have suffered from violence and been abused. Through this initiative we also hope that the Police will be able to totally banish crimes against children.
We want this Child Protection Unit to be a beacon of hope for children who have suffered from violence -Kumar Mirchandani
This idea was initiated back in 2015 when Yasantha Kodagoda mooted the idea to one of our club members. She picked up the project and initiated it while the rest at the club offered their fullest cooperation. We had several fundraisers and under the continued guidance of Yasantha himself, the Club was able to pull it off. I also like to thank all the donors and well-wishers who stood by us to make this dream a reality.said Mirchandan.
This Unit should empower children to speak out for their rights
In his comments, Immediate Past President Rukshan Perera said that the Rotary Club of Colombo Metropolitan mainly focuses on children and their well-being. This is the biggest project we have carried out ever and although it was challenging, the team challenged the unchallengeable. But this building is just the beginning.
We want to ensure that this Unit will empower children to speak for their own rights, educate them on what their rights are and give them confidence -Rukshan Perera
We want to ensure that this Unit will empower children to speak for their own rights, educate them on what their rights are and give them the confidence to go out and speak for themselves without fear. We look forward to the day that children will be able to speak fearlessly and confront the perpetrators, said Perera.


Delay in legal process and re-victimisation
It is quite a tedious process to file a case with the existing legal process in Sri Lanka. Even after a case is filed it would take a long time before a verdict is given. In most instances, because either party has given up on the hearing process, the cases tend to be dismissed. Therefore, the efficiency of the legal process is always questioned. In his comments, Additional Solicitor General and President Counsel Yasantha Kodagoda said that out of the unfortunate incidents which take place in the world, child abuse is at the forefront. Once a child experiences a crime, he has to face a criminal investigation, a forensic investigation, conditions in which to file a criminal case and the criminal case itself.
According to a survey done in 2015 the conviction rate of child abuse cases at the High Court in Colombo is as high as 80%. This is higher than any other conviction rate in other countries. This is because the Police and the forensic specialists have been able to adhere to their principles and work in a professional manner. This is one result we could be happy about. But there are two negatives which we are also concerned about. One is that a case filed for serious crimes would take up to 10 years and two months to conclude. Even if it concludes producing a verdict the process takes this time. If appealed, the trial itself takes seven to nine years.The second negative factor is re-victimisation. In most instances, a child who has already gone through physical and psychological trauma will be treated inhumanely when taken for questioning. In the absence of properly trained officials and the right environment, there is a tendency for the victim to experience re-victimisation, said Kodagoda.
The launch of this Child Friendly Unit is one step in the right direction. This is the first time a project of this nature was launched and it is not only important to build it, but the senior officials serving it should also be sensitive and work professionally. I hope other service organisations will also take a cue from this initiative and help the Police to curb violence and abuse against children in the best possible way, he said.
Police should be a friendly place for people and children
In his remarks, Minister of Public Administration, Management and Law and Order Ranjith Madduma Bandara said that as of late the Police has become a dangerous place. But it should be a friendly place for people to come and relate their grievances. It should be a place that encourages a child to come and speak for his or her own rights. I always read the situation report sent by the Police every morning and I have observed that we have to take care of our children at this day and age of increasing crimes.
I always read the situation report sent by the Police every morning and I have observed that we have to take care of our children -Ranjith Madduma Bandara
As a result of using technology, moral values and ethics are on their path to extinction. As elders we have to pave the way for a brighter future when it comes to the younger generation. More than seven to eight cases of violence against children and females are being reported daily and Im sure that the numbers are even higher. Once a child is abused, he or she no longer possesses self-confidence. Therefore it is our duty to help them regain their confidence and face society with courage. The crime rate has reduced between 2014 and 2018 and it needs to reduce further. We see an emerging trend of drug peddling, organised crimes and the emergence of the underworld. Our attention has been diverted onto these cases and we have given all the rights to the Police to put the perpetrators behind bars. We need the continued support of voluntary organisations such as Rotary to ensure that the younger generations have a safe, friendly society to live in. said Bandara.

Such units should be established at all provincial Police stations
Addressing the gathering, Inspector General of Police Pujith Jayasundara said that the Rotary Club of Colombo Metropolitan has set an example to the rest of the voluntary service organisations in the country. Children who have gone through abuse and violence need to be presented with a proper environment in which they are comfortable to relate what they experienced. For this purpose we will include specially trained female officers. The Education Ministry and foreign organisations are supporting the Police in training its officials for programmes and Units such as these.
We live in an era where children are being trapped in a drug menace and orphaned children are exposed to the risk of being involved in various crimes -Pujith Jayasundara
I also have an idea to establish this Unit at all other Police Stations at provincial level as an attempt to curb violence and abuse against children. This is a timely initiative and we need to make maximum use of it. It is indeed an attempt to heal the minds of children who have been tortured. We live in an era where children are being trapped in a drug menace and orphaned children are exposed to the risk of being involved in various crimes. We have introduced special letter boxes to collect complaints by children at various schools. The officials at Community Police Stations are helping children who are not attending school with the necessary equipment and they are also assisting children who cannot afford to attend school. Complaints related to child abuse cases, which are received by other Police stations, will also be referred to this Unit in the near future,said Jayasundara.


 
		
==============================
## Title: Flight with 124 on board diverted to pick ex-airline chairman, PCoI told
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 08:40 am
Flight with 124 on board diverted to pick ex-airline chairman, PCoI told
	
SriLankan Airlines Colombo flight from Kuala Lumpur (UL-319), had been diverted to Singapore by former SriLankan Airlines Chairman Nishantha Wickramasinghe, to pick up him, his spouse and another Govt. delegation in January 2014, the PCoI on irregularities at the SriLankan Airlines was told yesterday.
Operations Control Manager of the Airlines Gopitha Indrajith Ranasinghe informed the Commission that by the time the diversion took place a direct passenger flight from Colombo to Singapore UL-309 was available and he had informed the former Chairman that there would be only a one-and-a-half hour delay.
He informed the Commission that the direct flight from Colombo to Singapore had departed on time but it returned back to Sri Lanka due to suspected fuel leakage, but as the Engineering Division had not found any leakage it had departed again after some time.
He also informed the Commission that after the second departure of the direct flight to Singapore, the former Chairman has to stay only one-and-a-half hour in Singapore.
I asked him if it was really necessary to divert a flight, while a direct flight from Colombo to Singapore was on the way, but he instructed me to go for a diversion stating that there was a government delegation to come to Sri Lanka, he informed the Commission.
During his testimony, he informed the Commission that according to the Kuala Lumpur-Colombo flight Passenger Manifesto, the aircraft had picked up only former Chairman, his spouse and Dr Sarath Amunugama from Singapore but Dr Sarath Amunugama has not made immediate request to arrange a flight.
He also informed the Commission that except for the President, there was no flight diversion happened for a Government delegation in Sri Lanka and this was the first time.
The witness also notified the Commission that due to the particular incident SriLankan Airlines had to pay additional charges for the pilots and staff, additional fuel charges, landing charges, engineering charges and over-flight charges.
There were 120 Economy Class passengers and four Business Class passengers in the diverted flight and there could be transit passengers as well, he said.
He informed the Commission that if there were transit passengers, the SriLankan Airlines have to re-book their tickets or provide them hotel accommodation. (Yoshitha Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hambantota Port: One Untold Story
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Hambantota Port: One Untold Story
	
Unlike Colombos congested port, Hambantota handles goods including large car carriers, requiring more worker hours (Photo AFP)
Corruption is a luxury cruiser sailing exclusively outside Europe and non-Anglo waters and seems to find a safe harbour only in our parts of the world. So its no surprise a recent New York Times (NYT) article, How China Got Sri Lanka to Cough up a Port, muddies four distinct issues: Mahinda Rajapaksas alleged corruption, Sino-Lanka economic ties, alleged Chinese expansionism and Magampura Ports viability. 
The NYT allegations and selective facts are blatant: Their estimates of ship arrivals to Hambantota use 2012 data, rather than the over-10-times higher 2017/18 figures. 
With Western and Indian loans not forthcoming, China was invited to step in
	Chinas economic rise offers a post-Western-hegemony new multipolar world
Meanwhile, the former Government (now opposition) denies being funded by China, and the present regime (former opposition) denies being under pressure to cough up Magampura Port to China. So where does this all this back-and-forth respiratory rasping leave us Cough-cough!
We need a historical and geopolitical clearing of the throat here. Lets contextualise Hambantotas erased history of suffering, the counter-hegemonic role played by China in the global economy and Sri Lankas need for industrialisation. 
A hasty history of Hambantota  Port ofthe Sampan
Colombo always misapprehends Hambantota. Take Leonard Woolfs Village in the Jungle where a Colombo capitalist casanova tries to seduce a local married woman, promising to make her husband a gambaraya. Yet Woolf dared not explain how this gambaraya post was created. 
500 years of colonial invasion rendered Ruhunas Magampura  Hambantota  desolate, the regions flourishing dry-zone civilization (with vibrant links to Asia and Africa) destroyed, including industries such as ship building. 
English wars post-1780s, their massacres of 1818 and 1848, and attendant regional land-grabs, bequeathed scattered and impoverished peasant settlements there by the late 19th century. 
The English handed stolen Crown Land to colonial and local absentee landowners for paddy cultivation. These landowners hired on-site managing agents (gambarayas) to exploit local peasants and migrant landless labourers. With moneylenders and merchants also preying on these tenants, who even resorted to hunger renting, capital gushed into parasitic Colombo, and further West. 
The 1980 ban on eco-friendly hena cultivation diverted those lands to Western boondoggles, creating even greater impoverishment. Resistance was met with nationwide massacres of at least 60,000 people in the late-1980s, with Hambantota bearing the brunt. This wrought neither cough nor hiccup from the international community. 
Origins of the Magampura Port Project
A UNP government once declared, The construction of a seaport at Hambantota is a project of high priority aimed to strengthen  the maritime industry and help Sri Lanka regain its historical position as a maritime hub in South Asia A seaport at Hambantota would improve the economic situation of the southern region, viewed as Sri Lankas poorest region and stimulate the industrial development of the region. The proposed port is viewed as a hub on the Europe-Middle East and Far East shipping corridor and a gateway to the India-Pakistan-Bangladesh sub-continent. 
The first practical Hambantota proposal came in a 2002 Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) report, Regaining Sri Lanka: Vision and Strategy for Accelerated Development, with present PM Ranil Wickremesinghes UNP in Government, though SLFPs Chandrika Kumaratunga remained President. 
With a planned 2005 launch date, a Canadian government-funded feasibility study was contracted to notorious SNC Lavalin, a Rockefeller-oil-front which spawned the Canadian aid agency CIDA (that also funded feasibility of JRs post-77 accelerated Mahaweli boondoggle). 
In 2003, a SLPA-linked ministerial task force reviewed the Lavalin study, declaring it not bankable, and not a full feasibility study. The task force report noted the Grand Master Plan objective to study the entire Hambantota terrains geophysical data was not achieved; while identifying factual errors. 
Meanwhile, Sri Lankas Ministry of Ports Development & Development of the South, and the Ports Authority (SLPA), after a 2001 call for tenders, selected and paid Denmarks consultancy firm Ramboll for a new Hamban-Port feasibility study. 
With Western and Indian loans not forthcoming, China was invited to step in and construct the port following the Danish reports specifications. 
Oceanic ports dont bloom instantly, but require decades to develop hinterland and trade. Unlike Colombos congested port, Hambantota handles goods including large car carriers, requiring more worker hours. Its good for Southern workers  and would get even better if they make and load bikes, 3-wheelers, cars, ships and machinery to be sold here and elsewhere. 
Outside our own determination, who could help us enable such a transformation 
Assessing Allies:China & the USA
Imperialist interference in Sri Lanka escalated after our 1948 transit from crown colony to crown dominion. In 1952 the US blocked aid after our Rubber-Rice Pact with China, which US adviser to our Central Bank, Theodore Morgan, called a Military-Political-Economic offensive against the Free World! 
Western-backed Big Pharmas sabotage of Senaka Bibiles progressive national pharmaceutical policy is well-known. Less known is the US embassy in Colombos threat of sanctions after the GoSL moved to ban genetically modified food in 2001. 
A Caregie Mellon University study analysing data from 117 elections worldwide, found US interference in at least 4 Sri Lankan elections (1956, twice in 1960 and 1965). Wikileaks revealed US Embassy concern about JVP misappropriation of financing for General Sarath Fonsekas presidential bid. Former US Secretary of State John Kerry recently admitted to US spending $585 million to promote democracy in several countries including ours. 
As for China, the 1952 Rubber-Rice Pact was signed by a US-allied, avowedly anti-communist UNP Government. It was Sri Lanka that approached China for loans as Western and Indian credit  hungry for short-term projects with quick returns  was not forthcoming. More recently, China agreed to help the hapless Yahapalana Government despite its election on a campaign of racist insults. 
Sri Lanka cannot afford to alienate sources of credit alternative to the predatory IMF and World Bank, whose structural adjustments exacerbate the development of underdevelopment. Chinas economic rise offers a post-Western-hegemony new multipolar world, which serves Lankas interests if harnessed strategically. 
Hambantota offers an alternative to the dictatorship of Colombos mercantile elite, who believe village idiots dont need modernised facilities
Debt-trap Diplomacy& String of Pearls
The loudest coughing cacophony on Chinas debt-trap diplomacy comes from the Indian Centre of Policy Research, funded by the Indian Government and such US funders as the Bill Gates, Hewletts, Omidyar, Ford, and Asia Foundations (all sellers of overpriced industrial goods and services). 
The String of Pearls allegation that China is using civilian facilities to build a chain of Indian Ocean naval and military bases originates in a 2004 report to the US Department of Defence by Booz, Allen, Hamilton, a US military think-tank contractor  employer of whistleblower Edward Snowden, who accessed top-secret reports due to its lucrative Pentagon links. 
Even a 2013 Economist article states, Chinas growing empire of ports abroad is mainly about trade, not aggression, echoing Beijings insistence it does not seek hegemony. Nevertheless, the NYT repeats this SoP argument, while ignoring the scatterplot of US military bases around the world including our region. This NYT article comes out when the Central Bank Bond fraud has undermined their allies claims to good governance (Yahapalanaya). US attempts at provoking a military confrontation in the South China Sea, since Obamas Pivot to Asia, have been replaced by internationally condemned trade wars, with Trump firing the first salvos. 
After Aprils Modi and Xi summit, relations between India and China have improved. Beijing-based Global Times opines, the USA 
 hopes India can play an essential role in balancing the rise of China. Does India really want to play the role that the US expects this strategy has a strong military stance against China. At the very least, it is redividing Asia-Pacific with Cold War thinking  It is better for India to look to China for ways of self-development. What India can learn from China is that its ability to stand on its own feet will determine its place in Asia and the world. 
The message from Beijing, of self-reliant cooperation for mutual advancement, is surely more persuasive than Washingtons confrontationist superpower agenda beyond its expiry date. Self-reliance should also be our stance! 
Regaining Sri Lanka
Hambantota offers an alternative to the dictatorship of Colombos mercantile elite, who believe village idiots dont need modernised facilities that provide better jobs, and should stick to seasonal, low-productivity cultivation. 
As an entrepot based on a productive hinterland, Hambantota could become a manufacturing base for modern industrialisation of an historically marginalised region. It could provide a template for the development of Sri Lankas peripheries, allowing them to shake off the parasitic port of Colombo. 
Yet export industrialisation is a short-term solution. A home market for locally produced goods is vital for sustainable development. Will our usurious banks and their import-happy merchants invest in it Leaving the NYT aside, can our media inspire a national conversation to develop the country in this way 
The real corruption is in the multinational corporate system of lobbying, kickbacks, insider-trading, pricing, tax evasion, and capturing the countrys wealth wasted in imported conspicuous consumption by a cabal that has served the West faithfully for centuries. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: HAPPY Clicks
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 9 August 2018 08:01 am
HAPPY Clicks
	
 
		
==============================
## Title: Happy Stories
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 9 August 2018 08:45 am
Happy Stories
	

Officer Jessie Ferreira Cavallo risked her life to rescue a boy she watched jump off a highway overpass. A second woman officer who saw the incident has stopped to give CPR to the unconscious boy and strapped on a neck brace. He was then rushed to hospital and was treated forbroken bones.

When a Walmart cashier Ebony Harris saw a customer get turned away from the stores nail salon, she took matters into her own hands. According to reports Harris has said that she watched the nail salon, located next door, refuse to do the womans nails because her hands shake quite a bit due to cerebral palsy. So, she in turn decided to make this customers day a special one.

Source : Internet


The Mirror For Hope asked some well-known faces about things that make them happy, or why the media should focus on positive news happening aroundthem :


Its great that the Daily Mirror has come forward with this new unique idea creating a platform for people to share ideas about positive stories that happen around them. At a time when people go behind various possessions not knowing from where to find true happiness, I think its timely for such details to be shared especially to discover from where one could discover inner happiness and peace.
 Joel Fabian Outschoorn, News anchor and TV host


I am happy to see the growing movement of Sri Lankans who are committed to mindful living. This includes social entrepreneurs working to address social and environmental problems, responsible business leaders who choose to prioritize people and planet over short term profits, and the artists and storytellers who inspire us and help us envision a better world. It also includes the broader community of people making changes in their day to day lives: refusing plastic straws, plastic bottles and plastic bags, planting trees and home gardens, reducing waste and recycling, volunteering and contributing to causes they care about, asking where products came from, and supporting businesses that share their values. I am happy and proud that Sri Lanka is in the top 10 in the Global Giving Index.
 Achala Samaradiwakara, Founder  Good Market




We are on the lookout for positive and happy news, however remote it may be. Share your happy stories that you encounter in your everyday life. Not only will it make you smile, but its a pleasant change from all the negative going on around us. Share a good deed that you have done for someone else. You will put a smile on someones face and also be an influence on others to follow your example.

Send in your entries to:Mirror for Hope, C/O The Daily MirrorNo. 8. Hunupitiya Cross Road, Colombo 2.Or email to : mirrorforhope@gmail.com

Compiled byLishanthi Wijewardene, Catherine Douglas,Kalani Kumarasinghe and Kamanthi Wickramasinghe
 
		
==============================
## Title: Hydrographic survey ship of Chinese Navy in Colombo
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 03:47 pm
Hydrographic survey ship of Chinese Navy in Colombo
	
A hydrographic survey ship of the Chinese Navy arrived at the Colombo port on Wednesday on a four-day goodwill visit, the Navy said.
The People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) ship Qian Weichang was welcomed by the Sri Lanka navy accordance with naval traditions.
The 129m long and 17m wide vessel which has a displacement of 4,900 tons is manned by 158 officers and sailors.
Upon the arrival of the ship, senior captain Dong Yan and Commanding Officer of the ship, Commander Zhang Juyong met the Commander Western Naval Area, Rear Admiral Nishantha Ulugetenne at the Western Naval Command Headquarters and held a cordial discussion on matters of mutual interest.
Navy said that during the visit, the ships crew is expected to visit some of the places of tourist attraction in the island and take part in several events organized by the Sri Lanka Navy.
Mementoes were also exchanged to mark this occasion. Senior Colonel Xu Jiawei, Military, Naval and Air Attach of Embassy of China in Sri Lanka, was also present at the event.
The Chinese ship is scheduled to set sail from the Colombo harbour on August 11.(Darshana Sanjeewa)

Video by SL Navy Media
 
		
==============================
## Title: Irate commuters damage railway property
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:45 pm
Irate commuters damage railway property
	
Irate railway commuters inconvenienced and angered by the sudden strike launched by railway trade unions caused damages to the property at the Fort Railway Station including some trains. Pics by Kushan Pathiraja
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kind Hearted Lankans: Spreading smiles and hope
## Section: Mirror For Hope
## Date: 9 August 2018 09:00 am
Kind Hearted Lankans: Spreading smiles and hope
	

For some people there are all the luxuries in the world; a shelter to dwell in, food to eat and everything else within reach. But for others, these are dreams. They permanently reside on the roadside and beg to find their food and keep themselves and their families alive. At a time when these people are totally ignored, there was one person who thought differently. For him, success was giving these people hope to live. That was the beginning of Kind Hearted Lankans.
Speaking to the Mirror For Hope, the mastermind behind Kind Hearted Lankans who wished to remain anonymous said that he had always wanted to help poor people. This all started three years back when I came across a family living on the roadside selling lottery tickets to earn enough money to live. My wife and I had a long discussion about how we could help this family but due to our busy schedules it didnt materialise. I was so disappointed but one day my wife said that she will put aside some of her salary to help the family. Thereafter I did a small video clip with the Go-Pro camera I had at the time and it kind of went viral with people commenting on the video. This was how we started and at the time I didnt have any idea about where we were going but I knew this could be the start of something.
As a filmmaker, he is into producing TV and web commercials which he started after Kind Hearted Lankans kicked off. Through this I learned how to edit videos and take photographs with the guidance of my brother who is a professional photographer, he continued. I do this like a hobby. Most of the information I receive about people are from rural areas as far as Ampara, Mahiyanganaya, Jaffna, Monaragala etc. Generally when I go on trips or during work visits to outstation areas, I make sure that I notice these people on the road. After I started Kind Hearted Lankans I started noticing these people more and more. In fact it is after this initiative began that I started to understand more about life. Every story is unique and you can always learn something from someone.
Speaking about success stories, he related the story of a blind boy whom he met on the roadside. I was in my car and I initially observed him and his family for a while before deciding to talk to them. Their story was truly heart breaking. When I featured him on a video I found this boy could also sing very well. The video I shared on social media got peoples attention and thereafter we received a lot of help from people. We in turn were able to build a house for him and his family. Ultimately he went on to compete at a popular childrens reality show and won it as well. Likewise people I have featured have received various kinds of support to help them pursue their dreams and uplift their lives. This for me is success. Lately our posts and videos have received widespread attention from various people and the media. We hope that this will inspire more people to join us in the work that we do, without just making Kind Hearted Lankans an outlet for them to give money or other donations.
We have recently received a charity designation in Australia and will be accepting donations through our website. We also have a policy that 100% of all donations that we receive go directly to those in need. Where possible we have tried to link these families directly with people who are willing to help. For example in the past a family needed a small house built so we linked donors to the nearest hardware store so that they could purchase the materials on behalf the family. We dont have much administrative work but we do monitor the entire process.
One challenge we had was bringing people together through their busy schedules. But whenever you start something new its always difficult at the beginning. People dont often see the amount of time and effort that it takes to make something happen. Fortunately we now have a lot of volunteers willing to help us. Since our inception we have been able to restore over 1000 lives with the support of kind hearted Lankans from around the world. We also have a drop-off point in Kotte which is open from Monday to Friday from 9.00am  5.00pm. If you want to help people in need we always need dry rations and stationary items. You might have noticed that we tend to be behind the camera and its not about being shy. We want the face of Kind Hearted Lankans to be the work that we do and the people we inspire. We always aspire to maintain 100% transparency with everything we do. We hope that you will join us and inspire people too.

For donations visit https://www.kindheartedlankans.com/ or send an email to help@kindheartedlankans.com or reach out to them on Facebook or Instagram.Helpline- Whatsapp 0777994477
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mangala pledges to resolve salary anomalies within 3 months
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 06:29 pm
Mangala pledges to resolve salary anomalies within 3 months
	
Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera today requested railway employees to stop the strike and come for discussions and ensured to resolve their salary anomalies within three months.
The minister told parliament that as a policy, he would not be ready to hold discussions with any trade union unless they stop the strike before discussions and added that he had not done so in his 30-year political career.
He said he objected to the cabinet paper presented in the cabinet to increase salaries of railway employees as it could have been led to a crisis in the entire government sector.
"If the salary of engine drivers were increased as proposed in the cabinet paper, it could have been led to a huge salary anomaly with other sectors of the government service," he said
The minister said he had proposed to appoint a commission and increase salaries of all state employees within two or three months but a sudden strike was launched unreasonably.
He said the government had taken several steps to facilitate people including the students sitting for A/L examination.
"We have allowed private buses to operate without route permits and requested retired engine drivers to report for duty. We have arranged a special bus service. Any private bus owner can get registered with the finance ministry and operate for passenger services. Finance ministry is ready to bear the cost," he said. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amnd.) Bill passed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 04:14 pm
Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amnd.) Bill passed
	
The Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amendment) Bill was passed with Amendments amidst chaos in Parliament this morning.
Parliament went into chaos when the joint opposition accused Speaker Karu Jayasuriya of not inquiring from the House whether it was agreeable to the second reading of the Bill.
Speaker Jayasuriya who responded said he made the inquiry before going into the committee stage.
A division was called by the opposition for one amendment. The amendment was passed with 97 members voting for and 24 against. Opposition MP Chandima Weerakody who raised a point of order said some of the opposition MPs have been held back by the police who were on duty near the Jayanthipura Junction.
Joint Opposition Leader Dinesh Gunawardane also came up with the same allegation. Speaker Jayasuriya said the police have opened the road one hour before the time the matter was raised by the MPs in the House.
The Bill was later passed with 95 members voting for it and 31 against. Kurunegala District MP and former president Mahinda Rajapaksas participation in the vote was a notable feature as he has been absent during the voting time of almost all Bills brought into the present Parliament.
Approval of the Cabinet has been granted to amend the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, No.25 of 2002, for identifying the offences relating to Money Laundering and the necessity of criminalizing the offences related to bribery outlined in Article 16 of the Convention of the United Nations against Bribery and Corruption and the recent developments pertaining to computer systems and data related criminal offences, reflecting the international obligations of Sri Lanka in the present context.
Another new feature in the amended Bill is that the Central Authority in Sri Lanka (the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice) can authorize any other officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary, to act on his behalf of the Central Authority for the purpose of this Act.
The Central Authority is given the power to designate competent authorities (which can be a law enforcement authority) who will process information to request as directed by the Central Authority. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: NZ checks visas of SL students who used fraudulent company
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 02:37 pm
NZ checks visas of SL students who used fraudulent company
	
New Zealand Immigration staff are manually checking nearly 900 applications from Sri Lankan students who allegedly used a finance company which is at the centre of a student visa scam, NZ Herald reported quoting Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway.
Immigration New Zealand (INZ) is investigating the fraud involving Sri Lankan student applications.
INZ officials advised Lees-Galloway in March that fraudulent behaviour had been found in 88 pending applications, and 83 were declined, with a finance company at the centre of the fraud.
"Immigration NZ are going to manually review the 895 applications that came from Sri Lankan students through the Mumbai office in 2017. They're going to see which of those involved this particular finance company," Lees-Galloway said in late July.
Those that had used the controversial company would be flagged and if the visa-holder sought to have their visa extended, their case would be more closely scrutinised.
INZ had looked back at earlier applications but Lees-Galloway said the information confirming they had sufficient finances to support their application came from the finance company, which meant going back to the fraudulent finance company for the information.
Lees-Galloway said he would have a better idea of how widespread the problem was when INZ had completed its review.
"This is something that has appeared before, that there have been issues with this type of behaviour before. It is something INZ is very aware of."
He said people who were not able to support themselves financially in New Zealand ended up being exploited, by employers or others.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Opposing Sampanthan, is this the time
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Opposing Sampanthan, is this the time
	
TNA and Opposition Leader R. Sampanthanhas been in the forefront of Tamil politics
All this hullabaloo in Parliament by the joint opposition demanding the appointment of Dinesh Gunawardene as Opposition Leader leaves a window open for the islands citizens to think deeply about the national question.
Sampanthan, has found a way to coexist with the Yahapalana regime
	The unity among Tamils would mean they vote together in bringing about a change in regime
When the current Opposition Leader R.Sampanthan was appointed to this post in September 2015 there was allround approval for him even by the hard-line Sinhala MPs in parliament. There was no question about his qualifications and experience and many expected the senior politician to deliver the goods on behalf of the minority Tamils.
Despite Sampanthan having completed almost three years in his post there still exist grumbling Tamils in the north who wish to have their lands back. Apart from the land issue the Tamil politicians have also requested the removal of certain Military Camps in the north.
Liberal minded people of this country wish to have a president who serves all communities equally regardless of cast, creed or colour. The last Tamil vote at a Presidential Election went to a person of that calibre, Maithripala Sirisena
Sampanthan, unlike the Governor of the Northern Province, C.V Wigneswaran, has found a way to coexist with the Yahapalana regime. He seems to prefer the non-aggressive approach to find a political solution to the national question.
In the meanwhile, the Government has found it a challenge to deal with Wigneswaran who prefers to put across his views and demands with a clenched fist. What Sampanthan has to realise is that nothing gets done in Sri Lanka without the parties that are in need staging protest or making aggressive demands. Many felt that Sampanthan was too soft in his stance as Opposition Leader, hence the little progress he has made in winning the rights of the Tamil community.
But there is also a school of thought that a person in the likes of Sampanthan is ideal to deal with the Yahapalana Government during these times of peace. President Sirisena and Premier Wickremesinghe are cool as cucumbers and its easy for a personality like Sampanthan to approach the duo when compared to the aggressive Wigneswaran.
Despite the road leading to the north opening up and investments being made in this war-torn area, there are still shadows of a dark past that haunt the Tamil people. Right now sword gangs are operating in broad daylight and this indicates two things; one being that that the north still needs military camps and the other is that these gangs could be backed by an unseen powerful hand of a politician.
Only Wigneswaran has spoken openly about checking these gangs. He has recently said that if police powers are given to the Northern Provincial Council he would be able to stop these gangs from operating. This statement makes citizens wonder whether Wigneswaran is a magician or whether he is aware of the source thats backing these gangs. If these armed gangs are backed by a Tamil politician to earn the rights of Tamils, it then defeats the very purpose of working towards a peaceful settlement to the national question.
Sampanthan was forced to leave the country during the war and he himself has said that he lived under challenging conditions in India. A lawyer by profession, Sampanthan has been in the forefront of Tamil politics since returning to Sri Lanka. He is also the Leader of the Tamil National Alliance.
As much as Sri Lanka needs to get out of the debt trap which she is in, there needs to be a similar effort to find a solution to the national issue.
Sampanthan, attending a book launch in Jaffna, had said that Tamils should unite in their efforts to find a political solution to their problem. The unity among Tamils would mean they vote together in bringing about a change in regime. This is why this unity is so important. Retaining Sampanthan as the Opposition Leader has its advantages too. This is because he still would be the preferred choice if the Sinhalese Politicians wish to negotiate with a representative of the Tamils.
Sampanthan had at that book launch reminded those in attendance that it was the Tamil vote that was vital at the 2015 Presidential Elections in bringing about a regime change. Liberal minded people of this country wish to have a president who serves all communities equally regardless of cast, creed or colour. The last Tamil vote at a Presidential Election went to a person of that calibre, Maithripala Sirisena.
its wise to have Sampanthan continuing in this pivotal post, given that the outside world is monitoring the welfare of this minority group during the post war reconciliation process
The Joint Opposition has called for the appointing of one among them as the Opposition Leader and backs this request by stating that it enjoys 70 members in Parliament. The UPFA has already unanimously decided that Sampanthan should remain as Opposition Leader. Whoever, if at all, there is one who gets the nod from the joint opposition to be the Opposition Leader, he is likely to be controlled by the Rajapaksas, who are slowly working their way to towards returning to power. In this context its wise to have Sampanthan, a Tamil, continuing in this pivotal post, given that the outside world is monitoring the welfare of this minority group during the post war reconciliation process.
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has said that he would make a statement in Parliament regarding the post of Opposition Leader after consulting all party leaders and seeking legal advice. Government minister Lakshman Kiriella has said that a section of the UPFA cant hold the post of Opposition Leader. Lets hope that the lawmakers take a wise decision that makes the big problems this nation is facing little ones.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament Road closed due to protest
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 11:31 am
Parliament Road closed due to protest
	
Parliament Road from Polduwa Junction, Battaramulla is temporarily closed because of a protest being carried out by Samurdhi Officers over several demands, the Police said.
It said heavy traffic was also reported from Polduwa Junction to Rajagiriya due to the protesting Samurdhi officers and added that the Police officers had been deployed to control the situation.

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Presidential Pardon for Gnanasara Thera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 07:49 pm
Presidential Pardon for Gnanasara Thera
	
Megapolis and Western Development Minister Champika Ranawaka said today that President Maithripala Sirisena's attention would likely to be focused on a presidential pardon for Ven. Galagoda Attte Gnanasara Thera who was sentenced to six years.
He said this in response to a question asked by a journalist after laying the foundation stone for the Gongawela Bus Terminal Development Project in Matale.
However, I cannot confirm about a presidential pardon for Gnanasara Thera, he said.(M.W.Somaratne)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Protest by Samurdhi Officers
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 9 August 2018 11:10 pm
Protest by Samurdhi Officers
	
Samurdhi Officers Yesterday staged a protest at outside Sethsiripaya Battaramulla over several demands. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Railway strike continues
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 10:05 am
Railway strike continues
	
The work stoppage by the Railway Trade Union Alliance (RTUA) is continuing in the absence of any signs of the matter being resolved, RTUA Co-Convener Lal Ariyaratne today said.
Mr. Ariyaratne said no discussion had been offered to them by any authority concerned and added that the strike would continue.
We have launched a sudden strike, which started at 3.00 pm yesterday until further notice over several issues including salary anomalies, he added.
Meanwhile, the Education Ministry confirmed no disruption had been made on students who were attending the GCE Advanced Level (AL) Examination due to the railway strike. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)

Video by Damith
 
		
==============================
## Title: Resolve issues in a humane manner: Prez urges TUs
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 01:10 pm
Resolve issues in a humane manner: Prez urges TUs
	
President Maithripala Sirisena today requested the trade unions including the railways to resolve their issues in an intelligent and humane manner without causing inconvenience to the innocent people.
Addressing an event held at the Viharamahadevi Park, President Sirisena expressed his regrets over the disruptions faced by students, who were attending the GCE Advanced Level (AL) Examination due to the strike action being carried out by the railway trade unions.
The inconvenience will be caused to the people and not for the Government through these trade union actions. Peoples right should be preserved and the trade unions should look into this matter in a more humane way irrespective of their privileges, he said.
He also said any party had the ability to discuss their issues with the Government at present unlike during the former Government.
Video by D.Ruwandi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Royal Asiatic Society (Sri Lanka)  needs women  and diversity
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Royal Asiatic Society (Sri Lanka)  needs women  and diversity
	
If having a female at the helm is a sign of modernity in an organization, the Royal Asiatic Society of Sri Lanka (RASSL) was dragged into modernity in 2015. So late I can hear you exclaiming incredulously - after all by 2015 RASSL was 170 years old.
Yet it is true. The society fell into compatibility with its more modern peer societies only when Dr. Hema Goonatilake made her successful bid for the presidency in 2015, amidst an unedifying display of kicking and screaming by a section of its membership. 
There is something quaintly charming about a Mom & Pop business undertaking, one notable commentor wrote to an online news site of her presidential bid, referring to the fact that the outgoing president she was aspiring to succeed was her own husband. In his final slam, using an analogy which was unintentionally revealing, this commentor asked, Will the discerning membership of the Royal Asiatic Society of Sri Lanka opt for Marie Antoinette in place of the outgoing Bourbon 
The analogy becomes revealing by presenting Hema Goonatilake, a woman with academic, scholarly and activist credentials separate and independent of her husband as analogous to Marie Antoinette, who did not have an autonomous entitlement to lead except what was derived from her husband.
Hema G seems to have anticipated and planned ahead for storming this regressive bastion of male intellectual dominance. She and Malini [Dr. Malini Dias, fellow council member and former Director (Epigraphy and Numismatics) in the Department of Archaeological Survey of Sri Lanka] put their heads together and drew up a plan for the siege. 
There is a certain kind of person, who is capable of doing that [contesting for office at RASSL]. Most people have a lot of other involvements. I didnt have many involvements. I became the secretary and right throughout I was the secretary for about 10 years. Even when I went to Australia for four years to do my PhD, they reserved the place for me until I came back because no one was interested in writing minutes
Actually, I wanted Malini Dias to become the president. She didnt want to. But very thoughtfully she said, she would propose me for vice president. She said, its easy then for you. She then made me vice president, immediately after my four years as editor. My husband had nothing to do with it. It was totally my hard work. I set an example to RASSL. How By editing two journals a year. From the inception of RASSL, they had only done one journal a year. I was determined to do two a year. Several said, you will find it very difficult to get the articles and all that. I said, dont worry, I will do it and I did it. 
I consider the position of president easy-its harder to get there but the work involved is not that difficult. But being the editor is very difficult, if you want to do a good job. 
RASSL is a funny organization, or so I thought. The photographs of the 1985 ceremonial opening of its permanent headquarters in the Mahaweli Centre, reproduced in an article in a journal of the RAS by a joint honorary secretary, shows only one woman. Clad in a below the knee frock of some printed material, she stands out among the Sri Lankan men in national and European dress. Being Margaret Thatcher, she wouldnt have been surprised to find herself the only woman in an all male setting. But the lack of women in those photographs surprised me. 
Surely in 1985 Sri Lanka had enough female academics and intellectuals to throng happily around Thatcher as RASSL council members, shoulder to shoulder with their male colleagues at their headquarters opening Contrast this with the situation in the universities. It wouldnt have been possible for Thatcher to attend a ceremonial event at any of the SL universities in 1985 and be the only woman in the core group.
In the year of the headquarters opening, two female members graced the RASSL council; Dr. Lorna Dewaraja and Ms. Deloraine Brohier. According to Professor K. D. Paranavithana, a former president and long-term secretary of the RASSL, who was ousted as a result of a power play [as they claim on the scholarly grapevine] by Hemas husband, Dr. Susantha Goonatilake, there was no systematic discrimination or conspiracy by the RASSL to exclude women from its highest office. There were no candidates. Dr. Mrs. Lorna Dewaraja was there and she could have become the president. She didnt contest. She was the most qualified lady at that time. Dr. Mrs. Kiribamune could have been another person but she didnt come from Peradeniya. Recalling the RASSL Mahaweli Centre headquarters opening ceremony, which he attended in the capacity of secretary, Professor Paranavithana reveals that despite not appearing in the photographs Lorna Dewaraja was indeed present, though Deloraine Brohier did not attend for some reason.
They were not interested, K.D. Paranavithana responds each time I mention women who might have contested for RASSL president. This way, we bring altogether four women under the credentialed but not interested classification, including Professor Paranavithanas own wife Rohini Paranavithana, Emeritus Professor, Department of Sinhala, University of Colombo, who wasnt interested enough even to get into the council. Apparently, its not everyone who will contest for president or any other office at the RASSL. Even Professor J.B. Disanayaka was not interested in the presidency, K.D. Paranavithana informs me, when I ask if Professor Kusuma Karunaratne - Emeritus Professor and wife of J.B. Dissanayaka couldnt have become president. 
There is a certain kind of person, who is capable of doing that [contesting for office at RASSL]. Most people have a lot of other involvements. I didnt have many involvements. I became the secretary and right throughout I was the secretary for about 10 years. Even when I went to Australia for four years to do my PhD, they reserved the place for me until I came back because no one was interested in writing minutes.
However, lack of interest displayed hitherto by countless women in a particular position doesnt diminish the significance of a woman finally attaining that position. Lack of interest could well be the result of the insidious pressure exerted by the zeitgeist and the status quo whispering subliminally; It hasnt been done. Its not done. Perhaps it takes a certain kind of woman to override these under the radar directives and Hema Goonatilake was that kind. 
She certainly overrode the status quo when she became instrumental in reinstating the Bhikkuni ordination in Sri Lanka. This topic comes up when I meet her at headquarters to discuss the RASSL. I am acting in other organizations. Hema Goonatilake says to me in a sibilant whisper in the middle of our RASSL talk. Like I ask intrigued. All Ceylon Buddhist Womens Congress. I organize various things. When it comes to action, I fight for rights, all kinds of rights. Such as the Bhikkuni ordination I want to know. I am the villain, Hema G admits pleasurably. All the things Buddhist monks have written about me. If you only knew! Yet when a prominent Thera, who used to be a leading critic of her was on his deathbed, Hema tells me, he sent her a message through another Thera, Tell Hema, to send a Bhikkuni to my last rites Very edifying, redeeming and heart-warming, but what about discipline, I want to know. After the Bhikkuni ordination lapsed in Sri Lanka, all those centuries ago, is it according to Theravada Vinaya, to re-establish it from China Hema pounces on the word Vinaya. 
According to Professor K.D. Paranavithana however, Hema Goonatilake is a superfluous scholar
Thats it! Vinaya. Theres no difference in Vinaya between Theravada and Mahayana. Dewasala went to China [all those centuries ago] and gave our ordination to Chinese nuns. And we got it back from the Chinese, she remarks, triumphantly establishing legitimate provenance and lineage. I was the first to write about it. Of course, Western women do not quote me. Western women only quote Western women, says Hema Goonatilake product of SOAS, University of London for her PhD in Buddhist Studies and part of her first degree. 
Do you know Pali I ask her interrogatively, interested in finding out why Western women dont quote her. I have a Pali honours degree, Sanskrit, Sinhala Honours, German, French and Cambodian, Hema comes back smartly and reduces me to an Oh. She continues, I went to Cambodia as the Country Director for Cambodia from the UN. I was in New York and asked for Cambodia. So, I mastered the Cambodian language.
According to Professor K.D. Paranavithana however, Hema Goonatilake is a superfluous scholar and lacked a sufficiently independent intellectual footprint to prevent her from being an extension of her husbands intensely political, non-collegiate and confrontational persona. Professor Paranavithana and I spend some time reminiscing about Susantha Goonatilakes love of confrontation.
They [Mr. and Mrs. Goonatilake] were not interested in making the [RASSL] journal academic. Their political interests were put into the journal. Most of the writers were chosen from their inner circle, Professor Paranavithana tells me. I ask him about his forced exit from the RASSL allegedly over his treacherous willingness to commemorate Portuguese imperialism in SL in the early 16th century.
They argued that the Portuguese have done wrong things, so they shouldnt be commemorated. Meanwhile, I got the permission from the council and went to Paris to speak in that conference [to commemorate the 500-year anniversary of Portuguese advent in Sri Lanka]. It was organized by the Gulbenkian Foundation. While I was away, Susantha started writing that I am a traitor, I am participating in these peoples conferences, etc. He circulated letters.
Portuguese in the sixteenth century and their interactions were grounded in a different zeitgeist and every Sri Lankan ruler wanted to take part in the power equation they embodied. Whats the use of judging them from the distorting vantage point of our current zeitgeist Professor Paranavithana agrees, That was the spirit of the age. We cant keep away from our research and intellectual pursuits because we dont now approve.
Back at the RASSL Hema Goonatilake tells me that the ousting of K.D. Paranavithana was not a coup as I claim. It was a transparent process called a no confidence motion. I suppose the RASSL wanted to make an institutional protest about the atrocities of the Portuguese era and felt its confidence betrayed when a council member went for a conference organized by the enemy. What an interesting organization, I think to myself. May it acquire more diversity and more women presidents.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Royal NZ military aircraft lands at Mattala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 08:12 pm
Royal NZ military aircraft lands at Mattala
	
A Royal New Zealand Air Force military C-130 aircraft landed at the Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport (MRIA) this morning for refuelling and for crew resting, Airport Manager Upali Kalansuriya said.
He said there were 15 crew members in the craft.
It arrived at the MRIA from Indonesia and had scheduled to leave for Dubai tomorrow morning, he said.
Earlier, the worlds largest cargo aircraft Antonov AN-225 Mriya and the worlds second largest cargo plane Antonov AN-124 Ruslan landed at MRIA for refuelling and crew rest. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rs. 650,000 each for a councillors chair at WPC
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 05:58 pm
Rs. 650,000 each for a councillors chair at WPC
	
Some 104 chairs, each costing Rs 650,000, had been reportedly ordered from abroad for the chamber of the new Western Provincial Council building, JVP Western Provincial Councillor Lakshman Nipuna Arachchi said.
The councillor said this was revealed during the western provincial council committee meeting held on Wednesday.
In a letter to the Western Province Governor, the councillor said even though taking measure to bring all institutes of the provincial council under one roof was a good move, it is absurd that chairs for councillors would be brought at such a high price.
As a member of the council as well as a member of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), I cant approve such a move in the council , he said in the letter.
He requested the governors special intervention to the matter and sought its suspension.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Schools closed for scrutiny of A/L, Grade 5 answer scripts
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 10:30 pm
Schools closed for scrutiny of A/L, Grade 5 answer scripts
	
Thirty-Seven schools would be closed from August 23 to September 5 for scrutiny of GCE (A/L) answer scripts, Examinations Commissioner B. Sanath Pujitha said.
Those schools would be reopened on September 6.
The scrutiny of GCE (A/L) answer scripts would be done by 527 assessment boards under the participation of 8,432 teachers while the scrutiny of Grade 5 scholarship examination would be done in 39 schools from August 15 to 21 by 428 assessment boards under the participation of 6,848 teachers, Sanath Pujitha said.
The schools that are closed for scrutiny of GCE (A/L) answer scripts are as follows:
Royal College, Colombo 7, Nalanda College, Colombo 10, Susamayawardhana Vidyalaya, Colombo 8, Clifton Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Colombo 10, Hindu College, Colombo 04, Velapura Maha Vidyalaya, Kalutara, Gnanodaya Maha Vidyalaya, Kalutara, Bandaranaike Vidyalaya, Gampaha, Rathnavali Balika Vidyalaya, Gampaha, Anura Maha Vidyalaya, Yakkala, Ferguson High School, Ratnapura, Gankanda Central College, Pelmadulla, Maliyadeva Girls' School, Kurunegala, Royal College, Kurunegala, Kuliyapitiya Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Kuliyapitiya, St. Joseph Girls' School, Kegalle, Kegalu Vidyalaya, Kegalle, Kingswood College, Kandy, Viharamahadevi Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Kandy, Seetha Devi Balika Maha Vidyalaya, Kandy, Ranabima Royal College, Gannoruwa, Kandy, St. Sylvester's College, Kandy, Anuradhapura Central College, Anuradhapura, Vidyaloka College, Galle, Sudharma Maha Vidyalaya, Galle, Sujatha Vidyalaya, Matara, St. Thomas' College, Matara, Rahula College, Matara, Hali-Ela Central College, Hali Ela, Uwa Maha Vidyalaya, Badulla, Vincent Girls' High School, Batticaloa St. Michael's National School, Batticaloa, Vavuniya Tamil Madhya Maha Vidyalayam, Vavuniya, Jaffna Central College, Jaffna, Jaffna Hindu College, Kokuvil Hindu College, Jaffnaare the schools that will be closed for scrutiny of Grade 5 Scholarship examination answer scripts.
Meanwhile, the following schools: Susamayawardhana Vidyalaya, Borella, Yasodara Vidyalaya, Colombo 8, Buwanekaba Maha Vidyalaya, Maharagama, St. Mary's College. Avissawella, Pothupitiya Maha Vidyalaya, Wadduwa, Sri Palee Maha Vidyalaya, Horana, Gothami Vidyalaya, Gampaha Newstead Girls' College, Negombo, Ferguson High School, Ratnapura, President's College Embilipitiya, St. Joseph's College, Bandarawela, Uva College Badulla, Mahiyangana National School, Mahiyangana, Unawatuna Maha Vidyalaya, Galle, Gintota Maha Vidyalaya Gintota, President's College Matara, Bandula Senadheera Maha Vidyalaya, Karandeniya, Polommaruwa Adarsha Kanishta Vidyalaya, Tangalle, Godapitiya Central College, Akuressa, Maliyadeva Adarsha Maha Vidyalaya, Kurunegala, Central College Kuliyapitiya, Mahasen Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Nikaweratiya, Carmel Balika Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Chilaw, D.S. Senanayaka Model Primary School, Anuradhapura, Royal Central College, Polonnaruwa, Rangiri Dambulla Central College, Dambulla, St. Mary's Madya Maha Vidyalaya, Kegalle, Ranabima Royal College, Gannoruwa, Peradeniya, Wariyapola Sri Sumangala Mah Vidyalaya, Kandy, St. Thomas' College, Matale, Shannon Tamil Maha Vidyalayam, Matale, Monaragala Royal College, Vigneshwara Maha Vidyalayam Trincomalee, Batticaloa Hindu College, Batticoloa, Vavuniya Tamil Madhya Maha Vidyalayam, Vembadi Girls' High School, Jaffna, Nelliady Madhya Maha Vidyalayam, Kilinochchi Central College and Zahira College, Kalmunai, will be closed for scrutiny of Grade 5 answer scripts. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sketches from the South The segmentation of Amarapura
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
Sketches from the South The segmentation of Amarapura
	
After the annexation of Kandy in 1815, the Amarapura Nikaya found its way to the Central Province, tapping into not just non-Govigama monks and laymen but even Govigama monks who felt disgruntled with the rigidity of their overseers. Among the latter group from the Siyam Nikaya who severed their ties with their ecclesiastical superiors were Mayilave Gunaratne Thera and Rambukwelle Sobita Thera, who had belonged to the Suduhumpola temple (Malalgoda, page 139). But arguably the most vociferous opponent of the Nikaya from within the fraternity was Yatanvela Sunanda Thera, who belonged to the Asgiriya Chapter (the most powerful in the Nikaya) and who had got re-ordained by the Amarapura monks at Balapitiya in 1834. The Act of Appointment granted by the Colonial Office in 1825 would have had an impact here.
But from the beginning, what was seen as an all-embracive ethos and philosophy within the Amarapura Nikaya became a definitive factor in the segmentation of that sect in later decades. There were no less than five groups of monks who went to Burma to be ordained in Nikaya. Moreover, the founders of Amarapura belonged to no less than three different, distinct castes: in order of importance, Salagama, Karawa, and Durawa. They were brought together by their opposition to the Govigama elite, but as the years progressed, the underlying tensions between them erupted. What worsened these tensions, interestingly enough, was the absence of a patron under whom some semblance of unity could be maintained, and the fact that the most powerful caste in the fraternity, Salagama, was divided into four sub-castes, each with its own ideological affiliations and share of privileges. During British rule, these four sub-castes effectively became two, but even with this, the differences grew rapidly.
The most vociferous opponent of the Nikaya from within the fraternity was Yatanvela Sunanda Thera
	The founders of Amarapura belonged to no less than three different, distinct castes
Consider that merely 10 months after Kapugama Dhammakhanda Thera obtained a Certificate of Confirmation from the Colonial Office, monks from the Karava and Durawa castes held a meeting at Kottegoda, where they selected a representative for their caste: Ambalangoda Wilegoda Punnasara Thera. They even went as far as to petition the government for a separate Certificate, and when they failed, they then persistently sent petitions for an Act of Appointment. In 1825, almost 10 years after Dhammakhanda Thera had converted to Christianity, the government appointed a Chief Monk over the Salagamas, which infuriated the Karava and Durawa monks.
As Professor Malalgoda has noted, the latter group tended to view the Salagamas as inferior to themselves, which made them reluctant to side with them against the Govigama elite. One wonders as to why the British, having appointed a Salagama representative, did not appoint representatives for the Karawas and Durawas. One can only conclude that this was symptomatic of their ambivalent attitude towards caste in the country: while they were able to tap into caste rifts to perpetuate British rule, they were rather unwilling to make official declarations which would divide society even further through those rifts. On the other hand, by appointing a Salagama representative without paying heed to the other castes, they managed to widen those rifts even more.
Of the two other castes, it was the Karawas who were most vociferous in their demand for ecclesiastical autonomy. This had to do with the fact that they were also the largest of those castes and also the most powerful, and that they were close to the Salagama monks, with their headquarters in Dodanduwa. Surprisingly, while they opposed the Salagama sect, they colluded with them over important ecclesiastical functions. The leader and founder of the Karawa sect, Kataluwe Gunaratne, had moreover obtained his ordination, not at Amarapura, but at Ramanya. Their link with this Burmese city would later lead to them using the designation Kalyanivamsa (after their leader), when attempts at dividing the Amarapura Nikaya further on the basis of caste affiliations continued to fail and when an alternative sect, the Ramanya Nikaya, made their use of the Ramanya label obsolete. The Kalyanivamsa, over time, gradually found their way to Kalutara and Panadura, and even the Christianised Moratuwa, all of which would become the bastions of the Karawa caste. But long before any of this happened, the Amarapura Nikaya had already splintered, thanks to a fatal leadership vacuum.
This process of splintering began when the Salagama monks along the coastal belt affiliated themselves to either of the two lines of succession which had been initiated by the two founders of the Amarapura Nikaya: that of Ambagahapitiya Nanavimala, based in Welitara, and that of Kapugama Dhammakhanda, based in Dadella. It is an irony of fate that while Dhammakhanda had gone with a contingent of monks to Burma intending to supplement, or aid, the efforts of Nanavimala in commencing an alternative monastic order, this merely led to the segmentation of that order. Initially, however, the laymen were opposed to this segmentation. They wanted the two lines to converge, which they apparently managed to do after Dhammakhanda converted to Christianity. Having convinced the Welitara monks to unite with the Dadella monks, they managed to reinforce the unity they had brought about by appointing Nanavimala Thera as the leader of both the Salagama groups. When Nanavimala passed away in 1834 (the year that Yatanwela Sunanda Thera rebelled against his Asgiriya roots and entered the new Nikaya), leadership passed over to Bopagoda Sumana Thera.
Here we must reflect on and consider the fact that the Salagamas of the South were not merely opposed to the Karawas and the Durawas; they were also opposed to each other on the basis of the sub-castes which had been formed within their clan. It was during Sumana Theras term that these rifts between the sub-castes widened so much that the Salagama Amarapura Nikaya split. This began when the Theras chief pupil, Lankagoda Dheerananda, who belonged to a higher sub-caste, founded an autonomous group within the Nikaya. It then worsened when a controversial issue that had not been resolved with the unification of the two Salagama camps made itself felt again.
This was the controversy over the sima, which in Buddhist terminology refers to a boundary drawn up to demarcate a sacred area within a temple, so as to separate the sacred world (lokoththara) from the profane (lawkika). Without delving too much into the niceties of this term, it is enough for us to know that when the two Salagama camps were founded, the simas were based on the respective chief temples, in Welitara and Dadella. The two simas had to give way to one when the two camps converged, but for a long, long time, controversy raged over where it should be based. The Welitara monks, led by Beratuduve Dhammadhara Thera, were adamant that it be based in Balapitiya, near the Madu Ganga. The issue remained unresolved (in fact no upasampada ceremony was conducted in Balapitiya thanks to this dilemma), but eventually, Bopagoda Sumana, despite his affiliation to the Dadella branch (which had its sima at the Gin Ganga), agreed to enlarge the sima at the Madu, in 1845. It was this decision which was challenged by Lankagoda Thera, the chief pupil, six years later.
Lankagoda Theras justification for his stance was that the sima at Balapitiya was in effect defiled by a bridge built within the structure which intruded on the sacred area. This, apparently, made the demarcation of the sacred boundaries a confusing affair. The debate that it compelled led to what historians refer to as the Simamskara Vadaya, which was less a debate (as the term vadaya suggests) than a controversy. 
The embittered teacher, Bopagoda Sumana, who had been appointed to unify those twin camps before, found himself in a precarious position. Given that the controversy had brought discomfort to Salagama monks in general, he was, naturally, in no mood to add to it even further. For this reason, Sumana Thera decided to throw his weight behind the group which had the larger following: the Welitara camp, led by the pupil of Beratuduwe Dhammadhara, Kahave Nananda Thera. A further series of debates resulted, after which the Sangharaja of Burma was consulted. The Sangharajas decision, however, made matters worse: he stood by the decision of the (minority) Dadella camp, and even after a delegation from the Welitara camp was sent in 1858 to consult him and try to persuade him into looking at the matter from their side, the Sangharaja refused to be swayed. He was, however, worried over the split it had caused in the order, and to this end sent a missive to Bopagoda Sumana explaining his concerns.
Having written a further letter to a powerful, non-partisan Amarapura representative, Bulatgama Sumana Thera, he tried to bring the two camps together. Upon Bulatgama Sumana Theras request, some form of unity and agreement was reached, but neither side was willing to let go of its stance on the controversy of the sima, which continued even after the passing away of the respective leaders of the camps: Bopagoda Sumana in 1864, and Lankagoda Dheerananda in 1871. The conflict had begun in 1851. It was never to be fully resolved. In later years, the students of both these leaders organised their own splinter groups: the Saddhammavamsa fraternity, after Lankagoda Thera, and the larger Mulavamsa fraternity, after Bopagoda Sumana. What made the issue more complicated, as I will explore in the next piece, was the founding and emergence of the Ramanya Nikaya, which had its beginnings in the AmarapuraNikaya itself.

 
		
==============================
## Title: 9,509 SL refugees have returned from TN: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 09:20 am
9,509 SL refugees have returned from TN: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday informed parliament that 9,509 Sri Lankan refugees who were in refugee camps in Tamil Nadu had returned to the country since 2010 and that another 3,815 people had expressed their willingness to return as well.
He told parliament that the government had taken every step possible to promote reconciliation among the communities and all those who left the country during the war have been invited to return to the country.
In response to a question raised by TNA MP Charles Nirmalanadan regarding the action taken by the government to bring back Sri Lankan refugees in Tamil Nadu, the Premier confirmed that the Indian government had agreed to provide naval assistance to transport the people and their belongings to Sri Lanka.
"The Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka has been providing us with information on the refugees sheltered in refugee camps in Tamil Nadu. Steps have been taken to provide birth certificates, passports and other documents to children born inside refugees camps," he said.
MP Nirmalanadan said 65, 000 persons belonging to 20, 000 families were sheltered in 110 refugee camps in Tamil Nadu and that another 35, 000 persons were living outside these camps. He wanted to know whether the government would provide financial assistance to the people who were returning to the country.
The Prime Minister said the government had already provided assistance to those returned and had helped them to reintegrate into society while also providing them transport and financial assistance to purchase household appliances and equipment for their new homes.
"Rs.10, 000 was given per person as an integration payment while Rs.7,500 was paid to a person below the age of 18. additionally, Rs. 2,500 was given as a transport allowance per person and a further Rs. 5, 000 for other expenses. They were also given Rs.28, 000 to purchase equipment and apparatus for their houses on registration under their respective divisional secretaries," he said. We plan to construct 50, 000 houses in the north while steps would be taken to build another 25, 000 houses thereafter for the resettlement of refugees.
He said steps would be taken by the Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northern Development and Hindu Religious Affairs Ministry to provide lands and livelihood assistance to the returnees.
He also said a committee comprising of the Foreign Affairs Minister, Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northern Development and Hindu Religious Affairs Minister, the police, navy, Immigration and Emigration Department and the Registrar of Persons Department had been appointed to coordinate the matters. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Strong quake again hits Indonesia's Lombok island
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:05 pm
Strong quake again hits Indonesia's Lombok island
	
A strong earthquake hit Indonesia's Lombok island today, causing some buildings to collapse, the Al Jazeera reported a short while ago.
The magnitude-6.2 tembor followed a 6.9 quake on Sunday that killed at least 131 people, damaged thousands of houses, and left 156,000 people homeless.
Indonesia's geological agency said the quake was shallow, at a depth of 12km, centred in the northeast of the island.
It said it didn't have the potential to cause a tsunami. It's the third big quake to hit Lombok in little over a week.
 
		
==============================
## Title: The worlds biggest and tallest Leshan Giant Buddha Statue
## Section: News Features
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
The worlds biggest and tallest Leshan Giant Buddha Statue
	
In which country do you find the tallest Buddha statue in the world Most people think that the Buddha statue in the Bamiyan Valley was the tallest. But the world biggest Buddha statue is located in the beautiful Sichuan province of Western China.
This wonderful artistic stone statue is 71 metres tall, which is 18 metres higher than the tallest statue in Bamiyan valleyof Afghanistan.
Sichuan province has a rich culture of Buddhist which is second only to the Tibet province. Quite a number of Buddhist monasteries can be found in all around the province including Leshan and Chinas oldest Buddhist monastery named Emei.
Reason behind building the Leshan Giant Buddha statue
Situated in one of most beautiful cities in West China, Leshan, became very popular among tourists because of the Leshan Giant Buddha statue as well as its location between three sections of the upper Yangtze River connecting junction. Sub sections of Yangtze River, the Min River,Dadu River and the Qingyi River connect to the Yangtze River in the middle of Leshan city, which is a spectacular scene from the city. The idea behind building this Buddha statue was also due to this.
Half of the Sichuan province is geographically a basin surrounded by high mountain ranges that connect to the Roof of the world  Tibet from its West end. Because of this geographical location, Sichuan basin suffer heavy floods due to the upper Yangtze River flowing into this basin. Among all the cities in Sichuan, Leshan is often devastated by floods that claim thousands of lives. During the Tang Dynasty era, a leading Buddhist monk Hai Tong thought that building this Statue that faces the city, would calm down the river.
Monk Hai Tongs idea and effort
The construction was started in 713 AD under the leadership of Hai Tong. According to locals, Hai Tong was begging for more than 20 years with his disciples to collect funds to build this statue. What was so special about his plan was that it was not just a religious monument, there was a scientific involvement too. By building this, he thought the volume of rubble that was carved from the cliff would be deposited in the river, which in turn would become a breakwater.
But when the construction was at the halfway stage, Hai Tong was passed away and the constructions had to be suspended due lack of funds. However, it resumed after 70 years when Jiedushi Wei, a renowned regional military head of the Tang Dynasty decided to fund the project. Owing to his effort, this wonderful statue was completed as per Hai Tongs wish in 803 AD.
Situated in one of most beautiful cities in West China, Leshan, became very popular among tourists because of the statue as well as its location between three sections of the upper Yangtze River connecting junction
Beauty of designs and technology
The face of the statue is looking at the city of Leshan with a calm smile. The statue is also known as Maitreya Buddha which was a Buddhist concept among the Chinese at that period of time. Worshipping Maitreya Buddha was very popular in China throughout 4th to 7th centuries.
Leshan Giant Buddha is unique statue not just because of its size, but for its architectural importance. The entire statue, other than its ears were carved out from red granite rock which gives the statue a beautiful light reddish outlook. The ears were crafted from wood and covered with clay. The hair of the statue shows the unique skills of the architectures who had designed and built it. Hair is arranged with 1021 spiral curl twists gives a magnificent look
.
The head of the statue is 15 meters high and the shoulders are 28 metres wide while the smallest toenail is equivalent to a size of a grown human. One foot of the statue is enough for 100 monks to sit on. The 7 metres long pair of ears can hold two persons dwell inside.
There are several drainage passages were built inside the statue to save it from erosion. The drainage system was built with several hidden gutters and channels that let the rain water flow freely and thereby keeping inner area dry always.
The city of Leshan in the Sichuan province attracts a large number of tourists and easily accessible. Situated just 130 km from Sichuan province from the capital Chengdu city. The journey takes only two hours to reach by bus. Chengdu is the only place in the world where Giant Pandas live in the suburban forests. For a tourist who visits Leshan can enjoy watching hundreds of pandas in Chengdu Panda breeding centre. Also Chinas oldest Buddhist monastery and Buddhists sacred Mountain Emei also can be reached within 90 minutes from Leshan. A trip to Sichuan basin will give any visitor a memorable andwholesome experience.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wadduwa tragedy: Two event organisers arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 09:02 pm
Wadduwa tragedy: Two event organisers arrested
	
 A proxy owner and a publicity officer of a private event organising company, which organized the party at a hotel in Wadduwa in which four persons died, had been arrested today.
Police Spokesman Ruwan Gunasekara said the private company was registered under the name of a female but her husband, the proxy owner, was operating the company.
The 36-year-old proxy owner was identified as a resident of Kaduwela and the 36-year-old publicity officer was a resident of Gothatuwa New Town.
The two suspects were arrested by the Wadduwa Police on charges of negligence which endangered life or the personal safety of others (Penal Code-327).
SP Gunasekara said IGP Pujith Jayasundara had ordered the investigating officers to conduct comprehensive investigation into the incident.
He said the post-mortem and the government analyst's reports into the deaths are yet to receive and further action would be taken against the suspects based on the reports.
The arrested suspects would be produced before the Panadura Magistrate tomorrow.
Four persons, who participated in a party organised through the Facebook on August 4, at a hotel in Wadduwa, died after admission to the Panadura Base Hospital. (Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: We will never condone any political deal with UNP in future.  - S.B.Dissanayake
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 9 August 2018 12:00 am
We will never condone any political deal with UNP in future.  - S.B.Dissanayake
	
EXCERPTS:
Q How is your groups preparation for the forthcoming ProvincialCouncil polls
Both, the SLFP and the UPFA contested the local government polls and were beaten badly. A large number of SLFP and UPFA members have joined the Joint Opposition (JO) since then except for a few like Duminda Dissanayaka and Mahinda Amaraweera and few others. Our target is to achieve a landslide victory against the UNP and form a SLFP government under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa as the Prime Minister before the Presidential poll scheduled to be held at the end of next year. A sound victory for the SLPP at the forthcoming PC polls would be considered a stepping stone towards the Presidential and Parliamentary polls success, and we have no doubt that we, in the JO will meet that target easily. 
We are on good terms with SLMC leader, Minister Rauff Hakeem, ACMC leader, Minister Rishad Bathiudeen, EPDP leader Douglas Devananda and CWC leader Arumugam Thondaman
Q Several Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) and the SLFP members have been charged in various courts on allegations of corruption, murder, embezzlement and many other crimes. Do you expect to form the next government with them
No one can claim that the SLFP lost elections in 2015 because of the action of a single person. We all must take the responsibility for that setback collectively and no one can point the finger against Basil or any others singularly. Yes, there were allegations against a number of SLFP members and that was one of the main contributory factors for our defeat. But you must keep in mind that none of those who were charged had been convicted. However, if any of the SLFP, UPFA or SLPP members who had been found guilty of any offence, he/she would not get nominations from any of the party at the future elections. 
But I must remind you that no legal action has been taken against MP Ravi Karunanayake, Ministers Malik Samarawickrama or Lakshman Kiriella and several other UNP members, despite the fact that they have many allegations against them on various misdeeds. 

Q The PC polls expected at the end of this year or early 2019, Presidential and Parliamentary polls too are set to follow. As the result of this, there would be a bitter encounter among main parties such as UNP, SLFP and SLPP. What are the strategies in store to win these elections
We, the group of 16 SLFPers will contest all forthcoming polls with the JO, though a few in our group want to contest alone. In doing so, we need to get a few minor issues sorted out, such as choosing a symbol, registering a party and selection of candidates etc. However, any SLFP or UPFA member of a local government body would get nominations provided he/she comes forward to contest the PC polls with us. The new electoral system which the SLPP had won the Local Government polls handsomely, is not an issue for us. Besides, a majority of SLFP and UPFA members are engaged in secret deal with SLPP. So, victory at all elections up to 2020 is ensured for the JO. 
Our target is to win all these polls someway or the other. Mahinda, Basil, Gota and Namal are fully committed to this task, and therefore, joining even with the demon to achieve a massive victory against the UNP, is not an issue for us. 
Our target is to achieve a landslide victory against the UNP and form an SLFP government under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa as the Prime Ministers before the Presidential poll scheduled to be held at the end of next year
Q Is any rapprochement possible between the UNP and SLFP after the PC polls to set up administrations in local government bodies, as it is extremely doubtful that a single party would be able to secure a majority in many of the Provincial Councils
The SLFP went further down in the February 10 local government polls than in the Parliamentary polls in August, 2015, and one of the main reasons for this huge electoral setback was the marriage with the UNP to form the Yahapalana Government. We would never condone any political deal with the UNP in future. We firmly believe that we would be in a position to set up administrations in all PCs, elect our own President and form a government on the results of the three forthcoming polls. Anyhow, if we need the help of any other political party, we would turn to minority parties but never to the UNP. 
We are on good terms with SLMC leader, Minister Rauff Hakeem, ACMC leader, Minister Rishad Bathiuddin, EPDP head Douglas Devananda and the head of CWC Arumugam Thondaman. I have no doubt that when the time is right, they would join hands with us to form a government if we extended an invitation. 
I have no issue with Ministers Mahinda Amaraweera or Duminda Dissanayaka personally or politically. Both have done much to uplift the party. I am also aware that Duminda was disappointed with the MR regime on how his father, late Berty Premalal Dissanayaka who totally dedicated his life for the SLFP, while Mahinda had some issues in his district (Hambantota) with Rajapaksas
Q The split among many factions within the SLFP has reached its peak now. This will no doubt affect badly on the party at the future polls. How are you going to tackle this
Yes, this is a challenge to meet our ultimate targets. But, you know, the SLFP has suffered more serious splits in the past. In 1987, the SLFP was down and out in the countrys political landscape with the setting up of the Sri Lanka Mahajana Party (SLMP). Senior members of the party, the likes of T. B. Illangaratne, Ratnasiri, Chandrika, Vijaya and Ossy Abeygunasekara abandoning the SLFP. But many of them returned to the party and successfully contested elections from the SLFP and by 1994, an SLFP government regained power. I have a great confidence that the SLFP cannot be destroyed but there could be setbacks and divisions within. 
Before the local government polls in February, the SLFP conducted a survey to get an idea on the voting pattern with the help of the Kelaniya University. The result was that SLPP was to get 32%, UNP 21% and the SLFP 12% of votes and the forecast was almost correct. I would say none of the traditional and established political parties such as the MEP, CPSL, LSSP or even the JVP should be driven away from the political scene. But, dont forget that in the event the SLPP joins the SLFP and progressive forces in the JO, that combination would be an extremely formidable political force against the UNP. 
We, the group of 16 SLFPers will contest all forthcoming polls with the joint opposition though a few of our group want to contest alone
When I convened the SLFP branch organizations at Hanguranketha a few days before the local government polls, a large majority of SLFP supporters indicated that they were to vote for the SLPP albeit remaining in the SLFP. That was the trend. It is the current trend too. 
Q Though you are a member of the SLFP and do politics under the leadership of President Maithripala Sirisena, you virtually stand with former President Mahinda Rajapaksa at each and every national issue. How and why
I took a wrong decision in my political journey when I quit the Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga regime. I would have remained in the party even after resigning from my cabinet portfolio. When Maithripala Sirisena was fielded as the common candidate in 2014, he invited me to his camp, but I refused. That was another blunder. I wish and pray to bring the two leaders on stage together to fightthe UNP. 
Q How do you see the exposure of the New York Times which alleged the China Harbour Engineering Company (CHEC) had funded Mahinda Rajapaksas Presidential Polls campaign in 2015
The NY Times exposure is not something exclusive or new. It was a reproduction of a report published in the Daily News in February 2015, based on an inquiry on the matter. The truth behind this episode was that companies  foreign and local and top businessmen and entrepreneurs fund election campaigns of top politicians and political parties. This is common all over the world. Those who donate small amount of financial support cannot even meet the leader of a main political party and they hand over the money to a second-tier politician of that particular party. This is common and happens to any party with no difference whether it is the SLFP, SLPP or the UNP. It is not something illegal or a crime. But my personal view is that there is an ethical issue involved with it. 
A sound victory for the SLPP at the forthcoming PC polls would be considered a stepping stone towards the Presidential and Parliamentary polls success, and we have no doubt that we, in the JO, will meet thattarget easily
Q But neither the CHEC nor the Chinese Govt. had denied these allegations...
Not necessarily. The Chinese government or the China Harbour Engineering Co. must not respond to a newspaper report that said one gave money to another. There was no legal validity or violation of any law in the transaction if it had taken place at all. 
Q The MoU reached by the UNP and the SLFP to form the Yahapalana Govt after August 2015 Parliamentary polls, expired in December 2017. Presently there is no MoU to run the country under a unity government. How do you see this
There was no agreement at all. If there was one, it was not possible to accept by Parliament or by a court of law. Even today there is no legally valid agreement to form a unity government jointly by the UNP and the SLFP. 
Q You held important portfolios under Presidents Chandrika Kumaratunga, Mahinda Rajapakse and finally under President Maithripala Sirisena. Are you comfortable doing politics as an ordinary MP now
Yes, to be frank with you, we are not comfortable because we had lost all the privileges, perks and comforts involved with a cabinet portfolio. We had a big personal
staff, an official residence, luxury vehicles with a chauffeur and many more. I had two offices in Kandy and Colombo. These days, I am trying to buy a jeep on a Rs.10 million lease agreement with a finance company. 
The Chinese government or the China Harbour Engineering Co. must not respond to a newspaper report which says one hasgiven money to another whether it was correct or not. There is no legal validity or violation of any law in the transaction if it took place at all
Q There are media reports that a new General Secretary is to be chosen at the next UPFA General Meeting and a new SLFP General Secretary at the next SLFP convention in early September. How credible are these reports
I have no issue with Ministers Mahinda Amaraweera or Duminda Dissanayaka personally or politically. Both have done much to uplift the party. I am also aware that Duminda was disappointed with the MR regime on how his father, late Berty Premalal Dissanayaka who totally dedicated his life for the SLFP. While Mahinda had some issues in his district (Hambantota) with Rajapaksas. But I believe all these are not big issues to keep them apart, because we all have a common objective of winning all forthcoming polls and forming our own government and electing our own President. It was a good decision of the SLFP to appoint Prof. Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa as the General Secretary of the party even for a period of a few months. 


 
		
==============================
## Title: Will take actions to defeat trade union terrorism: Sagala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 9 August 2018 03:01 pm
Will take actions to defeat trade union terrorism: Sagala
	
The Government would take every possible action to defeat the trade union terrorism considering the welfare and the support of the public, Southern Development Minister and Prime Minister's Chief of Staff Sagala Ratnayaka said in a statement.
He stated they would work to defeat these unruly elements that had no qualms about holding the entire country to ransom.
Several railway trade unions sunk to a new low last evening when they launched an unannounced strike, inconveniencing thousands of passengers that use the railway service on a daily basis,
The commuters were detained against their will by trade union leaders who showed callous disregard for the interests of the public - particularly young students currently sitting for their A/L examination,
What they demonstrated yesterday was nothing but "trade union terrorism", which elevates the unfair demands of a handful of trade unions above all else, he added.
While stating they had the great respect for trade unions, he stressed it was imperative to carry out trade union acts in a civilized manner within an ethical framework.
As a government, we are duty-bound to protect the rights of everyone alike both strikers and
protestors. We have to make sure law and order is maintained and commuters return home to their families safely. It is with this in mind that we acted to diffuse tense situation that had developed in the Colombo Fort area,
Our government is responsible and respects the worker for fighting for his demands, but our
commitment to the tenets of democracy and human rights should not be perceived as weakness, the Minister added.


 
		
==============================