## Title: Assault on undergrad: Eight remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 05:18 pm
Assault on undergrad: Eight remanded
	
The eight undergraduates of the Peradeniya University, who had allegedly assaulted a first year student, were arrested today and remanded for an identification parade.
The arrested students were produced in the Chambers of Kandy Chief Magistrate C. Attanayake. 
The 21-year-old victim, who is a son of a High Court Judge, had been allegedly assaulted by the second-year university students for voicing against ragging.
The student, who is an Arts Faculty undergraduate of the Peradeniya University, was assaulted by the eight students near the Post Graduate Institute on Wednesday. (L.B.Senaratne)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bank of Ceylon achieves a trillion hat-trick
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:06 am
Bank of Ceylon achieves a trillion hat-trick
	
The Bank of Ceylon scored its third trillion at the end of the year 2016. That is surpassing the Rs. 1 trillion mark in advances- another unique milestone in its 77-yearjourney as the bankers to the nation and becoming the first, and up tonow the only bank to pass this milestone in Sri Lanka.
The banks balance sheet has expanded at an impressive scale since its first trillion target was achieved in 2012 by accumulating over Rs. 1trillion assets in the banks balance sheet, becoming the first business entity in the country to do so.
Then by 2015 the Bank fully justified the trust placed in it by the public by announcing its second trillion Rs. 1 trillion deposits.
Being a state-owned bank and a key player in the financial mechanism in the country, every achievement of ours gets directly translated into countrys economic development. Being in line with the government initiatives towards Sri Lankas economic progress, we have managed a diverse lending portfolio that encompasses of almost all public and private organizations on different scales of operation and individuals from all walks of life.
For the bank it is always not the highest profit margin that matters, but always to look into sustainable growth of both the customer and the bank. Therefore, this announcement speaks of investment made in developing businesses and the people of this country. I wish to thank our customers, dedicated staff including those who have retired from the service for their contribution and all other stakeholders at this juncture, stated the Chairman Bank of Ceylon, Presidents Counsel Ronald C. Perera.
Moving onto implementing government-backed initiatives on catering to the unbanked segments in the country and building their confidence in the banking industry BOC has led many projects such as Samata Ginumak, Branch on Wheels, BOC Mithuru and many other financial inclusion programmes. Many of these programs looked into entrepreneur development, women and youth development.
The bank has moved into new-age banking with its digital infused transformation that has revolutionized banking operations overall. With this transformation BOC introduced many novel features internally and as well as for the Sri Lankan Banking industry that has enabled seamless banking transactions. Reiterating its commitment to all Sri Lankans, the bank ensured that all benefits derived from these novel initiatives will stream down to every nook and corner of the country.
Currently the bank maintains 628 branches, 689 ATMs and 123 CDM network and 15 Regional loan centers within the country. Considering the importance of customer interfaces the bank has upgraded many of its key branches with Smart Zones, a 24-hour digital banking self-serving lobby and even converted Thissamharama, Kekirawa and Kilinochchi, branches as green branches.
Passing the Rs.1 trillion target in advances is an overwhelming achievement. This is proof that we have improved our operational versatility and effectively managed requirements of our customers. In recent years we have managed to become the highest profit earning single business entity in the country.
Our asset base now stands at an astounding Rs.1.6 trillion and our deposit base has improved up to Rs. 1.2 Trillion. The Bank of Ceylon is everybodys Bank where we cater to Micro, SME, corporates and individual customers in the country, General Manager D. M. Gunasekera said. We have refined our strategic goals to be more customer-centric taking into account the present convenience-driven lifestyle of customers. At the same time, we will continue to contribute to economic development projects and initiatives of the country even better, he further added.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bid to save private property at the cost of forest cover
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:43 am
Bid to save private property at the cost of forest cover
	

The original plan of the proposed railway extension from Kurunegala to Dambulla has reportedly been altered on the sly for diverting a four-km stretch of track through a forest reserve.

The roadmap for laying this railway extension was drawn up in 2006, but it was left in cold storage, they say.
The originally planned route is believed to have been altered when the project was taken up recently for implementation.
It has come to light now that the route change had been made with a callous disregard for the damage to the forest reserve, in a bid to avoid the laying of the track through a land owned by a close kinsman of a Railway bigwig.
 
		
==============================
## Title: CB bond issue: SPC to complete probe in 3 months
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 11:20 pm
CB bond issue: SPC to complete probe in 3 months
	
The Special Presidential Commission appointed to probe the controversial bond issue will complete investigations in three months and hand over the report to President Maithripala Sirisena, Minister Nimal Siripala De Siva told Parliament today.
He said the SPC was appointed in the wake of a request made by the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and that it had been mandated to recommend the action that should be taken against those responsible for the bond issue.
He said even the Bank of Ceylon which acted as a broker for perpetual treasuries had to be investigated and assured that the President would not hesitate to take action against the wrongdoers. (Yohan Perera)

 
		
==============================
## Title: CB Bond Scam: Debate today on COPE report: Speaker
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 08:28 am
CB Bond Scam: Debate today on COPE report: Speaker
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said the COPE report on the CB bond scam would be taken up for debate today as scheduled and there was no reason for the House to act otherwise despite a petition filed against the COPE report in the Supreme Court.
He told Daily Mirror that the one-day debate on the bond scam is in the Order Paper and would be taken up for debate after the routine business of the House was over.
The House has not been officially informed of a petition filed in the SC challenging the findings of the COPE report and therefore, the debate will be held as scheduled, the Speaker said. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: ComBanks Arunalu launches  country-wide childrens art competition
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:07 am
ComBanks Arunalu launches  country-wide childrens art competition
	
Art enables children to express themselves on virtually anything that interests them, and the Commercial Bank of Ceylon has launched an island-wide competition to stimulate such expression by the countrys young artists.
Sri Lankas benchmark private bank has announced it will award Rs 555,000 in 45 cash prizes at an art competition to be conducted under the banner of Arunalu  the Banks flagship Childrens Savings Account.
Titled Arunalu Siththam, the competition is open to school-going children in three age groups  Grades 1 to 3, Grades 4 to 6 and Grades 7 to 9, the bank said. Contestants can choose their own topics and colour medium, and submit their art on 18 x 16 inch drawing paper on or before 14thMarch.
Each drawing should mention the topic and colour medium, the full name of the child, grade, school, childs address, telephone number and date on the back of the drawing and every submission should be certified by the childs school principal or class teacher or Grama Niladhari or by a Justice of the Peace.
Drawings should be sent to the Marketing Department of Commercial Bank, PO Box 856, Colombo 01.
The Bank said the drawing that wins first place in each age group will receive a cash prize of Rs 50,000, while the second and third placed drawings in each group will receive cash prizes of Rs 35,000 and Rs 25,000 respectively. A cash prize of Rs 15,000 each and Rs 10,000 each will be presented to the fourth and fifth placed drawings in each group.
The Bank will also award cash prizes of Rs 5,000 each to ten highly commended drawings in each age group, making a total of 15 cash prizes per segment.
The submitted drawings will be judged by an eminent panel of judges which is comprised of reputed professional artists who are experienced in judging paintings created by children.
Launched in 1991, Arunalu is Commercial Banks key savings account for children of the school going age. An Arunalu Childrens Savings account can be opened at any of Commercial Banks 256 branches with a minimum deposit of Rs. 100. The Arunalu account can be converted to one of the Banks many other savings accounts when the child reaches the age of 18, making the account holder eligible for a Commercial Bank debit or credit card, as well as to apply for personal loans for educational purposes.

 
		
==============================
## Title: DROUGHT Sri Lanka suffering with effects of climate change
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:15 am
DROUGHT Sri Lanka suffering with effects of climate change
	
The prevailing drought has caused water scarcity, food shortages and a potential threat of spreading diseases. Despite intermittent rain showers, the public has been advised to save power, water and to prepare for consuming supplementary food. The Agriculture Department has warned about a potential food shortage following the drought as farmers are unable to carry on without expected rains. Day by day, news on ravaged farmlands and crops are reported throughout the country. At the same time, the price of essential dry provisions including rice and coconut are reportedly increasing in price. According to the situation report issued on January 22 by the Disaster Management Centre a total number of 1,072,392 people have been affected by the drought with several districts deprived of drinking water. These include 39,824 people in Puttalam, 12,908 people in Anuradhapura, 38, 828 people in Moneragala, 2,593 people in Badulla, 302,005 people in Batticaloa and 186,199 people in Kalutara.

Serious drinking water issue in Kalutara District
K. Alahudeen Ansar - The Chairman of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board 
The Kalutara District has a serious drinking water issue due to salt water intrusion in Kalu Ganga. Kurunegala district, some parts of Kandy, Bandarawela and Monaragala districts are also affected. Currently we are monitoring the situation. Kelani Ganga is not affected because temporary salinity barriers are there and we are proposing to locate a permanent one in Kelani Ganga within a year. Currently we are trying to manage supplying water for the affected areas, 50 litres of water is given to a family and the quantity depends on the purpose for which the water is used. Now there are 337 water supply schemes. The Water Board is planning to rehabilitate 1000 bore-hall wells all over the island 400 new bore-hall wells are to be constructed. The public is advised not to waste water and avoid dumping garbage and waste into water bodies especially in these days.

Large extent of cultivation areas in danger due to drought
Saman Weerasingha - Director General of the Irrigation Department 
Due to the prevailing drought, 30,000 acres of cultivation areas are in danger. By now the major reservoirs, Kanthale oya and Kirama oya are short of water. The government is taking action to provide clean drinking water to the affected areas yet the public is warned to use minimum water and electricity. No rains are expected till October and November, till the North east monsoon. 
Further commenting on the situation he said; This is not the first time we are facing this kind of a drought. There has been a severe drought in 1975 and minor droughts have happened even in 2014. These are obvious results of the climatic change and global warming. Global warming started in 1975 and now it is gearing up. Natural disasters are going in extremes due to the climate change and sea level rising, huge thunder showers and severe droughts are examples for extremes.

Over 645,000 peopleaffected by drought
Pradeep Kodippili - The Media Spokesperson of the Disaster Management Centre
More than 13 districts have been affected by the drought and over 645,000 people have faced the prevailing drought. The Disaster Management Centre and all the institutions under the Ministry of Disaster Management have taken steps to supply relief to the people, in the prevailing weather and in near future. 
Nearly 120,000 people in Kalutara district have faced disturbing drinking water issues due to salinity seeping into the Kalutara area. We have arranged to transport clean drinking water to the area and we discussed the proceedings to avoid any water issue in the future. Public can call 117 in emergency and we are prepared to give 24 hours service. And most importantly, we request the public to save the power, water and food in this disaster situation.

All the responsible government institutions have made a special request from the public to limit consumption and save electricity and water during this crisis the country is undergoing.

Home garden is the only place that can survive in this drought
The Director General of the Agricultural Department, Dr. Rohan Wijekoon commented on the ongoing drought and subsequent food shortage. 
This year is considered a dangerous year due to the climate change. As we still have the harvest of Yala season, a sufficient rice stock exists until June this year. We should face a food shortage only afterwards, because of the ongoing drought. The public has to adapt to drought resistant food that are abundant in the environment, consuming fruits, green leaves as Japan batu, Jak fruit leaves, Croton leaves, Koppa leaves and non vegetables and home grown food on a large scale. 
He pointed out the importance of home grown food, saying: A garden is the only place that can survive in this drought because people can look after it easily. Especially fruits are abundant in this period as trees think they are dying of drought and make lots of fruit. Therefore the shortage concerns only rice and other cultivated corps. we are encouraging the public to eat supplementaries as fruits and green leaves that can be found in the garden. We request people not to eat Polos because if that was avoided, people can consume Jack fruit as a fulfilling, delicious and highly nutritious food. We have to use our traditional knowledge and agricultural practices to survive a hard period like this. Along with that, we should be using nearly 1,50,000 acres of unemployed paddy to produce rice in the wet zone which could be used as a cushion area to minimise the harm from the drought. Even in the past, the wet zone had been used to compensate for this kind of periods. Most of the unused paddys are in Southern and Western provinces. 
Further commenting on the steps to be taken facing the food shortage, the director noted that they have introduced new drought resistant rice variations like BG 250 and BG 251 that can be harvested within a short period. The anticipated food shortage is expected only after the end of June.   
No power cuts
Ceylon Electricity Board - Director General Anura Wijepala 
Though the water levels have decreased in major reservoirs yet there will be no power cuts and we are calling for bidding to take appropriate action in buying power.





Countrys power planning doesnt happen on the advice of professionals
Ceylon Electricity Board - President of Engineers Forum - Athula Wanniarachchi 
The emergency power of 60% is to be taken from the private sector and 300 MW power supply expected in 2019 is also from private sector. In addition to this, all are just financial deals. Those proposals are taken by business tycoons and politicians. Countrys power planning doesnt happen on the advice of professionals. The CEB engineers had plans for power, but the responsible people didnt listen to us. If the country had the Sampur coal power plant by now, we wouldnt be facing this crisis. To obtain power in a crisis such as this, costs are very high and we had warned of this earlier. Government is listening to several NGOs whose sole purpose is to earn money. Now the expected power percentage has been offered for bidding and the lowest bidder will be the winner.

Govt. requests A/Cs to be at 26<U+F0A1> to save power
In a recent media release, Minister Ranjith Siyambalapititya had said the government is trying to generate power using additional sources and the cost is not expected to be charged from the public. The government requests the public to save power by limiting unnecessary power consumptions by maintaining A/C s at 26 degrees. 
The Meteorological Department recently predicted that the current dry weather in Sri Lanka could change after January 20 as few rains are expected. The president has appointed a Special Task Force calling from five ministries and tri-forces with district secretaries and divisional secretaries to act according to this emergency drought situation. And on Jan. 18th the president appointed another committee with three secretaries representing CEB, Mahaweli Development and the Water Board. 

Considerable amount of rain was expected last week in Northern and Eastern provinces and it could spread along the country till today (Tuesday). The rain would be a relief to the drought in some extent, but it cannot fill the gap of one year with just two days of rain

Anusha Warnasuriya - Deputy Director in Department of Meteorology


 
		
==============================
## Title: Fr. Harold Panditharatne A Teacher Par Excellence
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:01 am
Fr. Harold Panditharatne A Teacher Par Excellence
	
Rev. Fr. Harold Panditharatne was a teacher par excellence. He had obtained two doctorates, one from the Universit Urbaniana on Hegels Concept of Indian Philosophy and the other from the University of London on The metaphysical problem of existence as involved in the dialectical and sense-datum analysis of sense-experience.
No wonder he was called ilfilosofo  the philosopher  among his colleagues in Rome. He was addicted to reading - not as only a hobby, but as an intellectual exercise. He once told that he goes on reading through the whole night and when the bell rings to wake up the seminarians, he realises he has not slept a single minute. One can imagine the love with which he would have read those books. Were those books mere love stories or fictions One might wonder. They were highly intellectual books on Emmanuel Kant, or on Hegel, or on Symbolic Logic. He had the ability to grasp easily the highly-abstract concepts, and also to simplify them for us, his students.
A philosopher of our time
Why was it that Fr. Harold Panditharatne was called ilfilosofo by his companions in Rome He has not authoured any philosophical book, nor has he developed any unique system. Then, what makes him the philosopher
Being a student of his and having taken up most of the subjects he taught to seminarians, I think I have some explanations. He was eager to read any philosophical material he came across and to scrutinise the text and arguments in it.
I had the privilege to go through some of the text books he owned. I noticed he had underlined several segments of the book with different colours. I marveled at the number of times he had read a particular book. In some books, he had made comments on almost every page, and they drew attention to some contradictory statements the author him or herself had made. In some places, he had shown the logical errors the author had fallen into. To our surprise, he would give the page number in which the author himself had fallen into contradiction.
A philosopher is one who evaluates the arguments in any philosophical discourse and purifies the concepts involved in it, in the light of valid arguments. No philosopher from whatever school, be it Rationalism, Empiricism, Pragmatism or in the Analytic School can get away with making statements without proper logical basis. I remember that the famous book Problems of Philosophy, authored by Bertrand Russell, had been read by him several times. Each time he had read that book, he had underlined some passages with a different pen and made some beautiful comments too.
Once he attended an international symposium on Hegel -- he was the only attendee from the East. Later, he gave the printed text to the students who opted to do the seminar on Hegel with him. I was one of them. To our surprise, at the end of the semester, he has gone through only one typed page, but in every paragraph he had read, he had brought the opinions of other philosophers and evaluated them in the light of Hegelian Philosophy. At the end of the semester he told us: You write something on Hegel and bring it to me. We were reminded of the question put to Wittgenstein by his renowned professor when he wanted him to choose philosophy over Aircraft piloting. Fr. Panditharatne had the ability to explain abstract and difficult concepts in a simple language to his students.
Human person
Though he was someone who had obtained two doctorates on highly-abstract subjects and equipped himself with a vast knowledge in many fields, Fr. Panditharatne was a simple, very human and down to earth person.
When he was the Rector, it happened one day that those brothers made a lot of noise in the recreation hall, which of course was permitted by the time table. He thought it was the time for silence and reprimanded them thoroughly. When he was made aware that it was recreation time, he publicly apologised to the brothers saying: Mea culpa, Mea culpa, Mea Maxima culpa  which means my fault, my fault, my greatest fault.
Being a man of logical thinking, he used to get furious when anyone spoke illogically in a conversation. It was the Rectors day in the seminary. The brother who was in-charge of the notice board had put up a poster wishing him. The Brother had used the indefinite article in front of the word Rector. Father Panditharatne was furious about it, saying there were not many rectors in the seminary but only one.
Though Fr. Panditharatne had a clear mind in the field of Philosophy, he was absent-minded in practicality. Whenever he travelled, he either read or slept. One day, it happened that when he was returning to Kandy from Colombo, his car got stuck at Peradeniya because a huge tree had fallen across the road. When Fr. Panditharatne had inquired about the incident from the driver, he had explained the situation.
Very comfortably, he settled down to continue reading the book in the car. The tree was removed after an hour and the car reached the seminary at Ampitiya. When the driver opened the door and asked him to get down, he asked the driver: Why Has the tree been removed That was Fr. Panditharatne. I can go on narrating many similar stories about him which were enjoyed by us students and as lecturers in the seminary to show how human he was.
Last days
Towards the latter part of his life, Fr. Panditharatne lost his memory and was afraid to teach. He used to say he had not contributed much to society. Fr. Panditharatne expressed these sentiments in very strong terms. I think, he thought that he could have done more in his life. For us, he was the teacher par excellence, a Rector of high calibre, who had formed many Catholic priests in Sri Lanka. His training of clergy in philosophy was supreme.
Fr. Panditharatne, we remember you and your service to us and especially to the Catholic Church in Sri Lanka with much gratitude. To you we are sada nayagethi. I am sure you are enjoying the bliss of the Heavenly Father which you taught us in a highly-philosophical language.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gemunu requests Rs. 5,000 for begging and selling in buses
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:07 am
Gemunu requests Rs. 5,000 for begging and selling in buses
	
Lanka Private Bus Owners' Association (LPBOA) President Gemunu Wijeratne yesterday said he had requested the Finance Minister to include a clause to ban begging and selling goods inside buses and to add Rs.5,000 as fines when the Motor Traffic Act of 1951 is being amended to add seven traffic offences.
He said he had requested Minister Ravi Karunanayake to implement the rules to ban begging and doing businesses inside the buses, which causes inconveniences to the commuters.
Many complaints had been received about harassment caused by beggars and sellers. Drug addicts collect their daily collection and some book sellers sell their books while pick pocketing the passengers, he said.
Since the Act had been implemented for 66 years, there had been no specific fine defined. Therefore, a request had been made to the Minister to charge a fine of minimum Rs.5,000 for begging and selling goods inside buses, he said.
Mr. Wijeratne said during the past government he had sent a letter to Gotabhaya Rajapaksa who was the then Secretary of Defence requesting assistance to ban begging and selling goods inside buses but to no avail. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: He is back at ground zero
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:40 am
He is back at ground zero
	
It is not something unusual for politicos at every level in the polity to change their political party allegiance from time to time to suit their personal purposes.

This well-known Betel leaf party politico hailing from the Matale district was keeping a low profile in the recent past, not because he lost his seat at the last general polls, but because he had to bide his time to decide as to which faction of the splintered party would serve his personal ends better.
Having decided finally that time was opportune for him to throw in his lot with the JO, the politico swung into action. He organized a JO branch (balamandalaya) in his constituency and invited a vociferous JO stalwart in the district to attend the inaugural meeting as the chief guest.
The politicos opportunistic move angered the genuine JO activists in the area who immediately made representations to their leadership about the new development and the latter lost no time in exposing the politico.
Back at ground zero, the dejected politico remains confined to home these days, they say. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: He was gifted with a rare legal and philosophical genius
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:04 am
He was gifted with a rare legal and philosophical genius
	
Christopher Gregory Weeramantry 
(1926-2017) 
Each and every nation treasures a selected band of very special sons and daughters; the eminently gifted ones in any given domain of human endeavour. Christopher Gregory Weeramantry will certainly go down in history as one of the greatest sons of Sri Lanka and as a Global Citizen of the
highest order. 
The surname Weeramantry is spoken of with respect throughout the country: Judge Christopher Weeramantrys father Gregory and his elder brother Lucian earned their spurs in national history but Christopher was to reach well beyond the national compound. He made his name and that of his beloved Sri Lanka echo worldwide. None perhaps of the eminent legal and social minds Sri Lanka gave birth to ever exerted such an impact on global thought as he did. For there was a personal element to it as well. By virtue of his gentle, mild personality, his irresistible charm - topped by that enchanting smile Christopher Weeramantry, with enviable ease, laced together strings of friends and
admirers worldwide. 
Judge Weeramantry, as he was known, was gifted with a rare legal and philosophical genius, a photographic memory, an astounding energy and a formidable drive and will-power. For all of this, he will be remembered first and foremost for his courageous stand on principle when it counted most, when he was faced with one of the greatest challenges met in the history of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which he served with such pride and honour (1991-2000). His valiant defence, in the trenches of the law, of the unconditional ban on nuclear weapons, will be remembered as the zenith of his moral endeavours. 
Some people manage to rise to the occasion: with Judge Weeramantry, one felt he was hand-picked and groomed all his life to serve the world. Rarely, even in the impressive, century-old records of the highest judicial authority, the modern world boasts as the outcome of a chequered process and at the end of a long and winding road, will one find a Judge whose in-depth humanity, truly universal outlook and inter-cultural learning shone so eminently and persuasively. 


"At various critical moments in his long career, Weeramantry spoke up on principle on acute political and ethical issues,"

His stand in The Hague did not come by accident, though. At various critical moments in his long career, Weeramantry spoke up on principle on acute political and ethical issues, be it in an academic capacity or in his position as a Judge of the Supreme Court in Colombo. His stand against Apartheid in the final stages of the regime exemplifies the numerous ethical issues of compelling urgency that found lucid and fundamental treatment in Weeramantrys publications. 
We were honoured to edit a Congratulatory Volume to celebrate the 90th birthday of Judge Weeramantry, on November 17, 2016. The volume titled One World, One Home, One Law For All, A Tribute to Christopher Gregory Weeramantry will appear shortly. In the publication, some sixty colleagues, pupils and friends from a range of disciplines amply review the width and wealth of Judge Weeramantrys multi-faceted career. They address his seminal tenets on such varying issues as Humanitarian Law; Sustainable Development and the Right of Future Generations; Trusteeship; Equality and Freedom; Science and Ethics; Xenotransplantation; Law and Equity; Judicial Integrity and Law and Religion. 
The rich harvest of his numerous opinions and publications mark Christopher Weeramantry as one of the most intriguing legal thinkers of the 20th Century. Paramount in this philosophy was his unfailing belief in the global perspective and in the fundamental equality of all human beings, next to his reliance on the capacity of Man to overcome the unsettling challenges the world
faces today. 
In perceiving the role of the Law and the Judiciary Judge, Weeramantry insisted on the quintessential unity of the Law; on the imperative of its interaction with Society; on normative moral values and such concepts as Justice and Equity; last but not least, on the pertinence of the worlds rich cultural and religious traditions - the reflection of humanitys accumulated experience and wisdom - as sources of inspiration to draw up the Universal Law of the Future. 

"No Judge in the history of the International Court of Justice was so adamant on revitalising the interaction of Law and Religion. It was a tantalising quest that Judge Weeramantry embarked on, not just in view of the prevailing western legal tradition of four centuries"

And this brings us back to Sri Lanka. No Judge in the history of the International Court of Justice was so adamant on revitalising the interaction of Law and Religion. It was a tantalising quest that Judge Weeramantry embarked on, not just in view of the prevailing western legal tradition of four centuries, but no less on account of current clashes and skirmishes. 
Still, there is no coincidence here. Not just his opinions in The Hague, but numerous books and publications, even his poetry, reveal Judge Weeramantrys penetrating thoughts on the views conceived in Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity and Islam with respect to the Judiciary. To that extent, he proudly presented himself as the product of that multi-cultural and pluriform religious tradition of his home country. 
There is a wealth-not just of learning and knowledge- but of what counts most in the final analysis of wisdom and humanity in the tracts and treatises the Judge leaves his fellow countrymen of all denominations. This is the rich legacy he presents on a silver platter to the world and his country in recognition of the debt he always felt he owed his Island of Serendipity. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: How Judge Weeramantry helped restore judicial integrity worldwide
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:03 am
How Judge Weeramantry helped restore judicial integrity worldwide
	
In all the tributes paid to the late Judge Weeramantry, no reference appears to have been made to the pivotal role he played as Chairperson of the Judicial Integrity Group that developed the universal code of judicial conduct. 
In the late 1990s, credible evidence began to surface that people in many countries, on many continents, considered their judicial systems to be corrupt. Those who participated in public perception surveys considered the judiciary to be only somewhat less corrupt than the police. Litigants who responded in service delivery surveys claimed to have paid bribes to court officials, judges, and in a South Asian country, even to the opponents lawyer. A presidential commission of inquiry into corruption in an African country reported that corruption in the judiciary was so widespread that the ordinary citizen had no faith in the judicial system, with many believing justice was only for those with money. In Sri Lanka, judges who responded in a direct mail survey reported at least three incidents of bribery involving judges and relating to the delivery of judgments. 
I was then functioning as Executive Director of Transparency International at its secretariat in Berlin. We took the initiative to speak with judges, lawyers, academics, justice ministry officials, members of parliament and civil society representatives. They all agreed on the need to formulate and implement a concept of judicial accountability without eroding the principle of judicial independence. The challenge was to determine how the judiciary could be held to account in a manner that was consistent with the principle of judicial independence. How does one achieve the right balance between autonomy in decision-making and independence from external forces on the one hand and accountability to the community on the other These were issues that were best resolved by the judges themselves. 
Accordingly, in early 2000, UNCICP Vienna agreed to host a preparatory meeting of Chief Justices from common law countries who spoke a common legal language, to discuss this issue. The Chief Justices I communicated with  from South Africa, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Sri Lanka, India, Nepal, Bangladesh  and the longest serving judge in Australia, Justice Michael Kirby, all agreed to attend this meeting, as did the UN Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers, Param Cumaraswamy and the Chairman of the UN Human Rights Committee P. N. Bhagwati, former Chief Justice of India. 
We were then faced with a very sensitive problem. Who should preside at this meeting Would the choice of an Asian Chief Justice offend their respected colleagues from Africa Would the choice of a white Australian Judge offend everyone It was at that stage, after consultation with my UN colleagues, that I contacted Judge Weeramantry, Vice-President of the International Court of Justice (ICJ). He agreed and his leadership was accepted unreservedly by all the participating Chief Justices. At its first meeting, the Judicial Integrity Group (as this group came to be known) agreed that the principle of accountability demanded, initially, a universally acceptable statement of the core judicial values which were capable of being enforced by the judiciary. 

"He emphasized the universality of the expectation of judicial integrity. He explained that it was important to be alert not only to financial corruption but also to intellectual corruption, given the choice which judges have to make in the discharge of their judicial duties"

At the request of the Group, I prepared a draft statement of principles of judicial conduct. It drew on rules and principles already articulated in national codes of conduct (wherever they existed), and in regional and international instruments. When we met in Bangalore in 2001 to consider the draft, Judge Weeramantry placed the work of the Group in the context of other developments of international law. He emphasized the universality of the expectation of judicial integrity. He explained that it was important to be alert not only to financial corruption but also to intellectual corruption, given the choice which judges have to make in the discharge of their judicial duties. 
Over the next twenty months, the text of a document that came to be known as the Bangalore Draft was disseminated among senior judges of both common law and civil law systems in over 75 countries. It was discussed at several judicial conferences at which Judge Weeramantry, Justice Kirby and I participated. It was reviewed by the Consultative Council of European Judges in Strasbourg. It was translated into several Eastern European languages and commented on by the Constitutional Courts of those countries. Finally, in the light of the comments and criticisms received, the draft was revised. By then, Judge Weeramantrys term of office on the ICJ had ended. 
As 2002 drew to a close and we were discussing how best to proceed to the next and final stage, Judge Weeramantry returned to The Hague as an Ad Hoc Judge of the ICJ. Insisting that the draft code, when adopted, should be one that was universally acceptable, he made three proposals. The first was that the final meeting be held in the Peace Palace at The Hague, the seat of the ICJ. The second was that we should invite a representative group of Chief Justices of civil law countries. The third was that we should also invite the Judges of the ICJ. 

Accordingly, in November 2002, a Round Table Meeting of Chief Justices drawn principally from the civil law system  Brazil, Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Mexico, Mozambique, Netherlands,Norway, and the Philippines - at which several Judges of the International Court of Justice  from Madagascar, Hungary, Germany, Sierra Leone, United Kingdom, Brazil, Egypt and the United States - also participated, was convened in the historic Japanese Room of the Peace Palace, chaired by Judge Weeramantry. Unlike at previous meetings of common law judges, the working languages at this meeting were English, French and Spanish. The participation of judges from legal systems other than of the common law also meant the absence of a common legal language. However, the consummate chairperson that he was enabled Judge Weeramantry to complete the proceedings within two days, having achieved a consensus on several disputed issues. From this meeting emerged The Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct which identified six core values of the judiciary: Independence, Impartiality, Personal Integrity, Propriety, Equality and Competence and Diligence. The document then proceeded to state the principle derived from each value, followed by more detailed statements of the application of each value. 
Judge Weeramantry was insistent that we should endeavour to have the Bangalore Principles adopted by the United Nations as the global standard. That was an almost insurmountable challenge. An instrument not drafted by representatives of governments had never been accepted or endorsed by the United Nations. The fact that it had been prepared under UN auspices was of no relevance. The memory of the events of the 1980s, when two parallel attempts were made to draft the Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary, was still fresh in our minds. One attempt was by the UN Crime Committee in Vienna comprising representatives of governments, and the other in Geneva by the UN Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and the Protection of Minorities comprising human rights experts. The latter prepared a much more comprehensive statement of principles than the government representatives. The two streams did not converge in any real sense, and the UN at that time ruled that standard-setting was the business of governments, and not of experts. 

The first attempt to reach the General Assembly was made in 2003 by the UN Special Rapporteur when he attached the Bangalore Principles to his annual report to the Human Rights Commission. That effort met with mild success. The Commission merely noted the Bangalore Principles. The next effort produced spectacular results. In April 2005 on the initiative of UNODC, the Economic and Social Commission in a resolution adopted without a vote, acknowledged the important work carried out by the Judicial Integrity Group emphasized that the Bangalore Principles of Judicial Conduct represent a further development and are complementary to the Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary and invited Member States to encourage their judiciaries to take into consideration the Bangalore Principles when developing rules with respect to the professional and ethical conduct of members of the judiciary. ECOSOC also invited the Group to develop a Commentary on the Bangalore Principles. 
With the assistance of Justice Kirby, I prepared the draft commentary. When I submitted it to Judge Weeramantry, he pointed out that we should demonstrate that contemporary judicial values were drawn from the great religious systems of the world, all of which were unanimous in their insistence on the highest standards of judicial rectitude. After hours of discussion with him and drawing on his immense knowledge of the subject, especially Islamic law, I prepared an annex to the draft commentary that drew on religious and cultural traditions: the texts of ancient Egypt and Hindu law; Buddhist philosophy and the Twelve Tables of Rome (which contained the injunction that The setting of the sun shall be the extreme limit of time within which a judge must render his decision ); the legal systems that flourished in China and in Africa at the same time as they did in Greece and Rome; the writings of Jewish scholars; the teachings of the Old Testament; and the very specific and comprehensive provisions in Islamic Law. These judicial values were not only global; they were also eternal. They were part of the heritage of mankind. 


"I can imagine the sense of achievement he must have felt when, in May 2016, he was informed that the Bangalore Principles were now included in the United Nations Compendium of UN Standards and Norms"

In 2007, Judge Weeramantry, together with Chief Justice Pius Langa of South Africa, presided over the Intergovernmental Expert Group, convened in Vienna at the request of ECOSOC, to scrutinize and approve the draft Commentary. As the draft was examined in detail, paragraph by paragraph by over a hundred participants, not only by judges but by senior government officials nominated by states, it was the unique judicial experience and temperament of these two distinguished judges that made it possible to retain the text of the Bangalore Principles and of the 175-page draft Commentary with minimum amendments. In 2010, in Lusaka, Judge Weeramantry chaired the meeting of the Judicial Integrity Group at which Measures for the Effective Implementation of the Bangalore Principles was adopted. That statement of benchmarks or guidelines describes the responsibilities of the judiciary and the institutional arrangements to be established by the state to give effect to the Bangalore Principles. Earlier, at a meeting in Colombo in January 2003, the Group adopted Principles of Conduct for Judicial Personnel, that had been prepared following a consultation process with selected court registrars. 
The Philippines was among the first judiciaries to adopt the Bangalore Principles and the Principles of Conduct for Judicial Personnel. From Belize in the Caribbean to the Marshall Islands in the Pacific, the Bangalore Principles have been used as the model by national judiciaries in fashioning their own codes of conduct. Judge Weeramantry kept himself informed as judiciary after judiciary modelled their own codes of conduct on the Bangalore Principles. I can imagine the sense of achievement he must have felt when, in May 2016, he was informed that the Bangalore Principles were now included in the United Nations Compendium of UN Standards and Norms. 

The Judicial Integrity Group over which Judge Weeramantry presided has survived for over sixteen years as an autonomous body with a continuing commitment to developing tools to strengthen judicial integrity. Its initiatives have considerably expanded the global architecture of standards applicable to judicial systems. There were moments when other, more powerful organizations attempted to absorb the Group. I recall a meeting in Vienna when a senior UN official attempted to convert it into a UN activity with the offer of funds and other benefits and Judge Weeramantry strongly insisted that it should remain a UN-supported activity. On that occasion, all its members, led by Chief Justice Langa of South Africa asserted that the Group was, and would continue, as an independent and autonomous body which determines its own programme of work and its own membership. 
With dignity, grace and charm, Judge Weeramantry presided over a group of powerful judicial personalities of many nationalities. His indomitable spirit led them to achieve the objectives they sought. The Bangalore Principles was the first ever instrument not drafted by representatives of governments to have been accepted and endorsed by the United Nations. In that sense, Judge Weeramantry led the process that broke the glass ceiling. 
"Judge Weeramantry was insistent that we should endeavour to have the Bangalore Principles adopted by the United Nations as the global standard. That was an almost insurmountable challenge. An instrument not drafted by representatives of governments had never been accepted or endorsed by the United Nations"

 
		
==============================
## Title: I Feel the heat more as captain: Mathews
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:37 am
I Feel the heat more as captain: Mathews
	
In 2014, a few months after he guided Sri Lanka to their maiden Test win against England, Angelo Mathews was named captain of the ICC Test Team of the Year. He seemed well set to rise to the upper echelons of the sports hierarchy.
Like his predecessors Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara, Mathews was blossoming into an influential leader with Sri Lanka heading towards a generational change after the retirement of several high profile players.
He soon became the man Sri Lanka pinned their future on. He showed glimpses of great leadership and as a cricketer by leading from the front.
And he ascended to new heights during his four-year reign, particularly by leading Sri Lanka to their first-ever series whitewash against Australia last year.
However, Mathews is now under fire from many a quarter - including his employer - as Sri Lanka conceded one of their biggest defeats in recent years with a 0-3 defeat in the Test series against South Africa.
In an interview, Mathews, the youngest Sri Lankan Skipper after having taken over at 25, said he is ready to throw in the towel as captain if asked to do so.
excerpts from the interview
Q There has been a lot of criticism against the team, particularly your captaincy, following the Test defeat in South Africa. How do you deal with these criticisms personally
This is my fifth year into the captaincy. I have realised that, when you do well, there will be a lot of people praising you. When you start losing, there will be criticism. This is part and parcel of the game. I understand that people back home are quite disappointed with the outcome of the series. They love the game. They follow us wherever we go. So, I understand their anger. But they need to see we are not here to lose. We try our best to win and we are as much disappointed as anyone. As I have said, I admit that we did not play our best cricket. But we came quite close on Friday (the first T20). A loss is a loss no matter how close the encounter is. I thought we did pretty well when compared with the Test series but, again, it wasnt enough to win the match.
Q Many have blamed lack of leadership for the defeats. Do you think it has anything to do with your leadership qualities
I am not sure. When you win, there are lots of people to take the credit. But when we lose, its the captain and the selectors who get the blame. As captain, I take the responsibility for the performances of the team in South Africa. I know I am answerable but, as captain, I have done the best possible. I worked closely with the Coach (Graham Ford). I always discussed with the selectors when it came to the team. It has been a collective effort. But if someone wants to put the blame on me, so be it.
Q You arrived in South Africa with five wins in a row, including the first-ever series whitewash against Australia back at home under your leadership. I am sure the levels of confidence of the boys were high but were beaten quite badly. Where did the team go wrong
We need to understand the conditions we played in. Yes, we played very good cricket. We beat Australia at home and, again, Zimbabwe in Zimbabwe. I am not taking anything away from the boys. They did extremely well.
But we need to accept that the conditions and the opposition (in those instances) is so different to South Africa. We knew it was going to be tough, tough for everyone. Yes, we get lots of stick back at home, but everyone should understand we are here to play cricket and win games.
Like I said, we tried everything possible.
In Test matches, we couldnt really absorb how the wicket played. It had lots of grass. I dont want to throw up any excuses. But thats the truth. We just played poorly and badly which is why we lost the series.
Q  Unlike in the past, there are no star players in the side. How much of an impact do you think this has on the teams recent performances
Yes, to a certain extent. When I started off, especially in England where we made that historic win, Mahela and Kumar were in the side. Even during the last Australian series, I had Rangana Herath. But now I am carrying on with a lot of young players.
Players like Kusal Mendis and Dhananjaya de Silva have not played much Test cricket, forget about playing outside Sri Lanka. So, we need to give them opportunities. Let everyone blame me, its fine. I can take it but lets not blame the other players. They need support and encouragement and not to be put down.
Q You became Sri Lankas youngest captain at 25 when the National Selectors decided to hand you the reigns in 2013. Dont you think that the responsibility of captaincy came too early for you
I was lucky to have Mahela (Jayawardene), Kumar (Sangakkara), T. M. Dilshan and Thilan Samaraweera in the team. They helped and supported me. Now, I have Herath, and Dinesh Chandimal as Vice-Captain. I wouldnt say it was too early.
If you look at Graham Smith, he took the captaincy when he was just 22. Its just a matter of whether or not you can do it. Yes, its not an easy job. You feel the heat more as captain. You need to be responsible and strong enough to take the blame and pressures thrown at you.
Q There were champion cricketers coming into the side. Its not the case now. Where do you think is the problem
The domestic structure. Fortunately, the Cricket Board is now working together with the Cricket Committee to put a structure in place. We need to give them some time. I hope we can see a big improvement in couple of years. These are hard times. Even the legends, when they played overseas, were in trouble.
Q We have a history of performing badly away from home. Why
Most teams struggle away from home. If you take Australia, they struggled against us in Sri Lanka. I think we need to think out of the box, which the Cricket Board and the committee are doing at the moment. If you have a good structure in place and prepare good wickets, you will have better results. We did everything we could. We increased grass levels and played in those wickets at the Khettarama prior to this tour but we cannot get similar conditions to South Africa in Sri Lanka. I am sure we can turn things around. Its just a lot of hard work that we have to put in from the players side as well.
Q You have been named captain till the 2019 World Cup. In case Sri Lanka continues to falter in the series, do you think your position is under threat
Im not thinking too far ahead. I just want to take one game at a time. Im not here to be captain forever and I will never be captain forever. This is just a passing cloud. I am not afraid to lose it and I dont need it forever. Im not afraid to step down or lose it or to keep it. I can play under any captain no matter who he is. As long as I perform, I have a lot more to give to the team and the country. Ill do my very best regardless of whether or not Im captain.
Q If the selectors asked you to resign because of the South African Test series loss, would you think its a justifiable request
Its not in my control. We are here to win, we never think to lose. If the selectors or Sri Lanka Cricket think they need a change and believe someone else is ready to do the captaincy, its not at all a problem for me. As long as I enjoy the game, I will keep playing. I just want to try and perform well as a team and I will always help whoever is captain in the future as well.
Q Your tactics - mainly your change of bowlers and field setting - are labelled as poor by some critics. What is your response to it
You can look at in two ways. When I bowl, it is a problem. When I dont bowl, it is also a problem. I dont really care about what others say. Ill do what my gut say. I am the captain, I need to take decisions. Whatever I feel best, I will do after talking with senior players. I have always opened bowling from 2009, especially in these conditions when wickets have a lot of grass. Even Champaka (Ramanayake) and (Graham) Ford told me to bowl early since I swing and seam a lot more.
Guys like Lahiru Kumara and Nuwan Pradeep are better off with the semi new ball as they have better control. When you lose, everyone starts to criticise the captaincy and the tactics. Everyone praised my captaincy when I led Sri Lanka to a 3-0 whitewash against Australia and also that historic moment in England where I gave the last over to Shaminda Eranga. You can see the difference. When you win, your tactics are good. When you lose, your tactics are bad and the captain is to be blamed for everything.
Q There was talk that you would resign after the series. Have you given a thought to that
I havent thought about it. I will not run away from pressures. Anyone can say anything. If I feel this is the time or if the selectors say, Im open to it. Whatever others say, Im not bothered.
Q In your opinion, what are the major issues facing Sri Lankan cricket at the moment
One series defeat like this does a lot of damage but we have done really well in the last few tours. This is a sport. There will be ups and downs all the time.
We can learn from those mistakes and do better next time.
Q Lahiru Thirimanne and Chandimal were expected to fill the shoes of Sangakkara and Jayawardene but both have failed to grab the opportunities provided. What are your thoughts on that
I dont want to compare Sanga and Mahela with anyone. Chandimal really performed well against Australia. Thirimanne was a bit disappointing. He didnt perform well to retain his place, which can happen to any player. The challenge is how to come out of it and how soon you can come out of it.
Q How has T20 cricket impacted the two traditional versions - Tests and ODIs
Definitely in a good way. Cricketers have taken Test cricket to another level. We see lots of players getting three hundred on the first day. It is quite a fast game now. T20, all in all, takes pressure off the player. Yes, it is a pressure game and you need to be able to make decisions quickly. (At the same time) it has evolved players across the border. Now you see one-day cricket where even a 380 plus score is not enough in certain conditions. So, it has helped the players to develop. (Champika Fernando)
 
		
==============================
## Title: If guilty PT assets will be taken over: Amaraweera
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:45 pm
If guilty PT assets will be taken over: Amaraweera
	
The assets of Perpetual Treasuries (PT) will be acquired by the Government if it was found guilty by the Special Presidential Commission appointed to probe the bond issue, Minister Mahinda Amaraweera told Parliament today.
However, he said it was not easy to probe financial scams and the assistance of experts was needed for this purpose.
"The President will closely monitor the shortcomings of the government just as he was alert to the bond issue," the minister said.
The previous regime was engaged in large scale frauds and the present government is also engaged in some corruption. Both are equally wrong."
The minister said the opposition has the right to highlight the shortcomings of the government but it should not put the development of the country in jeopardy. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: India, Pakistan, SA to play for Independence Cup in SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 02:27 pm
India, Pakistan, SA to play for Independence Cup in SL
	
Arch rivals India and Pakistan will play alongside Sri Lanka and South Africa in a four-nation Independence Cup in Sri Lanka in 2018, Sri Lanka Cricket President Thilanga Sumathipala confirmed.
This will be the first time that India and Pakistan will face each other in any event apart from ICC and ACCs major competitions since 2012/2013.
Sri Lanka will host the tournament as part of their 70th Independence day celebrations.
According to Sumathipala, India agreed to participate in the series after Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe discussed this with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi .
The Indians would be visiting South Africa in the time when we are scheduling the tour, so this matter will be discussed with India and South Africa during the next months ICC meeting in Dubai regarding Independence Cup and then we all (Sri Lanka, India, South Africa and Pakistan) will accommodate each other, he further added.
The Sri Lanka Cricket Board will soon reveal the dates and venues of the quadrangular cricketing eventevent once the formal procedures are done and dusted.
To be noted, Sri Lanka gained their independence from colonial rule in 1948 and will celebrate their 70thyear of independence in 2018.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Liberty Roundabout blocked
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 January 2017 06:33 pm
Liberty Roundabout blocked
	
The Liberty Roundabout, Kollupitiya was blocked as a result of a protest march organised by the Sri Lanka Telecom workers over several requests. Pix by Waruna Wanniarachchi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahendran not an advisor: Finance Ministry
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 03:59 pm
Mahendran not an advisor: Finance Ministry
	
The Finance Ministry today denied reports that former Central Bank governor Arjun Mahendran currently acts as an advisor to the Finance Ministry on the Central bank.
The ministry of Finance wishes to inform that Mr Arjun Mahendran, the former governor of the Central Bank is not working in any capacity in the Ministry of Finance. The ministry denies the media reports that Mr. Mahendran currently acts as an advisor to the Ministry of Finance on the Central bank, it said in a statement.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Marking 60 years of Sino-Lanka relations
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 January 2017 08:28 pm
Marking 60 years of Sino-Lanka relations
	
To mark 60 years of diplomatic relations between the Peoples Republic of China and Sri Lanka, a Ministerial level delegation will visit Sri Lanka in March and April this year. The visit aims at strengthening economic, cultural and bilateral relations between the two countries. A press briefing was held where Cultural Attach in Colombo Liu Dong spoke to the media about the events planned to celebrate 60 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries as well as marking the Chinese New Year, which also known as the Spring Festival. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Muslim boy ordained at Dimbulagala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 07:06 am
Muslim boy ordained at Dimbulagala
	
For the first time in the history of the Dimbulagala Forest Monastery, a seven-year-old Muslim boy has been ordained, said Chief Incumbent Millane Siriyalankara Thera.
The Thera said the mother of the boy was abroad and his father Hameed Ismail had brought him to the monastery.
He had been ordained as Rathnapure Siri Sudarshanalankara and resides in the forest monastery along with many Sinhala, Tamil and Veddah children who had entered into Buddha Sasana.
This is the best precedent for religious harmony and national unity. The Dimbulagala Forest Monastery is the only temple where monks of different ethnicities reside, setting an example not only to all Sri Lankans but also to the entire world, the Thera said. (Nimal Jayaratne)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pan Asia Bank provides easy access to housing loans
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:07 am
Pan Asia Bank provides easy access to housing loans
	
In a bid to meet the rapidly increasing demand and varying requirements of customers, Pan Asia Bank, has been augmenting its popular housing loan product Nivasa with a host of value -added features.
As a result, the bank is all set to fulfill housing loan requirements of a much larger audience with novel features that extends greater flexibility to customers in terms of getting the loan amount they need.
Shiyan Perera, Assistant General Manager of Leasing and Retail Assets Products of Pan Asia Bank commented that the bank is extremely happy to introduce its value added Nivasa loan scheme to customers as it allows them to make their all important dream of living under their own roof, a reality.
Pan Asia Bank Nivasa housing loan can be obtained for multiple purposes including purchase of a bare land, construction of a house, purchase a house/ apartment, completion of a partially built house, renovation an existing house or pay off an existing home loan obtained from another bank.
Under this loan scheme customers can obtain loan facilities with a repayment period of up to 25 years. The loan amount is decided based on the BOQ value and the repayment ability of the customer where they can obtain loans up to 100 percent of the BOQ value when the customer owns the land and in other cases up to 75 percent of the BOQ value.
Pan Asia Nivasa- Step Up and the Condominium Investment Loan are the latest additions to housing related loan schemes of Pan Asia Bank.
Pan Asia Nivasa- Step Up scheme is a unique scheme available for professionals and permanent employed customers which enables them to repay with lower installments initially and increase the installments gradually as their income increases.
Since the installments are comparatively low during the initial stages it enhances a customers ability to go for a higher loan quantum thereby making their dream home a reality.
Due to the unique value it offers, Pan Asia Nivasa- Step Up loan scheme has seen a tremendous interest from Salaried Employees segment.
On the other hand, Pan Asia Condominium Loan is a term loan which is available to purchase condominium properties. The bank will also provide 5 years of grace period for these loans enabling customers to service only the monthly interest. Customers can repay the capital as a bullet payment at the end of the loan period. The bank also allows customers to make capital payments during the period without making any additional fee to reduce the loan outstanding. With the increased popularity for condominiums this unique solution will provide wealth management opportunities for customers who are interested in purchasing a condominium as an investment.
All these three loan schemes are presented with an attractive interest rate and fast and efficient processing system to make sure that customers can obtain this facility with ease.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Piyankara Jayaratne sits in Opposition
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:15 pm
Piyankara Jayaratne sits in Opposition
	
State Minister Piyankara Jayaratne who resigned from his post recently sat in the Opposition in Parliament today.
MP. Jayaratne was seen walking into the chambers flanked by some joint opposition MPs including Mahindananda Aluthgamage. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM meets President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 06:19 am
PM meets President
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe had a meeting with President Maithripala Sirisena on Sunday, informed sources said yesterday.
Sources close to the prime minister said he met the president soon after his return from his official visit to Davos.
The two had discussed the economic development plan of the government and the current political situation.
The talks took place after the joint opposition ruled out the possibility of patching up with President Sirisena and a meeting between the provincial chief ministers and former president Mahinda Rajapaksa. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prevent Mahendran from interfering in State affairs: JO to Prez
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 07:20 pm
Prevent Mahendran from interfering in State affairs: JO to Prez
	
President Maithripala Sirisena should stop former Central Bank Governor Arjuna Mahendran from interfering in State decision-making to ensure the credibility of the Special Presidential Commission to be appointed to investigate the CB bond issue, the joint opposition said today.
It said otherwise, it would only seen as a ploy to consume time.
Mr. Mahendran is a frequent member of the Prime Minister's delegation when travelling abroad. He also takes part at Finance Ministry meetings. The President should stop Mr. Mahendran from attending these meetings so as to ensure the credibility and the impartiality of the SPC. Otherwise, people will get the notion that he is not guilty and that is why he is still engaged in State decision-making, former MP G.L. Peiris told a news conference. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Raviraj murder trial: Court reinstates appeal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 01:10 pm
Raviraj murder trial: Court reinstates appeal
	
The Court of Appeal bench, which dismissed the appeal against the judgment of TNA Parliamentarian Nadarajah Ravirajs murder trial, reinstated the appeal today after considering the submissions made by the late MPs counsel M.A. Sumanthiran.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Re-remanded!
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:15 pm
Re-remanded!
	
Former Minister Wimal Weerawansa was ordered to be re-remanded till February 7 by the Colombo Fort Magistrate today on the charges of misusing 40 state vehicles belonging to the National Engineering Corporation (NEC) and causing Rs. 90 million financial loss to the state.Pix by Nisal Baduge
 
		
==============================
## Title: Release undergrads!
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 January 2017 05:20 pm
Release undergrads!
	
Students of the University of the Visual & Performing Arts today staged a protest in front of the Town Hall, Colombo, demanding immediate release of seven undergraduates who were arrested on charges of violating court orders during a protest carried out by the Inter-University Student Federation (IUSF) in Kollupitiya last week. Pix by Pradeep Dilrukshana
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL asylum seeker charged with rape in Papua New Guinea
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 03:10 pm
SL asylum seeker charged with rape in Papua New Guinea
	
A 31-year-old Sri Lankan asylum seeker held at the Manus Island detention centre in Papua New Guinea has been charged with the alleged rape of a local woman, the Guardian reported on Tuesday.
Rajeev Rajendran, originally from Sri Lanka, was charged in Lorengau court over the alleged assault which took place at a hotel on January 17.
The acting provincial police commander, Senior Inspector David Yapu, said the man had met the woman at Lorengau market before taking her to a local hotel, where she was allegedly assaulted.
It is alleged she was raped three times there before she was able to reach a relatives house. She was treated for injuries at Lorengau hospital.
When she managed to escape she fainted on the riverside which is where she was rescued and taken to the hospital, Yapu told Guardian Australia.
The woman, described by Yapu as an 18-year-old who is still in school, and her parents reported the alleged attack to police.
Rajendrans case was adjourned in Lorengau court on Monday. He remains in police custody.
Allegations of sexual violence within the Manus Island detention centre have been raised on a number of occasions.
In July 2015 three expatriate guards were alleged to have drugged and gang-raped a local woman inside the detention centre staff accommodation block. They were flown off the island before police could speak to them.
Despite promises from the Australian government that they would be sent back, the men have never returned to Manus.
Several refugees and asylum seekers held in the detention centre have registered formal complaints of sexual assault and rape.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker must handle the penalising of wrongdoers: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 10:52 pm
Speaker must handle the penalising of wrongdoers: JVP
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya should take charge of penalizing those found guilty of the Central Bank bond issue, Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake told Parliament today.
He welcomed President Maithripala Sirisena's decision to appoint a Special Presidential Commission. "We are thankful to the President for appointing a commission even though it comes late in the day," the MP said.
He said the probe must inquire into how Perpetual Treasuries earned Rs.21 billion in 21 months and as to why the EPF risked people's hard-earned savings to purchase bonds from Perpetual Treasuries.
The MP urged the government to cancel the primary dealer license of Perpetual Treasuries and said arrangements should be made to recover the losses incurred by the government from those involved in the controversy.
He revealed that the Auditor General was subjected to threats by some COPE members during its investigations, he said. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Spring comes to them ahead of carnival
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:38 am
Spring comes to them ahead of carnival
	

Peacock-pictured greenbacks in their thousands are making their way right into the hands of white-collar ones of a small government in a salubrious area these days. These lucky ones are busy organizing the grand Spring Carnival to be staged come April.

The white-collar ones are engaged in the task of selecting tenderers for awarding contracts for constructing stalls and shops for trading activity and also other structures essential for the carnival.
Although there is the possibility of raking in a massive income from this event to fill the coffers of the small government they are working for, the white-collar ones are said to be manipulating all deals for their own gain, informed sources say.
Parcels of the carnival ground are also being given on rent to friends, relatives or to those who oil their palms, they say. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sri Lanka to launch first insurance comparison website InsureMe.lk
## Section: Financial News
## Date: 24 January 2017 09:05 am
Sri Lanka to launch first insurance comparison website InsureMe.lk
	

InsureMe Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Limited will be launching Sri Lankas first Insurance comparison website within the nextfew days.
This initiative will mark a key milestone in Sri Lankan insurance industry with its innovative approach.
All the top insurance companies in Sri Lanka have partnered with InsureMe Insurance Brokers to take insurance to the next level with the latest technology. The new InsureMe.lk is a 100 percent online platform that allows customers to compare and purchase insurance solutions offered by key insurers in the country. This includes motor insurance (full insurance and third party insurance), travel insurance, home insurance and medical insurance. With this, buying insurance will be faster and secured than ever before and customers can purchase any insurance 24/7.
InsureMe is founded by a team of insurance specialists with the objective of delivering a professional service to insurance customers by offering innovative and convenient solutions. InsureMe team has decades of combined Insurance experience in the main areas of insurance underwriting, technical aspects, claims and servicing, insurance finance, and marketing. InsureMe is probably the only insurance broking company with such a diverse skill set.
Two former Insurance CFOs in the team Vipula Dharmapala and Indika Prematunga have extensive local and international experience in Insurance Business. Vipula and Indika have led the Financial Technical Sub Committee (FTSC) of Insurance Association of Sri Lanka (IASL) for many years. Niranjan Manickam is a Qualified Insurance Professional who has extensive exposure to Technical aspects of Insurance in both local and international companies. He counts over 30 years of experience in Insurance from the level of an underwriter to a CEO (Acting) in a large Insurance Company. Dilshan Perera is an experienced marketing professional in the Insurance Industry and a proponent of making marketing more relevant to new consumers and is enthusiastic about the novel opportunities presented by modern marketing.
Commenting on the launch of InsureMe.lk, Director/CEO Vipula Dharmapala said, InsureMe.lk will bring an innovative insurance experience to the customers and buying insurance will be easier, faster, secured than ever before. This truly would be a novel experience to the Sri Lankan customers and have access to a call center at any time for any questions and support. He further stated that buying and insurance policy is an important decision and encouraged consumers to use InsureMe.lk to compare the Insurance solutions offered by different insurers before they make the purchase decision.
InsureMe will be a total solutions provider for all the insurance related needs and committed to offer an unmatched professional service to its customers.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Student who refused to play rugger beaten
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 01:58 pm
Student who refused to play rugger beaten
	
A rugby coach and four students from a school in Dematagoda were arrested for beating a 14-year-old student of the same school when he refused to play the game. 
A complaint had been lodged at the Dematagoda police stating that a grade 10 student was assaulted by four other students and the rugby coach in the schools rugby room. 
Police said the victim was practicing badminton in the school premises last Friday (20) when the coach had approached him with the request to play rugby.
When the student refused, he was forcefully taken to the rugby room by the four students who were instructed to beat him with clubs if he did not hang on an iron bar and go around in circles.
The student was admitted to the Colombo National Hospital and is being treated for his injuries.
The Dematagoda police arrested the 47-yea-old coach and the four students, aged 17 and 18, on charges of assault. 
The suspects were identified as residents of Dematagoda and Borella and were produced before the Hultsdrof Magistrate Court today. (Darshana Sanjeewa)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Tharanga to Captain ODI against South Africa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 07:39 pm
Tharanga to Captain ODI against South Africa
	
Upul Tharanga has been chosen to Captain Sri Lankas five ODI matches against South Africa starting in Port Elizabeth this Saturday, the SLC said today.
It said Tharanga will captain the ODI series in South Africa in the absence of Angelo Mathews who returned home.
Mathews had informed the management of SLC that he may need to take time off to be with his family. A hamstring injury on the 2nd T- 20 on Sunday ruled him out of the match forcing the skipper to make an early exit for the rest of the series.
Both Nuwan Pradeep and Dhanushka Gunathilaka also returned to Sri Lanka on Tuesday owing to their injuries.
Meanwhile, the Selectors have nominated Sandun Weerakkody, Lahiru Madushanka and Chathuranga de Silva to join the squad in South Africa replacing players returned to Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trumps pledge in campaign-style inaugural speech creates gloomy picture
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 January 2017 12:06 am
Trumps pledge in campaign-style inaugural speech creates gloomy picture
	
The weekend saw the United States of America enter a new phase in history. Thirteen minutes before noon on Friday, January 20, 2017, Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States as the US Supreme Court Chief Justice, John Roberts Jr. administered the oath at the countrys 58th inaugural ceremony on the steps of Capitol Hill. 
Protesters walk during the Womens March on Washington, with the U.S. Capitol in the background, on January 21, 2017 in Washington, D.C.

Most of the world watched 
Just two and a half months ago, having been literally been on his intense US Presidential campaign trail, we observed at close range- especially at the Concord political meeting- how he aimed straight at those who lost jobs in the Industrial zone with his rhetoric on the doom and gloom of America. That gathered speed, breaking even on the opinion polls with just days to go for the election. He raced on the last lap to an astonishing finish that had us in the media in a twirl. The results showed the strategy won. 
Most of the world was stunned 
At the historic power transfer ceremony, Republican Senator Roy Blunt quoted Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln about national unity, reminding the crowd the event was not a celebration of victory, but a celebration of democracy. A week before a Gallup found just 44% of those questioned approved of the way the incoming President had handled his transition, compared with 83% approval for Barack Obamas transition. 61% approved of Bushs transition. 
President Trump takes over power at a time when the country appears to be deeply divided. He enters the presidency with historically low approval ratings. According to a new Washington Post ABC News poll, he takes office as the least popular President in 40 years. Forty percent of Americans view Trump favourably, which is 21 points lower than the rating with which Obama will leave office. 
Most of the world observed 
The three days scheduled for celebrations in Washington DC kicked off on the January 19 with the wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National ceremony where Trump and Vice President elect Mike Pence honoured the countrys veterans at the US military cemetery in Arlington, Virginia. This was followed by the first inaugural event that included a concert and rally, with popular Trump slogan, Make America Great again  a welcome celebration at the Lincoln Memorial. 
The Speech
The events that unfolded during the celebrations from the Arlington cemetery to the parade down Pennsylvania and the evening balls expected to unfold with pomp and pageantry, were described to be less glittery than on previous inaugurations. However it was the Inaugural speech that was the main focus of attention. 
Most of the world listened. 
His address was totally consistent with his campaign rhetoric, where he painted a very dark picture of a suffering American people and an America where the Washington Establishment had created a land of lost jobs and struggling families. Mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities, rusted out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation, an education system that is flushed with cash but leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all knowledge, and the crime! he emphasized, and the gangs and the drugs, that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential. 
This American carnage stops right here and stops right now. he gushed. For too long, a small group in our nations capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost, he said. Politicians prospered  but the jobs left and the factories closed. The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country. 
He pledged a greater America, the time for empty talk is over, now arrives the hour of action. Trump reiterated campaign pledges to completely eradicate radical Islamic terrorism from the face of the earth and vowed to bring power back to the people. 
The real estate mogul and reality TV star turned politician, now the President of the United States, said his vision was of America first. It is clear, after the inauguration speech, that President Trump intends to govern as he campaigned. 
Trump is reported to have had tweeted previously that he began drafting the speech three weeks ago. He had been receiving advice and counsel from advisors such as his campaign speech writer Stephen Miller as well as from historians, especially regarding the length of his speech. Incoming Press Secretary Sean Spicer is reported to have said the words were fully Trumps. That certainly rings true, it is unlikely anyone would doubt that. 
In his inaugural address, he further promised to be the voice of the forgotten people, ignored by Washington politicians.Today, he said was the day the people became rulers of this nation again.I will fight for you with every breath left in my body and I will never ever let you down, said President Trump.America will start winning again, winning like never before. We will bring back our jobs, bring back our borders, bring back our wealth and we will bring back our dreams.  Some analysts feel he let America down with his description of a broken country before he could even begin his administration. 
Outgoing President Barack Obama and wife Michelle, together with Presidential candidate Hilary Clinton and former Presidents Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter, George W. Bush and his wife Laura were in attendance. The absentees were 92-year-old George Bush Senior, who is in hospital being treated for respiratory problems, and his wife Barbara. 
Inaugurations, like campaigns are mostly talk, but governing is judged through results. 
Trumps swearing-in gives Republicans control of both the White House and Congress for the first time since 2006. However, more than 50 House Democrats had refused to attend the ceremony in protest. 
Widespread protests.
Just as it was during his controversy-riddled campaign and following his win, the inauguration was held amidst widespread protests and incidents of violence. Police arrested 217 people protesting against the inauguration and six officers suffered minor injuries, according to the Washington DC Police Department. Many were apprehended for vandalism and destruction of property, police reports revealed. 
Earlier, about 150 protesters dressed in black marched through Washington, smashing windows and rolling rubbish bins into the street to form blockades. The Womens March took place in Washington on Saturday, for racial and gender equality and other issues perceived to be under threat from Mr. Trumps administration. Similar protests took place in various parts of the world. 
First Official Actions
Shortly after the ceremony, President Trump was seen signing his first official documents as the 45th President. He also signed into law a waiver allowing retired Marine General James Mattis, his pick for Defence Secretary, to fill the post. The Senate has voted overwhelmingly to approve retired Marine General John Kelly as his Secretary of Homeland Security. The change of hands was reflected on the White House website, in which Mr. Obamas policies were replaced with President Trumps new agenda. 
The Trump administration has only listed 6 issues on the website: energy, foreign policy, jobs and growth, military, law enforcement and trade deals but there was no mention of civil rights, LGBT rights, healthcare or climate change. 
He sent his Cabinet nominations to the Senate as well as a signed a proclamation for a national day of patriotism, according to Press Secretary Sean Spicer. He also signed his first executive order as President, ordering federal agencies to ease the regulatory burdens associated with Barack Obamas healthcare laws, known as Obamacare, as the US Congress determines how to repeal and replace them. 
The world reacts.
The transfer of power prompted many messages for the newly sworn in President from dignitaries and people around the globe, who weighed in on US President Donald Trumps inauguration on Friday, anticipating how his policies would play out on the international stage. The messages ranged from congratulatory to not so much. 
Pope Francis said he was praying Mr. Trumps decisions would be guided by the rich spiritual and ethical values that have shaped Americas history. At a time when our human family is beset by grave humanitarian crises demanding far-sighted and united political responses, under your leadership, may Americas stature continue to be measured above all by its concern for the poor, the outcast and those in need he added. 
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson also offered his wishes and the Canadian Prime Minister said he looked forward to restoring prosperity to the middle class on both sides of the border.<U+0410>fter Mr. Trumps inauguration, his meeting with President Putin will be the most important event in world politics. A defining moment in history, tweeted Alexei Pushkov, an outspoken Russian senator and former chairman of the Parliamentary Foreign Relations Committee. 
About 200 people were reported to have marched on Friday against Trump in the Philippines capital, Manila. Demonstrators burned a mock paper US flag before setting alight an actual one. Chants included: US troops out now! 
People also held signs with messages such as Donald Trump, pull out US troops in the Philippines.
Earlier in the day, a UK-based protest group used signs and bridges across the country to convey a less celebratory message. Huge banner reading Bridges Not Walls on the iconic Tower Bridge over Londons River Thames on Friday morning was one of more than 150 such strips that the group planned to display on bridges across the country. Fight Trump. Resist fascism and imperialism was the message on banners or signs displayed on some of Londons other bridges, including Waterloo and Blackfriars Bridge. 

Mexicos President, Enrique Pea Nieto congratulated the new leader and expressed a desire to strengthen the relationship between the countries. However, Former President Vicente Fox an outspoken critic of Trumps pledged to have Mexico pay for a border wall, tweeted: Speaking of allegiance, Trump Speaking of greatness America was already great and successful, then you happened! 
Outspoken Mexican Sen. Armando Rios Piter said happiness is a good thing to work on and Mexico and the United States should be working in that way, not in the way Donald Trump has been talking about. Protesters calling Trump a fascist, racist and xenophobe gathered at the roundabout marked by Mexicos Angel of Independence carrying signs that said Make America human again and Love trumps hate. Protesters chanted Get out Trump. 
Israels Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted Congrats to my friend President Trump. Look fwd to working closely with you to make the alliance between Israel & USA stronger than ever. His relationship with President Obama is reported to have deteriorated rapidly in its final weeks. 
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying spoke on constructive bilateral relations between the two countries to propel further development of China-US ties at a new staring point. We would like to join hands with the new US administration to uphold the principles of non-confrontation, non-conflict, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, Chunying said, at the beginning of a contentious bilateral relationship between the worlds two largest economies, with Trump having vowed to renegotiate trade agreements and propose imposing tariffs on Chinese imports. 
In his inaugural address when he said we must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products, stealing our companies and destroying our jobs, was a hint to China. 

The main concern on the minds of many in attendance was the future of the nuclear agreement among Iran, the US and other nations, aimed at curbing Irans nuclear ambitions in return for sanctions relief. 
Trump has called the agreement a bad deal and said he wants to renegotiate it. Irans government has rejected the idea and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has insisted that one man cannot repeal the deal or change its terms. 
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Friday extended his heartfelt congratulations to Trump. Abe was the first Asian leader to congratulate him after the election win. 
Looking forward to working with President @realDonaldTrump to further deepen India-US ties and realise the full potential of our cooperation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, soon after the inauguration. 
Messages from Sri Lanka
Meanwhile,Congratulations on your inauguration as the 45th @POTUS. Looking forward to working with you to strengthen the US-#SriLanka partnership, President Sirisena tweeted. Last month saw new US Vice President Mike Pence telephone President Sirisena and had spoken on further strengthening US-Sri Lanka relations, maritime security and disaster management under President Elect, Donald Trump. President Sirisena was assured of a meeting soon. 
Last November, President Sirisena said he hoped Trump would grant Sri Lanka redress by not pursuing human rights accountability charges against the country. The UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva has adopted three anti-Sri Lanka successive resolutions against Sri Lanka between 2012 and 2014, with the US taking the lead for which the Obama Administration was seen to adopt a softer line on Sri Lanka since President Sirisena took office in 2015.  In Sri Lanka too, while Trump was being inaugurated as the US President, a small but vociferous group gathered outside the US embassy, carrying placards and chanting slogans denouncing Trumps comments on issues including the environment, war and immigrants. Siritunga Jayasuriya, leader of the United Socialist Party, explained, We are showing our solidarity with people throughout the world taking part in protests against President-elect Trump, 
However, one of Sri Lankas Buddhist organisations placed a full-page newspaper advertisement wishing him long life! 
Watch the future
This wont be the first time the world reacts to Donald Trump and it will not be the last. 
After more than a year of turbulent campaigning, 26 primary and General Election debates and countless press conferences, attack adds victory speeches, public apologies and early morning twitter rantsTrump won the election and has squarely landed in the White House. So this was his day. The stage was his and the country he had sought to command would be his, at last. Governing however will be judged by results.  The United States of America stands politically a deeply divided nation and two words constantly used by analysts to describe the way forward are unpredictable and uncertain, yet there is optimism that the change will be for the good. Trump defied all polls and analysts and took the world by storm in his unprecedented win of the Presidency. 
The question remains whether he will do the same with his four year presidency. 
The world will now have to continue to watch. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: UFO spotted, possible drone activity: Dr. Chandana Jayaratne
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 11:09 am
UFO spotted, possible drone activity: Dr. Chandana Jayaratne
	
The Unidentified Flying Object (UFO) that hovered in the skies and spotted in several areas of the country on Saturday night could be a drone activity, Professor, Department of Physics, University of Colombo, Dr. Chandana Jayaratne said.
Speaking to Daily Mirror he said that he could not say it was an alien activity depending on the video footages and the pictures which captured the object, as they were not clear enough or possible man made.
However, he further said an investigation regarding this has been launched as the incident was reported in many parts of the country.
A Square shaped object radiating a bright light with a moving core has been captured by telescopes last Saturday (21) while it has hovering in Ratnapura, Hambantota, Galle and Matara areas. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UL crew crawls through barbed wire at Madurai airport
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 06:07 pm
UL crew crawls through barbed wire at Madurai airport
	
A video footage showing crew members of a SriLankan Airlines flight from Madurai to Colombo crawling through the barbed wire fence of the Madurai Airport in India has gone viral on the Internet.
The incident had taken place amidst Jallikattu protests, which were held in Madurai preventing access to the Airport.
The footage shows crew members, including air hostesses, crawling through the barbed wire fence to enter the airport to reach their aircraft.
Commenting on the incident, a spokesman for SriLankan Airline said crew members had to seek permission from the airport authorities to reach their flight in an un-orthodox manner because of protesters blocking the roads.
The Madurai Airport is a small airport and it was surrounded by the protesters three days ago. Our crew members had to enter the airport somehow to get on board and fly the passengers on schedule. Otherwise, not only the passengers will face difficulties but even the flight schedule would have been affected. We appreciate the extra measures taken by the crew to ensure an efficient service to the passengers, the spokesman said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Uniforms, IDs compulsory for bus crew from Feb.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 03:08 pm
Uniforms, IDs compulsory for bus crew from Feb.
	
Uniforms and Identity Cards would be compulsory from February 1 for bus crews, Transport Commission (NTC) Chairman Engr. M.A.P. Hemachandra said today.
He said the drivers and conductors should wear their identity cards in a way visible to commuters. This regulation would be implemented on 3,100 Inter Provincial buses operating under NTC, he said.
Sample uniforms would be provided to both driver and the conductor and they can be obtained from the NTC office at the Bastian Mawatha, Mr. Hemachandra said.
A penalty would be charged from the drivers and conductors who violate the regulation and fail to wear uniforms on duty, he said.
Buses will be allowed to enter or leave the Bastian Mawatha bus stand only if the drivers and conductors wear their uniforms and the identity cards.
These regulations would make bus crews behave properly. Flying-squads had been placed on bus routes to nab drivers and conductors who refuse to wear uniforms and IDs, he said. (Chaturanga Pradeep)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP welcomes SPC to probe bond issue: Kabir
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 08:44 pm
UNP welcomes SPC to probe bond issue: Kabir
	
The UNP today said it welcomed the appointment of a Special Presidential Commission (SPC) to investigate the bond issue.
UNP Secretary and Minister Kabir Hashim told Parliament today the SPC report would be forwarded to the Attorney General.
"We will also submit the report of the parliamentary Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE) to Attorney General," the minister said and added that scams which are known to have taken place at the Central Bank during Nivard Cabraal's tenure as governor should also be probed.
"Nivard Cabral's sister was a director of Perpetual Treasuries" he said.
The minister said Entrust Securities was engaged in a Rs.1.2 billion scam in 2014 and this too should be probed.
We propose that a Special Presidential Commission be appointed to probe this scam as well," he said and added that this was the first debate in Parliament on a COPE report.
No one was allowed to speak on scams during the previous regime but we have allowed such a thing today," he said. (Yohan Perera)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Wimal re-remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 January 2017 11:07 am
Wimal re-remanded
	
Former Minister Wimal Weerawansa and an ex- DGM who were arrested by the FCID on charges of misusing 40 state vehicles belonging to the National Engineering Corporation (NEC) and causing Rs. 90 million financial loss to the state during 2011-2014, were ordered to be re-remanded till February 7 by Colombo Fort Magistrate Lanka Jayaratne today.(Shehan Chamika Silva)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================