## Title: Bellanwila Esala Pageant  reaches climax
## Section: News Features
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:00 am
Bellanwila Esala Pageant  reaches climax
	
Bellanwila Esala festival began in earnest in the year 1950

The commemoration of the Esala phenomenon has paved the way for both Buddhists and Hindus, alike to recall the spiritual significance, attached to multiple forms of veneration, pageants (Perahera) and Poojas in Sri Lanka. 
For Buddhists, the great renunciation of Prince Siddhartha in search of truth, the conduct of Buddhas first Dhammachakka Pavatta Sutta discourse, Conception of Prince Siddhartha in Queen Mahamaya Devis womb, Performance of twin miracles (Yamaka Maha Prathiharaya), Preaching of Abhidhamma to Gods in Thavuthisa heaven, First local ordination of the first Sri Lankan into monkhood at Anuradhapura, Foundation-laying for Ruwanweli Seya and its enshrinement of relics, the great revival of Theravada Buddhist reformation at Malwathu Viharaya and a few other milestone events in the Buddhist calendar necessitate the Buddhists to recall those sacred memories with devotion and veneration.
More significantly, the Esala Full Moon Poya assumes prominence since it is the onset of the rainy retreat of the monks, popularly called the Vas season. It is owing to this combination of landmark commemorative events that the Buddhists are used to fittingly observe this day ceremonially, holding largely the Perahera, giving pride of place to the historic Sri Dalada Perahera in Kandy. In fact, legends also speak of how the sacred Tooth Relic was also placed for veneration in Kandy on an Esala Full Moon Day. 
In parallel with the great spectacle in the hill country, many leading Buddhist places of worship across the island are in the practice of holding colourful pageants with regalia, hundreds of dances and caparisoned tuskers and decorated floats. Of them, Kataragama, Devinuwara, Aluth Nuwara, Bellanwila and Kotte pageants take pride of place since those cultural processions are of grand nature and are crowd-pullers. 
Bellanwila Esala festival began in earnest in the year 1950 as a form of offering to the Buddha and deities in response to an unfortunate cattle epidemic that pervaded Bellanwila and its suburbs. Late Ven Bellanwila Sri Somarathana Nayake Thera, the Incumbent at Bellanwila Raja Maha Viharaya at that time, was very much disturbed about what was going on in the area and summoned all victims to the temple where a sacred sapling of the Jaya Sri Maha Bodhiya remains planted for generations. 
This far-sighted monk conducted minor processions for three days round the temple and made special offerings to the Bodhiya pleading for immediate end to this tragedy and urging the God Vishnu to bless the village for eradication of this epidemic. Surprisingly, his offerings with villagers worked well and the situation dramatically improved to the satisfaction of the villagers. That was the initiating onset of the Esala Perahara festival at Bellanwila, which has now grown to be one of the mammoth Esala spectacles in the country.
Bellanwila Esala Perahera festival in 2018 is organised by Ven Dr. Bellanwila Dhammaratana Nayake Thero, Incumbent at Bellanwila Raja Maha Viharaya. We would be failing in our duties if we dont recall the name of the one time Chief Sangha Nayake of Singapore Ven Prof Bellanwila Wimalaratana Anu Nayake Thera who died under tragic circumstances in February this year. 
The festival began after planting the symbolic Kap on August 1 and the conduct of Dorakada Ashna Anushasana and the Deva Dutha Perahera which again invoked blessings of the Triple Gem on all Sri Lankans and people at large. 
This year, the Pawada Perahera took place on August 9 (Thursday) amid a huge gathering of devotees.
The Ransivili Perahera that parades round the Bellanwila village, reminding the villagers of ancient practices took place on August 10 (Friday10) with the participation of many dancing troupes and elephants. The climax of the festival, Randoli Maha Perahera, will be held on August 11 (Saturday).
The incumbent, Ven Bellanwila Dhammaratana Nayake Thera, dedicated has decided to add several new features to the Perahera, this year.
Bellanwila Esala Festival culminates on August 12 (Sunday) with the ancient water-cutting ritual.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Drinking water thanks to Belgium N.G.O.
## Section: News Features
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:00 am
Drinking water thanks to Belgium N.G.O.
	
The purified drinking water scheme at Hidogama in Anuradhapura was declared open by Linda Stabel, the President of Adoptee Sri Lanka - Belgium VZW

None will deny that the ultimate purpose of economic development is to ensure and improve the well-being of the people. All practical problems in the every-day-life of the masses should claim the attention of the social service NGOs as well as the rulers. It is our duty to attend to these problems, solve them and satisfy the needs of the masses. In the past, what everyone wanted was to have enough food, schools for their children and a place to live. Now the people have more diversified needs. One such need is clean water.
Amaradasa Gunawardana the President of Sri Lanka Belgium Association (SLBA) highlighted the necessity of having purified drinking water, particularly in the dry zone. Gunawardana is involved in many social service projects.
This NGO conducts several projects that include the free construction of houses, establishment and running of pre-schools, offering scholarship schemes etc.
Their latest activity is the construction of projects to supply purified drinking water. Water is a pressing demand in remote villages in the dry zone. The districts of Polonnaruwa, Anuradapura and Kurunegala are in the forefront of these demands. The Sri Lanka Belgium Association has already opened up schemes of purified drinking water in these remote areas free of charge. 
Over 250 families with a population of nearly 2000 now enjoy purified drinking water. 
Kajuwatta has taken over the management of this project. The next request for such a project was made to Sri Lanka Belgium Association by members of a village called Hidogama in Nachchaduwa area in the Anuradapura District.
The third drinking water project was declared open by Madam Linda Stabel the President of Adoptie Sri Lanka Belgium VZW on June 24. Samagi Rural Development Society of Hidogama will oversee the management of the new project. 
Mr. Gunawardana the President of Sri Lanka Belgium Association states that Adoptie Sri Lanka Belgium VZW is always willing and ready to promote more projects in Sri Lanka. This philanthropic organisation in Belgium is established exclusively to help Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Emergency: New SLMC law needed soon
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:01 am
Emergency: New SLMC law needed soon
	
With Railway engine drivers and their assistants launching a fast-track or lightning strike which government leaders and most people are describing as trade union terrorism, we wish to focus attention on a more important area, the medical field, which also has been hit by trade union terrorism. 
The Sri Lanka Medical Council is supposed to be the highest governing body for medicine. Its President the eminent physician Professor Colvin Gunaratne resigned this week over a range of issues including trade union terrorism, though he politely refrained from using those words.

With more than 50 years of experience in the medical field, Prof. Gunaratne has urged the government to draft a completely new law for the SLMC and we hope the government would do this soon because the lives of millions of poor innocent people are at stake. 
In an interview on Wednesday with State Television Rupavahini, Prof. Gunaratne said if there was a world cup for the highest number of strikes by medical doctors, Sri Lankas Government Medical Officers Association would emerge as the champions. He said medical doctors and nurses should settle issues through dialogue because strikes by them were unethical and immoral because they hurt mainly millions of innocent people, who could not afford to go to private hospitals. 
Prof. Gunaratne, in an extensive two-hour interview, pointed out that in Britain, the General Medical Council in its first clause said its primary aim was to give priority to the well-being of the people and especially patients. But the SLMC which was setup on the basis of the archaic Medical Ordinance had no such declaration that its primary aim was the well-being of the people of our country. That was why he was urging the government to totally revise the SLMC laws, though the strike-ridden GMOA is threatening another strike if the government followed Prof. Gunaratnes advice. 
According to Prof. Gunaratne, as the SLMC President for the past few months he was unable to give priority to the well-being of the people because the 25-member SLMC was dominated by two powerful trade unions which had as many as 16 elected representatives in the SLMC. The two unions were the GMOA and the Medical College Teachers Association. 
The SLMC buildings top floor is like a court room where cases could be heard with defence and prosecution lawyers and a witness box. But so far, the SLMC had received only about 120 petitions against medical personnel and hearings were conducted only in four cases. One of them involved a controversial GMOA leader. 
Prof. Gunaratne said the GMOA appeared to be so keen on the eight members it elected to the SLMC, that members were brought down in special buses from distant places including Jaffna to elect the representatives. Since the GMOA and the Medical College Teachers Association had virtually a two-thirds majority in the SLMC, the patients well-being was low on the list of priorities. Prof.
Gunaratne quipped that if he were the President of Sri Lanka, he would order the drafting of a new SLMC law immediately, whereby the patients well-being would get priority. He pointed out that in most Western countries, the medical councils gave priority to the peoples well -being. Even in India the old medical council was scrapped and a law enacted to appoint a new medical council not so much for the benefit of medical doctors, but for the people. 
Prof. Gunaratne pointed out that of the estimated 33,000 medical doctors in Sri Lanka some 20,000 were members of the GMOA. He made a fervent appeal to the medical doctors to go for a dialogue when they face various issues instead of striking at millions of poor people. He expressed satisfaction that nurses were now not so prone to the disease of strikes because the government had worked out plans for them to get a degree in nursing. Prof. Gunaratne pointed out that the strikes by nurses could affect the patients more than the strikes by doctors because it was the nurses who were with the patients all day and all night. So he appealed to medical doctors and nurses to see their work as a vocation and give priority to the well-being of the patients so that a healthy Sri Lanka could pave the way for a wealthy Sri Lanka. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fmr Chilean President Bachelet appointed UNHR Chief
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 11:24 am
Fmr Chilean President Bachelet appointed UNHR Chief
	
Former two-time President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet has been appointed as UN Human Rights High Commissioner with effect from September 1, the UN said.
She was elected by the United Nations General Assembly in New York on Friday.
Minutes after she was voted in, UN chief Antonio Guterres told reporters he was delighted by the news of her official appointment as Michelle Bachelet has been as formidable a figure in her native Chile, as she has at the United Nations.
She has lived under the darkness of dictatorship, he continued. As a physician, she knows the trials of people thirsting for health and yearning to enjoy other vital economic and social rights. And she knows the responsibilities of both national and global leadership.
Following the announcement, Ms. Bachelet said she was "deeply humbled and honored" to have been entrusted with "this important task."
Her predecessor in this position, Zeid Raad Al Hussein also warmly welcomed her appointment.
She has all the attributes  courage, perseverance, passion, and a deep commitment to human rights  to make her a successful High Commissioner, he said on Friday in a statement.
The UN chief paid special tribute to Zeid, who is stepping down after one term as the key UN voice on global human rights at the end of this month, saying that he wished to express my deep gratitude to my good colleague and friend.
Michelle Bachelet will be the seventh High Commissioner since the office was created in 1993.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Has human-elephant conflict  taken a turn for the worse 
## Section: News Features
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:01 am
Has human-elephant conflict  taken a turn for the worse 
	

The human-elephant conflict is a much talked about problem with a solution nowhere in sight. Following is an interview with P.G.D.J. Pebotuwa, the Coordinator of the Sub-Component 2 (b) - Human Elephant Co-Existence, of Ecosystem Conservation and Management Project which is funded by the World Bank and executed by the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment.

Pebotuwa said that part of the problem related to the Human-Elephant Conflict is due to humans not knowing how much space these animals need to exist. Excerpts:
 There is a notion among the public that there are elephants in abundance in our country. What is the current elephant population in Sri Lanka 
As per the last survey conducted in 2011, the elephant population in the country was 5,879. The number of elephants changing during the last century cannot be precisely concluded since the elephant population data is not available in a consistence manner. It is assumed that before the British colonial period, most part of the land was under primary forests that were predominantly occupied by tall trees with spars undergrowth that do not support high densities of elephants, but there may have been more elephants than what we have at present due to higher percentage of forest cover. At the turn of 20th century, it was believed that about 10,000 elephants lived in Sri Lanka. Therefore, one cannot simply say that the current elephant population in Sri Lanka is overabundant, because the habitat available in Sri Lanka is not adequate for the current elephant population. 

Elephant is a keystone species in Sri Lanka. What is the role of the Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWC) in managing these animals 
Keystone species play a unique role in the ecosystem. Without such species, the ecosystem would cease to exist. The conservation of elephants in Sri Lanka is solely on the shoulders of DWC. The DWC is established not just for mitigating Human Elephant Conflict (HEC), but also to protect wildlife. Currently, the main focus of DWC is the mitigation of (HEC) which has resulted negatively on the long term survival of this magnificent mammal in Sri Lanka. 

 Could you elaborate what HEC is, the reasons for it, type of damages caused by it and the magnitude of this issue 
The agony that arises to elephants and humans who are competing for the same limited resources in a given sphere of land is referred to as HEC. The elephants only need basically three things - Food, Cover and Water. As Sri Lanka is an island the elephants have no access to cross over to another land mass under any circumstances; this is one reason for their shrinking habitats. Farmers try to protect their yields, while elephants try to find food invading crop lands. This gives rise to a conflict leading to crop and property damages, injuries and deaths to both parties. In Sri Lanka, the annual elephant death toll is 200  250; while human deaths due to elephant attacks are 60-90. The number of property damages caused by elephants in a year is around 1200. According to DWC, HEC is reported from 123 Divisional Secretariat Divisions in 18 Administrative Districts of Sri Lanka. This indicates the magnitude and distribution of the issue. 

 What are the conventional strategies used in Sri Lanka to mitigate HEC How successful are these 
Elephant Drives and Electric Fencing are the most common. In addition, the DWC distributes a type of firework called Thunder Flares to chase the elephants. This keeps them away for a short period, but repeatedly driving them off makes them develop some tolerance against Thunder Flares. Capturing and Translocating problem elephants are done by the DWC. The DWC is making an effort to increase the carrying capacity of wildlife in Protected Areas (PAs) with the view of keeping the elephants within the PAs. Elephants predominantly live in the Dry Zone (except a few living in Sinharaja and Peak Wilderness). There has to be an alternative solution rather than driving or translocation. 

 It is a generally held conviction that elephants are super smart animals. Can the electric fences keep the crop raiding elephants away from fields and villages 
They are also very smart in overcoming barriers such as electric fences, but human beings are smarter than elephants and so far we have been able to manage them with electric fences. However, this is practicable only if we maintain the fences properly. 

Can HEC be mitigated only with the involvement of Government institutions 
HEC is a complex issue, thus it cannot be mitigated without the contribution from the communities living in those areas. There are several scopes of HEC mitigation as conservation perspective, disaster management perspective and economic perspective. The lands of HEC areas are under the jurisdiction of different parties - some are public and some are private.

 There are DWC demarcated Protected Areas to conserve wildlife, but why is that most of the elephants live outside these areas  what is the status of these areas 
Forests in Sri Lanka are managed and conserved by two Government Institutions. The National World Heritage Sites is one and the forest reserves and conservation of forests are managed by the Department of Forest Conservation. The wildlife protected Areas such as National Parks, Strict Nature Reserves, Nature Reserves, Elephant Corridors, Sanctuaries and Managed Elephant Reserves are under the jurisdiction of DWC. However, elephants freely move from wildlife protected areas to forest reserves and vice versa, as these include their home ranges. As their diet consists of 50-55% of grasses and several other crops, elephants inevitably live outside the protected areas.

Conservation efforts must recognise that humans are suffering too and must be placed higher up on the political agenda. What is your opinion on this 
Human lives are also disrupted by leopards, monkeys, snakes, bears, wild-boars and many other animals and reptiles. Humans suffer due to microbes too. Therefore, it is important to analyze the issue case by case to select an appropriate management strategy with better understanding of some fundamentals. Since suffering is caused as a result of man-made actions, identifying the root causes for HEC is necessary to advocate Harmony or Coexistence between humans and elephants.

 In the Sri Lankan context, we usually hear everyone talking about the impacts elephants have on humans. Isnt it important to talk vice-versa 
Elephants are voiceless, their plight caused by human behaviour are not highlighted or addressed as it should be by the media. Development projects restrict elephants to smaller areas which ultimately lead the elephants to invade villages. In a conflict situation, both have impacts from the other.

 What kind of compensation package is available for the victims of elephant attacks Does it cover crop damages 
The Compensation Scheme operated by DWC has been revised recently. The DWC pays Rs: 500,000/= for a human death caused by an elephant, leopard, bear, crocodile or wild buffalo; up to Rs: 75,000/= for injuries; and up to 100,000/= for property damages. Unfortunately, crop damages are not covered by the current scheme.

What are ESCAMPs plans for crop raiding around protected areas, and Elephant movements outside of protected areas 
ESCAMP is working along with the Department of Forest Conservation and the Department of Wildlife Conservation to protect wildlife and habitat enrichment within the forest reserves and wildlife reserves.
The project also plans to build the second Elephant Holding Ground at Lunugamvehera National Park to retain captured problem elephants for rehabilitation; and later the rehabilitated elephants would be released back to their usual habitats. 

 Human Elephant Co-existence (HECOEX). How would you explain a situation where humans and elephants live together by sharing the same land area Isnt it necessary to give a voice to the communities living alongside elephants 
HECOEX is somewhat different from symbiosis where two organisms live together with some mutual benefits without harming each other. Here, in a given landscape, humans and elephants will share the resources and have some mutual benefits with high level of tolerance by the human counterpart for any possible damages from elephants, but provided with Village Fences and Paddy field fences assuring their protection.

How does ESCAMP plan to make HECOEX profitable to the communities living alongside elephants
HEC poses a major challenge for conserving elephants outside Protected Areas. Both humans and elephants have their own issues. ESCAMP targets towards mitigation efforts and highlights the need for habitat enrichment in protected areas. Capacities of the communities who are coexisting with elephants will be developed by converting the elephants to an Economic Asset. 

Elephants play a role as a symbol for the need for conservation of wildlife and nature. Does this new strategy assure sustainability in the long run 
Elephants are a part of world heritage that have a long history of association with mankind, and they have been always subjected to ever growing human pressure. As a result, wherever they exist they are often in conflict with the communities. Unlike the conventional HEC migratory measures, here we have placed much weight and trust on the communities which will be the key for assuring the sustainability of this strategy in the long run. 

 How would you explain the role of Media in contributing to efforts in handling Human-Elephant Conflict 
Media is a facilitating variable that could change the minds of citizens, which in turn produces a change in importance and attitudes of people. Both printed and electronic media have a role to play to reach this milestone. The ultimate target is to assure the communities mingling with elephants are benefited by practicing the concept of HECOEX, and this will be a lasting solution for HEC. 


 
		
==============================
## Title: Israel keeps going the wrong way
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:00 am
Israel keeps going the wrong way
	

Recall Shakespeares great work of dramatic art, the Merchant of Venice, where Shylock was treated as an unpleasant Jew (with a lovely, self-effacing daughter) who dealt mainly in shady usury.
His speech to the court is one of Shakespeares most remembered:
Hath not a Jew eyes / Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions /If you prick us, do we not bleed /If you tickle us do we not laugh /If you poison us, do we not die /And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge
But what if we substitute Palestinian for Jew Viz: Hath not a Palestinian eyes and so on......
Do the Israelis treat the Palestinians as human beings like themselves Or are the Palestinians just an anonymous threat, to be knocked down every time they push themselves up from behind the parapet

Five decades have passed since Israel in 1967 crushed a large-scale Arab attack. It was following that that Israelis started to settle beyond the border of their state. For around two-thirds of its history Israel has been an occupying state, one that has extended its settlements

If Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to make out that Israel is under permanent siege and that it must always be on the offensive if it is to save itself; if the Jews of Israel always want to go back to their memories of their war against the Arab nations after theyd been attacked following the handover of the British in 1948; if they want to go back to the Holocaust; if they want to go back to the anti-Jewish violence, the first so-called pogrom in 1819 when the Jewish ghetto in Frankfurt was ransacked; or to twelfth century England when began the libel that the Jews ritually murdered Christian children to mix their blood in the unleavened bread baked at Passover, then the Israeli Jews should recall some equally important other events, some good, some bad.
What about the welcoming of the large numbers of Jews by the Moslem Turks when they were expelled from Spain in 1492 What about the long period up to the 12th century when Jews lived without persecution for the most part in Europe What about the centuries up to the twentieth when the good periods of toleration far outnumber the bad years of repression, discrimination and, ultimately, the gas chambers
Or what about Moses act of genocide Mosess army in the land now called Palestine, the land of milk and honey, attacked its resident tribes: the Canaanites, the Hittites, Midianites and the Amorites. Following the defeat of the Midianites, Moses told his victorious generals, claiming God was ordering him to do this, to return to the Midianites and kill all the women and their young sons. (Its all recorded at length in the Old Testaments Book of Genesis and the Book of Numbers.)
And now today what about looking themselves honestly in the mirror and realizing it is they, the Jews, not the Palestinians who are doing the oppressing
Five decades have passed since Israel in 1967 crushed a large-scale Arab attack. It was following that that Israelis started to settle beyond the border of their state. For around two-thirds of its history Israel has been an occupying state, one that has extended its settlements. The state of Israel has been free of the malignancy of occupation for only nineteen years of its existence. The vast majority of the 6.2 million Israeli Jews do not know any other reality. The vast majority of the 4.4 million Palestinians who live under occupation similarly do not know any other reality.

But Israel under Netanyahu is going 180 degrees the other way. His latest move last month was to have written into law that only the Jews will have the right to self-determination within Israels borders. In effect this is a renunciation of the idea of a two-state solution, the concept propagated by North American, European and Arab countries and liberal Israel
Many Israelis have long believed that this is an untenable situation. It was not that long ago Israels Defence Forces intelligence division submitted a document to the head of military intelligence. They recommended that to ensure peace an independent Palestinian state should be established in the territories of the West Bank as quickly as possible, based on the 1947 truce.
But Israel under Netanyahu is going 180 degrees the other way. His latest move last month was to have written into law that only the Jews would have the right to self-determination within Israels borders. In effect this is a renunciation of the idea of a two-state solution, the concept propagated by North American, European and Arab countries and liberal Israelis. The new law appears to be a preview of what a one-state solution will look like- an apartheid state where the Arabs political, voting and language rights are severely circumscribed. Thus the commitment of Israels founders to be both Jewish and democratic would become null and void. This comes after last years legislation which enables Israel to expropriate privately owned Palestinian land in the West Bank.
If Israeli Jews want to live a secure and salubrious, an ethical and exemplary life, as taught by their prophets, they have to realize they are treading on the wrong path. Paradoxically, if they act as if they fear living under siege, when they are not, then they will end up one day living under siege. Before too long in a one-state society, given present day population growth rates, Arabs will outnumber Jews. And then what
See my new website: www. jonathanpowerjournalist.com
jonatpower@aol.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: "Medamulana Mahinda" and the Political Rise Of "Ruhunu Rajapaksas"
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:01 am
"Medamulana Mahinda" and the Political Rise Of "Ruhunu Rajapaksas"
	

By
D.B.S.Jeyaraj
The rise and growth of political families are a common occurrence in Sri Lanka. Ever since the island known formerly as Ceylon gained limited forms of representative democracy through the Legislative and State Councils during British rule, the practice of members of the same family seeking posts through elections became widely-prevalent. The advent of Parliamentary elections coupled with freedom from colonial bondage saw the political dynasty phenomenon gain further mileage. Political families began proliferating at multiple levels from local authorities to the supreme legislature.
Family politics is now a familiar feature of Sri Lankas political landscape cutting across race, religion, caste and creed. A perusal of a list of Sri Lankan political families in alphabetical order starting from the Abdul Majeeds of the East and going down to the Yapa Abeywardenas of the South would reveal that ethnicity is no bar to political family bandyism in Sri Lanka.
There are various types of political dynasties at different levels from the national, provincial, divisional and electoral levels. There are also different degrees of pedigree and vintage in these dynasties. While there are many regional and sub-regional political families, there have been only three major family formations dominating politics at a national level so far in Sri Lanka. The first is the Bothale Dynasty of D.S. Senanayake, his son Dudley Senanayake and nephew Sir John Kotelawala along with extended family members J.R. Jayewardene and Ranil Wickremesinghe. The next is the Horagolla Dynasty of S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, his wife Sirimavo Ratwatte Bandaranaike, daughter Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga and son Anura Bandaranaike. Interestingly, Chandrikas husband Vijaya Kumaratunga though an actor was also a politician. Both the Bothale and Horagolla dynasties have been paramount in 20th century Sri Lankan politics since Independence. However, a third political family that came into its own in the 21st century has dethroned one dynasty and threatens to send the other into virtual extinction. This of course is the Medamulana Dynasty comprising the family members of D.A. Rajapaksa - Mahinda Rajapaksa and his brothers Chamal, Basil and Gotabaya along with son Namal and nephew Shasheendra.

PERCY MAHENDRA RAJAPAKSA
Although the Ruhunu Rajapaksa family has been in politics for several decades starting from the days of the State Council, its ascendancy to the pinnacle of power came only in the new millennium. This became possible only after Percy Mahendra Rajapaksa, known to his country and the world at large as Mahinda Rajapaksa, became Sri Lankas fifth Executive President on November 18, 2005. Thereafter, the Rajapaksas established themselves rapidly as the numero uno family in Sri Lankan politics. Apart from Mahinda Rajapaksa as President, family members and extended family members monopolised plum positions. Various posts in different spheres -- from Defence Secretary to diplomatic representative -- were held by the clan. Some were elected to office while others were appointed. Some proved their capability by efficiently discharging their duties while others failed miserably demonstrating the negativity of nepotism.

Some proved their capability by efficiently discharging their duties while others failed miserably demonstrating the negativity of nepotism

During the days of the Rajapaksa regime it was an open secret that no major enterprise or project could be undertaken in the island without the blessings of at least one Rajapaksa. In those days most movers and shakers in Sri Lankan society derived their power and energy from the Rajapaksa generator. Opposition members alleged then that nearly 70% of the National Budget was controlled directly by the Rajapaksa siblings. Family bandyism in the Sirimavo Bandaranaike Government of 1970-77 was aptly pinpointed through a UNP publication The Family Tree. If a similar exercise were undertaken about the Rajapaksa regime, it would not have been a mere family tree but an entire grove.
The Rajapaksas of yore were not born with the proverbial silver spoons in their mouths. A number of factors resulted in their rise to power. How the Rajapaksas of Ruhuna achieved pride of place as the foremost political family in contemporary Sri Lankais a fascinating story. The underlying thread in this narrative is the monumental political journey of Mahinda Rajapaksa culminating in becoming the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. It is a tale told before but is worth relating here again. This article would therefore focus on the Ruhunu Rajapaksas in general and Medamulana Mahinda in particular.
The rise of the Rajapaksas as a formidable political family in Ruhuna began with Don David Vidanarachchi Rajapaksa, the grandfather of Mahinda and siblings and the great grandfather of their offspring. Don David Rajapaksa hailed from Buddhiyagama in Weeraketiya in the Southern Hambantota District. The ancient Ruhunu kingdom of the Sinhala kings consisted of what are today the Administrative Districts of Galle, Matara, Hambantota and Moneragala. Don David or D.D. Rajapaksa was the hereditary Vidane Arachchi or village headman of a cluster of villages and hamlets known as Ihala Valikada Korale.

KURAKKAN COUNTRY
The semi-feudal practice of village headman adopted by the British has now been replaced by the Grama Niladhari system. The Grama Niladharis of today are toothless government employees whereas the Vidane Arachchi of colonial vintage was a potty despot of his area of authority. The area inhabited by the Rajapaksa family was the division known as Giruweva/Giruwapattuwa. It was an agricultural region where the growing of crops and vegetables, coconut cultivation and buffalo/cattle rearing were the basis of the local economy. Slash and burn chena cultivation was a fact of life. Cultivation of Kurakkan or millet was widely prevalent and the region was regarded generally as Kurakkan Country.
In the latter half of the 19th century, an enterprising southerner from Sapugoda, Galle arrived in Giruwapattuwa. Don Constantine De Silva Waniga Chintamani Mohotti Ralahamy was his name. Known generally as Mohotti Ralahamy, this entrepreneur purchased lands in Giruwapattuwa and began adopting comparatively-modern techniques in agriculture. One of his new methods was to hire agricultural workers on a daily wage basis. Mohotti Ralahamy needed a trusted and able man from the locality to supervise the workers and oversee cultivation. The reality of prevailing caste and regional differences meant that only a man from the area could handle the task. What better man than the Vidane Ralahamy of Ihala Valikada Korale
Thus began a partnership where Mohotti gave a share of the profits to D.D. Rajapaksa as remuneration. Invigorated by this project, DD also began leasing farmlands in the region owned by some rich Muslims from Galle. DD and his sons were models of incorruptibility. They were diligently honest and did not fleece the absentee partners or landlords. Over a period of time, the Rajapaksa family acquired more paddy lands and coconut plantations of their own. The family also ventured into dairy farming and raised cattle and buffaloes.
D.D. Rajapaksa had three sons and a daughter. The eldest was Don Coronelis Rajapaksa or D.C. Rajapaksa, who served as Coroner of the area. The second son was Don Mathew Rajapaksa while the youngest son was Don Alvin Rajapaksa. The direct entry into electoral politics was made by Don Mathew Rajapaksa or D.M. Rajapaksa who was elected State Councillor during British times. He was succeeded as State Councillor by younger brother Don Alvin Rajapaksa or D.A. Rajapaksa, who later became a Member of Parliament after Independence.
D.M. Rajapaksas sons Lakshman and George Rajapaksa became MPs in the post-Independence period. George Rajapaksa served as a Cabinet Minister also. His daughter Nirupama also became an MP and served as a Deputy Minister. D.A. Rajapaksas sons Chamal, Mahinda and Basil also became Parliamentarians like their father. The sons and grandsons of D.A. Rajapaksa held powerful positions when the family enjoyed the zenith of political power. As is well known, Mahinda was President, Chamal was Speaker and Basil a Cabinet Minister. Mahindas son Namal was an influential MP while Chamals son Shasheendra was the Chief Minister of the Uva Province. Mahindas younger brother Gotabaya did not enter active politics at that time. However, he held the post of Defence and Urban Development Ministry Secretary and was regarded as the second most powerful person in the country then.

S.W.R.D. BANDARANAIKE
The disproportionately-powerful expansion and rise of the Rajapaksas during Mahinda Rajapaksas presidency created an impression in some circles that they were Johnnies-come-lately. This impression was not correct. The Giruwapattuwa Rajapaksas had been involved in politics from the time S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike entered the State Council in 1931. The Rajapaksas are an old and respected Southern Province Govigama family. They have deep Buddhist roots and were wedded to the land. Unlike some other eminent Sinhala families that obtained posts and perks from the colonial masters, the Rajapaksas of Giruwapattuwa remained sturdily independent.
The finest example of that sturdy independence and anti-colonial spirit was D.M. Rajapaksa, known popularly as the Lion of Ruhunu. When universal suffrage was introduced and elections to the State Council were held in 1931, D.M. Rajapaksa supported V.S. Wickramanayake in the Hambantota constituency. Wickramanayake was elected. In 1936, D.M. Rajapaksa himself plunged directly into politics and faced hustings. In those days, candidates used different colours for their respective ballot boxes. DM chose brown, the colour of Kurakkan, to symbolise Kurakkan Country. He won with a majority of 12,097 votes.
Don Mathew Rajapaksa was a man of the people. He gave voice to the oppressed and stood up for the underprivileged. He did much for the emancipation of the Rodiya community. Though the British were the rulers at that time, the Ruhunu Sinhaya would brook no nonsense from pompous bureaucrats. Once he slippered the English Government Agent for being callously indifferent. It was D.M. Rajapaksa who first started the practice of wearing a Kurakkan-coloured shawl to symbolise Giruwapattuwa. This was followed by his brother and later his sons. The sataka worn by the Rajapaksas of today is not merely due to notions of sartorial elegance. The practice has deeper meaningful roots.
Unfortunately, D.M. Rajapaksa died at the age of 49 in 1945. His eldest son Lakshman had not even reached the voting age of 21 then. The mantle therefore fell on his unassuming younger brother Don Alvin Rajapaksa. Their father D.D. Rajapaksa had died in 1912. While D.M. Rajapaksa had taken to social service and politics, his brother D.A. Rajapaksa had tended to look after the family occupation of farming and livestock breeding. The elder brother lived at the Mahagedara in Kondagala and the younger at the Medamulana Mahagedara.
After D.M. Rajapaksas demise, the people of Giruwapattuwa wanted D.A. Rajapaksa to step into his brothers shoes. D.M. Rajapaksas sons Lakshman and George were too young then. The simple DA, content with his agriculture, refused. Finally, a deputation of notables went in procession to the paddy field where DA was engaged in ploughing. The delegation had with them the nomination papers and pressed DA to replace his brother in the State Council. Finally, Don Alvin agreed. He washed the mud off his hands and legs and signed the nomination papers, whereupon one person removed his shawl and wrapped it around D.A. Rajapaksa in a symbolic gesture. The Kurakkan sataka tradition continued.

DON MATHEW RAJAPAKSA
D.A. Rajapaksa was elected unopposed to the State Council representing the Hambantota constituency on July 14, 1945. His second son and third child Mahinda Rajapaksa was born a few months later in Weeraketiya on November 18, 1945. According to former Parliamentary Secretary-General and ex-Ombudsman Sam Wijesinha, the feeling among many rural villagers then was that Don Mathew Rajapaksa had been reborn as Mahinda Rajapaksa. Sam Wijesinha who hailed from Getamana close to Medamulana knew the Rajapaksa and also the Atapattu families well. I recall Sam Wijesinha telling me that Mahinda was more like his uncle D.M. Rajapaksa in spirit and temperament. Both were aggressively-fierce in political approach and had empathy for the underdog, he said. Wijesinha said Chamal Rajapaksa was more like his father D.A. Rajapaksa in looks and outlook. Both were mild-mannered, unambitious persons. Judging by his steady rise in politics and fearless demeanour, it appears that Mahinda has to some extent taken after the paternal uncle whom he never saw.
D.M. Rajapaksas sons, Lakshman and George, entered politics later. Lakshman, an ebullient person with an abiding love for the south, was a maverick. Lakshman won the then Hambantota constituency in 1947 as an independent and in 1952 on the LSSP ticket. In 1956, he won on the MEP ticket and became Deputy Minister. In March 1960, Lakshman won Tissamaharama on the MEP ticket. In July 1960, he won the same on the SLFP ticket. He lost in 1965 and 70, but in 1976 he re-entered Parliament as an SLFPer in the Mulkirigala by-election caused by his brother Georges death. George Rajapaksa won Mulkirigala in March (MEP) and July 1960 and in 65 and 70 on the SLFP ticket. He was Fisheries and Health Minister in the 1970 government but like his father died young at the age of 50 in 1976. His daughter Nirupama has been in Parliament from 1994 to 2000 and from 2005 to 2015. In 2005, she succeeded Mahinda in Parliament when he became President. Nirupama has served as a Deputy Minister.
D.A. Rajapaksa was an old boy of Richmond College Galle and was well-versed in English. He captained the soccer team and was vice captain of the Cricket team. It is said that the ground record he set up in the match with Prince of Wales College, Moratuwa, still stands. Yet, he had no qualms about becoming a full-fledged agriculturist. When he entered the State Council and took his oaths on August 8, 1945, he became a member of the Executive Committee on Agriculture and Lands. Mahindas father D.A. Rajapaksa represented the Beliatta seat in Parliament from 1947 to 1965 with a short break in March 1960 when he lost to D.P. Atapattu of the UNP. D.A. Rajapaksa lost in 1965 to D.P. Atapattu again. D.A. Rajapaksa won Beliatta on the UNP ticket in 1947 and thereafter on the SLFP ticket till 65.
Don Alvin Rajapaksa was a faithful deputy of S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, who crossed over from the UNP to SLFP on July 12, 1951. When SWRD crossed over, five others (A.P. Jayasooriya, George R. de Silva, Jayaweera Kuruppu, D.S. Goonesekera and D.A. Rajapaksa) were supposed to follow suit, but when the moment came, only D.A. Rajapaksa crossed the floor behind Bandaranaike like his faithful shadow. The others got cold feet to cross over in the House but did so later. On September 2, 1951, the SLFP was formed. DA was one of the 44 signatories giving notice of the formation of the SLFP. In the May 1952 elections, the fledgling SLFP won nine seats. D.A. Rajapaksa was one of the nine victors.
In spite of these impressive credentials and loyalty, DA was not a minister in the 1956 Cabinet or July 1960 Cabinet. Initially, I thought D.A. Rajapaksa had been deprived of his rightful due in the SLFP despite his loyalty. But I learnt later that this was due to D.A. Rajapaksas simplicity, lack of ambition, love of his roots and abhorrence for the trappings of power. These characteristics of DA contrast sharply with the conduct of some of his descendants when they were ensconced in the corridors of power.

Judging by his steady rise in politics and fearlessdemeanour, it appears that Mahinda has to some extent taken after the paternal uncle whom he never saw
DON ALVIN RAJAPAKSA
In 1956, SWRD offered DA any Cabinet post other than the one to be given to C.P. de Silva, but DA declined firmly and only wanted nephew Lakshman to be given a deputy ministers post, so Lakshman was made Deputy to Trade and Commerce Minister R.G. Senanayake. But the people of Hambantota under the leadership of Tangalle lawyer Wickramasuriya protested strongly to SWRD and DA. So a reluctant Don Alvin Rajapaksa was forced to be Deputy Minister of Land, Irrigation and Agriculture under C.P. de Silva. During Wijayananda Dahanayakes short-lived Cabinet after S.W.R.D. Bandaranaikes assassination on September 26, 1959, D.A. Rajapaksa was Minister of Agriculture and Lands. He resigned in two weeks on October 10 to pre-empt dismissal by the eccentric Dahanayake who was sacking his ministers en masse and appointing fresh ministers.
In July 1960, Mrs. Bandaranaike became Premier and offered a Cabinet portfolio to D.A. Rajapaksa, who declined it. Then she offered him the office of Speaker. This too was refused. It is said that Rajapaksa preferred his home in Medamulana to Mumtaz Mahal. He continued to remain in a room at Srawasthi when in Colombo. On November 6, 1962, upon the death of Deputy Chairman of Committees Wariyapola MP A.M.A. Adhikari, DA was appointed to fill the vacancy. When Speaker R.S. Pelpola resigned on January 24, 1964 to accept a ministerial portfolio, the then Deputy Speaker Hugh Fernando became Speaker. D.A. Rajapaksa succeeded Hugh Fernando as the Deputy Speaker, which position he held until the defeat of the Sirimavo Bandaranaike Government in December 1964. D.A. Rajapaksa lost his seat in 1965 and passed away in 1967.
Don Alvin Rajapaksa married Dona Dandina Samarasinghe Dissanayake of Palatuwa, Matara. They had nine children  six boys and three girls. Their names in the order of age are Chamal, Jayanthi (deceased), Mahinda, Tudor, Gotabaya, Basil, Preethi, Dudley and Gandini. The eldest Chamal and second son Mahinda were extremely-attached to each other as children. Though the given name at birth was Percy Mahendra, he was called Mahinda by family and friends. Chamal and Mahinda were first admitted by their father to his alma mater Richmond College Galle, run by the Methodist Church then. According to information provided by Buddhika Kurukularatne in his eminently readable series of articles published in The Island under the column Men and Memories, Mahinda was a naughty child but quite studious. Mahindas mother later moved to Galle, rented a house and lived with her children Chamal, Jayanthi, Mahinda and Tudor. The house was known as Singapore House.
Mahindas parents moved to Colombo in the mid-fifties. While Chamal and Jayanthi were placed in the hostels of Richmond and Southlands respectively, the younger kids including Mahinda were taken to Colombo. Mahinda was enrolled at Nalanda College. After a few years in 1957 he was moved to Thurstan College. After a few years Mahindas mother went back to Medamulana and D.A. Rajapaksa began staying at the Srawasthi MP hostel. Mahinda was first boarded at a home near Thurstan College but later began residing more and more at Srawasthi itself than in the boarding. Often he would travel to and from Srawasthi to Thurstan.
According to contemporaries at Thurstan, Mahinda was an impish student in college who often fell foul of the master in charge of discipline  the late Kingsley Fernando. Mahinda played cricket and rugger. Apparently, he was good in batting being a polladiya but was a horrible fielder known for repeated bokkus. In rugger he played in the pack as both prop and lock forward. He was good in athletics too and was the shot putt champion. Mahinda also ran in the 4x400 relay team. He was a good orator and debater in Sinhala. Mahinda left school after completing his A/Level exams and worked as an assistant librarian at the Vidyodaya University later to be made the Vidyodaya Campus and now Sri Jayewardenepura University. Colleagues remember him as a jovial, fun-loving person. Kana bona minihek (eating, drinking man), described one. It was during this time that Mahinda got enamoured of left-leaning politics. He became a card-carrying member of the Ceylon Mercantile Union (CMU).

BELIATTA SLFP ORGANISER
Meanwhile, elder brother Chamal Rajapaksa joined the police force as a Sub-Inspector. Their father D.A. Rajapaksa who had lost elections in 1965 passed away on November 7, 1967. Sri Lanka Freedom Party leader Sirimavo Bandaranaike offered the post of party organiser for Beliatta to Chamal after DA died. Chamal however declined and recommended his malli Mahinda instead.
Initially, Mrs. Bandaranaike was hesitant thinking Mahinda was too young and somewhat irresponsible. Later on she relented and appointed Mahinda as Beliatta SLFP Organiser in 1968.
This brought about a marked change in Mahinda. He buckled down to the task and strove to meet the challenge. He gave up his assistant librarian job and relocated to Medamulana. He began working with the people at grassroots level. All the Rajapaksa brothers had been nurtured and brought up in a simple, down-to-earth lifestyle by their parents. Despite the posts they held later, all of them have experience in ploughing a field or driving a bullock cart. Thus it was quite easy for Mahinda to capture the hearts and minds of the ordinary people. Besides, the name Rajapaksa casts a magic spell on the denizens of Giruwapattuwa.
The 1970 elections saw the United Front sweeping the polls with the SLFP getting 91 seats and the LSSP and CP winning 19 and 6 seats respectively. Percy Mahendra Rajapaksa defeated his rival from the UNP, Dr. Ranjith K.P. Atapattu. Mahinda got 23,103 votes and Ranjith 16,477. In 1977, the roles were reversed with Ranjith Atapattu winning with 24,289 votes while Mahinda Rajapaksa got 17,896. Interestingly, Mahindas father D.A. Rajapaksa and Ranjiths father D.P. Atapattu had been rivals contesting Beliatta in each election from 1947. Sadly, both fathers were not alive to see their sons become Beliatta MPs.
Mahinda Rajapaksa from Beliatta and Edwin Wickremaratne from Mahiyanganaya were the youngest MPs in the newly-elected Parliament. It is widely-claimed that Mahinda was the youngest MP then, though there are some who say Wickremaratne (who is no more) was younger by a few months. Those were the days when ministers were proportionately few and the fresher Mahinda remained a backbencher throughout the life of the 1970-77 Parliament.

According to contemporaries at Thurstan, Mahinda was an impish student in college who often fell foul of the master in charge of discipline  the late Kingsley Fernando

Mahinda also used to lag behind Anura Bandaranaike in those days. He accompanied Anura on jaunts abroad as well as in domestic trips. Both were close friends then and despite being an MP, Mahinda remained in Anuras shadow. People compared their friendship with the relationship between their fathers. Mahinda used to refer to Anura as Lokka. Some changes made in the admissions criteria to Law College enabled Mahinda to enrol as a law student while being an MP. In July 1977, he lost the election but took his oaths as an Attorney-at-Law in November that year. After becoming a lawyer, Mahinda moved to Tangalle and established a lucrative practice in the south. His politics too continued albeit on a lower scale.

SHIRANTHI WICKRAMASINGHE
Mahinda got married in 1983 to Shiranthi Wickramasinghe, the daughter of Navy Commodore E.P. and Mrs. Wickramasinghe. Shiranthi is an old student of Holy Family Convent, Bambalapitiya and a Catholic by religion. She is professionally-qualified in child psychology and pre-school education. Shiranthi is a former beauty queen who was crowned Miss Sri Lanka in 1973. She was also a contestant representing Sri Lanka at the Miss Universe beauty pageant in Athens and the Miss World competition in London in the same year. It is said that Mahinda was helped by former Chief Justice Sarath Nanda Silva in ardently wooing Shiranthi Wickramasinghe. Apparently, it was the ex-CJ who played both cupid and matchmaker in bringing the couple together. The Chief Justice of that time Neville Samarakoon and the Parliamentary Commissioner (Ombudsman) of the day Sam Wijesinha were the attesting witnesses. They have three sons  Namal, Yoshitha and Rohitha. All three are old Thomians, with an abiding interest in rugby and racing.
Though the SLFP was shattered by the colossal defeat of 1977 and the removal of Mrs. Bandaranaikes civic rights in 1980, the party began reviving itself to some extent after the 1982 presidential poll and referendum. The swing was more visible in Ruhuna. In 1985, Mahindas elder brother Chamal Rajapaksa contested the Mulkirigala by election. Mahinda led the campaign for Chamal. There was a shooting incident and Mahinda was arrested and remanded for three months. Subsequently, he was cleared by court. It was during this time of imprisonment that the matriarch Mrs. D.A. Rajapaksa passed away and to Mahindas eternal sorrow he was not allowed to attend the funeral of his mother.
The 1987 Indo-Lanka Accord saw Mahinda playing an active role in opposing it. In 1989, he was elected to Parliament from the Hambantota District under the new election procedures. While in Parliament, Mahinda along with Matara District MP Mangala Samaraweera worked tirelessly in opposing the UNP Government of the day and reinvigorating the SLFP. This was also the time of the second JVP insurgency and the country was in the grip of terror and counter-terror. Among the many political activities of Mahinda during this time was his involvement along with Mangala Samaraweera with the Mothers Front formed by Dr. Manoranee Saravanamuttu, the mother of Richard de Zoysa. Apart from Mothers Front meetings and demonstrations, Mahinda also organised protests such as Pada Yatras and Jana Goshas. He also went to the UN in Geneva with Vasudeva Nanayakkara to complain about human rights violations of the Premadasa regime. On one occasion he was stopped at the Katunayake Airport and the documents in his possession were confiscated.
The 1994 elections saw the Peoples Alliance forming a government. Chandrika Kumaratunga became Prime Minister and later President. Mahinda was first appointed as the Labour Minister and later Fisheries Minister in a Cabinet reshuffle. In 2001, the UNP formed the government while Chandrika continued to be President. Mahinda Rajapaksa became leader of the opposition. In 2004, the UPFA formed the government and Mahinda became Prime Minister. In 2005, the presidential election was announced. Despite many intra-party obstacles, Mahinda Rajapaksa secured nomination as the presidential candidate in the November 2005 elections.

The Mahinda-led opposition is confident that the days of the government are numbered and that the political resurgence and return to power of the Ruhunu Rajapaksas is inevitable

LTTE ENFORCED BOYCOTT
Mahinda had in earlier times been quite content to play second fiddle to Anura Bandaranaike and then Chandrika Kumaratunga. However, he began asserting himself at one point and began staking his claim for what he felt was rightfully his. The opposition leader and Prime Ministerial posts had to come to him as his rightful dues. There was no other person worthy of those posts than Mahinda in the SLFP at that time. Thereafter, the Mahinda Gamana could end only at Janadhipathi Mandiraya. However, the road from Medamulana in Giruwapattuwa to Presidents House in Colombo was not easy. The LTTE enforced boycott in the North and the East in 2005 helped Mahinda defeat Ranil in the presidential poll.
What happened thereafter is now history! The Rajapaksa Government pursued the war against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) with ruthless determination. After many deaths and much displacement, destruction and despair, the war ended with the military defeat of the LTTE in May 2009. The Rajapaksas cleverly converted the war-victory euphoria into political victories in the 2010 Presidential and Parliamentary elections. The Ruhunu Rajapaksas perceived as the first family in Sri Lankan politics began ruling the roost in authoritarian mode. With the 18th Constitutional Amendment being passed, the two-term limit for contesting Presidential elections was removed. It appeared that the politically-invincible Mahinda Rajapaksa was set to rule Sri Lanka for life as President.
The best laid plans of men and mice and men often go awry, observed Scottish poet Robert Burns. When presidential elections were called ahead of time, party secretary and senior Cabinet minister Maithripala Sirisena defected and became the common opposition candidate. The January 2015 Presidential poll resulted in Maithripala Sirisena (51.28%) defeating Mahinda Rajapaksa (47.58%). A UNP-led coalition government was formed with Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister and Maithripala Sirisena as President. The 19th Constitutional Amendment re-imposing the two-term limit for the Presidency was passed. With Mahinda Rajapaksa being Constitutionally-debarred from contesting the presidency again, it appeared that the political fortunes of Ruhunu Rajapaksas were on the wane. A number of inquiries probing the alleged corruption and abuse of power by various Rajapaksa family members were initiated. Cases were filed in court and a few Rajapaksas like Basil and Namal were even imprisoned for short periods. Gotabaya Rajapaksa continues to wage many legal battles to ward off arrest and potential detention.
In such a situation, many political observers felt that the writing was on the wall politically for the Ruhunu Rajapaksas. But that is not what seems to have happened. Despite the adverse setbacks, the political stock of Ruhunu Rajapaksas continues to remain on par with Medamulana Mahinda continuing to retain his position as the single-most popular political leader in the seven provinces outside the North and the East. Moreover, the newly-formed Sri Lanka Podujana Party (SLPP) which revolves around Mahinda Rajapaksa has got the better of both the UNP and SLFP and emerged as the leading victor at the local authorities elections. The UNP-SLFP coalition government describes itself as a national unity government, but there are deep divisions within. It does not appear to be national or united. President Sirisena and Prime Minister Wickremesinghe are at loggerheads with each other. The UNP and Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) ministers within the government perceive each other as enemies rather than Cabinet colleagues bound by collective responsibility.

GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA
Against that backdrop the Mahinda-led opposition is confident that the days of the government are numbered and that the political resurgence and return to power of the Ruhunu Rajapaksas is inevitable. The Rajapaksa camp asserts boldly that either Mahinda or a suitable person nominated by him would be at the helm of Sri Lankan affairs soon. Speculation is rife that Gotabaya Rajapaksa endorsed and supported by Mahinda would contest and win the presidency. It remains to be seen as to whether these expectations would be fulfilled or whether these hopes will turn into dupes! One thing however is certain; the Ruhunu Rajapaksa political dynasty spearheaded by Medamulana Mahinda has come to stay in Sri Lankan politics.
D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: More showers and strong winds likely
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 02:50 pm
More showers and strong winds likely
	
The showers and strong winds over the island, particularly in the South-Western parts of the country are expected to increase to some extent from tomorrow, the Meteorology Department said yesterday.
It said showers were likely in the Sabaragamuwa, Central and Western Provinces and in the Galle and Matara districts.
Light showers may occur in the North-Western province, while fairly strong winds of up to 50 kmph can be expected in the Central hills, the Sabaragamuwa, Western, Southern and Uva Provinces and in the Kurunegala, Matale and Batticaloa districts, the Met Department said.
It said there would be mainly fair weather in Anuradhapura, Batticaloa, Jaffna, Trincomalee and Mannar.
Quote -- Light showers may occur in the North-Western province, while fairly strong winds of up to 50 kmph can be expected in the Central hills, the Sabaragamuwa, Western, Southern and Uva Provinces and in the Kurunegala, Matale and Batticaloa districts. (TK)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Muslims protest Chinese governments decision to demolish mosque
## Section: International
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:01 am
Muslims protest Chinese governments decision to demolish mosque
	

U K, (Daily Mail), 10 August 2018 - Thousands of Muslims have been gathering at a mosque in north-west China to protest its planned demolition in a rare public pushback.
A large crowd of Hui people, a Muslim ethnic minority, began congregating at the towering Grand Mosque in the town of Weizhou, Ningxia on Thursday, before the Friday deadline of the demolition.
Construction of the mosque was just completed last year cost one million yuan (114,000), which was entirely paid by local Hui residents, according to sources.
In a widely-circulated government notice dated August 3, officials announced that the mosque would be forcibly demolished as it had not been granted the necessary planning and construction permits.
The protest comes as faith groups that were largely tolerated in the past have seen their freedoms shrink as the government seeks to Sinicise religions by making the faithful prioritise allegiance to the officially atheist ruling Communist Party.
 
		
==============================
## Title: New Ayurvedic Center at Slave Island
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 11 August 2018 07:08 am
New Ayurvedic Center at Slave Island
	
The opening ceremony of the Ayurvedic Center at Stuart Street in Slave Island was held yesterday under the patronage of City Planning and Water Supply Minister Rauff Hakeem. Colombo Mayor Rosy Senanayake, MP Mujibur Rahuman and several others participated in the event. Pix by Nimalsiri Edirisinghe





 
		
==============================
## Title: No trains operated from Colombo Fort this morning
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 10:34 am
No trains operated from Colombo Fort this morning
	
No trains were operated from the Colombo Fort Railway Station this morning, the Railway Control Room said today.
All train journeys were cancelled due to the ongoing strike launched by the Railway Trade Union Alliance (RTUA) on Wednesday over salary anomalies of Railway employees.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, a spokesman from the Control Room said the night mail train which was scheduled to leave from the Fort Railway Station was also cancelled.
However, he said the trains with fuel carriages left for Kolonnawa this morning.(Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

 
		
==============================
## Title: North Korea lashes out at US
## Section: International
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:00 am
North Korea lashes out at US
	

Korea, (Daily Mail), 10 August 2018 - North Korea has called on the United States to reciprocate its goodwill measures by easing sanctions and stopping demands that the North denuclearise first, which they branded insulting.
Pyongyang said in a statement that expecting any result, while insulting the dialogue partner amounts to waiting to see a boiled egg hatch out. 
The statement accused U.S. diplomats of going against the intention of President Trump by refusing to lift actions until there is proof of denuclearisation in the hermit state
In the most recent sign of growing frustration between Washington and Pyongyang, North Korea criticised senior American officials for insisting that North Korea give up its nuclear weapons first before easing sanctions.
North Koreas foreign ministry said Pyongyang had stopped nuclear and missile tests, dismantled a nuclear test ground and returned the remains of some U.S. soldiers killed in the 1950-53 Korean War.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Opposition leader post: JO struggle has just begun
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 09:30 am
Opposition leader post: JO struggle has just begun
	
The joint opposition's struggle to secure the opposition leaders post had not ended but had just begun, MP Bandula Gunawardene said yesterday.
He said this in response to a question raised by journalists whether there was any legal provision to contest the ruling given by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya.
Speakers ruling is not a defeat and it has not ended our struggle, the MP said.
MP Chandima Weerakody said the Speakers ruling was unfair as TNA MP R. Sampanthan cannot function as Opposition Leader because his party is actually supporting the Prime Minister and the government. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe managed to show a majority with the support of the TNA. Therefore how could one consider the TNA as an opposition party," Mr. Weerakkody asked.
He said even the JVP could not be consider an opposition party because it was also dealing with the government.
Mr. Weerakkody faulted the Speaker for not allowing the JO to voice its opinion on his ruling regarding the opposition leader's post.
Quote -- Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe managed to show a majority with the support of the TNA. Therefore how could one consider the TNA as an opposition party.(Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PC polls in six provinces in January
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 06:45 am
PC polls in six provinces in January
	
Party leaders have decided to hold elections in six provinces in January next year and hold the debate on this matter on August 24 2018, informed sources said yesterday.
They said the election to the six provincial councils in the Eastern, Sabaragamuwa, North-Central, Central, North-Western and Northern Provinces was likely to be held in January next year while holding elections to the PCs in the Western, Southern and Uva Provinces thereafter.
The sources said the debate on the elections would be held on August 24 between 11.00 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PC polls: UNP, TNA, JO express similar views
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:15 pm
PC polls: UNP, TNA, JO express similar views
	
The United National Party (UNP), the joint opposition and the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), are of the view that the provincial council elections should be conducted under the previous system if it takes time for the new election laws to be operational.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe met representatives of the political parties on Thursday evening to discuss matters relating to the elections. There is a gridlock regarding the new electoral laws which are delaying the provincial councils elections based on a mix of first-past-the post system and proportional representation.
The elections to three provincial councils are long overdue while the term of office of three more councils will expire in October.
TNA MP M.A. Sumanthiran who attended the meeting told Daily Mirror the holding of elections in time was more important than the system which they considered was secondary.
He said the elections should be held under the old system if it takes time to approve the new system. Mr. Sumanthiran said the UNP and the JO were also of the same view.
He said a two-thirds majority could be secured in Parliament to repeal the new law enabling the elections to be held under the previous proportional representation system.
Blurb -- There is a gridlock regarding the new electoral laws which are delaying the provincial councils elections based on a mix of first-past-the post system and proportional representation. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SL Marines take part in RIMPAC
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 11 August 2018 11:56 pm
SL Marines take part in RIMPAC
	
A contingent of SL Navy Marine personnel headed by Lieutenant Commander (Marine) Sanath Mahinda whiih underwent Field Training Exercise and similar training engagements with Royal Australian Navy and US Marines in Australia and Hawaii, as a part of the Rim of the Pacific Exercise (RIMPAC) 2018, returned after successful completion of the tour. Pix by President's Media
 
		
==============================
## Title: Taliban fighters storm Afghan city before being repelled
## Section: International
## Date: 11 August 2018 12:02 am
Taliban fighters storm Afghan city before being repelled
	

Heavily armed Taliban fighters attacked the strategic central Afghan city of Ghazni on Friday, burning police checkpoints and seizing control of parts of the centre before being driven back by U.S.-backed forces, officials said. 
U.S. attack helicopters and drone aircraft provided government forces with air support. But with Taliban fighters believed to be hiding in residential areas, it was unclear whether the government had full control of the city. 
The attack on a city straddling the main highway between the capital Kabul and southern Afghanistan was a show of strength for the Taliban, underscoring how volatile the security situation remains less than three months before parliamentary elections in October. 
The defence ministry in Kabul said the attackers had been beaten back but were still present in one area of the city and had occupied civilian houses, from where they were still keeping up occasional fire on security forces clearing the area. 
It said around 150 attackers had been killed or wounded but gave no estimate of casualties for civilians or security forces. A local health official said at least 16 people had been killed. 
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid issued a statement saying multiple attacks were launched overnight in Ghazni. Dozens of Afghan soldiers and police had been killed and large quantities of weapons and equipment had been seized, he said. 
GHAZNI REUTERS
Aug 10 
 
		
==============================
## Title: The COMPLAST Sri Lanka 2018
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 11 August 2018 02:03 pm
The COMPLAST Sri Lanka 2018
	
The COMPLAST Sri Lanka 2018 organized by the Smart Expos and Fairs India (Pvt.) Ltd and the Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka (PRISL), was launched yesterday at the BMICH, Colombo under the aegis of Minister Rishad Bathiudeen. The exhibition will go on till tomorrow. Pics by Kithsiri De Mel







 
		
==============================