## Title: Appointing the Cabinet - I'll make a statement in Jan: PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 02:18 am
Appointing the Cabinet - I'll make a statement in Jan: PM
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said yesterday, that in January, he would make a statement in Parliament on the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers.
Referring to media reports on the President striking off names of some MPs from the list sent to him, the Prime Minister said he had not sent the name of Vijith Wijithamuni de Soysa to the President.
It was sad to see these reports in the media yesterday. I think Mr. De Soysa will be able to collect a large sum of money in the form of compensation if he files action against the media which published the false reports. There are other MPs who could do the same, he said.
He said he will make a statement in the House on how the Cabinet was appointed.
The Prime Minister proposed a debate in Parliament on what he described as the black media and said he would reveal information about it. I may have to name some of the media which happen to be the offenders, he said.
The Prime Minister referred to the recent political crisis and said his government could not give concessions to people through the 2019 budget which was to be presented on November 5 because of the turmoil that was set off on October 26. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Buddhism, the Boundless Domain
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:10 am
Buddhism, the Boundless Domain
	

In the era of Gauthama Buddha he was conceived in the womb of a Malla princess
	Spiritual and intellectual progression as defined in the unique philosophy is totally independent of an individuals maturity in age

Spiritual and intellectual progression as defined in the unique philosophy is totally independent of an individuals maturity in age. Some were as old as eighty when they reached the summit of wisdom, some as tender as seven. Whilst personages as Arahant Bakkula stood at the farther end, the world was mesmerized by the attainment of the supreme mental state ever possible by younglings such as Sopaka, Suneetha, Sumana, Sukha, Seevali and Kumara Kassapa all in their seventh year in life. One who embellished the Buddhist narrative in a most extraordinary manner was Dabbamallaputta, the child saint of the Gauthama Buddha dispensation. None of them was however overnight an achievers so to say, of that position of zenithal knowledge but extremely rare individuals who set themselves upon an uncompromisingly arduous path of training from almost beginingless time.
A hundred thousand kalpas ago, a span too vast for the human mind to fathom, a handsome young nobleman witnessed Piyamatura Buddha designating a bhikkhu as foremost amongst those allocating dwelling places for visiting monks from distant places. Consequent to offering maha dana to Buddha and the congregation of monks for seven days, the nobleman made a fervent prayer to receive the identical position before a future Buddha some day. Piyamatura Buddha having looked into his future confirmed the realization of his wish a hundred thousand kalpas later in the dispensation of Gauthama Buddha arising out of the Okkaka clan. A kalpa is defined by Buddha as equivalent to the time it takes to unload a hundred cartloads filled with mustard seeds at the rate of removing a single seed once every hundred years.
Thenceforth the young nobleman transmitting between the worlds of gods and humans was born as Sakka three hundred times and as a Sakvithi King on over five hundred occasions. Ninety one kalpas ago in an inconceivable twist of human fickleness he ridiculed an Arahant disciple of Vipassi Buddha as a low caste shudra. Again vagaries of existence being as baffling as they are, he offered alms to a group of monks including the Arahant he disparaged before. Though he would spend hundreds of thousands of years in livid hell on account of that slur on the blameless being, kamma wouldnt let go but trail him through unto his last life of sainthood in samsara.

Thenceforth the young nobleman transmitting between the worlds of gods and humans was born as Sakka three hundred times and as a Sakvithi King on over five hundred occasions
In a subsequent sojourn of the timeless journey he was born in India at a time when Kashyapa Buddhas dispensation was on the wane, when he along with seven others ordained themselves as Buddhist monks. Unable to bear depraved men in yellow garb denigrating Buddha Sasana incessantly they decided to reach the summit of a rock with the help of a tall ladder in a final bid to end all suffering before the doctrine disappears from the face of the earth altogether. The ladder was thereafter pushed down. One of the seven monks reached the highest state of Buddhist aspirations, another became Anagami and was born on a pure abode whilst the other five including Dabbamallaputta perished on the rock.
In the era of Gauthama Buddha he was conceived in the womb of a Malla princess. When she died prior to delivery and was being burnt on the pyre her stomach burst open due to the intense heat and the infant who was flung out came to rest on a stack of wood unharmed due to his merit  hence he was named Dabba by his grandmother. When he was just seven years of age, driven by his previous kamma he wished to enter the bhikkhu order upon his very first sight of the Buddha who was on a visit to Malla kingdom. At the request of the grandmother Buddha ordered a monk to ordain him. As was the practice on certain such occasions then, the handsome child was given the thacha panchaka  contemplation of the first five impurities of the body. Along with the first three shaving strokes on the head he reached the three stages of enlightenment whilst the final stroke and attainment of Arahanthood occurred in tandem. The Arahants previous births are vividly recounted by himself in Apadanatta and Theragathattakatha.
While spending his time in secrecy and in solitude an idea dawned upon the young Dabbamallaputta Thero that since there was nothing more for him to accomplish in life he ought to employ himself in the service of bhikkhus in assigning their dwelling places and nominating them for upcoming alms-givings offered by laymen. When he conveyed his idea to Buddha He exclaimed Very well, very well, Dabba and when the congregation of monks was called for their opinion on the matter by a senior monk they all indicated their approval by maintaining silence. Later, Buddha pronounced Though Dabba is yet a child, the position he occupies is great.
A segment of Parajikapali in Vinaya Pitaka provides a most fascinating account of the young bhikkhus enthusiasm in executing the subject assigned to him. In allocating dwelling places for monks he determines the quarters according to their particular frames of mind. Bhikkuhs fond of reciting various suttas are quartered close to each other, so are those learned in the principles of bhikkhu discipline (Vinaya). Versatile preachers bent on discussing Dhamma are placed close to one another. Bhikkhus deft at entering absorptions (jhana) are placed together so there wouldnt be disturbance caused to each other. Ones who are only keen on fattening themselves and indulging in bestial talk are grouped together. If bhikkhus arrive after daylight the Arahant enters the fire element (thejo dhatu) to show them their respective kuti with the aid of his luminosity. Some bhikkhus arrive deliberately after darkness in order to witness the child Arahants supernormal powers. When he questions them of their preferences they name faraway places as Gijjakuta, Sorapatana, Issigili mountain, the Cold Forest, Gothama Rock, Thimbiri Rock, Thapodara, Jeevaka Mango Grove and Meddakuchchi Deer Park. Those who are too feeble to walk are levitated through his irdi power.
When many bhikkhus arrive at the same time he creates several figures all identical to himself (manomaya kaya) and guides them to their respective abodes walking ahead of them aided by the light emitted from his finger tips. Having taken them to their places of residence he shows them around and also apprises them of the code of rules to be observed on the premises as well as the applicable arrival and departure times. Having educated them thus he returnsto Weluwanaramaya.
It was on seeing such a blaze of flares atop Gijukulu rock late one night that Punna the devout slave-maid down at Rajagaha city arrived at an emotive conclusion that venerable bhikkhus would have had to face a disturbing situation on the mountain such as snake-bite, and divulged it to the Blessed One the following morning after offering a stale rice cake to Him while on His alms round in the city, whereupon He dispelled her worries.
Later there came to be a group of irreligious novice monks called Meththiya Bhummajaka with no merit whatsoever. When other bhikkhus were being offered gourmet food by devotees the above group invariably received a meal of inferior rice and insipid soup. Around the same time a particular lay disciple named Kalyanabakthika met Dabbamallaputta Thero who delivered a dhamma talk that inspired the laymen uplifted him and made him rejoice. Upon being asked by the disciple Dabbamallaputta Thero informed him that Meththiya Bhummajaka monks have been named for alms at his residence the following day. How can these profligate ones be entertained in my house he was worried, and he ordered the maid not to invite them in but to feed them in the out-house with bland food. The dissolute monks however had other ideas and it is said that in anticipation of a grand dana with various kinds of meats etc. from the well to do layman they did not have proper sleep that night. Following day when the maid did exactly as she was instructed by her master the infuriated monks came to the inevitable conclusion that the Arahant had poisoned the layman against them. They went back to their temple, hid their bowls and robes and lay on the temple floor with bent bodies, fuming in incomprehensible silence. Parajkapali provides a pithy account of the enthralling episode. 
At this stage the Meththiya nun came up to the monks and worshipped them. When there was no response she worshipped them again and again. Venerable sirs, I am worshipping you, what crime have I committed Why arent you speaking to me she said. When they finally blurted out When Dabbamallaputta is hurting us so, you remain impassive, she expressed her willingness to do whatever at their bidding to put the situation right. It was also the moment for the balance of dormant kamma biding its time to settle its score with the Arahant for insinuating Vipassi Buddhas disciple ninety one kalpas ago.
The plot hatched by Meththiya Bhummajaka was the ultimate in imaginative viciousness. Meththiya nun was to complain to Buddha thus; Lord, this is intolerable, unacceptable. Lord was any direction once fearless, sorrowless and hindrance free, now that direction is fearful, sorrowful and beset with obstacles. Was any place once turbulence free, now a storm has arisen. Water has been set afire; Dabbamallaputta Thero raped me.

The shameful Meththiya monks wouldnt be put off despite the collapse of their sinister plot, neither would the residue kamma of the monk come to rest over the calumnious utterance made over ninety one kalpas ago
True to her word the nun approached Buddha, worshipped Him and repeated exactly as was told her. The Blessed One then questioned Arahant Dabbamallaputta on the said issue in the presence of the congregation of monks. The inquiry that pursued as recorded on Patamaduttadosa precept of Vinaya Pitaka is indeed galvanizing.
Buddha  Dabbaya, do you recollect an incident as narrated by this bhikkuni
Arahant  Lord, I ought to be judged in the manner you have always judged me 
Buddha  Dabbaya, do you recollect an incident as narrated by this bhikkhuni The Arahant replied in the manner he did before. He did so for the third time as well. 
Buddha  Dabbaya, pundits do not resolve issues with others assistance. If you committed the act say so, if not, deny.
Arahant  Lord, from the day I was born, I cannot recollect having sought relations with a woman even in my dreams. How could I, when awake, 
Monks, disrobe Meththiya nun. Also seek the views of the monks present, said Buddha rose and left the Vihara. The monks affirmed the decision of the Buddha. Later when Mettiya Bhummajaka monks voluntarily confessed to having concocted the vicious scheme, they were subject to a severe Vinaya stricture. 
The shameful Meththiya monks wouldnt be put off despite the collapse of their sinister plot, neither would the residue kamma of the monk come to rest over the calumnious utterance made over ninety one kaplas ago. While descending from Gijjakuta Rock Meththiya monks happened to see a pair of goats mating and they struck upon another villainous idea. They were to claim that they spotted Dabbamallaputta Thero and Meththiya nun in an intimate posture on Gijjakuta. They maintained before Buddha that whereas the earlier evidence of theirs as to the offence proper was hearsay, now they were providing eye-witness accounts of a sordid affair. Again the Blessed One followed the same inquisitorial procedure as before by summoning Dabbamallaputta Thero and seeking an explanation from him, thereafter confronting his accusers with it. When questioned by the Supremely Faultless Being on earth, no one can speak an untruth, so the dissolute ones confessed to their wrongdoing and again a specifically distinct stricture was passed on them.
Above was a presentation of the Arahant Dabbamallaputta saga in the sketchiest of narratives. Vinaya Chapter consists of a vast volume of Sangha disciplinary rules spontaneously enunciated by the foremost lawmaker ever known to the world. The fundamentals of present day jurisprudence are irrevocably traceable to the great repository of law, the Vianaya Pitaka founded over two thousand five hundred years ago. The little Arahant did adorn the Vinaya and Sutta Pitaka in equal measure.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Christmas Wonderland at BMICH
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 22 December 2018 07:20 am
Christmas Wonderland at BMICH
	
Christmas Wonderland organised by the Aitken Spence Conventions and Exhibitions was launched at the BMICH yesterday. This wonderland includes fun activities and food stalls for both kids and adults alike. It would be held Monday (24). Pix by Kithsiri De Mel





 
		
==============================
## Title: Elections to all PCs on same day: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 06:05 am
Elections to all PCs on same day: Minister
	
The elections to all nine Provincial Councils (PC) will be held on the same day without further delay, Internal and Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Vajira Abeywardane said yesterday.
Addressing those who were present at the ministry at the assumption of duties he said, elections were previously held for each PC separately by misusing public resources with the intention of winning elections.
We will change this tradition and hold elections to all the PCs on a single day and if possible this government will hold the presidential and the general election on the same day as well because by doing so a huge amount of funds can be saved, the minister said.
He said the 52-day long political crisis had put the country on reverse gear with the public service coming to a standstill.
The political instability worsened to the point where government officials couldnt figure out whose orders and directions they should follow with the result that the public service, the economy, the tourist sector and the faith placed in us by foreign countries collapsing. This situation has to be reversed immediately, the minister said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mahinda Rajapaksa May Be Down But Is Certainly Not Out Yet
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:10 am
Mahinda Rajapaksa May Be Down But Is Certainly Not Out Yet
	
By
D.B.S. Jeyaraj

Former President Mahinda Rajapaksas attempt to seize power through the backdoor with the support of President Maithripala Sirisena has been roundly defeated by a courageous display of united resistance by concerned citizens in combination with decisive votes in the legislature and unanimous rulings by the Judiciary. After clinging on stubbornly from October 26 for 51 days, former president and Kurunegala district MP Mahinda Rajapaksa terminated his illegitimate tenure as purported Premier by signing a letter of resignation at his residence on December 15. Thereafter on December 16 Ranil Wickremesinghe was sworn in by President Sirisena as Prime Minister of Sri Lanka again. 
The rightful restoration of Ranil as Prime Minister has been welcomed joyfully by all those adhering to principles of constitutional democracy both nationally and internationally. The undignified exit of Mahinda and triumphant re-entry of Ranil has a fairy tale ring to it and most fairy tales have an ending where everyone lives happily ever after. Unfortunately it is not so in real life. Similarly the Sri Lankan political crisis too has had a happy ending due to the defeat of the anti-constitutional or extra-constitutional coup. The celebratory mood therefore is understandable. However there is no room for complacency. The rightful return of Ranil Wickremesinghe is indeed most welcome but it cannot be regarded as a grand finale to the Political crisis which will certainly continue in new forms and ways in the days to come. 
Error of Estimation
The armed intervention of India in the ethnic crisis of Sri Lanka in 1987 proved to be a costly blunder for our big neighbour. This was mainly due to an error of estimation. India under-estimated the capability of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and over-estimated the capacity of the Eelam Peoples Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF). Likewise one is able to discern errors of estimation in the aftermath of the recent political crisis. Mahinda Rajapaksas political defeat has led to an under-estimation of the ex-presidents political capability and popularity. Ranil Wickremesinghes political victory has resulted in an over-estimation of the Prime Ministers political capacity and popularity. 
For many many years now there has been sustained propaganda that Ranil Wickremesinghe is a serial loser and that he will never be able to lead the UNP to overwhelming electoral success. As such Ranil was projected as a political liability to his party. Sadly for Wickremesinghe many stalwarts in the UNP also bought into rival propaganda that Ranil would not be able to lead the party to victory at elections. In order to cover up their own shortcomings and deficiencies some green elephants found it convenient to scapegoat Ranil as the cause for the partys decline. Wickremesinghe stepping down to facilitate the presidential candidacy of Sarath Fonseka and Maithripala Sirisena in 2010 and 2015 has not helped to dispel such doubts about Ranils unwinnability either. 
However the recent power grab through backdoor fiasco has jaded the images of both Mahinda and Maithripala while the long tarnished image of Ranil Wickremesinghe has been re-furbished. The arbitrary and unfair manner in which he was removed and replaced as Prime Minister made people of different backgrounds rally around Ranil and engage in a peoples protest. In spite of Wickremesinghes perceived faults and deficits he became the symbol of the peoples resistance movement. This has enhanced his political image to a great extent. What the future may be is somewhat unpredictable but right now Ranil rides the crest of a populist wave and has energised Ranil with enhanced confidence. So much so that an ebullient Ranil is now planning to forge a new political front and seek a two-thirds majority in Parliament through an early election. While Wickremesinghes desire to seize the moment is quite understandable there is every possibility that Ranil is misreading the situation and may be over-estimating the nature and extent of the political clout he enjoys right now. 

Medamulana Machiavelli
On the other hand it is indeed a fact that the cumulative result of the recent political crisis has resulted in the diminution of Mahinda Rajapaksas political stature and reputation. There is no doubt that Mahinda Rajapaksa is still the single-most popular mass-figure in the seven Sinhala majority provinces of Sri Lanka. This aura however has suffered much erosion in recent times The man described as the Medamulana Machiavelli has been denied the spoils of prime ministerial office after an abortive attempt to grab power through the backdoor. Furthermore Mahinda Rajapaksas larger than life image has been considerably dented by these political shenanigans. Mahinda is depicted by his detractors as a selfish, power-hungry politician without principles or scruples who would resort to diabolical measures to seize power. This portrayal is perceived as correct by a growing number of people. 
This has led to a situation where the growing tendency is to write off Mahinda Rajapaksa politically. This line of thought seems more prevalent among those who battled bravely to confront the Mahinda-Maithripala duo and their minions these past weeks. Mahinda Rajapaksa and Maithripala Sirisena were compelled to abandon their power grab attempt because of this struggle. Mahinda and Maithripala did not change their stances willingly and step down. They were made to back off by an incredible and unprecedented display of resistance - to an unconstitutional, illegal act - on multiple levels in different forms. This resistance was demonstrated in Parliament as well as in the public domain. Never in the post -independence history of this nation has such a popular non-violent protest movement cutting across race, religion, caste, class or creed been witnessed. Substantial sections of the Sri Lankan population mobilized together as a united nation and rallied around a principled common cause. It was basically a case of the country and people defending Constitutional democracy and resisting flagrant attempts to capture power through the backdoor. 
Against that backdrop it is understandable that people in a jubilant state of mind would tend to perceive Mahinda Rajapaksa as a deflated balloon politically. It would be a grave mistake to misread the situation and under-estimate Mahinda Rajapaksas political strength. Downsized he may be , but the giant has not been turned into a midget. Mahinda Rajapaksa may be down, but is certainly not out yet. In spite of being politically de-valued to some extent by recent happenings, Mahinda Rajapaksa remains a force to be reckoned with still. Though thwarted at this juncture, the return of the Ruhunu Rajapaksas to power is a distinct possibility in the near future. 
Political Miscalculation
In that context, it is necessary to re-iterate that over estimating Ranil Wickremesinghe and under estimating Mahinda Rajapaksa could prove to be a serious political miscalculation and blunder. A huge contributing factor to such a blunder may lie in a mis-interpretation or mis-understanding of the nature and composition of the resistance to Rajapaksa and support to Wickremesinghe. The opposition to Mahinda Rajapaksa was more due to the anti-constitutional, illegitimate manner and mode through which he tried to capture power rather than to the man himself. The support extended to Ranil Wickremesinghe was more due to the unjust, illegal manner and mode through which he was ousted rather than for the person himself. It is very possible that a very large number of people who opposed Rajapaksa may and could vote for Mahinda and his party in a free and fair election. It is equally possible that a very large number of people who supported Wickremesinghe may and could vote against Ranil and his party in a democratic poll. 
Most men who grew up in Sri Lanka have in the days of our youth participated in many a Baila session where some verses were ribald. One sanitized verse in the perennially popular tri-lingual Baila medley Rangadina Baila, Mevvaa Iganaganilaa was as follows  Jumping through the window Darling, What Will People Say If you want to marry me Darling, Come in the Proper way! 

In that context, it is necessary to re-iterate that over estimating Ranil Wickremesinghe and under estimating Mahinda Rajapaksa could prove to be a serious political miscalculation and blunder
The above mentioned Baila verse comes to mind in the current context where Mahinda Rajapaksas power grab attempt through the backdoor has met with strong disapproval. What is of key importance here is to note that the basic reason for this opprobrium is the method used to capture power. Had Rajapaksa sought power through legitimate channels there would have been little resentment. Even those who are against the Rajapaksas politically would have had no choice other than to reconcile themselves to a Rajapaksa-run administration if they came to power by winning elections. It was the attempt to break into the seat of power unconstitutionally which shocked and put off people. As according to the Baila, Jumping through the window is not the proper way. If you want to marry the darling one must use the proper way. So if Mahinda wants power he cannot just come in through the back door. He must come through the front door or the proper way. 
After Mahinda Rajapaksa lost the presidential election in January 2015 he underwent several political reversals. There were many in the Yahapalanaya camp who were cock-a-hoop at this state of affairs and were predicting a retirement by the Lion of Ruhunu. This writer in an article written in November 2015 stated that Mahinda Rajapaksa would not opt for retirement and would plunge into politics zestfully and seek a comeback. I outlined three main reasons for such a stance by Mahinda then which remain valid even now. Here are the relevant excerpts  
Mahindas Three Reasons
Why is it unlikely that Mahinda Rajapaksa would quit politics at this point of time and retire There are three reasons. One is the combative personality of Mahinda Rajapaksa. In the words of Dylan Thomas, Mahinda is one of those who would rage against what he may consider as  the dying of light. One cannot imagine him going out gently into that good night. 
The second and more important reason is that he cannot retire from politics at present even if he wants to. He cannot afford the luxury of retirement as J.R. Jayewardene, D.B. Wijetunge or even Chandrika Kumaratunga.Ghosts of the past haunting him at present would not leave him and/or his extended family alone in the future. There is a Chinese saying that the winds will not let a tree remain still even if it wants to.That aptly sums up Mahindas present situation. 
The third reason is Mahinda Rajapaksas self-perception of being the chosen guardian of Sri Lanka and divinely sanctioned saviour of the Sinhala Buddhists. There is no denying that the separatist threat posed by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was defeated militarily due to the political leadership provided by Mahinda Rajapaksa. In his mind, he was the one who defeated the perceived enemies of Sinhala Buddhism and restored the majority community to its rightful place in the country.Yet he was defeated at the presidential elections by the votes of the Tamils and Muslims. Nevertheless it was he and not Maithripala who gained greater support among the Sinhala voters. This Sinhala vote base got further eroded at the Parliamentary elections but analysts say the UPFA got more Sinhala votes than the UNFGG at the August 17 polls 
It is this third reason that will provide greater impetus to Mahinda Rajapaksa in continuing to be in politics. Saying  I am a fighter by nature or I have to be in politics to safeguard myself and my family is direct and honest but is politically inconvenient. On the other hand saying I will be in politics to protect race, nation, faith and country will be more acceptable politically. Of course Mahinda will be criticised severely by the league of political correctness but as long as a majority of the majority community which is regarded by Mahinda as his true constituency is supportive Rajapaksa will be content. 
Ruhunu Rajapaksas
Those words stated in November 2015 were subsequently proved true. Mahinda not only remained in the political scene but also actively engaged in politics. In the aftermath of the 19th Constitutional Amendment which re-imposed the two-term limit for the Presidency, it appeared that Mahinda could never be President again. With Mahinda Rajapaksa being Constitutionally-debarred from contesting the presidency again, it seemed that the political fortunes of Ruhunu Rajapaksas were on the wane. A number of inquiries probing the alleged corruption and abuse of power by various Rajapaksa family members were initiated. Cases were filed in court and a few Rajapaksas like Basil and Namal were even imprisoned for short periods. Gotabaya Rajapaksa continues to wage many legal battles to ward off arrest and potential detention. 
In such a situation, many political observers felt that the writing was on the wall politically for the Ruhunu Rajapaksas. But that did not happen. Despite the adverse setbacks, the political stock of Ruhunu Rajapaksas continued to remain on par with Medamulana Mahinda continuing to retain his position as the single-most popular political leader in the seven provinces outside the North and the East. Moreover, the newly-formed Sri Lanka Podujana Party (SLPP) which revolved around Mahinda Rajapaksa got the better of both the UNP and SLFP and emerged as the leading victor at the local authorities elections in February 2018. 

A number of inquiries probing the alleged corruption and abuse of power by various Rajapaksa family members were initiated. Cases were filed in court and a few Rajapaksas like Basil and Namal were even imprisoned for short periods
Against that backdrop the Mahinda-led opposition was very confident that the days of the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe government were numbered and that the political resurgence and return to power of the Ruhunu Rajapaksas was inevitable. The Rajapaksa camp asserted boldly that either Mahinda or a suitable person nominated by him would be at the helm of Sri Lankan affairs soon. The situation was such that the confident Mahinda Rajapaksa camp was demanding elections to the Provincial Councils where polls were due. The Yahapalanaya government had no convincing answer. It was simply trotting out lame excuses for delaying elections thereby strengthening the impression in the country that a return of the Rajapaksas to power through elections was inevitable. 
Buried The Hatchet
In another bizarre turn of events, President Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa who were supposedly at loggerheads with each other seemingly buried the hatchet in a political move aimed at undermining Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. The political grapevine buzzed with the news that the Sirisena and the Rajapaksa camps had realigned politically. There were also unconfirmed reports of clandestine canvassing of members from many shades of opinion within Parliament. A substantial number of MPs from the SLFP as well as sections of the UNF were tipped to switch loyalties. There was a strong possibility of the UPFA-SLFP faction within the government officially pulling out. Speculation was rife that the political reconfiguration process would result in a defeat for the government during the budget vote. If and when this happened President Sirisena was expected to appoint Mahinda Rajapaksa as the Prime Minister who would then be seen as commanding the confidence of the House in a drastically-reconfigured Parliament. This belief began gathering momentum and it seemed that the return of the Rajapaksas was unavoidable. Many even began preparing for such an eventuality. 
It was at this juncture that Mahinda and Maithripala embarked on their ill-fated venture to seize power through the backdoor. The details of this sordid exercise remain fresh in the collective memory of the nation and need no further elaboration here. The Mahinda -Maithripala attempt to seize power has been foiled. Grudgingly compelled to accept the inevitable, the power hungry violators of the Constitution have thrown in the towel. There is however no room for complacency as the struggle for political power will definitely continue in the coming days in new forms and fresh directions. Ranil Wickremesinghe may have been restored rightfully to his position as Prime Minister but the power -hungry elements who conspired to topple him would certainly persist with their efforts in the future. 
Both Mahinda and Maithripala will jointly and separately work hard to undermine the Government although Sirisena as President is the nominal head of the same Government. Having failed in their anti-constitutional coup to remove and replace Wickremesinghe both Maithripala and Mahinda would now continue from where they were compelled to stop. They will continue with renewed vigour the task of completing their unfinished agenda. Thus we can expect Maithripala Sirisena and Mahinda Rajapaksa to continue waging war against Ranil Wickremesinghes Govt from within and without. Rajapaksa will launch attacks from outside and Sirisena will sabotage from the inside. 
Tamil National Alliance 
A key feature of Mahinda Rajapaksas propaganda drive against Ranil Wickremesinghe and the UNF government will be on communal lines. Rajapaksa who sought the support of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) to bolster his unconstitutional, illegitimate Government was rebuffed by the premier political configuration of the Sri Lankan Tamils. Furthermore 14 MPs of the TNA joined with the UNF and JVP in defeating the purported premier Mahinda Rajapaksa and his purported Govt during Parliamentary votes. The TNA went the extra mile by supporting the motion expressing confidence in Ranil Wickremesinghe as Prime Minister. Since the JVP abstained on this issue, it was the TNA bloc of 14 MPs who provided the majority to Ranil in this vote. Wickremesinghe was endorsed by 117 MPs out of 225 Parliamentarians. The UNF had only 103 and it was the TNAs 14 which helped increase the tally to 117. 
Apart from its stance in the legislature the TNA also pursued appropriate legal courses of action. TNA chief and leader of the opposition Rajavarothayam Sampanthan filed a fundamental rights petition in the Supreme Court against the gazette proclamation by President Sirisena dissolving Parliament and scheduling expedited elections. Others too filed similar FR petitions. Initially the Supreme court issued a stay order pending a final decision. The TNA Parliamentarians were also among the 122 MPs who sought a writ of Quo Warranto from the court of appeal against purported prime minister Rajapaksa and 48 other purported Cabinet ministers, state ministers and deputy ministers. The appeal court also issued a stay order pending final determination. Mahinda Rajapaksa appealed against the court of appeal stay order to the Supreme court. Subsequently a seven judge bench headed by Chief Justice Nalin Perera ruled that the expedited dissolution of Parliament by the President was anti-constitutional and therefore null and void. A three- judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Justice Eva Wanasundara rejected Mahinda Rajapaksas appeal and upheld the interim order issued by the court of appeal. Both rulings were unanimous. TNA spokesperson and attorney-at-law M.A. Sumanthiran was part of the legal team arguing the above mentioned cases at the Appeal and Supreme Courts.
Mahinda Rajapaksa was furious with the TNA over these matters. Conveniently overlooking the fact that he himself had sought the support of the TNA to set up an administration and would have had no qualms about accepting it if indeed it was forthcoming, Mahinda chose to raise not so subtle chauvinist cries against the TNA for supporting the UNF. Mahinda Rajapaksa delivered a farewell speech on December 15 when he signed his resignation letter. In that speech Mahinda launched an attack on the UNP and TNA. Referring to the support given by the TNA to increase the tally of MPs supporting Ranil to 117, Mahinda charged the TNA of holding the remote control in Parliament forgetting the fact that he was prepared to let the TNA have the alleged remote control too. The relevant excerpts from Mahindas speech are as follows
TNA Remote Control
A total of 117 MPs voted calling for Mr Ranil Wickremesinghe to be appointed as Prime Minister. Fourteen of those votes belong to the TNA. Even though the TNA also requested that Mr Ranil Wickremesinghe be appointed Prime Minister, on the same day, TNA Parliamentarian Mavai Senathirajah made a special statement in Parliament on behalf of the TNA saying that though they voted for Mr Wickremesinghe to become Prime Minister, they would not join the government and would remain in the opposition 
So what has actually happened here is that the UNP which has a minority of 103 seats, has been taken hostage by the TNA. If they do not adhere to the diktat of the TNA, the UNP minority can lose their parliamentary majority at any moment. The TNA now holds the remote control in Parliament. 
On December 12, even before the Supreme Court judgement was delivered, Mr Ranil Wickremesinghe spoke in Parliament about bringing in a new constitution. This new constitution has already been drafted and published in the newspapers as well. Under the provisions of that draft constitution, this country will be divided into nine semi-independent federal units. 
Sinhala Buddhist Constituency
The battle lines are clearly demarcated now. Mahinda Rajapaksa will spearhead an intensive campaign tinged with racism against the Wickremesinghe Government and its key ally the TNA. By doing so Rajapaksa hopes to boost his support base within the Sinhala Buddhist constituency. The support extended by political parties such as the TNA, TPA, SLMC and ACMC to Ranil Wickremesinghe has shown Mahinda that he has very little support among the Tamils and Muslims. Hence it appears logical and practical from his perspective - though morally reprehensible  to pursue a chauvinist campaign that would mobilise Sinhala Buddhist votes in his favour. Whether this course of action would yield dividends or not is hard to predict at this time but the sad reality is that Mahinda Rajapaksa is going to follow that path. It is against this backdrop that the politics of Mahinda Rajapaksa has to be weighed and evaluated. As stated earlier there is a complacent view among certain sections of the people that Mahinda Rajapaksa has been defeated politically and that he is a spent force. Such an opinion could be dangerously wrong. In the eyes of Mahinda Rajapaksa and his supporters only a battlehas been lost. The waris not over. It will be fought relentlessly.
If Ranil Wickremesinghe and his party think that Mahinda Rajapaksa has been politically neutralized, then they are badly mistaken. Under-estimating Mahinda and over- estimating Ranil without gauging the ground realities correctly may result in political disaster. The Medamulana Machiavelli Mahinda Rajapaksa may be down but he is certainly not out!

D.B.S. Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com


 
		
==============================
## Title: Migration: Powerful driver of Economic Growth
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:08 am
Migration: Powerful driver of Economic Growth
	

In this destabilized and dangerously uncertain era when the United States President Donald Trump has virtually declared a war on migrants though the country itself was built up by migrants over the past few centuries, the United Nations this week marked International Migrants Day. 

UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres in a message says migration is a powerful driver of economic growth, dynamism and understanding. It allows millions of people to seek new opportunities, benefiting communities of origin and destination alike. 
Migration draws increasing attention in the world nowadays. Mixed with elements of unforeseeability, emergency, and complexity, the challenges and difficulties of international migration require enhanced cooperation and collective action among countries and regions. The UN is actively playing a catalyst role in this area, with the aim of creating more dialogue and interactions within countries and regions, while propelling experience exchange and collaboration opportunities. 
On September 19, 2016 the United Nations General Assembly adopted commitments during its first ever summit on large movements of refugees and migrants to enhance protection for them. These commitments are known as the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants. The NY Declaration reaffirms the importance of the international protection regime and represents a commitment by Member States to strengthen and enhance mechanisms to protect people on the move. It paves the way for the adoption of two new global compacts in 2018: the global compact on refugees and the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. 
The 2018 theme is Migration with Dignity. This year close to 3,400 migrants and refugees already have lost their lives worldwide. That is why Migration with Dignity is the theme. 
Treating every migrant with dignity is one of fundamental requirements we face before anything else we attempt on migration, the UN says. Migration is the great issue of our era, and a force for dignity because it allows people to choose to save themselves, letting them choose participation over isolation. 
We must dignify those choices by paying them respect, and we respect them by treating those who make such choices with dignity. As we celebrate this day, the call is for migration to be safe, regular and dignified for all, the UN adds. 
According to the UN, the total number of international migrants has increased from an estimated 175 million in 2000 to 244 million in 2015. Nearly two thirds of all international migrants live in Europe (76 million) or Asia (75 million). Migration is now more widely distributed across more countries. Today the top 10 countries of destination receive a smaller share of all migrants than in 2000. One of every ten migrants is under the age of 15. The impact of remittance flows is also significant having reached $436 billion in 2014  far exceeding official development assistance and, excluding China, foreign direct investment. 
The lure of a well-paid job in a wealthy country is a powerful driver of international migration. The attraction has intensified as income differentials among countries continue to grow. This holds true not only regarding the large and growing differentials between high and low-income countries, but also with regard to the more dynamic and the less dynamic developing countries. 
Many advanced and dynamic economies need migrant workers to fill jobs that cannot be outsourced and that do not find local workers willing to take them at going wages. Population ageing also underlies this growing demand, as it gives rise to deficits of workers relative to dependants. as younger generations become better educated, fewer in their ranks are content with low-paid and physically demanding jobs, the UN says. 
In Sri Lanka, mainly due to the lack of productive and well  paid jobs, up to two million workers are believed to have gone overseas for employment mainly in the Middle East. So much so that their remittances have become the largest source of foreign exchange for Sri Lanka. But hundreds of these workers are known to be exploited while there are also major family problems here especially when mothers go overseas for employment. That is why we hope the government will move fast in creating thousands of new productive jobs for youth mainly in the rural areas. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Most of those in new Cabinet are corrupt: SLPP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 10:35 am
Most of those in new Cabinet are corrupt: SLPP
	
A majority of those who were appointed to the Cabinet are corrupt, UPFA MP Shehan Semasinghe said yesterday.
Addressing a news briefing at the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) head office at Battaramulla, he said the present Cabinet contained several wrongdoers who had a series of allegations levelled against them.We can list the wrongs committed by these unscrupulous individuals in the Cabinet, he added.
What is pathetic here is that the President had approved the list of MPs that were sent to him for Cabinet appointments despite having first hand knowledged that most of them were corrupt, Semasinghe said.
They came in promising to do away with corruption, but how can the corruption be eliminated by those who are corrupt themselves Semasinghe inquired. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament Dissolution : SC verdict saved country from international trap: Bimal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:49 pm
Parliament Dissolution : SC verdict saved country from international trap: Bimal
	
JVP MP Bimal Ratnayake said yesterday the verdict of the Supreme Court on the dissolution of parliament should be made available to MPs and the people in all three languages and said the SC verdict had rescued the country from an impending international trap.
He told Parliament that the SC verdict had sent a clear signal to the international community that our judicial system was independent.
"Our judicial system had been vilified at international level in the past and the government had been urged to call in international judges to hear cases of war crimes against our security forces. But this verdict has proved that we have an independent judiciary which is impartial," he said.
Speaking during the debate on the Vote on Account, MP Ratnayake said the JVP could not support the Vote on Account as it was a mini budget to carry forward the UNP's programmes rather than allocating money only to pay salaries of government servants, pensioners and Samurdhi relief.
"We have voted against the budgets of the government so far, and we will vote against this as well. If it was only to pay salaries, we have no reason to object," he said. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM violated Constitution by nominating 35 for Cabinet: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 03:30 pm
PM violated Constitution by nominating 35 for Cabinet: JVP
	
JVP leader Anura Kumara Dissanayake said yesterday that Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was looking for loopholes in the Constitution to increase the number of ministers in the Cabinet and had violated the Constitution by sending a list of 35 names to the President to be appointed as ministers.
He asked the government on what provisions of the Constitution, a list of 35 names were sent to the President.
"The 19th Amendment to the Constitution clearly says that the Cabinet should be restricted to 30 when it was not a national government," he said and added that both President and the Prime Minister had violated the constitution.
He said the government was trying to claim that it was a national government by the use of one MP of the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) and added even if it assumed of such a scenario, even then they could increase the Cabinet only by one.
"This is not a national government. Let alone the Constitution and the law, it is obviously against the political decency to increase the Cabinet," he said.
Mr. Dissanayake said it is sad that the Prime Minister who claimed to protect the Constitution was violating it the next day after a fifty-day fight to protect the Constitution.
Leader of the House Lakshman Kiriella said the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe had not violated the Constitution and that he was only interpreting it. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez, CC on collision course
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 22 December 2018 08:22 am
Prez, CC on collision course
	
Against the backdrop of the recent political crisis, the Constitutional Council (CC) and President Maithripala Sirisena are reported to be on a collision course over the appointments of judges to the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal.
The President has refrained from appointing Justice Gamini Amarasekara and S.Thurairajah as Supreme Court judges despite the CC recommending their appointment. The CC recommended these two names out of those submitted by the President on October 25.
Instead of appointing them, the President has referred two other names -- K.K. Wickremesinghe and Deepali Wijesundara  to the CC for approval to be appointed as the Supreme Court judges. Meanwhile, the President had refrained from appointing Judge K.P. Fernando to the Court of Appeal despite being recomended by the CC.
The CC which met yesterday decided to stick to its recommendations despite the Presidents refusal to appoint them and it refused to consider another nominee by the President to the post of the President of the Court of Appeal.
The CC is ten-member body chaired by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya. The Prime Minister and the Opposition Leader are its members by virtue of their office. Opposition Leader Mahinda Rajapaksa attended the CC meeting by virtue of his office. He, his representative and the Presidents representative at the CC, supported the names suggested by the President for judicial appointments. However, the majority opposed to it. (Kelum Bandara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Problems of Democracy
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:06 am
The Problems of Democracy
	
In the Western world there is a constant debate about democracy. In the US the Democrats charge quite correctly that the Houses constituencies are gerrymandered against them. Then theres the insoluble issue of the Senates anti-democratic bias where its numbers are tilted against the Democrats by the fact that rural, less populated states which tend to be conservative, elect two senators, just as do the Democratic-inclined, heavily populated states. 
In Britain, the country is driven by the Brexit debate. A referendum was held two and a half years ago when voters were given the choice of Remain or Leave. The Leavers won by a small margin and the country has been in political turmoil ever since. Now with Prime Minister Theresa Mays exit plans on the rocks the debate has become vitriolic. There are calls for a new referendum to reverse the previous vote. Its likely to happen since Mrs May has been checkmated by the European Union. The Remainers will probably win. 
In Hungary, the prime minister has pushed aside democracy to take more control of the press and the judiciary, despite threats, so far empty ones, from the rest of the EU to seriously punish its government. 
In France, demonstrators, some violent, have hit the streets, protesting the governments policies that seem to favour the well to do. In fact the poorer have also been helped. But is it a responsible protest when the mass of non-violent demonstrators know that their action has attracted young hooligans who used violence- burning cars, ransacking shops and fighting the police with cobblestones 
Democracy, considered a virtue, has always had its bad associates- Hitler and Robespierre for starters.

Democracy, considered a virtue, has always had its bad associates- Hitler and Robespierre for starters

Democracy is in trouble, according to a new, incisive and broad ranging book, Setting The People Free- The Story Of Democracy, by Cambridge professor, John Dunn. Whats excluded from his magisterial text isnt worth knowing. His book gives the reader everything they need to know. 
As Dunn writes, democracy has lost its clarity. Its not yet a sinking ship but it certainly has hit an iceberg. 
Representative democracy today, he writes, works far better as a mechanism for rejection than it can as a way of choosing together what course to follow for any length of time. 
Dunn singles out climate change. Yes, theres a great amount of lip service to taking drastic action but, as in France, when fuel taxes were raised in order to restrict more CO2 emissions, there are massive demonstrations against it. A democratically elected government was compelled to retreat. In the US Republican voters support President Donald Trumps policy of denial although the denials came from a time well before Trump. Dunn says that in the face of such immense challenges the record of Western democracies has been at best uneven and at worst abominable. Our democracies, he concludes, exist in muted form. At the end of his book he blames us the voters for tolerating bad practices. 
Plato, who opposed the other Greek savants, his teacher, Socrates, and his pupil, Aristotle, denounced democracy. He saw it as a presumptuous and grossly ugly idea. He blamed the killing of Socrates on the waywardness of democratic governance. 
This and other historical examples lead Dunn to argue that with democracy its overwhelmingly probable that many particular outcomes will turn out to be flagrantly unjust. The idea of justice and the idea of democracy fit very precariously together. Worse still, Its often sharply at odds with the requirements for the fluent operation of a capitalist economy. In post-Soviet Russia much of the West thought democracy would come first and capitalism second. It did for a while but now under President Vladimir Putin the order has been largely reversed. 

Dunn goes on to say provocatively that, No one could readily mistake democracy for a solution to the Riddle of History. 
Nevertheless, In its simple and unpretentious way, it has by now established a clear claim to meet a global need better than any of its competitors. It has a unique status, fusing timeliness and well-considered modesty with a claim to something very close to indispensability. 

Prime Minister Theresa Mays exit plans on the rocks the debate has become vitriolic. There are calls for a new referendum to reverse the previous vote
Having said this we are living in a disenchanted and demoralized world. Our prime purpose isnt democracy, fighting for human rights, against climate change or for compassion towards the poor. Our lives appear to be organized around the struggle to maximize personal income. 
One of both the ingredients and the result of this is to make us shortsighted and to have little sense of history. In the American case, Trump plays on the sheer ignorance of a large section of the electorate. In Britain, Nigel Farge and his United Kingdom Independence Party and friends in the Conservative Party told outright lies, now admitted, to the voters in order to win the Brexit referendum.

We sigh and take comfort from what Churchill said: Democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time. 
Copyright: Jonathan Power. 
Website: www.jonathanpowerjournalist.com  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Today is Unduvap Bikkhuni  Order Established: Gender Equality Entrenched
## Section: News Features
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:05 am
Today is Unduvap Bikkhuni  Order Established: Gender Equality Entrenched
	
Buddha to King Kosala
A female child, O Lord of men, may prove Even a better offspring
than a male.
For she may grow up wise and virtuous, Her husbands mother reverencing, true wife,
The boy that she may bear may do great deeds, 
And rule great realms, yes, such
a son Of noble wife becomes his countrys guide,
- Samyutta Nikaya
Significance of Unduvap-Arrival of Sangamitta Theri
In the 2562nd year since the passing away of the Buddha, the Full Moon Poya of Unduvap falls today, the 22nd of December as the day for observance of traditional eight or ten precepts.
The day is of special significance because Sangamitta Theri, the daughter of Emperor Dharmasoka, arrived in the island bringing with her a Jaya Sri Maha Bodhi sapling from Buddha Gaya and the institution of Bhikkhuni Sasana. Sangamitta Theri was accompanied by several Arahat Bhikkhunis, Kshatriya family members, Brahmins, ministers in King Dharmasokas court. The two kings though they had never met each other were long time friends 
As per the chronicle, on a Poson Full Moon Day, the Arahat Mahinda Thera brother of Sangamitta arrived in the island of Sri Lanka and established Buddhism and founded the Sangha Sasana. This prompted an urge from the women to enter the order, the Bhikkhuni Sasana. Queen Anula was foremost, with a large number of followers she gained intellectual attainments and pleaded Arahat to grant them ordination. As Mahinda Thera was not able to offer ordination to females in accordance with the Vinaya, this compelled the Emperor to request his daughter Sangamitta to accept the assignment as Mahinda Thera appealed for.
Bo Sapling from Sri Maha Bodhi
Sangamitta Theri and her entourage left from the port of Tamralipti, the ship arriving at the port of Jambukola patuna in seven days for King Devanampiyatissa to receive the party and the sapling with great honour. The Bo Sapling which was in a golden casket and rituals were performed before it was brought to Anuradhapura.The sapling was planted with a magnificent ceremony in the Maha Megha Garden where it lasts for over 23 centuries receiving the adoration of millions of followers. 
Buddha treated women with kindness and civility and pointed out to them too, the path to harmony, purity and blessedness. Women from all walks of life accepted the teachings and joined the order, Sangamitta theri did all in her power to raise female followers to higher levels of life. She worked with untiring devotion and fearless bravery for the moral, rational and pious upliftment ofthe womenfolk.
Buddhism makes no distinction on gender in all matters. Arahat Sangamitta their passed away while residing at an Upasikaramaya in Anuradhapura at the age of 79, for King Utthiya to perform last rites in close proximity to Jaya SriMaha Bodhi.
The Bhikkhuni order that was established lasted for over a 10 centuries. They say the Cholian invaders were responsible for the disappearance of it. However, the Bikkhuni sasana was revived on 8th December, 1996 at the Mulagandhakuti premises, in Uttar Pradesh, India when seven Dasa Sil Mathas from Sri Lanka were ordained as bikkunis.
In ancient India women were treated as being inferior to men. There had been times they were measured on the same level as the so-called lowest of the four castes. Their liberty was extremely restricted under the view that they had to be below and under the guard of husbands. Therefore, it was thought that they did not deserve any freedom. The main role of women was considered to be that of housewives, attending to house chores as per the wishes of the husband.
Women discriminated against: Religious freedom restricted
The life of a woman was so miserable; had the disaster of being a co-wife which invariably led to conflicts and jealousies, which were a frequent feature in Indian society. A widow was not allowed to remarry, but had to commit suicide [sathi pooja] by leaping into her dead husbands funeral pyre. In some primitive territories in Africa, India, and America wives were looked upon as the private property of their husbands, encouraged the custom of sacrificing, slaying or even burying women alive to go with their departed husbands taking their belongings too. They did not have educational choice; even religious freedom was restricted. So much so the birth of a female baby was considered as a sign of bad luck in a family, it happened that when King Pasenadi of Kosala was informed that his queen gave birth to a daughter he came to the Buddha and lamented. The Buddha had to pacify him saying that good daughters are as good as good sons. Buddha said:
A female child, O Lord of men, may prove even a better offspring than a male. 
For she may grow up wise and virtuous her husbands mother reverencing, true wife, the boy that she may bear may do great deeds, and rule great realms, yes, such a son of noble wife becomes hiscountrys guide,
 Buddha in Samyutta Nikaya
Buddha permitted women to demonstrate themselves and to prove that they too had the capability like men to attain the uppermost position in the spiritual way of life by attaining Arahanthood. Women must be grateful to the Buddha for allowing them to practice the real religious way, and for giving such freedom for the first time in this planets history.
 Buddhism does not believe women as being inferior to men, but consider men and women to be equally useful to the society. The Buddha emphasised the productive role the women can occupy and should play as a wife. Buddhism encourage both husbands and wives to share equal responsibility and discharge their obligations with equal commitment. The husband is always cautioned to consider the wife a companion, a friend, and an equal in partnership, wife was anticipated to acquaint herself with the business or industries owned by the family, so that she could manage such affairs in her husbands absence. In a Buddhist society the wife occupied an equal place with the husband.

Buddha permitted women to demonstrate themselves and to prove that they too had the capability like men to attain the uppermost position in the spiritual way of life by attaining Arahanthood
Khema, Dhammadinna and Uppalavanna 
Buddha recognised their capabilities and capacities, and gave them responsible places in the Bhikkhuni Sangha. The Buddhist texts are full of eminent Bhikkhunis, who were very erudite and who were authorities in sermonising the Dhamma like in Khema, Dhammadinna and Uppalavanna to mention a few. Those interested could refer to Theri-gatha which contains so many stanzas that clearly articulate the feelings of happiness experienced by pious bhikkhunis at their skill to realize the Truth.
Today it is common for many religious institutions to claim that they give equal rights to women. Look at the world around to see the place of women in societies. It seems that they are discriminated in various fields, they have no property rights and generally undergo abuse in many subtle forms. Even in the western world, women seeking the right to vote through organized protest had to fight very hard for their rights. According to Buddhism, it is not permissible to regard women as inferior. The Buddha was born as a woman on many of his previous births in Samsara and even as a woman he developed the noble character and wisdom in his path gaining enlightenment. Buddhism created a conflict against superstitions and Brahmin doctrine rejecting the caste formation, and all forms of animal and human sacrifice. The fundamental theory of Dhamma is realisation by ones own effort. Gender difference has no place in it. Dhamma emphasizes the spiritual equality both male and women.
May all beings be happy!

 
		
==============================
## Title: US Defence Secretary Mattis resigns
## Section: International
## Date: 22 December 2018 12:20 am
US Defence Secretary Mattis resigns
	
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis resigned Thursday after clashing with President Donald Trump over the withdrawal of US troops from Syria and Afghanistan, saying in a parting letter that the president deserves someone atop the Pentagon better aligned with his views.
 
The retired Marine generals surprise resignation came a day after Trump shocked American allies and overruled his advisers, including Mattis, upon announcing a withdrawal from Syria. In the process, Trump declared victory over the Islamic State, even though the Pentagon and State Department for months have been saying the fight against the group in Syria isnt over. 
Trump also ordered the Pentagon, against Mattis recommendation, to come up with a plan to withdraw approximately half of the American troops deployed to Afghanistan, a move that military officials have warned could plunge the nationinto chaos. 
The discord, coupled with an array of other disagreements, caused Trump to lose a respected Cabinet official who won widespread praise at home and abroad but who experienced increasing differences with a commander in chief known for his skepticism of American allies and military operations overseas. 
Long seen as a bulwark against Trumps isolationist impulses and more extreme proposals, Mattis served as a calm reassurer in-chief as the president sent out startling and provocative tweets.
His departure prompted a chorus of concern about the presidents temperament and decision-making processes and injected new uncertainty into the administrations approach to global threats. 
BY Paul Sonne, Josh Dawsey, Missy Ryan(c) 2018, The Washington Post  Dec 21, 2018 
WASHINGTON
 
		
==============================