## Title: 10,000 police transfers postponed
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 06:32 am
10,000 police transfers postponed
	
The transfer of some 10,000 police personnel from February 1 has been postponed toMay 1, 2015, police said.
They said the transfers would come into effect on May 1.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Accident at D. R. Wijewardene Mawatha
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 30 January 2015 01:12 pm
Accident at D. R. Wijewardene Mawatha
	
A jeep collided with a private bus at D. R. Wijewardene Mawatha in Colombo 10 today. The vehicles were severely damaged but no casualties were reported. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana
==============================
## Title: Video: Dheerananda Vidyayathanaya welcomes State Minister of Defence
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 30 January 2015 01:43 pm
Video: Dheerananda Vidyayathanaya welcomes State Minister of Defence
	
Dheerananda Vidyayathanaya at Thambiligasmulla in Makola organized a ceremony to welcome newly appointed State Minister of Defence, Ruwan Wijewardene this morning. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana WATCH 
		
==============================
## Title: Emirates spreads love of cricket around the world with specially-dressed A380 aircraft
## Section: Business Travel
## Date: 30 January 2015 05:48 am
Emirates spreads love of cricket around the world with specially-dressed A380 aircraft
	
	With just two weeks to go until the start of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015, Emirates airline, a global connector of people, places and passions, has unveiled the first of its aircraft that will feature the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 logo
One of Emirates A380 aircraft featuring ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 logoThe Emirates Airbus A380 recently set off to Australia and New Zealand and is the first of a number of specially-dressed Emirates aircraft that will fly around the globe, celebrating this major event with cricket-lovers and uniting fans around the world.
Emirates has been the official partner of the International Cricket Council since 2007 and all its major tournaments including ICC Cricket World Cup 2015.
In partnership with the ICC, Emirates also sponsors the Emirates Elite Panel of ICC Umpires and Match Referees.
Cricket has provided Emirates with a powerful platform to connect with fans and communities across Asia, Australasia, South Africa and the UK. In addition to its partnership with the ICC, Emirates cricket sponsorships include:
*Title Sponsor of the Emirates Airline Twenty20, which brings successful County Cricket Clubs to Dubai to compete for the coveted Emirates T20 Championship.
*In the UK, Emirates has partnerships with Durham County Cricket Club and Lancashire County Cricket Club, including naming rights to both clubs playing grounds and their respective T20 representative teams.Emirates has unveiled specially-dressed aircraft on special occasions and during major events, such as during the 2020 World Expo bid, which Dubai won in 2013.
Currently the worlds largest A380 operator with 57 aircraft in its fleet, Emirates is expecting to take delivery of 15 A380s this year and has 83 A380s on order. The Emirates A380 flies to 34 destinations across the globe, with Perth to join the network in May, Dusseldorf in July and Madrid in August. 
		
==============================
## Title: Video: Even Ravi K. has to pay Mansion Tax: JVP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 10:10 am
Video: Even Ravi K. has to pay Mansion Tax: JVP
	
The Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) said today Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayke should be aware that he too would have to pay the newly imposed Mansion Tax of Rs.1 million.
The Finance Minister is also subjected to this tax. We commend the Mansion tax as a means of acquiring money from those who have. The funds accrued from this tax should be properly monitored to make sure that the benefits will trickle down to the ordinary citizen, JVP Propaganda Secretary Vijitha Herath told a news conference.
Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayke in the Interim Budget he presented in Parliament yesterday announced that a new tax known as the Mansion Tax whereby owners of houses valued at more than Rs.100 million or exceeded a floor area of 5000 square feet would have to pay Rs.1 million to the Government. (Lahiru Pothmulla)WATCH 
		
==============================
## Title: Father and son killed in fire
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 05:21 am
Father and son killed in fire
	
A 42-year-old father and his 2-year-old son were burnt to death at Walathapitiya in Sammanthurai when their house caught fire last night.
A 4-year-old girl was admitted to the Ampara Hospital with burn injuries.
Ampara police are conducting investigations.(Wasantha Chandrapala)Pix by Wasantha Chandrapala
 
		
==============================
## Title: FSP leader Kumar Gunaratnam fought a Guerilla war against the Indian army
## Section: DBS Jeyaraj Column
## Date: 30 January 2015 05:58 pm
FSP leader Kumar Gunaratnam fought a Guerilla war against the Indian army
	
By D.B.S.Jeyaraj
Leading Politbureau member of Frontline Socialist Party(FSP) Kumar Gunaratnam alias Kumara Mahathaya also known as (a.k.a.)Noel Mudalige is very much in the news these days.There is much speculation that Kumar (whose full name is Premakumar Gunaratnam ) who is currently in Sri Lanka on a month long tourist visa may not obtain an extension and may have to leave or be deported from the island. Gunaratnam is currently a holder of an Australian passport bearing the name Noel Mudalige. The FSP leader who arrived in Sri Lanka a month ago has supposedly violated conditions of his tourist visa by actively engaging in politics during his stay here.
Officials from the Immigration and Emigration Dept visited the Peratugami Samajawadi Pakshaya(Frontline Socialist Party) headquarters at Pannipitiya on January 26th inquiring after Gunaratnam who was not in the premises at the time. Immigration Officials then told FSP officials to inform Gunaratnam to call over at the department within two days. Accordingly Gunaratnam accompanied by his lawyers and party comrades went to the Immigration Dept. on Jan 28th where he was questioned about his conduct in Sri Lanka as a tourist. He was requested to call over on the 29th also to enable officials to complete the recording of his statement. Thereafter he was asked to present himself at the Immigration Dept for the third time on Jan 30th. The final outcome remained unkown at the time this article was being written.
It may be recalled that Kumar Gunaratnam had to leave the country of his birth amidst controversial circumstances in April 2012. He had entered Sri Lanka legally under the name of Noel Mudalige and engaged in clandestine political work. Kumar was instrumental in forming a dissident group within the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna(JVP) to which party he belonged then. The breakaway faction was about to launch itself openly as the Frontline Socialist Party on April 9th 2012 when Kumar was abducted by state agents on April 6th along with FSP comrade Dimuthu Attygalle.

	"The breakaway faction was about to launch itself openly as the Frontline Socialist Party on April 9th 2012 when Kumar was abducted by state agents on April 6th along with FSP comrade Dimuthu Attygalle.A spontaneous call for his release was made from diverse circles such as family members, party comrades, media personnel,varsity academics and human rights activists. The emotional appeal made by his wife, sister and mother were very moving. Mrs. V. Gunaratnam his mother who made her appeal in Sinhala,Tamil and English touched the hearts of many"
A spontaneous call for his release was made from diverse circles such as family members, party comrades, media personnel,varsity academics and human rights activists. The emotional appeal made by his wife, sister and mother were very moving. Mrs. V. Gunaratnam his mother who made her appeal in Sinhala,Tamil and English touched the hearts of many and personified the anguish of all Sri Lankan mothers whose children were reported missing. Subsequently their captors released both Kumar and Dimuthu. Their release would not have been possible without the commendable humanitarian efforts of the Australian High Commissioner Robyn Mudie, who went the extra mile in the matter. Once again international intervention was instrumental in upholding human rights in the island.

	Robyn Mudie
After his release Kumar returned to Australia using the passport issued under the name Noel Mudalige. Australian High Commissioner Ms. Robyn Mudie was at the Katunayake Airport to personally ensure his safe departure back. Kumar was not officially deported and was technically eligible to return to Sri Lanka if he paid the fine of Rs. 39,130 for overstaying. It was then felt that Colombo would not let him enter Sri Lanka again and engage in politics. Furthermore given his traumatic experience and close brush with death, it was doubted whether Kumar too would want to return to the land of his birth in the near future.
This however was exactly what happened in the miracle of Asia! The man who escaped death by disappearance by a hairs breadth in Sri Lanka, two and a half years ago arrived at the BIA, Katunayake on Jan 1st 2015 at 00.11 am from Australia via Singapore. He entered the country using the name Noel Mudalige and passport No 1016123 bearing the name Noel Mudalige. Apparently the outstanding fine of Rs.39,130 for overstaying had been paid on his behalf and now Kumar had a tourist visa to stay in the country till Jan 28. Addressing a press conference in Sri Lanka at the Lions Club Hall in Rajagiriya, Gunaratnam said that it was his intention to stay in the country and engage in politics to support FSP Presidential candidate, Duminda Nagamuwa.

	"The current controversy around him demonstrates that this 49-year-old revolutionary socialist is someone whom his opponents and rivals are wary of. One reason for this may be due to his personality and past experience. Kumar Gunaratnam is not just a theoretician or ideologue. He is a man of action. A doer and not merely a thinker. He possesses excellent organisational ability and has a knack of inspiring comrades to face overwhelming odds. "
Kumar accused his former organisation the JVP of having entered into a secret deal with common opposition candidate Maithripala Sirisena. He also denied that he himself had arrived at a hidden understanding with the Mahinda Rajapaksa government so as to visit Sri Lanka again. Gunaratnam said that the presidential election had provided some political space and opening which he as a leftist had seized and utilised.
Despite these denials it was widely suspected that the Rajapaksa govt. had facilitated Kumar Gunaratnams Sri Lankan visit so that he could embarrass the Sirisena camp through allegations of a secret deal with the JVP. This was akin to former President JR Jayawardene releasing Rohana Wijeweera and his comrades in 1977 with the ulterior motive of letting the JVP turn its wrath against Mrs.Bandaranaike and the SLFP.

	Tourist Visa
Now the polls are over and Maithripala Sirisena has triumphed. If the allegation of Gunaratnams visit being a machination of the Rajapaksa regime was indeed true then it can be expected that the guns of the new dispensation will be trained on the FSP leader.The current interest shown by the Immigration Department officials in Kumar Gunaratnam suggests exactly that. In any event the conditions of a tourist visa forbid any involvement in politics during ones stay in the Island even if one was of Sri Lankan origin. By that yardstick Kumar Gunaratnam had violated his visa from the time he addressed a press conference.
Whatever the fate likely to befall Premakumar Gunaratnam alias Kumar/Kumara Mahathaya a.k.a. Noel Mudalige the revolutionary antecedents of this colourful personality who was at one time a key leader of the JVP warrants interest. Though Kumar has broken ranks with the JVP and is now a FSP stalwart, his significant contribution to the JVP over a period of nearly 30 years cannot be easily overlooked or dismissed lightly. The story of his life is indeed unique and worthy of narration. Having written extensively about him in the past , I shall rely on much of those writings to relate the tale of the man who fought a guerilla war against the Indian army under the nom de guerre Gemunu a quarter of a century ago.

	"It was while he was in custody that the Indo-Lanka accord had been signed and the Indian Army deployed in the North and East. War had erupted between the Indian army and the Tigers. In the South the proscribed JVP was mounting a campaign against Indian occupation and unleashing a campaign of violence. In the changed situation Kumar was issued new directives by the JVP leadership."
Premakumar and his elder brother Ranjithan Gunaratnam were in the vanguard of the JVP in the mid and late eighties of the 20th century. Ranjithan is no more but Kumar is active still and continues to make waves. During his days as a JVP activist Gunaratnam was known both as Kumar Mahathaya and Kumara Mahathaya. He preferred to call himself simply as Kumar or Kumara. He has assumed a new identity now but continues to travel on the same path leading towards the goal of transforming Sri Lanka into a true socialist state.The current controversy around him demonstrates that this 49-year-old revolutionary socialist is someone whom his opponents and rivals are wary of.
One reason for this may be due to his personality and past experience. Kumar Gunaratnam is not just a theoretician or ideologue. He is a man of action. A doer and not merely a thinker. He possesses excellent organisational ability and has a knack of inspiring comrades to face overwhelming odds. He is not fond of platform oratory but excels in establishing rapport on a personal basis and converting others to his way of thinking through dialogue and discussion.
Moreover Kumar is arguably the ablest military leader the JVP has ever produced. He led the JVP in a military campaign against the Indian Army in the Trincomalee District in 1989 until he was arrested. Some of the skirmishes in Trincomalee were successes from the JVP point of view.

	Indian Army
There is a widespread belief that the JVP campaign against India in 1987 - 1990 was twisted in the sense that the Rathu Sahodarayo killed people in the South as perceived collaborators of the Indian invasion and urged boycotts of Indian products including Mysore Parippu and Bombay Onions but never ever took on the Indian army directly. The JVP is often mocked for this as cowards who could only kill unarmed people in the South while not daring to lift a finger against the armed Indian soldiers in the North and East. While this accusation is correct to a great extent, there was however a notable exception. This was in Trincomalee District where the JVP engaged in armed action against the Indian army and even drew blood in a few instances.

	"The opportunity came on July 25th 1989. On that day the JVP launched an ambush in Mullippothanai, a Tamil village to the west of Thambalakamam/Thambalagamuwa.An Indian army truck was hit by a JVP landmine. The JVP cadres then surrounded the vehicle, firing in the same mode as that of the LTTE. Fourteen Indian Jawans were killed and three injured. "
	
The JVPs anti Indian military wing known as Deshapremi Janatha Vyaparaya (Patriotic Peoples Movement) was commanded by Keerthi Wijayabahu. Its area leader for Trincomalee in 1989 was none other than Premakumar Gunaratnam, operating under the nom de guerre Gemunu. He was the man who led the JVP/DJV against the Indian army in the Trincomalee District.
Under the leadership of Gemunu the DJV-JVP accomplished a few military strikes against the Indian Army but these incidents did not gain much publicity due to the concerted efforts of the Sri Lankan and Indian authorities in deliberately suppressing information. They did not want the JVP to gain publicity and political credit through these operations. Besides most incidents of that nature in Trincomalee were believed to have been committed by the Tigers then.
There was also an opportunistic shift by the JVP and Indian authorities later. As the going got tough for the JVP at the hands of the Sri Lankan security forces, some among the crimson comrades struck a tactical deal with the Indians. This was similar to the understanding reached by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) with President Ranasinghe Premadasa when the Tigers were gasping for oxygen at the hands of the Indian Army.

	"Many army officers liked him and were sympathetic. Instead of placing him in a cell, the army kept him in the officers quarters in Kantalai. He acted as a batman to a senior officer. Kumar also advised the army officers on how to handle and treat arrested JVP suspects. He even liaised with them. After the Indian army left in 1990 March, war broke out with the LTTE in June 1990."
So Kumar Gunaratnam alias Gemunu was chastised by senior JVP Leaders who apologised to Indian diplomats interacting with them for the attacks, particularly the one in which 14 Indian Jawans were killed. Sri Lankas former ambassador to France, Dr. Dayan Jayatilleka in an article written to the Sri Lankan media a few years ago had this to say about the incident:
Kumara Gunaratnams older brother Ranjithan (said to be dead) was one of the most intelligent, able and disciplined cadres I have met anywhere. By comparison, Kumara himself seems to have had more guts than brains, but those guts were in abundance. While the JVP cadre was busily murdering Sinhala leftists and minor state employees in the name of a patriotic war against the IPKF, Kumara was a true believer who actually planned and possibly participated in an ambush of an IPKF unit. The morning after, the JVP leadership contacted the Indian Deputy High Commissioner and profusely apologised, promising never to repeat that.

	Inglorious end
The JVPs second insurrection came to an inglorious end in 1989/90.With Wijeweera and Gamanayake being killed, some of the remaining JVP members began escaping to India. In another Kautilyan exercise, Indian officials facilitated their travel. Somawansa Amerasinghe alias Siri Aiya allegedly used the Indian connection to reach Europe. Meanwhile Premakumar alias Gemunu was also arrested and detained. With that the JVP military campaign against the Indian army in Trincomalee ended. Despite this short lived campaign, tales of Gemunus military successes spread among surviving JVP cadres and sympathisers.
Premakumar acquired a heroic image among the residual JVP. This helped him gain a new status within the JVP later. Kumar Mahathayas cult status and heroic image among JVP members and his organisational ability and tactical skill made him a feared adversary in the eyes of his political enemies. His experience as a military field commander presented a potential threat.

	"He arrived at certain conclusions and succeeded in convincing the rank and file of the JVP into agreeing with him. He played an important role in mobilising the Jana Aragala Vyaparaya (Peoples Struggle Movement) that was the forerunner of the Frontline Socialist Party."
	
Gunaratnam devoted his time and energy along with the two Gunatilakes, Senadheera and Nandana,to resurrect and revive the JVP. Although he was junior to Somawansa Amerasinghe, Premakumar now referred to as Kumar/ Kumar Mahathaya or Kumara/Kumara Mahathaya became the dominant leader in the new JVP of the nineties. Very little was known about him outside the movement as he opted to adopt a low profile and function behind the scenes while letting people like Wimal Weerawansa hog the limelight.
A noteworthy aspect of the JVP military campaign commanded by Premakumar alias Gemunu in Trincomalee was its nonterrorist nature. The attacks were essentially of a guerilla type and against military targets.Though the JVP engaged in mass scale terrorism in the south through its assassinations of civilians including politicians, administrators, media personnel and families of security forces, the operations against the Indian Army in Trincomalee cannot be classified as terrorist.
I would like to focus now on the little known role of Gemunu during the Indian army period as well as some events leading to it. The objective is not to portray Gemunu as a hero but to relate the tale of an important phase in the JVPs history that is not much known. Although the mass media of the day have not publicised this phase, there is some important material available in books, monographs and research papers. Chief among them are the books Sri Lanka: A lost Revolution (The inside story of the JVP) and Indian Intervention in Sri Lanka by Prof. Rohan Gunaratna. I have also contacted knowledgeable journalists, authors, academics, research scholars, security officials and above all, some ex -JVP members in gathering information about Kumar Gunaratnam.

	Kegalle District
The Gunaratnam brothers were of mixed parentage with a Tamil father and a mother of SinhalaTamil mixture. The younger sister is Niranjana. The family lived in Anguruwella in the Kegalle District where the mother taught for 34 years at St. Marys Kegalle. The three children studied in the Sinhala medium and were fluent in Sinhala. They could understand and talk in Tamil but could not read or write. Both brothers entered the Peradeniya University Engineering faculty in different years. Both got immersed in JVP politics and as a result had to drop out from undergraduate studies at different times.
Ranjithan later functioned as convenor of the JVP backed Inter-University Student Federation. He was much liked and respected. Ranjithan became a member of the 21 member JVP Central Committee and later the 7 member politburo. He was a personal favourite of JVP supremo Rohana Wijeweera. Ranjithan was the district secretary of the JVP for Kurunegala District. On one occasion he was sent to the multiethnic Trincomalee District by the JVP hierarchy. He set up a Trincomalee District committee of the JVP that functioned even during the time when the Indian Army was occupying the Northern and Eastern Provinces.
Ranjithan was captured by the Sri Lankan security forces in January 1990. He was tortured and interrogated while in custody. Later he was summarily executed by a para-military death squad aligned to the state. His body was disposed of. Ranjithan Gunaratnam is classified among the missing still. He was born in 1960 and was 30 years old at the time of his death.
Ranjithans Thamby Premakumar was born on November 18th 1965. He studied at St. Marys College, Kegalle from January 2nd 1971 to December 3rd 1980. He continued studying at Pinnawela Madya Maha Vidyalaya from June 15th 1981 to March 22nd 1985. He became involved with the JVP in a limited manner at the age of 15 in 1981. His elder brother did not encourage him in this.
Premakumar known generally as Kumara or Kumar entered Peradeniya University in 1985. He was admitted to the Engineering Faculty under student identity number E/85/58. His National ID Card No was 653231890V. When he entered University the JVP was a proscribed organisation as President J.R. Jayewardene had banned left parties during the July 1983 anti-Tamil pogrom, without taking action against UNP leaders like Cyril Mathew.

	Popular Guy
While Kumar had been associated with the JVP since 1981, he formally joined the organisation only in 1985 after he entered Peradeniya. It is said that his brother Ranjithan was not in favour of his younger sibling getting involved in politics. He wanted the malli at least to graduate as an engineer instead of disrupting higher studies like himself. But Premakumar went ahead and joined the JVP through the recommendation of Sisira Kumar Devapriya, a fellow undergraduate. Initially he was engrossed in student activities in the University and held office in the JVP controlled student unions. He was a popular guy particularly among girls. Contemporaries say that he was involved with quite a few girls though he ultimately settled for a wife he met in campus as a medical undergraduate.
The young man from Kegalle was a deep thinker, tactician and man of practical action. Faced with state repression the JVP was slowly beginning to strike back and engage in counter action. Forced to function clandestinely the party was urgently in need of arms and cash. It was against this backdrop that Kumar Gunaratnam had his baptism of fire. Interestingly it was on the auspicious Sinhala-Tamil new year day in 1987.
A group of young JVP members consisting mainly of undergraduates or ex-undergrads assembled clandestinely at the Marrs Hall premises in the Peradeniya University. It was the night of April 14th 1987. Senior leaders of the JVP told them of the plan to be carried out. A former military man briefed them of the layout of the Army camp in Pallekelle. The JVP team was picked up by a van at 2 a.m. in the night. The cadres wore army uniforms. Kumara was appointed field commander of the group which included two women. They had only one shot gun and several knives of different sizes in their arsenal.
The JVP had begun infiltrating low level personnel within the police and armed forces and there was an insider in the camp to help out. Thanks to this the JVP squad entered Pallekelle camp from a less conspicuous side. The guards taken by surprise were overpowered. The JVP made off with a sizeable cache of firearms and ammunition using a route along the river.
The nation was rocked by the Pallekelle raid. An intensive manhunt was launched to apprehend the perpetrators. Most of those involved including Kumar went underground. But he was arrested within six weeks on May 23rd 1987 at Galagedara. He was taken to Galagedara Police station and then to Kandy Police Station.

	Ragama Somay
Kumar Gunaratnam was later taken to Colombo and detained at the Magazine prison under the draconian Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) as Detenue No D3301. He along with seven others (Chandrasiri, Samaranayake, De Costa, Jayantha, Lakshman, Sisira and Ranjith) were indicted at the Colombo High Court in 1988 (case No 3591/88) for the Pallekelle armed robbery.While in Magazine prison he began conducting political classes for the JVP suspects in custody. Subsequently he was transferred to the Bogambara prison in Kandy. There in Bogambara, he and another JVP Central Committee member, Ragama Somay devised a plan to escape. This included the digging of a secret tunnel. On December 13th 1988 they put the plan into action and broke out of Bogambara. Subsequently an open warrant was issued for his arrest.
After escaping, Kumar established contact with the JVP hierarchy. It was while he was in custody that the Indo-Lanka accord had been signed and the Indian Army deployed in the North and East. War had erupted between the Indian army and the Tigers. In the South the proscribed JVP was mounting a campaign against Indian occupation and unleashing a campaign of violence. In the changed situation Kumar was issued new directives by the JVP leadership. He was appointed secretary of the JVP District Committee in Trincomalee and elevated to the Central Committee. He was also assigned the nom de guerre Gemunu and instructed to conduct a military campaign against the Indian forces under the aegis of the Deshapremi Janatha Vyaparaya. Thus the younger brother took over the District Committee set up by the elder brother in Trinco.
Trincomalee was the only district under Indian army control in which the JVP was functioning. It had about 15 to 20 cadres under the command of the committee. Kumar alias Gemunu was immediately made secretary of the committee and placed in overall charge. The committee comprised five persons, namely Gemunu, de Saram, Sanath, Arjuna and Pindeniya.
One of the plus points for the JVP in Trincomalee was that it had acquired some arms in 1987 from the army camp in Kallar. The gradual takeover of the North and East by the Indian army was resented by some sections of the armed forces who began connecting with the JVP. When the garrison at Kallar was required to be downsized, some soldiers conspired with the JVP to stage an arms robbery.

	Kantale/Kanthalai
A pre-planned JVP raid took place on October 25th 1987 where a number of weapons were reportedly taken away by the JVP. While some were returned unofficially to some soldiers the rest were retained by the JVP. Thus when Gunaratnam alias Gemunu took up command in February 1989 the JVP had in its possession a small quantity of weapons like T-56, LMG, SMG, shotguns, mortars, grenades and explosives. Gemunu based himself in the Kantalai area and began a rapid campaign of recruitment and indoctrination. He concentrated only on the Sinhala residents of the area.
Meanwhile the JVP had established links with the Peoples Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE) led by Uma Maheswaran. This link up was greatly facilitated by the relationship between the JVP Secretary Upatissa Gamanayake and PLOTE military commander Manikkathasan. Both were sons of two sisters. The PLOTE however was not strong in Trincomalee and not in a position to help the JVP, but Gemunu did interact with the Eelam Revolutionary Organisation (EROS) that was well entrenched in Trincomalee. He avoided the pro-Indian TELO, EPRLF and ENDLF. Likewise he shunned the LTTE which he regarded as fascist and pro-western.
Gunaratnam alias Gemunu did not want to enter even into a tactical alliance with the Tigers. Ironically the LTTE soon aligned with the Premadasa regime in May 1989 which helped the state to hunt down the JVP easily.
According to information available Kumar Gunaratnam alias Gemunu recruited around 100 youths in two batches and conducted two week long educational classes for them. Of these about 20  25 were specially selected and given a rapid weapons training course for three days. Being explicitly instructed by the JVP hierarchy to confront the Indian army directly , Gemunu of the Deshapremi Janatha Vyaparaya began aiming at the Indian army convoys and vehicles as targets. He was lucky because an army deserter code named Sarath Kule teamed up with the JVP. He had quit the army after the Indian air drop of June 4th 1987.
Sarath Kule had some training in explosives and could set up landmines. Since Kumar too had an engineering background the two together were able to engage in explosive attacks. The JVP high command had already instructed Gemunu that attacks on the Indian army should be launched in July to denote the second anniversary of the signing of the Indo-Lanka Accord on July 29th.

	93rd Milepost
The JVP picked the 93rd milepost area on the KandyTrincomalee road near Kantalai as the ideal location for a landmine attack. Initially a landmine was placed on the road but was detected by an Indian army mineclearing foot patrol in the morning. The LTTE was suspected and not the JVP which was yet to make its mark. Kumar Gunaratnam alias Gemunu being a shrewd tactician made the unorthodox decision of placing landmines again in the evening in the same 93rd milepost vicinity. He calculated that the Indians would not expect a repetition on the same day in the same location.
So Sarath Kule and Gemunu set up two landmines in close proximity. A JVP cadre was placed at a vantage point and tasked with the duty of watching out for Indian army trucks and signal that vehicles were approaching. Unlike the LTTE the JVP had no walkie talkies. Unfortunately the JVP cadre assigned this duty developed cold feet at the last minute and ran away. So the leader Gemunu had to replace him. He saw an Indian army truck approaching and signalled to Sarath Kule. Then he ran back furtively to the target area. Instead of a convoy only a truck and jeep arrived. When the landmines were set off only one exploded and hit the truck. The jeep braked and then reversed rapidly.
In the meantime an Indian army post had been set up on the other side of the milepost after detection of the landmine in the morning. That was not known to the JVP which had not conducted any reconnaissance or recce. Indian soldiers began running towards the scene of the explosion firing their weapons. The soldiers in the truck also started firing wildly and running. In the melee the JVP cadres led by Gemunu managed to retrieve an LMG and SMG and escape into the jungle without injury.
It was after this attack that the Indian security forces realised that the JVP too was now confronting them directly. Some sections of the Sri Lankan security forces were excited by this development. Several security personnel began contacting the JVP, encouraging them to launch attacks against the Indian army and pledging clandestine co-operation. Accordingly Gemunu and Sarath Kule took the bold step of entering Trincomalee town and placing a landmine in the dockyard area. They were aided and abetted by Naval personnel. An Indian army truck was targeted but the landmine went off prematurely near the jetty. Both men escaped from the area with the help of sailors.

	Mullippothanai
With July 29th fast approaching, the JVP under Gemunu wanted to make a decisive impact through a major attack. The opportunity came on July 25th 1989. On that day the JVP launched an ambush in Mullippothanai, a Tamil village to the west of Thambalakamam/Thambalagamuwa.An Indian army truck was hit by a JVP landmine. The JVP cadres then surrounded the vehicle, firing in the same mode as that of the LTTE. Fourteen Indian Jawans were killed and three injured. The JVP made off with the seized firearms. It was a big success for the JVP and sent alarm bells ringing in the corridors of power.
What commander Gemunu of the JVP did not know then was that sections of the JVP through iniatives of the Indian espionage agency, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) had set up a back channel of communication with Indian officials.The Deputy High Commissioner at the time, Nirupam Sen had encouraged such a liaison with the JVP and other Southern leftist entities. Sen was to be High Commissioner in Colombo years later.
The Indian High Commissioner Jyotindra Nath Dixit dubbed as the viceroy of Sri Lanka, had himself re-organised the Colombo missions structure after the IndoLanka Accord. Two political secretaries had been appointed with Dr. S.Jaishankar, a Tamil Brahmin looking after the North and East and Gurjeet Singh, a Sikh overseeing the other seven provinces. First Secretary Joseph Thariyal, a Keralite Christian was the RAW point man at the Indian High Commission. Incidentally Dr. Jaishankar is the new Indian Foreign Secretary.
The line of communication to some JVP elements was allegedly maintained by the trio of Nirupam Sen, Gurjeet Singh and Joseph Thariyal. When the JVP under Kumar Gunaratnam struck forcefully on July 25th, the Indian officials were shocked and angry. The JVP elements in contact with the Indians had to tender an apology for the incident to Nirupam Sen and promise that it would not happen again. An urgent message was sent to Gemunu to suspend attacks against the Indian army. A lull set in thereafter in JVP operations against the Indian Army.

	Security Forces
Gemunu was thoroughly disappointed at this turn of events but continued to strengthen the JVP in Trincomalee. He intensified recruitment and also began garnering more arms. He also embarked on a mission of interacting with and wooing disgruntled members of the security forces.
It was on such a mission that he set forth on September 24th 1989. A meeting had been arranged with a soldier who had promised to give him a few firearms. But when Gemunu reached Palampottaru or Monkey Bridge he was arrested. He had walked into a trap which apparently had been devised by former Army Commander, General Sarath Fonseka, who was the commanding officer of the area at the time.
Though in army custody, Kumar was treated kindly. Many army officers liked him and were sympathetic. Instead of placing him in a cell, the army kept him in the officers quarters in Kantalai. He acted as a batman to a senior officer. Kumar also advised the army officers on how to handle and treat arrested JVP suspects. He even liaised with them. After the Indian army left in 1990 March, war broke out with the LTTE in June 1990. Kumar Gunaratnam was transferred to Pallekelle, the place where he began his armed militancy. He was housed at the rehabilitation centre in Pallekelle.
There are two versions about what happened thereafter. One version says Kumar was a model detenue at Pallekelle. After a period of rehabilitation he was released along with 15 others to be sent to Japan for employment. According to this version Kumar had dropped out from going to Japan and gone underground. The other version alleges that he escaped from Pallekelle under mysterious circumstances and went underground thereafter. According to this version he was assisted by security personnel to escape from Pallekelle.

	Dr. Champa Somaratne
Gunaratnam known to JVP cadres as Kumara or Kumar Mahathaya, began to adopt a low profile in public while setting about quietly on a JVP renaissance mission. Together with senior JVP leaders he began to revive and re-organise the JVP. He succeeded in this to a great extent. In 1993 he got married to Dr. Champa Somaratne, a medical doctor attached to the Chest Hospital in Welisara. He reportedly used an alias to get married.
After marriage Kumar lived at the medical officers quarters at Welisara with his wife, whom he had met at Peradeniya University. She too was a JVP member and had contested elections in Kurunegala on the JVP ticket in 1994. Later his wife relocated to Australia and subsequently Kumar too joined her. It is said he adopted another alias to go to Australia and then again changed his name while there.
Apparently he acquired a new passport and began travelling back to Sri Lanka frequently to engage in political work. Kumar maintained a low profile and operated under different names for personal security. Noel Mudalige also used his stay in Australia as a period of reflection and thought into the future of the JVP. He arrived at certain conclusions and succeeded in convincing the rank and file of the JVP into agreeing with him. He played an important role in mobilising the Jana Aragala Vyaparaya (Peoples Struggle Movement) that was the forerunner of the Frontline Socialist Party.
Gunaratnam has been actively engaged in promoting his party on a worldwide basis among the Sri Lankan Diaspora. He embarked on a global tour late last year and spent some time in Canada too. His re-entry to Sri Lanka this year too was aimed at reving the flagging fortunes of the FSP. Men like Kumar who are wedded to their cause will not falter in their political journey however difficult the path is. The current tourist visa crisis notwithstanding, Sri Lanka will continue to hear of this son of the soil now transplanted down under.D.B.S.Jeyaraj can be reached at dbsjeyaraj@yahoo.com 
		
==============================
## Title: Grade 5 scholarship cut off marks released
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 11:25 am
Grade 5 scholarship cut off marks released
	
The cut off marks for the grade 5 scholarship examination were released a short while ago by the education ministry.
Royal College and VisakhaVidyalaya, Colombo requires the highest marks for entrance.
The cut off marks released are as follows:
Royal College, 186 marks: VisakhaVidayalaya  185; Ananda College Colombo and Dharmaraja College, Kandy  183.
The full list

				GRADE FIVE SCHOLARSHIP SELECTION LIST - 2014 (SINHALA MEDIUM  Boys Schools)
			
				
		
				PARTICULARS OF CUT-OFF MARKS
			
				
		
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
				
			
				
			
				
			
				
		
				No
			
				School Name
			
				School Address
			
				Cutoff Mark
		
				1
			
				ROYAL COLLEGE
			
				RAJAKEEYA MW.,COLOMBO-07
			
				186
		
				2
			
				ANANDA COLLEGE
			
				COLOMBO-10
			
				183
		
				3
			
				DHARMARAJA COLLEGE
			
				KANDY
			
				183
		
				4
			
				MALIYADEVA BOYS COLLEGE
			
				NEGAMBO ROAD ,KURUNEGALA
			
				182
		
				5
			
				NALANDA COLLEGE
			
				COLOMBO-10
			
				181
		
				6
			
				KINGSWOOD COLLGE
			
				KANDY
			
				180
		
				7
			
				D.S.SENANAYAKA COLLEGE
			
				GBREGORY RD.,COL-07
			
				179
		
				8
			
				RICHMOND COLLEGE
			
				RICHMOND HILL, GALLE
			
				179
		
				9
			
				ST'ANNE;S COLLEGE
			
				KURUNEGALA
			
				179
		
				10
			
				RAHULA COLLEGE
			
				AKURESSA ROAD, MATARA
			
				178
		
				11
			
				St. SYLVESTERS" COLLEGE
			
				KANDY
			
				177
		
				12
			
				ISIPATHANA COLLEGE
			
				COL-05.
			
				176
		
				13
			
				MAHINDA COLLEGE
			
				WOODWARD MAWATHA,GALLE.
			
				176
		
				14
			
				THURSTAN COLLEGE
			
				COLOMBO-03
			
				175
		
				15
			
				VIDYARTHA COLLEGE
			
				KANDY
			
				174
		
				16
			
				BANDARANAYAKA M.V.
			
				YAKKALA ROAD, GAMPAHA
			
				173
		
				17
			
				JOSEPHVAZ COLLEGE
			
				WENNAPPUWA
			
				173
		
				18
			
				MAHANAMA COLLEGE
			
				COL-03.
			
				173
		
				19
			
				ST/ALOYSIUS COLLEGE
			
				KALUWELLA, GALLE
			
				173
		
				20
			
				ASOKA V.
			
				SRI VIPULASENA MW.,COL-10
			
				172
		
				21
			
				KEGALU M.V.
			
				KEGALLE.
			
				172
		
				22
			
				ST.THOMAS BOYS COLLAGE
			
				KUMARATHUNGA MAWATHA, MATARA
			
				171
		
				23
			
				WARIYAPOLA SRI SUMANGALA COLLEGE
			
				KANDY.
			
				169
		
				24
			
				PRINCE OF WALES COLLEGE
			
				MORATUWA
			
				168
		
				25
			
				ST. MARY'S M.V.
			
				KEGALLE.
			
				168
		
				26
			
				VIDYALOKA COLLEGE
			
				WACKWELLA ROAD GALLE
			
				167
		
				27
			
				ST THOMAS COLLAGE
			
				MATALE
			
				165
		
				28
			
				PANADURA ROYAL M.V.
			
				NELUM LANE, GALLE ROAD, PANADURA
			
				164
		
				29
			
				ST. ALOYSIUS NATIONAL SCHOOL
			
				CHURCH ROAD, RATNAPURA.
			
				164
		
				30
			
				KALUTARA M.V.
			
				KALUTARA
			
				161
		
				31
			
				PRINCE COLLEGE
			
				NEW TOWN, RATNAPURA.
			
				160
		
				32
			
				NALANDA BOYS' M.M.V.
			
				MINUWANGODA
			
				159
		
				33
			
				PRESIDENTS COLLEGE
			
				KOTTE
			
				159
		
				34
			
				ST.MARY'S COLLEGE
			
	 
		
		 
		  
				  				  
					
  window.googletag = window.googletag || {cmd: []};
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/DM_MO_Inner_S1', [300, 250], 'div-gpt-ad-1563438593854-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
    googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1563438593854-0'); });
  
  window.googletag = window.googletag || {cmd: []};
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/AdStudio_DM_Home', [300, 250], 'div-gpt-ad-1571720635755-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
    googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1571720635755-0'); });
  
					
									  
		 
		/* Shore more styles */
			.showmore_content		{ position:relative; overflow:hidden; }		
			.showmore_trigger 		{ width:100%; height:45px; line-height:45px; cursor:pointer; margin-top: -60px; padding-top: 70px; margin-bottom: 60px; position: relative; z-index: 2; background-image: linear-gradient(180deg,transparent,#fff); }
				
			.showmore_trigger span	{ display:block; }
		.more{ border-color: #096dd2 !important; color: #096dd2 !important;  border: 1px solid #096dd2;
  background-color: white; width: 100%; height: 50px;
  padding: 0px 20px;
  font-size: 16px;
  cursor: pointer; text-align: center}
		.less{ border-color: #096dd2 !important; color: #096dd2 !important;  border: 1px solid #096dd2;
  background-color: #f4f5f7!important; width: 100%; height: 50px;
  padding: 0px 20px;
  font-size: 16px;
  cursor: pointer; text-align: center}\
  
  <!--  -->
  .more {display:block;}				 				 
		
	 
	      Comments - 16          
  
  
  
            See Kaprukas top selling online valentine day unique gifts, flowers, cakes for boyfriends and girlfriends at Kapruka. Deliveries done by Grasshoppers.
         
	
  
        
        
                                
										
											
												ashen Friday, 30 January 2015 08:50 PM  
												hhhhhaaaaaaaaaaiiiiiii
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Ajith Perera Saturday, 31 January 2015 12:34 PM  
												Education minister said they have stopped all quota for their henchmen not like MR government. but all schools cut of marks have been gone up. is this blunder ministry officials. where is recorrection results . with out recorrection results can they release school admission.
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Hasara Saturday, 31 January 2015 09:31 PM  
												P.G.C.K. welcomes all dear sisters who have got more than 174. Thanks for the information.
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Julian Friday, 30 January 2015 05:34 PM  
												No tamil mediam Still a rracist education system
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Senthu Friday, 30 January 2015 05:36 PM  
												Once again Its ROYAL !!!!
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												maariyappan Saturday, 31 January 2015 07:48 AM  
												Should be included Tamil Medium also..
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												man123 Saturday, 31 January 2015 08:26 AM  
												ROYAL leading from front
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												manishauaha Wednesday, 05 October 2016 09:07 AM  
												congratulations
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												senuda dilmith Saturday, 31 January 2015 09:06 AM  
												thanks for the information and release the tamil medium cutoff as soon as possible
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Maran Friday, 30 January 2015 06:33 PM  
												Where is the Cut off for the Tamil Medium If the MOE Dept of Education has not released the same, it is an absolute blunder to the good governance of the regime. Under the good governance, nobody can treat Tamil Medium Students at the discriminative way. This kind of administrative blunders of the public servants and political leadership has destroyed this country for more than 60 years. Hon. Minister of Education as a lawyer could clearly understand the above. Hon.Minister, over to you, please
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												k.a.yasodya chathumina  kodikara  Thursday, 12 February 2015 01:51 PM  
												Gred 5
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Wruberu Monday, 02 February 2015 10:10 AM  
												I am bit confused of these acquisitions regarding not publishing Tamil medium marks. Are they blaming " Daily Mirror" news paper or the educational system.
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												
													
											
											
												
													Pan Saturday, 31 January 2015 07:10 PM  
													Julian, Goto India and see how many languages are there and study and see In what languages their education is given. It is not racist... India should have 50  national languages  based on your comment. Be realistic. Go to France,Germany etc... They also have one system i think.... But there are many races in those countries as well. A country can have only one Judiciary system as well. Otherwise we become like pakistan where every religin or race is having its own with lot of issues...
													 
														
												
											
										
										
											
												Darshan Saturday, 31 January 2015 01:48 AM  
												I guess, still we do have more Tamil schools at Sri Lanka.
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												ransika mahikalpa senarath Friday, 30 January 2015 07:47 PM  
												Thank for the information
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
											
												Prarthana gangani Tuesday, 06 October 2015 08:40 PM  
												grade5 exsaminatios result
												 
													
													Reply
													
													
													
													
												
											
										
										
                            
                        
                     
                
				  				  
					See Kaprukas top selling online valentine day unique gifts, flowers, cakes for boyfriends and girlfriends at Kapruka. Deliveries done by Grasshoppers.
					
									  
       
    	      
                
    	 
  
  Add comment 
  Comments will be edited (grammar, spelling and slang) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online. The website also has the right not to publish selected comments.
  
			
                        
                        
			
			
							
								Reply To: 
								Name - Reply Comment
								
									Cancel
								
							
						
                        
                
                   
                        
                            Post a new comment :
                            
			
			   
                    
                    
                        
                            Full Name:
                           
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            Email Address:
                           
			   
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    Send
                
                        
                        
                        
                          
                     
					
                     
	
	
		
			 
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
			 
    
        	  
    	  	  
    
	
	
    			
    			
   		
            
              RECOMMENDED 
             
              
	      
	      
	       	      
              	
		  
              		
              
                Peoples choice to be awarded at 14th SLIM Nielsen Peoples Awards     
              
              	
              		      
              	
		  
              		
              
                PARADISE ON FIRE     
              
              	
              		      
              	
		  
              		
              
                How prepared are we to battle Coronavirus     
              
              	
              	              	
              	
              
              
            
	 
               
               
             
    	
    	
			 
			  
                 	      
			  
              
		
              
                  
               Tough action against those who pollute roads, drains, canals  
				 Colombo Mayoress Rosy Senanayake has instructed relevant authorities to enfor 
            
			
			
				      
			  
              
		
              
                  
               Spread of New Coronavirus:  Many Airlines cancel flights to China  
				 A number of airlines including United Airlines, British Airways, South Korea 
            
			
			
				      
			  
              
		
              
                  
               Tronic Entertainment Tatyana rejects affiliation  
				 Tatyana, wife of Rohitha Rajapaksa, said today fabricated and false informati 
            
			
			
				      
			  
              
		
              
                  
               CONEX 20 in seas off Colombo  
				 Offshore Patrol Vessels, Inshore Patrol Vessels and Fast Attack Craft belong  
            
			
			
					
		
			
			
			 
			 
				 
				
				 
				  	 See Kaprukas top selling online valentine day unique gifts, flowers, cakes for boyfriends and girlfriends at Kapruka. Deliveries done by Grasshoppers.
				
				
   		  
    			
    		
    		 
    		  
    		   
   
   			
		
  		 
 		
 			    	
   			
   			
   			
    			
    			
			
   		
            
             Most Viewed in News
             
    	
    	
    	  
            
	    
	                   
	       
			
  
	   1 
  
				 
				  
    Streatham attacker Sudesh Amman has family in Sri Lanka 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
               
	       
			
  
	   2 
  
				 
				  
    Courageous crew of SriLankan 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
               
	       
			
  
	   3 
  
				 
				  
    China unofficially raises concern over its citizens facing discrimination in SL 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
			
	
			
			 
			   
			 
	                   
	       
			
  
	   4 
  
				 
				  
    Sri Lankan  family only residents on Christmas Island 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
               
	       
			
  
	   5 
  
				 
				  
    French plane makers fraudulent deals with SriLankan bared 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
               
	       
			
  
	   6 
  
				 
				  
    Tatyana rejects affiliation with Tronic in an executive capacity, resigns 
     
  
   
    
    
  
			
                 
            
			
			
				
			
			
			 
			 
				 
				
              
            
	 
 		    	  	  	  	  
		  
		  
		  
		 
	 
		      	
			     
  window.googletag = window.googletag || {cmd: []};
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/DM_Inner_A_300x200', [300, 200], 'div-gpt-ad-1578284126859-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
    googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1578284126859-0'); });
  
  var googletag = googletag || {};
  googletag.cmd = googletag.cmd || [];
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/dm_inner_havelock', [300, 200], 'div-gpt-ad-1560182748659-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1560182748659-0'); });
  window.googletag = window.googletag || {cmd: []};
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/DM_INNER_Slot_C', [300, 250], 'div-gpt-ad-1578898561630-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
    googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1578898561630-0'); });
  
				  
				 
				  
				 		
			   
            
			
              TODAY'S HEADLINES 
			 
  			 
 
              Needs of the people my duty: Prez  
               05 Feb 2020 
            
			
			  			 
 
              Two bankers charged for confining customer  
               05 Feb 2020 
            
			
			  			 
 
              Development of ties in line with security and stability  
               05 Feb 2020 
            
			
			  			 
 
              Appointment not finalised  
               05 Feb 2020 
            
			
			           
             
            
              
            
			
			   
            
              MIRROR CRICKET 
		                
                 
              Hetmyer and Lewis miss out as Windies announce Sri Lanka ODI squad 
               04 Feb 2020  
										  - 0    - 120  
            
            
              
                 
              Sri Lanka claim series through Mendis-led draw 
               31 Jan 2020  
										  - 0    - 539  
            
            
              
                 
              Inclement weather forces Zimbabwe into recalibration 
               30 Jan 2020  
										  - 0    - 201  
            
            
              
                 
              Zimbabwe consolidate lead after Razas seven 
               29 Jan 2020  
										  - 0    - 200  
            
            
    
                
            
			
			   
    
    
    
    
   
   
   
  																						
          
		 
			
  var googletag = googletag || {};
  googletag.cmd = googletag.cmd || [];
  googletag.cmd.push(function() {
    googletag.defineSlot('/6231952/Airtel_DM_News_Menu', [950, 60], 'div-gpt-ad-1544166613116-0').addService(googletag.pubads());
    googletag.pubads().enableSingleRequest();
    googletag.enableServices();
  });
googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1544166613116-0'); });
	  
 
Group Sites 
Lankadeepa
Ada
Sunday Times
Daily FT
Tamil Mirror
Deshaya
Middleast Lankadeepa
Mirror Edu
Life Online
Hi Online
LW
Kelimandala
Wijeya
Wedo
wnow
E-papers
lankadeepa
Sunday Lankadeepa
Sunday Times
Daily FT
Ada
Tamil Mirror
Classified
Hitad
Timesjobs
	
Services
E-Paper
Home delivery
Advertise with us
Mobile Apps
feedback
Archive
Contact us
Editorial :
  +94 0112 479 356  
 dmonlinelk@gmail.com  
Technical :
  +94 011 538 3437  
 helpdesk@wijeya.lk  
 webadsupport@wijeya.lk  
Marketing :
  +94 011 247 9540  
  +94 011 247 9873  
Web Advertising Inquiry :
 Dilan : +94 77 372 7288  
 Charith : +94 77 567 1710  
HOME
HOME DELIVERY
WNL HOME
ARCHIVES
FEEDBACK
ADVERTISING
All the content on this website is copyright protected and can be reproduced only by giving the due courtesy to 'dailymirror.lk' Copyright  2004 Wijeya Newspapers Ltd.
		$(document).ready(function(){
  
  $("#small").click(function(event){
    event.preventDefault();
    $("p").animate({"font-size":"1.15rem", "line-height":"25px"});
    
  });
  
  $("#medium").click(function(event){
    event.preventDefault();
    $("p").animate({"font-size":"1.25rem", "line-height":"30px"});
    
  });
  
  $("#large").click(function(event){
    event.preventDefault();
    $("p").animate({"font-size":"1.5rem", "line-height":"37px"});
    
  });
  
  $( "a" ).click(function() {
   $("a").removeClass("selected");
  $(this).addClass("selected");
  
 });
});
	  
function myFunction() {
    var x = document.getElementById("myTopnav");
    if (x.className === "topnav") {
        x.className += " responsive";
    } else {
        x.className = "topnav";
    }
}
		var sidebarBox = document.querySelector('#box'),
sidebarBtn = document.querySelector('#btn'),
pageWrapper = document.querySelector('#page-wrapper');
sidebarBtn.addEventListener('click', function (event) {
		sidebarBtn.classList.toggle('active');
		sidebarBox.classList.toggle('active');
});
pageWrapper.addEventListener('click', function (event) {
		if (sidebarBox.classList.contains('active')) {
				sidebarBtn.classList.remove('active');
				sidebarBox.classList.remove('active');
		}
});
window.addEventListener('keydown', function (event) {
		if (sidebarBox.classList.contains('active') && event.keyCode === 27) {
				sidebarBtn.classList.remove('active');
				sidebarBox.classList.remove('active');
		}
});
		
function setCookie(cname, cvalue, exhours) {
	var d = new Date();
	d.setTime(d.getTime() + (exhours*60*60*1000));
	var expires = "expires="+d.toUTCString();
	document.cookie = cname + "=" + cvalue + "; " + expires + ";domain=dailymirror.lk;path=/";
	//document.cookie = cname + "=" + cvalue + "; " + expires;
}
function getCookie(cname) {
	var name = cname + "=";
	var ca = document.cookie.split(';');
	for(var i=0; i<ca.length; i++) {
		var c = ca[i];
		while (c.charAt(0)==' ') c = c.substring(1);
		if (c.indexOf(name) == 0) return c.substring(name.length,c.length);
	}
	return "";
}
$(document).ready(function(){
	$("#close0").click(function(){
		$("#openModal0").attr("class", "modalDialog");	
var frame = document.getElementById("ytubepl");
frame.contentWindow.postMessage('{"event":"command","func":"pauseVideo","args":""}', '*');	
	});
	$("#close1").click(function(){
		$("#openModal1").attr("class", "modalDialog");
	});
	$("#close3").click(function(){
		$("#openModal3").attr("class", "modalDialog");
	});
	if(getCookie("nsdf")=="" ){
		setCookie("nsdf", "0", 3);
		$("#openModal0").attr("class", "modalDialog opend");
	}
	else if(getCookie("nsdf")=="0" ){
		setCookie("nsdf", "1", 3);
		$("#openModal1").attr("class", "modalDialog opend");
	}
	if(getCookie("mobile")=="" ){
		setCookie("mobile", "0", 3);
		$("#openModal3").attr("class", "modalDialog opend");
	}
});
			   // jQuery.noConflict();
                                $(document).ready(function(){ adsBanner(); });
                                $(window).resize(function(){ adsBanner(); });
                                function adsBanner(){
                                    var windowWidth = $(window).width();
                                    if(windowWidth > 1324) {
                                        $(".adsBanner").show();
                                        if(windowWidth > 1334) {
                                            var positionPx = ((windowWidth - 1334) / 2) + "px";
                                            $(".invisible1").css('left',positionPx);
                                            $(".invisible2").css('right',positionPx);
                                        }
                                    }
                                    else { $(".adsBanner").hide(); }
                                }
                            
            fluidvids.init({
                selector: ['iframe', 'object'], // runs querySelectorAll()
                players: ['www.youtube.com', 'player.vimeo.com'] // players to support
            });
        
    
        _uacct ="UA-18029962-2";
        urchinTracker();
    
    
  
==============================
## Title: India, Lanka Discuss Voluntary Repatriation of Lankan Refugees
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 02:01 pm
India, Lanka Discuss Voluntary Repatriation of Lankan Refugees
	
India-Sri Lanka today held talks on voluntary repatriation of Sri Lankan refugees in the country, within days of deciding to "re-engage" on the issue during a meeting between their foreign ministers.
During the first meeting between the officials of the two countries, in which Indian side was led by the Joint Secretary in-charge of Lanka in the External Affairs Ministry, the two sides talked about various aspects related to repatriation, officials sources said.
There was also internal consultations on the issue with other ministries in the government, they said.
Earlier this month, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj and her Sri Lankan counterpart Mangala Samaraweera, during their over three-hour-long talks, had decided to work on repatriation of Tamil refugees to Sri Lanka who had fled during the civil war that started in 1990s.
According to official figures, there are more than 100,000 Sri Lankan refugees in Tamil Nadu, of which some 68,000 are housed in over 100 government-run camps. (Out Look India) 
		
==============================
## Title: Packer's Crown pulls plug on SL casino plan
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 10:33 am
Packer's Crown pulls plug on SL casino plan
	
James Packer's Crown Group says it will not go ahead with a proposed plan to develop a $400 million luxury hotel and resort in Sri Lanka, following a decision by the government in Colombo to scrap tax concessions for the project.
On Thursday Sri Lanka's new government decided to cancel generous tax concessions for three foreign resort developments  including Mr Packer's resort  and said it would not issue them licenses to run casinos.
A spokeswoman from Crown said the company respected the decision and on that basis the project would not be going ahead.
The concessions were given under the former government of Mahinda Rajapaksa but critics in Sri Lanka opposed the move to give tax breaks to foreign gaming ventures.
Speaking to politicians, Sri Lanka's new prime minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said the government would withdraw the tax breaks for the developments with immediate effect.
"We will not allow casinos on their premises," he said. (ABC/AFP) 
		
==============================
## Title: Parliament adjourned for 20 minutes
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 09:44 am
Parliament adjourned for 20 minutes
	
Parliament sessions were adjourned for 20 minutes a short while ago following a special statement made by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremeisnghe on the reinstatement of former Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake
The Prime Minister said Dr. Bandaranayake was reinstated as 43rd Chief Justice in accordance with the proper proceedings.
Mr. Wickremeisnghe also revealed that if the government retained Mohan Peiris as Chief Justice, he could have sent all former government members to the Jail.
The Premier pointed out Mohan Peiris had said he was ready to give judgments in favour of the government.
During the statement, several opposition MPs including MP Wimal Weerawansa were seen disturbing Parliament
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pudukuduiruppu and Maritimepattu PS polls on Feb. 28
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 03:19 pm
Pudukuduiruppu and Maritimepattu PS polls on Feb. 28
	
Elections to the Pudukuduiruppu and Maritimepattu Pradeshiya Sabhas in the Mullaithivu district will be held on February 28, Elections Commissioner Mahinda Deshapriya said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sripavan sworn in as CJ
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 01:45 pm
Sripavan sworn in as CJ
	
The senior most Supreme Court Judge K. Sripavan was a sworn in by President Maithripala Sirisena as the new Chief Justice of Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Warming up
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 30 January 2015 09:14 am
Warming up
	
President Maithripala Sirisena is seen at his workout at Independence Square in Colombo this morning. AFP PHOTO
 
		
==============================
## Title: Audio: Well not tax owners of old houses: Harsha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 30 January 2015 08:22 am
Audio: Well not tax owners of old houses: Harsha
	
Policy Planning and Economic Development Deputy Minister Harsha De Silva said today the Mansion Tax would not apply to owners of old houses which they had inherited but on the rich who had built huge mansions without any paying any taxes to the Government.
This is not meant to tax owners ofold houses they had inherited. It is a means of obtaining funds from those who have built huge mansions without paying taxes owed by them to the Treasury, he said.
He said they would work out a system on how best to implement this tax and who should or should not be exempted from it.
We will not impose this tax unfairly on those who have inherited the ownership of the houses from their ancestors, Dr. de Silva said.AUDIO 
		
==============================