## Title: Adam Smith Awards : Sri Lankas Sean De Silva felicitated
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
Adam Smith Awards : Sri Lankas Sean De Silva felicitated
	
Sean De Silva (L) who was awarded at the Adam Smith Awards 2018 for best in its class Treasury solution Middle East

Each year over 240 people from throughout Europe, Africa, the Americas and the Middle East come together to celebrate outstanding achievements of Treasurers, CFOs and Finance Directors across the continents, with the Adam Smith Awards. This year however is special for one exceptional Sri Lankan. Lankan-born Sean De Silva, of the Sharjah Finance Department, Government of Sharjah, this year secured the Adam Smith Award for best in its class Treasury solution in the Middle East. A rare and brilliant achievement for a Sri Lankan, Sean has been named as a Highly Commended Winner by the Treasury Today Group, the leading provider of treasury information for corporates. 
Sean is presently employed as the Section Head of Cash Management for the Sharjah Finance Department of the Government of Sharjah. Sean joined the governments Finance Department as Projects Manager in 2016, having previously worked with Citibank, in the United Arab Emirates spearheading the implementation of loans, cards and cash management products of the bank. He has also worked for SAMBA financial group, setting up its consumer asset business in the UAE. 
On June 21, at the 11th Treasury Today Adam Smith Awards, Sean was felicitated for his outstanding submissions from over 200 nominations. Nominations were received from 35 countries. His winning submission was formulated to harness the power of emerging technology. 
Seans work resulted in the Government of Sharjah embracing HSBCs digital transaction banking solutions with Kyriba, a cloud-based Treasury Management System. The Sharjah Finance Department (SFD) wanted to strengthen the financial controls of the Government through the migration of payment and cash management activities from various departments into a centralised treasury team. Through collaborations with HSBC and Kyriba SFD was successful in automating their processes with its digital transaction banking products and a cloud-based treasury management system. 
With a vision to gain visibility over their cash positions across more than 250 accounts with 16 banks and to enhance their financial controls, while optimising liquidity management and controlling financial risk, the SFDs ultimate objective was to improve its efficiency and to reduce their net cost of borrowing. 
None of these objectives however were possible without leveraging technology to effectively automate their operations, while reducing the reliance on an array of manual processes. This is when the SFD focused on the implementation of a Single Treasury Account to manage its cash in the most optimal way. 
HSBC partnered in providing business process analysis along with technical consulting to build a comprehensive solution together with Kyriba. Their extensive collaborations gave birth to an innovative and effective solution combining a range of products and services by utilising leading edge technology. 
Regional Head of Client Integration at HSBC Middle East Ltd speaking of the requirement said that the lack of bilateral agreements among banks in the UAE, had increased the need for a solution to enable SDF to concentrate all their funds from various banks into a Single Treasury Account at HSBC. In agreement with the Central Bank of the UAE we devised a solution using the UAE Direct Debit System. SDF therefore is now able to generate a same-day direct debit instruction to pull funds from accounts held at their other banks to HSBC, he said. 
Almost 70 per cent of transactions are now being processed electronically while allowing us complete visibility of our cash and financial transactions, Sean commented on this innovative solution. The processing times on our end therefore have been significantly reduced and we have now made notable savings in operational cost which have more than offset the cost of implementation. With the harnessed power of emerging technology, SDFs processes are now simpler, better and faster, he added. 
Launched in 2008, the Adam Smith Awards programme is universally recognised as the international industry benchmark for achievement. The presentation ceremony held in Plaisterers Hall, London saw the attendance of winners and partners from across the globe. Treasury Today Groups Founder and Director, Angela Berry in her comments at the reception noted that players operating in this field have shifted and evolved as technology has come to the forefront in powering corporate solutions. It is fantastic to see in the room today many names and companies that did not even exist in 2007 and to see the positive benefits of disruption and advancement powering the industry and helping you all to do better, she said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Axe Calls Out to the Bold, Daring, Intelligent & Strong
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:24 pm
Axe Calls Out to the Bold, Daring, Intelligent & Strong
	
Axe, the global Unilever deodorant brand, is issuing a challenge to the audacious looking to ramp up the fun quotient in their life. The popular male grooming brand is whipping up a frenzy amongst young millennials in the city with three unique activities in international style to create a veritable Axevolution that will set the stage for a sensational unveiling of some exciting news for Axe lovers soon.
The popular nightspot Bar Collective will play host to Axes Open Mic Challenge on 28 June 2018 where only the BOLD are invited to tread! Axe wants you to step up and sing; if you can't sing, then rap - perform anything vocally to embrace the boldness within you! It promises to be a great night to let down your hair and belt out your favourite melodies to impress that special someone.
Keeping the momentum going, the Cocktail Trix-Mixer Challenge will be held the next day, on 29th June 2018, also at the Bar Collective, where Axe beckons the DARING to bring their mixing game to the bar! Axe will throw down a challenge for participants to utilize certain ingredients to make a very own signature Cocktail.
Apart from smelling good and looking great, another way to impress is by showing off your knowledge and Axe is providing just the opportunity with a Quiz Challenge to be held at Playtrix on 6th July 2018. For this event, Axe gives a shout out to the INTELLIGENT to bring their IQ game to the table!
Finally, a Fitness challenge, dates for which will be announced shortly. The company is confident that there will be an overwhelming response to these exciting events. The hype around the Axe brand appeals to those demographics who want to make an unforgettable first impression. These young men like to work hard and play harder with Axe curating scents that provides the right boost to be a charmer.
Axe always pulls out surprises galore for its fun loving and adventurous loyal customer base and these compelling events will leave attendees wanting more Axe magic which will be announced soon! For more information on these events and more, log onto facebook.com/AXESriLanka
 
		
==============================
## Title: Blind couple request assistance
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
Blind couple request assistance
	
M. A. Sanath Premalal is from Welipothayaya, Balangoda. At the age of 16 an unfortunate sporting accident changed his life forever. The accident cost him his sight and a life full of possibilities. Premalals family was hopeful that he would be able to regain his sight one day. However doctors eventually revealed that Premalals vision could not be restored. 
The young man accepted his fate and confronted obstacles that lay ahead of him, despite his disability. Today, 42-year-old Premalal is married to Menaka Dilrukshi, who is also visually impaired. As a newborn of two months, infant Menaka had suffered severe pressure in her eyes, which damaged her optic nerves. The result was blindness and a lifetime of attempts to restore her vision. This dauntless young woman not only takes care of herself but also tends to her husband. Together they engage in various means to make a living, which include crafting and vending handmade items such as pillow cases. 
Continuous treatment since childhood, a reputed doctor at the National Eye Hospital was able to restore Menakas vision partially. A successful surgery ensured that Menaka is now able to guide herself better. However post-surgery care does not permit exposure to sunlight or straining her eyes and therefore prevents Menaka from engaging in any means of employment. 
For follow up treatment after the surgery, Menaka and her husband visit the National Eye Hospital every month from Balangoda and often have to find overnight lodging on some occasions. With only a Samurdhi allowance and a disability allowance of Rs.3,000, Menaka and Premalal are struggling to make ends meet. The couple request assistance in cash or kind from kind donors who are willing to ease their burden. 
Pic by Nisal Baduge 

 
		
==============================
## Title: China funding MRs campaign: Ranjan complains to FCID
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 07:02 pm
China funding MRs campaign: Ranjan complains to FCID
	
Social Empowerment Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake today lodged a complaint with the Financial Crimes Investigation Division (FCID) against former president Mahinda Rajapaksa over the recent allegations revealed by the New York Times.
The New York Times in an article published on Monday (25) exposed that at least $7.6 million was dispensed from China Harbors account at Standard Chartered Bank to affiliates of Mr. Rajapaksas campaign, according to a document, seen by The Times, from an active internal government investigation.
Speaking to journalists outside the FCID, Deputy Minister Ramanayake said that he contacted the Times journalists who exposed the allegations before making the complaint. (TK)
Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: CRUSHED BY THE WEIGHT OF ANXIETY
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:10 am
CRUSHED BY THE WEIGHT OF ANXIETY
	
High-rise building culture leaves Colombo community helpless


Colombos skyline is rapidly changing with various high rise buildings being constructed in every nook and corner of the city. While almost all of them compete to get the best view of the Indian Ocean and the city, it is rather questionable as to how certain logistical matters could be sorted out. As a country where a good part of the population comprises senior citizens and differently-abled persons, vertical living may not be the best option. When leaving that aside, how residents could escape during a fire or a similar emergency too brings about a question mark. In its fast-track towards development, the safety and health of the people too needs to be considered. People working at these sites sometimes have minimum facilities and working conditions, hence they may do things bordering on carelessness due to exhaustion. Various high-rise buildings constructed within the city have now eaten into the pavements, causing much traffic and parking issues. In this issue, the safety of the pedestrians may also have been overlooked. In an attempt to shed light on this trending menace, theDailymirror spoke to a few individuals of varied expertise.


Airing her concerns with regard to the occupational safety and health aspect, National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Director General Dr. Champika Amarasinghe said that people need to be healthy to work productively and efficiently. Though there are many positives, we have to talk about the negative aspects in terms of occupational safety and health because there are many strategies to minimize work-related accidents and diseases. In the global context, though we see a lot of occupational accidents, the occupational disease burden is three times more than the burden of work-related accidents. This applies to the Sri Lankan context as well. But we see lots of work-related accidents at present. In the Sri Lankan context, we are talking about the industry and it could be anything from constructions to agriculture, manufacturing, textiles etc. Even the public sector is another service sector where we need to talk about occupational safety and health. We have to have a proper definition when we talk about occupational safety and health like in every other country.
This is not relevant only to the industry, but applies to all workplaces. Based on the legislation, the countrys occupational safety and health services are provided only to the industry, but it shouldnt be so. The definition of industry in the Factories Ordinance should be changed to workplaces. Therefore any place including the informal sector will be included. said Dr. Amarasinghe.

The law and regulations themselves are a challenge because they arent timely anymore. No occupational safety and health standards are specified in the Sri Lankan context. Theres no standard for personal protective equipment as well

Speaking further she said that in Sri Lanka though there are categories of industries there are different strata such as the multi-nationals, medium and small scale industries, the informal sector etc. The multi-nationals comply with the international standards on occupational safety and health, she continued. They maintain high standards and they provide lots of facilities to the workers to maintain health. But the local industries are struggling with finances and therefore occupational safety and health arent their priority. Therefore the repercussions are accidents and diseases. The construction industry is a hazardous industry where many people are engaged in; which also includes young workers and poorly educated people. Since they are economically unstable, safety and health arent their priority because they need money to purchase food and other necessities. In terms of work-related diseases in the country, very minimal numbers are reported. But that doesnt mean that work-related diseases dont exist, but they arent diagnosed as work-related diseases. For example we use a lot of asbestos in the country and a possible work-related disease is mesothelioma, but it isnt reported in the cancer registry. Even leptospirosis is another condition which is seen among workers in the agriculture sector. the doctor added.
A World Health Organisation (WHO) report recently stated that 60% of people working in the informal sector experience work-related accidents. But it also states that the informal sector is difficult to monitor. When asked about this, Dr. Amarasinghe said that it is because according to the Sri Lankan Law there exists a definition for a factory. Formal industries are the captive population, hence the informal sector isnt captured by the law like in all the other countries. The informal sector includes groups or family-run businesses and therefore there are no employers and employees as the formal sector. They are also struggling with finances and therefore the safety and health dont become a priority. They arent aware of how a healthy worker would be more productive at work. It is also observed that they dont work with any kind of protection. When we meet these people they refer to how their predecessors (sometimes their own kith and kin) used to work in the same careless manner and that they continue the same practice, added Dr. Amarasinghe.


Speaking about the challenges faced in implementing the law, Dr. Amarasinghe said that the Factories Ordinance was drafted many years ago and it has offered a definition for a factory. Its very old although the Ministry wants to change it. Instead of the definition for the Factory they want to bring in a definition for the workplace. But other than the Act lots of regulations need to be introduced. The law and regulations themselves are a challenge because they arent timely anymore. No occupational safety and health standards are specified in the Sri Lankan context. Theres no standard for personal protective equipment as well. These are the issues we have identified in terms of legislation. As Sri Lankans we arent safety-oriented people. We are a group of people who would like to take risks. This is why we see many accidents. We also talk about risk-taking behaviour and our peoples attitudes where people dont think about the different hazards they are exposed to. They are more concerned about their comfort. Therefore there are challenges in changing behaviours and attitudes. But I also see a positive trend in peoples interest about learning occupational safety and health within industries, she added.


The history of industrial health and safety in Sri Lanka dates far back as 1896 with the enactment of the Mines and Machinery Protection Ordinance. This Ordinance mainly covered mines and allied industries. With a few legal amendments the Workmens Compensation Ordinance Act No. 19 of 1934 was brought about to make provisions for the payment of compensation to victims of factory accidents. Subsequently, with the development of the industrial sector in Sri Lanka the Factories Ordinance (Act No. 45 of 1942) was promulgated from January 1, 1950. With 131 sections included in this Ordinance, the sections prescribe the minimum standards that should be maintained by the occupier to provide a safe work environment for workers. Under this Ordinance provisions are made for various aspects including cleanliness, overcrowding, temperature, ventilation, sanitary conveniences, drainage of floors, cranes and lifting machinery, explosives or flammable gases, accommodation of clothing among others. The Factories Ordinance defines the term factory as a premises in which persons are employed in manual labour for the purpose of trade or gain in making, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, washing, cleaning or adopting for sale of any article.




Ultimately the country will be governed by a law that the lawyers have not studied.

In her comments, eminent property rights lawyer Kirthimala Gunasekara said that new laws coming into other countries have been drafted by consulting legal experts. But we follow what has been written in 1907 and 1895. Legal regulations are in place, but they have been copy-pasted from laws in other countries. Suddenly a British Law has come into force within the country which would make matters more complicated especially with regard to the Beira Lake extension into Port City. Ultimately the country will be governed by a law that the lawyers have not studied. How will the lawyers work in the future with electronic media and the foreign law Airspace and fire should be overlooked by the relevant authorities. A condominium can go up to 75 floors, but the usual fire demonstration is done only till the fifth floor. What about access to these floors by differently-abled people and senior citizens Are they equipped to rescue its residents in case of a fire Laymen and foreigners draft the law and then they send it to the legal draftsman. Legal experts in other countries are being consulted whenever a change is being made to the law. It is also important to note that property law and electronic registrations are highly regarded subjects. If we are implementing foreign laws then we also need to find out whats happening in those countries, said Gunasekara.


Speaking to the Daily Mirror Civil Aviation Authoritys Deputy Director General (Airspace and Security Regulations) Rohan Manukulasooriya said that within a 15km radius from an airport there are compulsory height specifications for construction sites. Obstacle Limitation Surfaces (OLS) are a set of surfaces associated with a runway, which identify the lower limits of an aerodrome airspace above which objects become obstacles to aircraft operations. Therefore anybody who decides to construct a skyscraper should refer it to the CAA for approval. But depending on the area and the nature of the construction, the specifications vary. There may be certain areas which may obstruct the routes of helicopters and local flights. The Colombo metropolis is now in higher demand for high-rise buildings and therefore we are looking at this matter on a broader perspective. Hence, we take each request case-by-case. In the case of a violation of these specifications, the Municipality has the authority to limit the number of floors,said Manukulasooriya.

There may be certain areas which may obstruct routes of local flights. The Colombo metropolis is now in higher demand for high-rise buildings and therefore we are looking at this matter on a broader perspective- Manukulasooriya

The objective of the Workmens Compensation Ordinance is to obtain compensation from the employers to workmen injured following accidents at work or to workmen suffering from diseases attributable to the nature of employment and to their dependents in case of death of workmen from such causes. As means of implementing the said Ordinance, the Office of the Commissioner of Workmens Compensation was established and its main function is to inquire into the claims made by the workmen who meet with accidents in the course of their employment.
The Daily Mirror learned that in the case of a fatality, a workmens family is paid Rs. 550,000 as compensation. For all other conditions such as during the loss of a body part they get 70% of their basic salary. This definitely is a small amount compared to the damage. In the global context, in the case of a fatality or disability, the victim and the family are looked after throughout their lives. But here, it is a one-off payment. Sri Lanka in fact doesnt have a social security system. The Workmens Compensation is open to anybody and the employer has to bear the payment. In the case of statistics there is a disparity between these two arms.




The Daily Mirror then took to the streets and inquired from pedestrians how they felt when they passed in front of skyscrapers and construction sites.


The Daily Mirror then took to the streets and inquired from pedestrians how they felt when they passed in front of skyscrapers and construction sites.
I think they should have protective covers around these buildings. We also have trouble clearing up these areas every now and then, saidM. Miyuri


Sometimes its very scary to pass these sites. Several of them are there around the Hyde Park Corner area where I work, said Sivanamma



This Government doesnt think about the people. Every construction site should first think about the safety of the people which includes their workers as well. They are only concerned about the money, said Logeshwaran.


Those assigned to oversee these matters should make sure that pedestrians and the workers are safe. If an accident happens it may be too late because they work with iron rods and other heavy materials, cautioned Dharmasiri.


 
		
==============================
## Title: DESPERATE PEOPLE AND THE MIGRANT CRISIS
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
DESPERATE PEOPLE AND THE MIGRANT CRISIS
	
Today there are strident calls from the US -- the richest and most powerful country in the world -- to stop the entry of migrants into the US. The present administration in that country even going to the extent of separating children from their parents in an effort to scare migrants-to-be from entering the country.
In Europe populists political parties opposed to migrants entering their countries are making rapid political gains. An example of this, the new Italian governments refusal of entry to vessels carrying migrants who had been rescued in the Mediterranean.. 
Since the Arab Spring set off a string of revolts in the Middle East in 2011, and the large-scale influx of around 2,000,000 persons mainly of Islamic descent from countries such as Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, and Syria fled into the European Union in 2014. Since then a new term -migrants- has been headline news the world over. 
In earlier times these, migrants were referred to as refugees -persons fleeing war, death, persecution, and or the after effects of man-made or natural disasters in their own countries. 
On an average 44,000 persons were forced to flee their homes every day in 2017. They have been mainly of Islamic descent and entered the the EU travelling across the Mediterranean Sea or overland via Southeast Europe.
According to estimates there are 65.6 million displaced people the world over and 1,809,953 of them have sought refuge in 16 EU member states - among the most developed countries of the world.
While the US and the EU -developed countries- of the world are garnering headlines regarding the inflow refugees, they are not the only regions in the world dealing with this mass inflow of
displaced people.
The UNHCRs latest Global Trends Report of June 2017 shows the worlds poorest countries are bearing the burden of the global refugee crisis.
The report finds that developing countries host 84% of the worlds refugees under the UNHCR mandate. While some of the poorest countries in the world granted legal asylum status to a growing number of refugees - 28% of the global total.
According to statistics provided by UNHCR/UNICEF,Turkey sheltered 2.8 million; Pakistan 1.6 million -the majority of its 1.6 million displaced arriving from Afghanistan. Lebanon houses 1 million refugees. In 2016 one in six people in Lebanon, was a refugee -meaning that the country had the largest number of displaced people relative to its own population. Iran has a refugee population of 978,000. Ethiopia 742,700; Bangladesh 836,210 (ISCG/UNICEF), Jordan 691,800, Kenya 523,500, Uganda 512,600, Germany 478,600, Chad 386,100 and India
200,000 plus.
During World War II numerous examples of Europeans fleeing to the Middle East for refuge exist. 
Hundreds of thousands of refugees, mainly women and children, from Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Turkey and the former Yugoslavia, found refuge in Egypt, Syria and Palestine. Among the cities that housed such camps were Syrias Aleppo, and Palestines Gaza City. 
These people found solace in the Middle East. The people did not reject them as we see in the reverse flow occurring today where countries like Greece Italy and Croatia are refusing and turning back the war-affected people from the Middle Eastand Afghanistan.
Today we are witnessing the worlds richest countries not only rejecting desperate people but referring to them in abusive language.
What is even worse is that the people from the Middle East, to Afghanistan, to the countries of Central America are in fact victims of western interference in their countries. 
For instance the Washington Post quotes then Secretary of State Albright interviewed on CBS in 1996 regarding the effects of US sanctions on Iraq which resulted in the deaths of half a million Iraqi children, replying ...we think the price was worth it. 
While the US leadership warns people from Central America against entering the US illegally, they conveniently forget it was the US instigated or supported coups, illegal death squads, imposed blockades and embargoes to protect its interests that led to creation of conditions in those countries which are driving people to seek a hopefully better future in theUS today.
The migrant crisis the EU is struggling over, and the US is baring its fangs is a creation of these two self-same powerful power blocs. It is time they face up to this responsibility. The crisis will not run away. It can only be solved when the conditions are created for the desperate people to return to their homes in safety. This is the responsibility of the US and EU. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: DIMOs Mercedes Trophy Sri Lanka Country Finals 2018 concludes in style
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:46 pm
DIMOs Mercedes Trophy Sri Lanka Country Finals 2018 concludes in style
	
Winners and runners-up at Mercedes Trophy Sri Lanka Country Finals 2018: Sheron Fernando, Pavithra Fernando, Iftikar Ahamed, Nimal Perera, Wenders Shieh, Gihan Wickremasinghe, Ruvani Desinghe, Chandima Rodrigo, Dr. Rohitha Silva, Tyronne Weerackody, Chamara Abeyratna and Usha De Silva.
Sri Lankas most prestigious golf encounter, the Mercedes Trophy Sri Lanka Country Finals 2018, concluded on a high note on 16 June at the Nuwara Eliya Golf Club with Nimal Perera of the senior mens division clinching the trophy.
Organized by local automotive pioneer and sole authorised distributor for Mercedes-Benz in Sri Lanka, Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (DIMO), the tournament saw Mercedes-Benz owners from across Sri Lanka go head to head in the most exclusive & luxurious golfing event in the country.
As a pioneer in the automotive industry with a penchant for power, luxury and class, Mercedes-Benz has seen it fit, over the years, to put together an annual high-end golf tournament for owners of the three-pointed star to bring their A game to the green. Following the roaring success of last years tournament that was held at Shangri-Las Hambantota Resort & Spa, DIMO once again invited their exclusive clientele to the golf course  this time in the rolling hills of Nuwara EliyaGolf Club  to show off their slices, hooks and shanks.
Ruvani Desinghe, winner of Handicap Group D (00-36) - Ladies Division with Suresh Gooneratne, Chief Financial Officer at DIMO
This years tournament was divided into four main handicap divisions:
Handicap Group A (0-12), won by Gihan Wickremasinghe, with Sheron Fernando and Chamara Abeyratna as first and second runners up respectively.
Handicap Group B (13-20) was won by Dr. Rohitha Silva, with Wenders Shieh and Tyronne Weerackody coming in at 2nd and 3rd.
Handicap Group C (21-28), meanwhile, was won by Pavithra Fernando, with Chandima Rodrigo as first runner up and Iftikar Ahamed as second runner up.
Handicap Group D (00-36)  the ladies division  was won by Ruvani Desinghe, with Usha De Silva coming in at second place.
Special recognition was given to Nandalal Weerasinghe for getting the ninth hole, nearest to the pin. Amrith de Soysa bagged the award for the longest drive in the mens division, getting the first hole. The award for the longest drive for women went to Usha De Silva, who also got the first hole.
Noting the popularity of the event, Head of Marketing for Mercedes-Benz at DIMO Shervin Fernando said: The Country Finals 2018 once again achieved its objective of bringing together raw talent and prestige, as Mercedes-Benz owners from all over the island gathered to compete against each other in a world class golf tournament in friendly rivalry. DIMO was thrilled to present this rare opportunity for our clientele for the 28thyear running.
Fernando also touched on the highly anticipated return of the trophy to Nuwara Eliya.
We had been looking forward to taking the tournament back to Nuwara Eliya, and it was a pleasure to see our customers truly shine on the Grand Hotels picturesque yet challenging golf course. We were especially ecstatic to witness the grand celebration of the sport of golf at this one-of-a-kind event and its connection to the Mercedes-Benz brand, he said.
The winners from the Sri Lanka Country Finals will compete in the Mercedes Trophy Asian Finals which will be held in Australia, this year. Winners of that competition will go on to qualify for the Mercedes Trophy World Finals in Stuttgart, Germany.
Gihan Wickremasinghe, winner of Handicap Group A (0-12) presented by Dr. Harsha Cabral
Usha De Silva, runners up of Handicap Group D (00-36)  Ladies Division And Pavithra Fernando, winner of Handicap Group C (21-28)
MercedesTrophy Sri Lanka Country Finals 2018, concluded on 16 June at the Nuwara Eliya Golf

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dy. Minister obstructed duties of officers: STF Commandant
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 08:11 pm
Dy. Minister obstructed duties of officers: STF Commandant
	
Referring to the Suriyawewa incident, police Special Task Force (STF) Commandant, Senior DIG M. R. Latheef said Deputy Minister Palitha Kumara Thewarapperuma had interfered with the duties of the officers who were on a special raid.
SDIG Latheef told the Daily Mirror that it had also made a log note on the incident.
I looked in to the matter immediately when i was informed by the deputy minister. I informed him that the officers had conducted their duties according to the practice within the law. Therefore there was nothing wrong with the police officers he said.
SDIG Latheef also added that despite the Deputy Minister Thewarapperumas strong protests, the STF officers had handed over two suspects who were taken into custody during the raid to the Suriyawewa Police.
President Maithripala Sirisena imposed strict regulations covering sand, soil and metal related activities, including transporting, mining, crushing aimed at mitigating environment hazards early this year.
Police STF conduct over 300 raids per month islandwide to curb illegal sand mining and transportation. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Film circuits get enjoining order against NFC move
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 06:42 pm
Film circuits get enjoining order against NFC move
	
The Colombo District Court today issued an enjoining order until July 12, preventing the National Film Corporation from taking over the task of local film distribution which is currently being handled by four private film circuits since 2001.
The EAP, CEL, MPI and LFD film circuits filed action in courts today, following a decision taken by the National Film Corporation recently to take over local film distribution with immediate effect.
The decision to offer film distribution to the private sector was taken in 1999, following a Presidential Committee recommendation which alleged that the inefficiency of the NFC had resulted in the downfall of the Sinhala cinema industry.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lankan arrested with heroin, ice and hashish at BIA
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 09:54 am
Lankan arrested with heroin, ice and hashish at BIA
	
A 57-year-old Sri Lankan was arrested at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) this morning while attempting to smuggle drugs including heroin, crystal methamphetamine (ice) and hashish worth Rs.4.7 million into the country, Police said.
They said the suspect was arrested by the Police Narcotic Bureau (PNB) officers attached to the airport.
PNB officers found 320 grams of heroin, 52 grams of Ice and 230 grams of hashish concealed in a false bottom in the suspect's baggage.
The suspect is a resident of Kankesanthurai and had arrived from Chennai.
He is to be produced before the Negombo Magistrate. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Law and Order Ministry wants report from STF
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 09:15 pm
Law and Order Ministry wants report from STF
	
Law and Order Deputy Minister Nalin Bandara Jayamaha said today that he had requested a report from the Police Special Task Force (STF) in connection with the Suriyawewa incident in which Deputy Minister Palitha Thewarapperuma and the STF personnel were involved.
A tense situation was reported on Tuesday between Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Regional Development Deputy Minister Palitha Thewarapperuma and Police Special Task Force (STF) at the Andarawewa Forest Reserve in Suriyawewa when STF attempted to thwart an alleged illegal sand transportation.
Deputy Minister Bandara said he was aware about such incident but said he could not comment on the matter until he receives the report on the incident.(Darshana Sanjeewa)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lecture by Prof. Kirti on enhancing ability
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
Lecture by Prof. Kirti on enhancing ability
	

Optimizing your potential through a Growth Mindset, a lecture by renowned mathematician Prof. Kirti Premadasa organised by the United States-Sri Lanka Fulbright Commission, will be held from 6.00 to 7.30 p.m. on July 3 (Tuesday) at the United States-Sri Lanka Fulbright Commission Auditorium at its new location at 55 Abdul Caffoor Mawatha, Colombo 3 (off Duplication Road, next to Stone & String). Those interested must register before the lecture as seating will be on a first-come first-served basis.
Is a persons intelligence fixed Can one enhance ability Comprehensive education research done in the United States and world over conclusively shows that intelligence and ability can be enhanced by adapting a Growth Mindset Framework in contrast to a fixed mindset. This talk will describe what a Growth Mindset is, explain its mechanism, provide proof of its success and offer activities and tips towards mindset conversion. The talk will also provide some tips and will be useful for parents, students and professionals who wish to optimize their own (or their childrens potential) for success in life.

Prof. Premadasa is a Professor of Mathematics at University of Wisconsin-Platteville. He obtained his PhD from Purdue University USA. He has over 24 years of teaching experience both in the University of Wisconsin System and at the University of Colombo. This year, he was the recipient of the University of Wisconsin Systems Regents Teaching Excellence Award. This prestigious award is the highest teaching recognition in the system that recognizes two faculty members selected from over 3000 others of all 27 universities of the University of Wisconsin System. He has an impressive number of peer-reviewed publications and presentations in Mathematics and College Education. He is currently in Sri Lanka as a United States Fulbright Specialist.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel enables the visually impaired to experience the joy of books through the launch of a voice l
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 June 2018 10:56 am
Mobitel enables the visually impaired to experience the joy of books through the launch of a voice l
	
Nalin Perera - CEO, Mobitel declares open the voice library
Mobitel, through its Nethrabhimana initiative, launched a voice library recently. Upon completion of the project, it was entrusted to the Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped under the patronage of Mobitel CEO, Mr. Nalin Perera.
Last Vesak, Mobitel once again demonstrated its commitment to their well-known slogan We Care, Always by showing that every Sri Lankan matters and successfully enabled the visually handicapped to experience the joy of Vesak celebrations. By combining one of the oldest methods of communication, storytelling, with modern technology on an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) platform, Mobitel enabled users to listen to the captivating stories of five prominent Vesak Pandols on display in Colombo. This heartwarming initiative effectively bridged the gap which previously prevented the visually impaired community from experiencing the splendor of Vesak in the comfort and the safety of their homes.
An incredible venture, a voice library for the visually handicapped can be utilized as a platform to enhance and enrich the lives of such individuals. Mobitel embraced this opportunity and subsequently set to work to complete the task. Following the undeniable success of phase one, the creation of the voice library was incorporated into the second phase of the initiative. As such, the voice library was developed at a request made by the late Hony. President of the Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped, Mr. NawarathneMudiyanse,along with those who participated in the Nethrabhimana project last Vesak.
M Jayasundara  Treasurer, Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped commented saying, As a teacher I am very thankful towards Mobitel for joining hands with us to provide the visually handicapped the facilities required to learn to read. This project will no doubt be successful in encouraging this community to pursue academic endeavors.
ChameeraPubudu Kumara  Secretary, Sri Lanka Federation of the Visually Handicapped commented saying The digital voice library provided by Mobitel, was absolutely essential and valued by the visually handicapped community. To translate a book in to braille, is a time  consuming task, an audio book on the other hand, can be listened to on any device. We are grateful to Mobitel for providing the community an easy method for to access more reading material
Dilani Sandamali  A beneficiary of the project commented saying Today I am very happy as someone who belongs to the visually handicapped community. For my education I am required to read a lot, and I face many difficulties to read assigned books, as I required either get the help of someone else or find a braille version of the assigned book. Today Mobitel has provided us a digital voice library that gives me the freedom to listen to any book with ease
Mobitel set out to collect the sum required for the project by seeking the involvement and donations from the public and matching every donation made, one for one. By engaging with the public in this manner, Mobitel has activated customers across the island to collaborate with this initiative in providing a pivotal service to the blind. As the contributions increase, the project is able to touch more lives as the National Service Provider continues to match each contribution. To extend this facility you too can donate via voice or cash donations. Customers are urged to send a SMS to 6352, the cost of an SMS is Rs. 100 /-
 
		
==============================
## Title: Orpheus and Eurydice in Sri Lanka
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
Orpheus and Eurydice in Sri Lanka
	
A lot in what we saw, and a lot in what we should have seen but did not. In that sense, Garasarapa left us groping for more

Garasarapa is about memory, the discarding of memory, the keeping of promises
	Theres a lot to extract from someone like Jackson,
	The overdrawn subplots around it which get nowhere

Garasarapa, Jayantha Chandrasiris latest, was given a special screening at the Tharangani Hall at the National Film Corporation on Friday, the June 22.
Dewnaka Porage, in one sense the hero of Garasarapa, is the definitive younger face of Kamal Addaraarachchi, who plays his character as a psychology lecturer when he grows older.
Everything is there - the frown, the firm mouth, the aquiline eyes, even the stubborn resolve - and so when he woos a girl (played by the charming Kavindya Adikari), who happens to be swayed by morbid and supernatural forces, we only hope that when SHE grows older, she will be played by the actress who more than any other actress has been paired with Kamal in the movies.
But this excitement, this sense of nostalgia with respect to the film industry and its plethora of stars, is not at the heart of Jayantha Chandrasiris latest work, which meanders along, sometimes with purpose, sometimes without it, and ends up in a climax that is as anticlimactic as its going to get.
The payoff, so essential to Chandrasiris oeuvre, even in his television serials, is absent, and in a tragic way.
When Hail Caesar was released I contended that it was precisely what the Coen Brothers, with their descent into abstractions, intellectualisms, what-not, had us expect.
Roughly the same argument can now be made of Garasarapa. Perhaps that answers the question I posed at the end of my last piece on Jayantha.
Garasarapa is about memory, the discarding of memory, the keeping of promises, and the potency of love. It is about all these things, and it is about everything else too.
At its centre is an intriguing figure we see in only two or three scenes, rightly, someone who pops up from the deepest recesses of our collective consciousness and taunts our hero, the lecturer in psychology, for a wrong he committed decades ago.
As with Jayanthas other works, Garasarapa hence interweaves two different eras: the present and 1980.
Significant, because the love story at the heart of the plot takes place against the backdrop of racial tensions and these years signify two eras with respect to the history of those tensions (Sinhala versus Tamil). In that sense, the film is probably Jayanthas most culturally multifaceted yet because Sinhala and Tamil cohabit with Sinhala Buddhist and Catholic. What more can you say about a film which pits the famed Kalu kumaraya against a cane wielded by a well-meaning but strict padre
The storys simple enough. A boy, Sandaras Edirisinghe, and a girl, Vidya, fall in love (Its love at first sight, of course) on their way to the church at Gadagama.
The girl, possessed by the Kalu kumaraya, can only be healed by the priest, played by Sriyantha Mendis, though the kumaraya finds his match in the boy, who owing to the potency of his love for her manages to dispel the villain, at least for the time being. (A few exorcisms later, all of which have the churchgoers dance in madness, overcome with the possession, the boy manages to get him out of her for good.)
The girl, however, has to leave for Canada owing to rising tensions between her family and elements sympathetic to the LTTE.
Decades later, having seemingly forgotten her and yet also having struck a deal with the kumaraya himself to find her, he marries a painter, Frankie, (Ameesha Kavindi), moves into a comfortable, upper middle class life, and finds his past catching up with him when she gets possessed by the serpentine prince.
The film has some of the fluidity and the crazy grandeur of Jayanthas previous work, only this time hes emboldened it all by resorting to some visual effects (Jayantha in the Divine: Whether we like it or not, and whether we can or cannot, we have to try to join the rest of the world when making movies here).
Two sequences stand out: The scenes of possession in the church when, while the Lord is being praised by the Padre, the churchgoers dance out with our two lovers as the only sane ones among the mob; and the sequence in which these two finally realise their affections for each other and they run out, the only animated people in a crowd that have clearly been made absolutely still by CGI.
It is Orpheus and Eurydice in Sri Lanka, a point was driven home by the unfolding of the plot later on, with Sandaras striking a deal with the prince, who promises her that if ever she returns to the country, she and he will find each other.
But while visually exciting, I felt there was something missing. It had to do with Jayanthas theatricalism. He divorces speech from movement, words from the action, and thus isolates the two from each other to such an extent that even the song sequence in the film lacks the mobility it clearly needs. (We see the two lovers from two separate frames crooning at each other. The movement, the action, takes place elsewhere.)
Not that this issue stabs the eye; the sole redeeming point of the story is that it manages to transcend the hollowness of the theme of love.
And yet, hollow it is, not only because we have seen this kind of romance before (From Ali Mankada to Oba Nathuwa Oba Ekka), but also because the payoff we await is the payoff we get, particularly when the two do meet years later, and that in a contrived way.
Even the deal the boy strikes with the kumaraya, despite its Mephistophelian overtones, fails to deliver a bonus of any sort, because the catch to the deal is the catch we expected from the start: that he will meet her in circumstances which forbid them from seeing each other ever again.
The cast redeems the plot the best way they can and given that this was directed by Jayantha, to think that they could not redeem it is impossible. Its the first time since Guerrilla Marketing, more than a decade ago, that Kamal Addaraarachchi, Sriyantha Mendis, and Jackson Anthony have been cast together, and while the three do not meet in the plot (Jackson, as I mentioned, is barely visible), their presence, together with that of Yashoda Wimaladharma (in a cameo) and Sangeetha Weeraratne (who is in a role we so eagerly expected her to be in the moment we saw her name in the credits), helped discernibly.
Jackson roars and winces, passionately in love with a woman he cannot have, while Sriyantha, world-weary as always, does what he can to purge her. When we see the two meet at a Church (of all places!) and when the hymns and sermons intersect with a manifestly pagan myth, we are astounded.
The performances help sustain our interest through this incongruous paradox (which is not a paradox once you think about how Catholicism in here has mingled with Buddhism, as with the poruwa), something I concede with respect to the new faces as well.
Given all this, what did Garasarapa entail or thematise
I refuse to believe or concede ground to the power-of-love claptrap that so easily induces one to fall in love with any work of art from the beginning.
The theme, on the contrary, is to be found towards the end.
Sangeetha, a doctor, explains to the audience that while Western Science does not fit in easily with demonology, the two can and will cohabit, given the link between psychology and superstition.
This explanation, rudimentary at one level, is to me important because it reveals the Jayantha Chandrasiri who got swept away in the rest of the storyline thanks to that power-of-love rhetoric.
This is the Jayantha who believes in a link between the West and the East, superseding those dichotomies between magic and reality sustained by intellectuals and rationalists. (Demonic possession, to give just one example, is not the preserve of Sinhala or even Indian societies.)
That, and not the love triangle, is what came out at the end, though by the time it does come out, that triangle, and the overdrawn subplots around it which get nowhere (we see a friend of Kamal come and argue with him about finding the girl he loved; the conversation ends there itself, rather arbitrarily) ensure that such a theme gets washed away by the Butterfly Symphony-like idealism of the two lovers.
My friend Sahan, who sat next to me at the screening, comes from a generation that idolises Kamal, Sriyantha, and more than anyone else, Jackson, with the kind of devotion we exhibited when we were his age, and is more culturally sensitive and informed than the milieu I hail from. While enjoying the film (and predicting the climax and grinning at it as it unfolded), he seemed to feel that something wasnt quite right.
Theres a lot to extract from someone like Jackson, and a lot to extract from a plot like this was his comment to me when we walked out. True.
There was a lot in what we saw, and a lot in what we should have seen but did not. In that sense, Garasarapa left us groping for more. But in the lot it contained, particularly with its performances, it is a return to form for Jayantha, one which may well strike a chord with both the young and the old. As it has pretty much all his previous work.
PS: Garasarapa is the second film by Jayantha after Samanala Sandhwaniya to not be scored by Premasiri Khemadasa. It is, as the opening titles make it clear, a tribute to the maestro, whom the young today are all the poorer for not hearing.
UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM
 
		
==============================
## Title: President sought my support for  No-faith Motion against PM
## Section: Hard talk
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
President sought my support for  No-faith Motion against PM
	

SITUATIONHASTAKENATURNFORTHEWORSEFORTHEUNP
GOVTISCOMPELLEDTOCONDUCTPOLLSINTHENORTHBYDECEMBER
NO CHANGES IN US POLICIES IN TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
	
	THEY TALK ABOUT GAMPeRALIYA WHEN ELECTIONS ARE NEAR
	
	I HAD ONLY A ROUTINE MEETING WITH US ENVOY ATUL KESHAP
AGRICULTURESECTORISINTATTERSWITHNOFERTILIZERFORFARMERS
WILLDECIDEONPRESIDENTIALCANDIDATEATRIGHTTIME
IWILLNOTDECIDEITONMYOWN;IGAUGEPUBLICOPINION
FALSEPROPAGANDACARRIEDOUTAGAINSTUSLASTTIME
	
	SOME SAY GOTABHAYA IS THE SUITABLE CANDIDATE TO CONTEST POLLS
INDIAISTHECOUNTRYTHATCANMAKETHEBIGGESTPOLITICALINFLUENCEONSRILANKA
WEHAVETOWELCOMETHOSEDEFECTINGFROMGOVTINPARLIAMENT



Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, in an interview with Daily Mirror, speaks about the presidential candidate, the political rifts within the Joint Opposition (JO), the development in world politics and Indias political influence on Sri Lanka. Besides, he responds to questions about his meeting with US Ambassador Atul Kehsap. The excerpts:

Q There are reports about rifts within the JO over the move to accommodate the 16-member SLFP group. What is your view as the leader of that camp
There is no such issue in fact. There are differences of opinion. What is said is that all should work as one entity, but not as distinct, separate groups. 

QIs the SLFP group ready for it
Eventually, that is what would happen. It is natural to encounter such problems initially at the beginning of such a political exercise. When working together, their identity as a SLFP group will vanish into thin air. Politically speaking, there are some persons still trying to stick to their ideologies. There are views expressed by our members at local government level. Nevertheless, these are not issues leading to any split of the party, though. 

QSome members of the JO are opposed to the SLFP group on the basis that these members abandoned them during the times of difficulties. Also, they said the group, after having enjoyed all government perks, rejoined the opposition only after the public opinion tilted in its favour. How do you see this
One must understand what parliamentary politics are. If the government continues to enjoy two-thirds majority in Parliament for the remaining one and-a-half years, they can enact any legislation with dire consequences to the country. We can imagine it is going by the manner in which the government alienates public assets. Now, the government is unstable. We want to exacerbate the situation. Therefore, we have to welcome fresh additions to our side from the government. It would be a problem if we decline to accommodate those defecting from the government. Those in our side are not that narrow-minded. Now, we have 70 out of 96 MPs elected on the ticket of the UPFA. 

If the government continues to enjoy two-thirds majority in Parliament for the remaining one and-a-half years, they can enact any legislation with dire consequences to the country. We can imagine it is going by the manner in which the government alienates public assets

The UNP MPs are also grappling with a lot of problems in facing people in their electorates. They have no enough financial allocations for development work. They keep harping on us, as the only thing they can do to survive in politics. Now, the UNP has lost power at local administration

Q In the vote for the election of Deputy Speaker, some JO MPs did not support MP Sudarshani Fernandopulle who contested for it. Why did it happen
There was a communication gap in our side on that decision. We took a decision at the parliamentary group meeting to support her. Also, we allowed our MPs representing the Gampaha district to decide in their own in this regard, rather than going by the common decision. This position was misinterpreted by some. That was what had happened.

Q The Joint Opposition recently said it would organize a public agitation for the dissolution of Parliament. What have you got to say about it
Public agitation is the only option we have for it. Otherwise, it is impossible to dissolve Parliament without two-thirds in Parliament for resolution to be adopted for it. The MPs will hardly support such a resolution. The premature dissolution will deprive them of their pension benefits. Therefore, I cannot expect the MPs to support a resolution aimed at toppling the government at this juncture. 
We, the opposition, always try to defeat the government, be it during the annual budget or not. That is the target. That is part of our routine politics. We are getting close to success now in this regard. The UNP MPs are also grappling with a lot of problems in facing people in their electorates. They have no enough financial allocations for development work. They keep harping on us, as the only thing they can do to survive in politics. Now, the UNP has lost power at local administration. Therefore, the situation has taken a turn for the worse for them. 

Q The government is to launch its development drive called Gamperaliya. What is your view
We have brought about village reawakening. There is nothing left for them to do. 

QYet, the government talks about allocation of funds for village development projects...
They say so. Today, everything is in ruins. The agriculture sector is in tatters with no fertilizer for farmers. Farmers are unable to sell their produce. Farmers are in their worst predicament. Actually, village development was our concept. We built village economy from scratch. They are talking about Gamperaliya when the election is just around the corner. 

Q The presidential polls are due to be conducted at the end of next year. Why do you talk about a parliamentary election in between
That is also important for us. Besides, the government should conduct the provincial council elections. After much postponement, they held the local authorities election. That was due to pressure applied by us in the opposition. The elections to three provincial councils are long overdue. When the time for the elections to the northern provincial council comes this year, the government will get stuck. The government would be compelled to conduct elections in the north by December. That provincial council will stand dissolved in September. In the East, we established the provincial council. It is no more now. The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) made a hue and cry at that time seeking provincial power. We established the council. The TNA does not have even provincial administration today in the East. 

Q The entire group of JO MPs say that only you could decide on the next presidential candidate. What is your stand now
I will not decide it on my own. When I travel across the length and breadth of this country, I gauge public opinion. I travel in the country more than any other leader does. I am getting public opinion as a result. I will take it into account. Also, the JO is there. We will meet at the right time and decide on someone, the best-suited to stand up to the governments candidature. 

Q Some people openly talk about former Defence Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapaksa as the next candidate. Have you decided on him
They say he is a suitable candidate. Not that, he is the chosen candidate. There are other views as well. 

Q What would be President Maithripala Sirisenas role at this election
I do not know, of course. I am not in contact with him. When the No-confidence motion was moved against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, he contacted me and asked my support to get it passed. We agreed to it. In the middle of the process, he gave it up. I always said at that time that the adoption of the No-confidence motion by Parliament was a matter remaining in the hands of the President. Recently, the President said he could not act because of someone calling the shots above. He is the executive President. I cannot understand who is above him in decision-making role. There are numerous views expressed in the social media, though.

It is always important to have votes from all the communities. Every vote counts. If the minority communities vote for one party en bloc, it can make an impact. But, it is not the sole factor affecting the final outcome of an election

QThe alienation of minority communities was seen as a key factor for your defeat at the last Presidential Election. How decisive is the minority at the presidential polls
It is always important to have votes from all the communities. Every vote counts. If the minority communities vote for one party en bloc, it can make an impact. But, it is not the sole factor affecting the final outcome of an election. For anyone intending to become President, it is important to get the support of all the communities. 
Last time, there was false propaganda against us. In fact, it was carried out by those who were with us. They defected from our side us after betraying us. Now the minorities have begun to realize the truth. No one has assisted the minority communities to the extent what we did. Muslims were able to live freely in their own villages today because of our government. We defeated terrorism and created the environment for them to live in the north and the east. The LTTE drove them out. We resettled them in the areas like Kinniya. They have understood it. They feel the difference when there is no development taking place in their areas. Their politicians also use separatism as a slogan. I do not think they believe in it. Yet, their politicians use it for their ends. 

Q There is huge media publicity to the meeting between you and US Envoy Atul Keshap. How do you react to it
We had a meeting. When an ambassador is about to leave the country after completing his stint, he pays courtesy calls to the leaders of the government and the opposition. It is just a routine meeting only.

We cannot allow anything harmful to be done to our war heroes. We used to talk about human rights when the entire country was tormented by violence. We voiced against the murder and torture of people

Q How influential are the West and India in determining the final outcome of this election
They can make an impact. Actually, India is the country that can make the biggest political impact.

Q How big the Indias influence would be
India influences to a certain extent. We have to reach a position to overcome such influences. I hope India would not meddle with Sri Lankas internal political affairs.

Q Your comments on the Western worlds influence...
It is not that big. 

Q How do you see the US administration under President Donald Trump
Whoever comes to office, there is no major change in the US policies. Their foreign policy is, more or less, the same. 

Q If you return to office, how would you deal with the UNHRC process
We cannot allow anything harmful to be done to our war heroes. We used to talk about human rights when the entire country was tormented by violence. We voiced against the murder and torture of people. 

Q In Malaysia, former PM Dr. Mahathir Mohamed returned to power. Likewise, Russian President Vladimir Putin was re-elected for another term. How do you observe world politics in that context
It could impact Sri Lanka too (laughs). 

Q What is your opinion on the 20th Amendment to the Constitution brought by the JVP
There is no use of piecemeal changes to the current Constitution. We studied it. There is no criteria laid down in it for the removal of the President elected by Parliament. There has to be a simple majority for it. In case, a party is unable to secure the simple majority for it, it would be impossible to elect a new President. 

Q New General Secretary of Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) Prof. Rohana Lakshman Piyadasa said it would field current President Maithripala Sirisena as the presidential candidate next time with your blessings. Isnt that interesting
We do not know and we havent thought about it. We have to examine his qualifications for it. We have to gauge the public opinion to ascertain whether there would be a chance for him. I believe the President would finally join hands with the UNP. Already, he is with the UNP. I believe he would continue to do the same during the rest of his political life. 

Q Yet, there is animosity between him and the PM
That is why the country cannot be developed. The President and the PM keep blaming each other. After that, they land the blame on other parliamentarians. The government is even unable to relocate two elephants. In fact, they have made a huge issue out of it. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ravi gave no evidence to back allegations against Dr. Nandalal: CB Governor
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 04:15 pm
Ravi gave no evidence to back allegations against Dr. Nandalal: CB Governor
	
Central Bank Governor Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy today said no evidence had been produced by former Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake to backup his allegations against Central Bank Senior Deputy Governor Dr. Nandalal Weerasinghe.
Dr. Coomaraswamy issuing a statement said Mr. Karunanayake had recently repeated his allegations against Dr. Weerasinghe.
As the Central Bank Governor, I want to formally place on record that Dr. Weerasinghe is an outstanding economist who has made a stellar contribution to the work of the Bank during the two years I have spent in this position. I am compelled to point out that the Mr. Karunanayake has not produced any evidence to back up his unfounded allegations, he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Renounce US citizenship: Akila challenges Gota
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 05:38 pm
Renounce US citizenship: Akila challenges Gota
	
UNP General Secretary and Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam today challenged former Defense Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa to renounce the US citizenship irrespective of his decision to contest the forthcoming presidential election.
Addressing a news briefing, he said if Gotabaya had so much of fervent passion to Sri Lanka, he should prove it by relinquishing the US citizenship and embracing Sri Lankan citizenship.
This is a drama that Gotabaya is performing in order to get the attention of the people by showing a fake patriotism. If he had genuine passion towards Sri Lanka, he should have not obtained the US citizenship. Therefore, Gotabaya is just flattering about his patriotism, the Minister said.(Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: SAITM fmr. CEO, three others re-remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 03:45 pm
SAITM fmr. CEO, three others re-remanded
	
Former SAITM CEO Dr. Sameera Senaratne and three others were further remanded till July 12 by the Kaduwela Magistrates Court today over the shooting which took place in Malabe last year.
The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrested them for allegedly staging the shooting.
The former CEO escaped unhurt on February 6, 2017 when two men on a motor bike wearing full-face helmets opened fire at the car, driven by him near the SAITM campus in Malabe. (Illangakoon Menike)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sampath Bank and Biodiversity Sri Lanka in Landmark Partnership
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 June 2018 11:27 am
Sampath Bank and Biodiversity Sri Lanka in Landmark Partnership
	
Dilhan Fernando, Chairman, Biodiversity Sri Lanka (left),and Aruna Jayasekera, Group Chief Human Resource Officer, Sampath Bank PLC, signing the MoU
Sampath Bank, one of the nations most innovative national banks, recently entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Biodiversity Sri Lanka (BSL). In a significant change to typical conservation initiatives the MOU will allow each organisation to work in concert with other, state and private sector, partners towards the restoration of degraded fern land in Halgahawala, Opatha and the development of a biodiversity credit accrual system for Sri Lanka. The MOU was signed by Dilhan Fernando, Chairman  Biodiversity Sri Lanka,and ArunaJayasekera, Group Chief Human Resource Officer  Sampath Bank.
Sampath Bank is a national icon that has always worked to steward the country towards a brighter future. This is why we are proud to have them on-board this landmark partnership that will have a significant impact on the future of Sri Lanka, said Dilhan Fernando, Chairman,Biodiversity Sri Lanka. This unique collaboration between the state sector, private sector and NGOs is the future of conservation. It allows us to tackle multiple environmental challenges and change the sustainability landscape of the country to deliver a national outcome that secures Sri Lankas future for generations to come."
This latest MOU further showcases Sampath Banks commitment to the environment and creating a green future for the nation. The five year long arrangement will allow the Bank to fund BSLs pilot project in the Kanneliya Conservation Forest as well as work closely with partners to monitor its progress based on ecological and biological indicators.
The first phase of this project has produced the biodiversity baseline and management plan for the degraded forest patch of 10ha in Halgahawala, Opatha.The project will restore this patch of highly degraded rainforest using principles of restoration ecology to enhance its ecological functions, habitat quality, species diversity and its capacity to provide biodiversity and ecosystem services in close approximation to whatprevails at the nearby rainforest.
In parallel to the restoration, the project will also develop a biodiversity credit accrual system using the insights derived, with the aim of assigning a unit value for enhanced biodiversity and ecosystem services. The ultimate goal of the project will be to support the development of policies and tools to utilize the accrued credits in a sustainable manner in consultation with national agencies.
A secondary benefit of the project is that it will boost the local economy by providing employment opportunities to adjacent communities.
Commenting on this historic partnership Aruna Jayasekera, Group Chief Human Resource Officer, Sampath Bank PLC, said, As one of Sri Lankas leading national banks that has been serving the masses for over three decades, we see it as our duty to proactively tackle challenges that may adversely affect our nation. And we strongly believe that the environment and the diverse number of life it sustains will play a key role in Sri Lankas future sustainability. Hence we are proud to partner with Biodiversity Sri Lanka in this novel initiative and look forward to the findings it produces.
Established in 2012 Biodiversity Sri Lanka is a national platform entirely owned and driven by the private sector. BSLs overall mandate is to help raise awareness on biodiversity and sustainability issues amongst the Sri Lankan business community. BSL has the ultimate aim of ensuring that a majority of Sri Lankan companies will eventually be on a sustainable ecological footing with vastly reduced negative impact on the countrys biodiversity.
Established in 1987 Sampath Bank has become a state-of-the-art financial institution that continues to be a market leader today thanks to their constant innovation and customer focused approach to business. Their unique tailor-made solutions, superior services and convenience of access have allowed Sampath Bank to further differentiate themselves from the competition and make them the bank of choice for many in Sri Lanka.
 
		
==============================
## Title: SC orders Peshala to pay Rs. 250,000 over a Principals transfer
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:05 pm
SC orders Peshala to pay Rs. 250,000 over a Principals transfer
	
The Supreme Court today ordered Former North Central Province Chief Minister Peshala Jayaratne to pay a compensation of Rs. 250,000 to a school Principal, who had challenged his transfer in the SC. (SSS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Six jawans killed in India landmine blast
## Section: International
## Date: 28 June 2018 10:11 am
Six jawans killed in India landmine blast
	

The Hindu, JUNE 27 2018 - Six jawans of the Jharkhand Jaguar Force were killed on Tuesday in a landmine blast carried out by Maoists in the states Garhwa district, a senior police officer said.The incident took place when the Jharkhand Jaguar Force went to Chinjo area of Garhwa district. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Vipul Shukla said the police got information that some Maoists were present in the Chinjo area of Garhwa district. When the security personnel went to the area this evening, the Maoists carried out a landmine blast and opened fire, killing six jawans of the Jharkhand Jaguar Force. Some personnel of the force were also injured in the incident, Mr. Shukla said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: So who wants Provincial Councils now
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
So who wants Provincial Councils now
	

Perhaps being decimated at the local government elections in February 2018 has made the Yahapalana bigwigs wary of facing the people

The terms of the North-Central, Eastern and Sabaragamuwa Provincial Councils expired in September 2017 and those of the Central, Northern and North-Western Provincial Councils will end this September. As of now, theres no sign that the Government is interested in holding these elections.
Perhaps being decimated at the local government elections in February 2018 has made the Yahapalana bigwigs wary of facing the people. Perhaps they feel its best to wait for a winner-takes-much General Election of a winner-takes-even-more Presidential Election rather than risk another debacle that would take away whatever oomph is left in the regime, we dont know for sure. The government is sitting on the matter, that is clear. 
The Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya is not pleased. He knows whats happening. He is reported to have summoned representatives of political parties and told them that he had informed the Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Mustapha not to delay the PC elections any longer. It is also reported that he had vowed to take stern action if elections were postponed. 
Perhaps this stern action includes taking the matter up in courts, we do not know. In such an eventuality what the courts would determine we do not know either. I would not bet on either Deshapriya or the courts. 
The Yahapalanists are terrified of facing the people. This is clear. Those who want to oust the Yahapalanists, i.e. the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna, dont seem interested in provincial council elections either, but for different reasons. They have gauged the temper of the electorate. They can factor in a further decline in the popularity of this regime. They can do the relevant arithmetic. Perhaps they are confident that they are politically poised to capture power in a major election. Why waste resources, then they might have asked themselves. Makes sense. 
That, however, is politics as usual. More about power than about democracy. More about political fortunes than about basic principles. We can talk about all relevant political forces being disinterested about the importance of holding elections on time. We can talk about how postponement costs those who do the postponing. Sirimavo Bandaranaike and the SLFP were swept out in 1977. J.R. Jayewardene and the UNP caused a bloodbath in the eighties. The Maithri-Ranil coalition were humiliated in February 2018. However, theres a small matter that is being ignored in all this.
SLPP Chairman G.L. Peiris, put a finger on it. He said people would question the practical need for provincial councils if the government delayed elections to them any further. Well, it is not that the people have not had reason to question the practical need for provincial councils until now. After all they were thrust down the peoples throat by a belligerent neighbour with a salute and courtesy from a weak leader, J.R. Jayewardene. Peiris observation, however, is interesting, not because it might make the people ask questions, but the near absolute silence on the part of diehard devolutionists about the implications of not holdingprovincial councils.
The North-Central, Eastern and Sabaragamuwa Provinces did not dissolve and disappear from the map of Sri Lanka in the 10 months that had passed since the relevant provincial councils ceased to function. It is unlikely, also, that the Central, Northern and North-western provinces will collapse into utter chaos or that there will be rampant famine, war and such. 

The Yahapalanists are terrified of facing the people. This is clear. Those who want to oust the Yahapalanists, i.e. the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna, dont seem interested in provincial council elections either, but for different reasons. They have gauged the temper of the electorate

The point is, these provinces are not worse off than they were when the relevant PCs were functioning. A study into the before and after of it all would probably reveal that there are other factors which impact the well-being of the people and the economy of the area, and that the PCs are in fact far less relevant than they are made out to be (e.g. warranting an invasion, the imposition of
constitutional amendment).
Now the argument can be made that effectiveness has been blunted by not implementing the 13th Amendment to the letter. However, the counter argument can be made if unnecessary medicine does nothing the remedy is not to prescribe a bigger dosage. 
The second and more telling point is that this delay in holding elections has not prompted any howls of protests from those who treat devolution as an article of faith. They are not the least bit bothered, it seems. But why not 
Have they dropped the conviction that devolution (plus) is a non-negotiable for reconciliation and peace Have they found other income sources, those who considered devolution ranting their bread and butter We dont know.
However, when the previous regime held provincial council elections in a staggered manner, we did here the so-called civil society cry out in horror about democratic principles being violated. One cant help imagining what they would have said had the previous regime postponed PC elections. It would not have been about democracy alone that they would have screamed. They would have tossed in devolution, reconciliation, majoritarianism and what not to spice up theiragitational soup. 
So why, this silence Well, it looks like their thinking is shaped by the political logic of the Yahapalana government and in particular the UNP sections within it. Is Whatever Ranil says the framework within which they have to(or prefer to) operate 
If they are not interested and if it doesnt make any difference to the citizens (including those in the North and East), then why not scrap the 13th altogether Thats where we are at. The fortunes of parties and politicians do impact our lives, unfortunately, but if something positive were to come out of the postponement of provincial council elections, then let it be the acknowledgment that they really dont matter. Lets spell it out: a) provincial councils have no overwhelming impact to warrant their existence, b) the administrative apparatus despite flaws, delivered, c) no one is upset about elections not being held. Its time to take all this to the logical conclusion: repeal of the 13th. Less politicians to rob, less money wasted on bodies that do nothing of any serious consequences, a more healthy citizenry. 
Malinda Seneviratne is a freelance writer. malindasenevi@gmail.com. Twitter: malindasene. www.malindawords.blogspot.com
 
		
==============================
## Title: Speaker signs KDU Bill
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 01:15 pm
Speaker signs KDU Bill
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya today signed the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University (Special Provisions) Bill, which would enable SAITM students to be absorbed into the KDU.
The Bill, with amendments,was earlier approved by Parliament without a vote. (YP)
 
		
==============================
## Title: The Association of Chartered Insurance Professionals holds 3rd AGM
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:52 pm
The Association of Chartered Insurance Professionals holds 3rd AGM
	
Front row :Asoka Sirisena - Comm Member/ ShaniRanasinghe Vice President/ DayalanieAbeygunawardena - President/ Malika Wijeratne -Secretary/Jeevani Kariyawasam - Membership secretary/ NiranjanManikamCouncil member
Second row : RukeshLoganathan - Assistant secretary/Hashra Weerawardena- Treasurer/ LasithaWimalaratne- Council member/ ChamindaAthauda - Assistant Treasurer /UdeniKiridenaCouncil Member/ SithuminaJayasunderaCouncil member
The third Annual General Meeting of the Association of Chartered Insurance Professionals (ACIP) - Sri Lanka was recently held at the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute, Colombo 3.
Since its formation in 2016, the ACIP continues to play an active role in the insurance industry of Sri Lanka. The primary objective of the Association is to provide a forum for the discussion of matters of professional and academic interest in the field of insurance. The ACIP also undertakes study and research in areas that impact the industry in Sri Lanka as well as other subjects, which help to broaden the knowledge of its membership.
The Association also assists it's members to further their skills and knowledge on matters relevant to insurance management in addition to developing goodwill and fellowship amongst its members. The newly appointed Council has lined up several events for the coming calendar year, adding much needed continuous professional development for its members.
The following have been appointed as office bearers for the financial year 2018/2019:
President:DayalanieAbeygunawardena
Vice president:ShaniRanasinghe
Secretary General: Malika Wijeratne
Treasurer: Hashra Weerawardena
Assistant Secretary: RukeshLoganathan
Assistant Treasurer: ChamindaAthauda
Membership Secretary: Jeevani Kariyawasam
Ex-Officio President of the SLII: Asoka Sirisena
Council Members:SithuminaJayasundara
UdeniKiridena
NiranjanManickkam
LasithaWimalaratne
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thewarapperuma lock horns with STF in Suriyawewa
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 04:28 pm
Thewarapperuma lock horns with STF in Suriyawewa
	
A tense situation erupted on Tuesday between Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Regional Development Deputy Minister Palitha Kumara Thewarapperuma and Police Special Task Force (STF) personnel at the Andarawewa Forest Reserve in Suriyawewa when the STF attempted to thwart an alleged illegal sand transportation.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror, the deputy minister criticized the STF officers behaviour and outlook and said the officers had violated many rules and regulations of the country.
According to sources, several Suriyawewa STF camp officer in civvies conducted a raid to nab illegal sand transporters around noon and had searched several Tipper trucks near the forest reserve following a tip received.
The STF officers held two lorry drivers and their mobile phones after they noticed several irregularities in their sand permits, while a few STF officers went to check the mining location.
The Deputy Minister, who was at the forest reserve to monitor renovation work of an electric fence, had crashed into the scene following information received from the villagers and had allegedly lambasted the STF officers.
After crashing into the scene, the Deputy Minister had questioned our officers why they were in civvies, an officer who were on the raid said.
He had also forced our officers to return the mobile phones that they took into custody for prevent any leakage of information, he said.
A top brass STF officer said that the Deputy Minister had obstructed their officers using inappropriate words making way to the escape of several illegal sand transporters.
Deputy Minister Thewarapperuma said that due to the STF officers unruly behaviour public rights were violated in broad daylight.
Officers were like underworld thugs wearing shorts and slippers and with beards. If it was an official raid that should have been done in uniform. the innocent public were inconvenienced because of this, he said.
He also said that when the matter was informed to the STF Suriyawewa Camp, a high ranking officer with around 30 officers came into the scene with guns loaded in an ambulance and several other vehicles.
The Deputy Minister said that according to the International Red Cross move no weapons can be transported inside an ambulance therefore the STF had also violated international norms.
He said although the matter was informed to the Suriyawewa Police OIC and the STF Commandant, Senior DIG M R Latheef no action was taken. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)

Video by Roshan Gunasekara
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tusker Deega Danthu-I gone missing in fear of drug injection: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 11:45 pm
Tusker Deega Danthu-I gone missing in fear of drug injection: Minister
	
Nine teams led by 50 wildlife officers conducted a special search operation in the Kala Wewa National Park to locate the Tusker Deega Danthu-I which had run away in fear of drug injections after being found with gunshot injuries, Wildlife Deputy Minister Palitha Thewarapperuma today said.
Speaking to the Daily Mirror the Deputy Minister said he had also joined the team in search of the elephant.
The team had gone into the forest reserve about 12 kilometres following the tuskers footprints. The teams finally managed to locate the tusker at the upper forest area near the Wellagala temple in the National Park, he said.
He said he had requested Special Task Force (STF) to have 50 officers to join the search operation, but they had turned down the request.
Meanwhile, Galkiriyagama Wildlife Warden D. Ranasinghe said all the teams went into the forest reserve last morning following the footsteps of the elephant.
The tusker could not be found after last Wednesday (20) and did not know what had happened to him and the operation was launched accordingly, he said.
The Kala Wewa National Park owns a land area of 21,690 hectares. It is very hard to find the elephant in such a large forest reserve. Deega Danthu-Is footprints have found mixed with more elephant footprints and it shows that the elephant must have joined a herd, Mr. Ranasinghe added.
He said a medical team would put the tusker under anesthesia and treat to its wound after finding him.
The Deega Danthu-I, one of the elephants with the longest tusks roaming the Kala Wewa National Park, was found with gunshot injuries on June 11. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Udayanga would return on my request: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 28 June 2018 02:03 am
Udayanga would return on my request: MR
	
Former Sri Lankan Ambassador to Russia Udayanga Weeratunga, who the government has named as a fugitive, would return to Sri Lanka in a month on my request, Ex-President Mahinda Rajapaksa said yesterday.
He expressed these views to the media after taking part in religious observances at the Kataragama Kiri Vehera.
Former President Rajapaksa had requested Weeratunga to return to the country as the court has issued an arrest warrant on him over his alleged involvement in the purchase of MiG fighter jets some time back.
Although the INTERPOL had issued a Red Warrant' on him, it has failed to get Weeratunga sent back to Sri Lanka to face justice. Therefore, I am helping the Government in this regard, Rajapaksa told the media.
Meanwhile, he charged the Government was attempting to tarnish the name of former Defense Secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa, fearing that he would come forward to contest the forthcoming presidential election.
He further said the governments patronage was revolving in most of the underworld activities taking place today. (K.D Devapriya)

Video by K.D.Devapriya
 
		
==============================
## Title: US demands India stops imports of Iranian oil
## Section: International
## Date: 28 June 2018 10:01 am
US demands India stops imports of Iranian oil
	

Hindustan Times(Washington), Jun 27 2018 - The United States will insist India and all other buyers of Iranian crude must cut imports to zero by November 4 when sanctions go into effect against Iran, a senior state department official said on Tuesday and warned there will be no waivers, unlike the previous round. 
The official said the message has been delivered already to allies in Europe and Asia and an interagency team of state and treasury department officials will be visiting India, China and other countries in the coming weeks. 
The official, who spoke to reporters on background, said India and China will be subject to the same sanctions that everybody elses is and yes, we will certainly be requesting that their oil imports go to zero, without question. 
I would be hesitant to say zero waivers ever. I think the predisposition would be no, were not granting waivers, the officials said to a question about granting waivers. 
Importers of Iranian crude face the risk of being hit by secondary sanctions by the United States that could take various forms, but the most significant of which would be being blocked from the American financial system, which no country, developed or underdeveloped, can afford.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US don Mendis visits his village teacher
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
US don Mendis visits his village teacher
	
UNESCO commissioner returns to see his Polonnaruwa teacher at the Temple of the Tooth

Kandy:Almost forty years ago, Prof. Patrick Mendis of the United States was a student of C. W. Karunaratne at the Palugasdamana Maha Vidyalaya in Polonnaruwa. I have always been thinking of him, said Prof. Mendis, now a commissioner to the US National Commission for UNESCO at the US Departmentof State in Washington. He recently visited his favorite teacher. 
Karunaratne is now the Secretary General of the Sri Dalada Maligawa (the Temple of the Tooth) and a Board Director of the Sri Lanka International Buddhist Academy (SIBA) in Kandy. 
At the invitation of SIBA, Mendis once gave a lecture on Buddhism and China-Sri Lanka cultural relations at the Academy. A research associate of the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University, the professor is an alumnus of the Harvard Kennedy School of Government and the Humphrey School of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota. He is also a first-class honours degree graduate of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura. 
Karunaratne sir, as Mendis still calls his teacher, had a remarkable influence on my life at Palugasdamana. After sitting for my GCE A-Level Exam in 1978, he is the one who took me to Colombo for my AFS (American Field Service) scholarship interview, recalled the US commissioner. 
He is one of my many revered mentors who made me who I am today,added Mendis. Others include the late science-fiction writer Sir Arthur Clarke, Dr. A. T. Ariyaratne of Sarvodaya, former UN Undersecretary General Jayantha Dhanapala and Ambassador Karunasena Kodituwakku, who is currently in China. I am very grateful to them and other teachers and mentors, including several Catholic priests and Buddhist monks, who enriched my life during those formative years, said the Harvard scholar. 
Before he became a naturalized US citizen, Mendis served as Sri Lankas Youth Ambassador to the United Nations in New York. Without the support of his former mentor and friend, former Vice Chancellor (now ambassador) Kodituwakku of the University of Sri Jayewardenepura, I couldnt have gained that kind of valuable experience at the UN, said former Ambassador Mendis. 
Mendis developed a life-long friendship with his future mentor, Ambassador Jayantha Dhanapala, who served as the UN Undersecretary in New York and the Sri Lankan ambassador to the United States in Washington. 
Mendis also kept a family-like relationship with his other mentor, Dr. A. T. Ariyaratne. 
In 1994, he also endowed the Patrick Mendis Prize at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura. The annual prize recognizes a student with outstanding leadership and academic achievements. This was my way of thanking my university, said the UNESCO commissioner, who was the chief guest and the keynote speaker at the University of Sri Jayewardenepuras International Conference on Business Managementin 2017. 
To express his gratitude Mendis has also established the Millennials Award for Leadership and Service at Harvard University in Boston and the Edward Burdick Legislative Award at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. 
After leaving Minnesota he worked in the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee during the President Ronald Reagan administration in Washington.
These government and academic assignments have taken him to over 30 countries.During these years, Mendis has authored more than 150 books, Government reports, journal articles and newspaper columns. 
In a foreword to his book, Glocalization, the late Sir Arthur Clarke wrote, The author, Dr Patrick Mendis, is an American academic and diplomat originally from Sri Lanka  my adopted country for half a century. In fact, we share a lot more than just our passion for Sri Lanka. He and I are both Fellows of the World Academy of Art and Science  I first got to know Patrick when he visited me with his American mentor, Ambassador Harlan Cleveland, who was President of the Academy for several years.
 
		
==============================
## Title: US judge orders separated families be reunited
## Section: International
## Date: 28 June 2018 10:13 am
US judge orders separated families be reunited
	

A US judge ordered that migrant families separated at the border with Mexico under President Donald Trumps zero tolerance policy be reunited within 30 days. 
For children under five, reunification must take place within two weeks of the order, issued Tuesday by US District Judge Dana Sabraw in San Diego. 
Sabraw issued the ruling in response to a suit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a seven-year-old girl who was separated from her Congolese mother and a 14-year-old boy who was separated from his Brazilian mother. 
The judge also issued an injunction against any more family separations. 
US federal authorities have 10 days to allow parents to call their children if they are not already in touch with them. Trump signed an executive order last week halting his governments practice of taking children away from parents who cross the border without papers, even to seek asylum. Many are fleeing violence in Central America. 
But the order made no specific provisions for families already separated under the policy, which drew scorn as inhumane and even a form of child abuse in heated criticism in America and around the world. 
More than 2,000 children taken from their families remain under the care of federal authorities. 
The judge was scathing in his criticism of the Trump policy of taking kids away from their parents.
(LOS ANGELES) AFP ,June 27 2018 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Walk Awhile in My Shoes : A book that must be read
## Section: News Features
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:00 am
Walk Awhile in My Shoes : A book that must be read
	
Reminiscences of violence keep surfacing like creepy monsters of a horror movie

Opted for divorce only after 27 years of hellish marriage
	
	It is a harrowing tale of marital abuse

Walk Awhile in My Shoes is the real-life story of Rosemary Thuring, a Sri Lankan Burgher, who migrated to Australia but faced a lifelong struggle against a violent husband.
It is a harrowing tale of marital abuse. To my knowledge, nothing of this kind has been published here before, and it deserves to be read.
Today, stories of marital abuse are common and those abused can seek legal aid and protection. They can file charges against their abusers.
BibliographyThuring, Rosemary, Walk Awhile in My Shoes. Ishan Bahar, Gracewinds Advertising, Colombo
		
But Rosemary Thuring takes us back to a time when husbands beating their wives, wasnt thought of as a prosecutable offence, and surprisingly that wasnt only here but in Australia, too.
Her childhood was happy within her family circle, part of that close-knit Burgher community which began dwindling with the large-scale migrations, mainly to Australia, since the 1960s.
Though not well off (She says she couldnt afford to buy books), it wasnt a strained life and she was bright and vivacious at school. Receiving a bicycle as a gift, at a time when few urban girls rode bicycles, she would be taunted and stoned by Sinhalese girls as Lansi Karapoththa and she would hit back with a limerick about Sinhalese stupidity.
The family migrated to Australia in 1970, when she was 19.
The book is full of reminiscences and anecdotes, but the real subject keeps surfacing like the creepy monster of a horror movie.
It started when she married Errol, a Burgher telecommunications technician. It was a love affair and during courtship, there was no sign of the storms to come. They were a very good-looking couple and were compared to Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, at the wedding.
But her husband got into a bad mood on the wedding night itself. The first frightening act of domestic violence happened soon after when he threw an empty beer bottle at her in a rage. Thereafter, he began striking her, when he got into foul moods.
She discovered things about his family  a history of alcoholism, which her father-in-law and others males in the family too, were very abusive at home though verbally, not physically  too late.
But she stayed with him, putting up a brave, smiling face and hoping things would get better. As she writes:
I realised that he had an uncontrollable temper and from time to time there were other instances when he even struck me. I felt ashamed and felt there must have been something wrong I was doing and I could never let anyone know of these incidents. I felt I had married a monster.
Fortunately, she was able to remain financially independent, finding one good job after the other. There was support from her close-knit family (Mother, siblings and friends who were in Australia) though she hid this history of domestic violence from them for a long time.
The marriage resulted in three children, a boy and two girls. She writes that her husband was rude to her when he saw her breastfeeding their first child, and she gave up breastfeeding thereafter.
Instead of things improving after the birth of a child, everything goes wrong. While carpeting the house, she discovers that her husband is colour blind as well. After the birth of the second child, things get worse.
When Errol came home, he was always in a bad mood. He drank and was violent. I copped all the blows he dealt, yet it did not worry me, as the girls were so good and I had so much to get done.
She finds escape in work and friends while doing quirky things like cooking up to seven curries a day as her husband loves curries. She cooks two dinners every day  curries for her husband, and Western food for the children. That doesnt stop him from hurling plates at the wall. He mows the lawn but does no other housework.
Adding to her problems, the youngest child, a son, proves to be a problem child, eventually diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Related problems force her to quit her job, thereby losing her biggest anchor. The domestic violence continues. One day, she does what she hasnt dared do so far, and calls the Police. They tell her they cant do anything as its a domestic situation, and leave.
She writes:
I was now more focused on how miserable the marriage was, I was brought up as a good Catholic and my vows were for better or worse, so I told myself it was worse and I still had to stay.
As so she stayed on, opting for a divorce only after 27 years of hellish marriage. Even when her husband moved out, she took him meals as the dutiful wife. He returned and began beating the children, too. During those terrible years, she began to have nervous breakdowns, including loss of memory, once leaving her son in the car, when she ran out of fuel and waking up in a hospital and remembering nothing.
But the book has a happy ending. She slowly took control of her life, going back to work, and getting married again. Its a sad tale but also one of incredible courage and fortitude and faith in oneself.
As Rosemary Thuring says on the back page: Believe in yourself. Never give up!
 
		
==============================
## Title: With recent revelations made with regard to political campaign funding, do you think politicians sho
## Section: Poll
## Date: 28 June 2018 12:07 pm
With recent revelations made with regard to political campaign funding, do you think politicians sho
	
==============================
## Title: 'Yummy Fruits'
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 28 June 2018 08:59 am
'Yummy Fruits'
	
Sellers along the Havelock Town were seen selling yummy fruits like Mangustin, Durian and Rambutan and people were seen buying them with happiness. Pix by Nisal Baduge







 
		
==============================