## Title: A true peace activist
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:00 am
A true peace activist
	
Apart from finding a solution to the current problem we have to address that future problem as well

Ven. Keenapelesse Upali Gnanissara Thera, the chief incumbent of the Ambala, Peraketiya Sri Isipathanaramaya in the Kandy District

Those who commit crimes during ethnic violence must be punished irrespective of their ethnicity, but there is a danger of their children along with the children of their victims carrying the problem to the future.
Apart from finding a solution to the current problem we have to address that future problem as well.
This observation is a part of an hour long sermon by Ven. Keenapelesse Upali Gnanissara Thera, the chief incumbent of the Ambala, Peraketiya Sri Isipathanaramaya in the Kandy District delivered to a group of trainee journalists recently.
Ambala was in the news some five months ago as the death of one of its residents, M.G. Kumarasinghe had triggered the anti-Muslim riots in many places in the Kandy District, causing destruction to properties worth millions of rupees and threatening lives.
Following a road rage between Kumarasinge, who was a lorry driver and four drunken Muslims, who had been travelling in a three wheeler, Kumarasinghe was assaulted at Teldeniya on February 22 and was admitted to Teldeniya hospital before being transferred to the Kandy General Hospital, where he died.
The four Muslims had been arrested by the Police. It was when he explained this incident that the Ven. Thera expressed his concern over the children of those four men and those of Kumarasinghe carrying the hatred to another generation.

When a Sinhalese man dies because of Muslims, for whatever reason or for no reason, it would be very difficult to assure the safety of Muslims living in the deceaseds village

The trainee journalists met the Ven. Gnanissara Thera during a field visit to Ambala as a part of their training. There was a special reason for them to choose Ambala for their field visit and to meet Ven. Gnanissara Thera.
Ambala, the village of Kumarasinghe was in the news again after those riots as well, since its people had maintained peace there, while some groups had created mayhem in other areas torching houses, shops and vehicles in Kumarasinghes name.
The person behind this peace initiative in Ambala and its surrounding areas was none other than the mentor of the Ambala residents, Ven. Gnanissara Thera, who had toiled day and night for two weeks since Kumarasinghe was assaulted to see that no untoward incidents would take place in his village and nothing would disturb the ethnic harmony that the people of the village had preserved for generations.
His concern about the children carrying the hatred and the present problem to the future is something unique as any peace activist would be concerned only about how to tackle the present situation.
Such an activist would suggest penalizing any wrongdoer irrespective of their ethnicity or race but would not think about the children, especially those of the wrongdoers. But the Thera thinks out of the box, beyond penalizing.

Ambala, was in the news again after those riots as well, since its people had maintained peace there, while some groups had created mayhem in other areas torching houses, shops and vehicles in Kumarasinghes name
Those who assaulted Kumarasinghe and burnt Muslims houses and other properties must definitely be punished. However, when they are sent to the jail their families would be devastated, the future of their children wouldbe ruined.
Already the future of Kumarasinghes children is ruined. This would create a situation where those children would take the problem to the future. It is our duty to find a solution to that problem as well.
There are about seven to eight thousand Sinhalese people living in Ambala and surrounding areas, while the village has been the house to only 36 Muslim families.
Therefore when a Sinhalese man dies because of Muslims, for whatever reason or for no reason, it would be very difficult to assure the safety of Muslims living in the deceaseds village.
Nevertheless, no Muslim in Ambala had been subject to physical or verbal attacks after Kumarasinghe was assaulted, nor had a single Muslim left the village during or after the riots, seeking safety and security.

There should be hotels and eateries where people of all communities eat and drink. That should be a place of trust and not a place of suspicion, he contended

Further, the small mosque in the village was intact while so many mosques situated some ten to fifteen kilometers away were attacked.
The only difference was that the Ambala, mosque authorities had stopped reciting Azan (Call for the prayer) using loudspeakers, for about three days after Kumarasinghe died at the Kandy General Hospital. These facts were confirmed by the mosque authorities as well.
Responding to a question as to how he managed to prevent communal clashes in Ambala Ven. Gnanissara Thera said as he sensed that it would be difficult to save Kumarasinghes life when he was admitted to the Kandy General Hospital, measures were taken to create a forbearing environment and understanding among the villagers, which he said had been successful when the unfortunate news about his death reached the village.
He went on to explain how he and the elders along with a group of youth in the village prevented untoward incidents in the area.
Kumarasinghes extended family is quite large and we felt the danger in case of doctors failing to save Kumarasinghes life. Therefore we approached his relatives from the day he was assaulted to instill in them forbearance and restraint.
With the respect and recognition to the religious leadership among the villagers we were able to persuade them to understand the situation without agitation when the bad news came.
We sent Kumarasinghes parents to the Police Station where they were briefed by the OIC on the consequences including the sympathy possibly turning into vilification. We also invited the DIG to the village where the heads of households were educated on the need for restraint and the DIG explained the new laws governing the communal clashes, which are severe in respect of law breakers.
Bodhi Poojas had been organized here during the all nine days the assault victim was in the hospital and the monks who led the poojas focused on the peace that had been preserved by the village elders for generations during their sermons. We made the possible unruly persons engage in various duties in order to minimize the spread of hatred. There is a group of very progressive youth in the village who too went house to house taking the message of peace.
Thus, when what should not happen had happened to Kumarasinghe, who was a very helpful man to all irrespective of ethnicity, the village was prepared to bear it up.
However, we cannot be proud to say that nothing happened. Two small incidents took place but the progressive youth and the elders in the village were able to nip them in the bud. I was near the village mosque almost the whole night of the day Kumarasinghe breathed his last. I returned to the temple after the last suspected person withdrew from the vicinity at about 2.45 a.m. on the next day.
We took about 300 people from the village to the Police Station where the Police officers explained how they should work towards communal amity. Even the theme of the sermons at the Pansukoola Rites after the death had been the much needed peace.
Ven. Gnanissara Thera insisted on the need to identify the problem when an incident takes place, without unnecessarily finding out the race or religion of those involved.
He regretted people doing their day-today activities ethnically divided.
They come together only during clashes, he observed.
The Thera criticized the notion of ethnicity based schools andpolitical parties.
There should be an environment where people of all ethnicities go to the same school and politicking in the same party he opines.
An important point Ven. Gnanissara Thera stressed several times was the need for the Buddhist monks, Christian clergy Hindu Kurukkals and the Muslim Mowlawis of each area to have close relationship among them.
They must have their telephone numbers with each other. And they must show their close relationship to their respective followers. We, in this village have such an understanding which helped us to maintain peace, Gnanissara Thera stated.
He argued that the hotels and eateries were very important in building reconciliation among communities.
There should be hotels and eateries where people of all communities could eat and drink together amicably. That should be a place of trust and not a place of suspicion, he contended.
Commenting on the fear of so-called contraceptive pills, the Ven. Thera said that there were people without children and when a rumour starts to circulate they might hurriedly clinch those stories, leading to mutual suspicion.
That is why the eateries must be places of trust, he asserted.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Afghanistans bloody mystery: Little progress in war or peace talks
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 24 August 2018 12:40 am
Afghanistans bloody mystery: Little progress in war or peace talks
	
That the United States has still not been able to defeat an enemy much weaker in terms of military resources in a war that is continuing for 17 long years in Afghanistan does not bode well for its image as the worlds mightiest military power.
Armed with nuclear weapons, mother-of-all bombs, precision-guided missiles and the advanced satellite technology, it can surely eliminate the Taliban and the ISIS in a matter of days or weeks even without the use of a single nuclear weapon. Then why has the US failed to defeat the Taliban It is not that the US has no will power to end the war. The answer is rather linked to its strategy.
Landlocked Afghanistan provides the US a strategic base to keep watch on a host of hostile or not-so-friendly nations. In the west of Afghanistan is Iran, a US enemy. Sharing a 2,430km-long border with Afghanistan in the south and the east is Pakistan which now gives more importance to close defence ties with China than to ties with the often unreliable and ungrateful US. Unreliable, because history shows the US uses Pakistan only to ditch it once its objectives are achieved. Ungrateful, because the Pakistanis feel the US has not appreciated the heavy price their country has been forced to pay for joining the US war on terror. In the north, Afghanistan shares a 76km border with China, with which the US is locked in a trade war and military competition befitting a fully-fledged cold war. Afghanistan also shares a 2,300km-long border with Central Asia, where the US has no military presence now after Kyrgyzstan closed down the US airbase in 2014 following pressure from Russia.
The US is not nave to withdraw from Afghanistan and thereby squander the strategic advantage it enjoys. Its presence in Afghanistan is legalised and legitimised through a controversial Strategic Partnership Agreement the two nations signed in 2012. The US invaded Afghanistan in October 2001, after the Taliban rulers refused to hand over Osama bin Laden, leader of al-Qaeda which carried out the 9/11 attacks, although some analysts believed the invasion had more to do with a pipeline project to enable US oil companies to exploit Central Asias oil and gas.
President Donald Trump, surrounded by hardline advisors, is for an indefinite prolonged war in Afghanistan. Trump has said he has become convinced that the only thing worse than staying in Afghanistan is pulling out. In the context of this large picture, Afghanistan finds it difficult to extricate itself from the superpower power games. Afghanistan is being bled to a slow death, with none of the peace efforts undertaken by various interested parties moving beyond the preliminary stages. In 2013, Qatar facilitated a Pakistan brokered peace initiative between the Afghan government and the Taliban, only to see its early collapse after Taliban leader Mullah Omar was killed in a US operation. Recently, Qatar launched fresh attempts, facilitating secret contacts between the warring parties, including the US. However, it appears that after every step taken in the direction of peace, there comes a blow pushing the process two steps backwards.
There were also China-brokered peace initiatives. China sees Afghanistan peace as a crucial factor for the success of its Belt-and-Road project. Even these talks could not make much progress, because the US was left out.
In the aftermath of intense clashes for the control of the city of Ghazni last week, Afghanistans President Ashraf Ghani made a ceasefire offer to the Taliban, but it was met with Taliban rocket attacks on Kabuls high security zone housing the presidential palace and the US embassy.
Russia, a country badly hit by narcotics drugs produced in Afghanistan, is also working out a multilateral peace initiative, but this is also likely to end as a non-event. On Wednesday, adding to the bloody mystery, the Kabul government indicated it would not attend the Moscow conference, although the Taliban said it would.
Not only peace talks, even war appears to be going nowhere. The Taliban control large chunks of the countrys territory. In addition, since last year, following the crushing defeats in Iraq and Syria, the ISIS has also been making its presence felt in Afghanistan. Probably carrying out a foreign powers agenda, the ISIS largely targets the Shiite population. Two weeks ago, the ISIS carried out a massacre at an Afghan school, killing some 34 Shiite students. As if this bloodshed was not enough, the US-based war mercenary company Blackwater, notorious for massacres and human rights violations in Iraq, wants the Trump administration to privatise the Afghan war. In a recent interview with MSNBC, Blackwater founder Erik Prince said the privatisation of the war would be a big saving for the US government. He said his plan would see US troops replaced with private military contractors who would report to the President through a special envoy. Although the Pentagon is opposed to the Blackwater proposal, Trumps National Security Advisor John Bolton is receptive.
The proposal takes us to the warning the then US President Dwight Eisenhower issued 57 years ago about private defence contractors. In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists, and will persist, he warned.
Adding to the conundrum is Pakistans new government headed by cricket hero-turned politician Imran Khan, who has said his foreign policy priority will be peace with India and Afghanistan. However, he is scoffed as Taliban Khan for his comments which critics interpret as supportive of the Pakistan Taliban. A virulent opponent of US drone attacks that have killed many civilians, Khan has lambasted Trump, calling him ignorant and ungrateful after Trump had commented that the US got nothing from Pakistan in the fight against terrorists, though US had given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid. After his election victory last month, Khan, striking a conciliatory note, said, With the US, we want to have a mutually beneficial relationship ... up until now, that has been one way, the US thinks it gives us aid to fight its war ... we want both countries to benefit, we want abalanced relationship.
It is too early to say whether it is the military or the elected government which will decide Pakistans Afghan policy. However, for the US military to remain in Afghanistan, the support of Pakistan is crucial, because it is the only nation, through which the US could send supplies to its 15,000 troops stationed in Afghanistan. Occasionally, Pakistan has shut down the supply route to soothe public anger after US drone attacks killed civilians.
Even democracy has not provided an answer to Afghanistans conflict. Next year, there will be a presidential election, but as usual, the Taliban would not only take part, but also violently disrupt the process, thus offering the US a justification to continue its military presence in the country. When war becomes a daily routine, for Afghans, peace is, probably, anathema and suffering fait accompli. For the rest of the world, after 17 long years, Afghanistan is now the least spoken about war.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ava group a social phenomenon in Jaffna
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:14 am
Ava group a social phenomenon in Jaffna
	
The Government is trying to belittle the situation in the north where armed groups are a threat to peace

Many news reports that emerged from the north produced details related to a criminal gang called Ava group wreaking havoc in certain areas and the purported attempts being made for the revival of the LTTE by some extremist elements. Let alone, these are two issues that have political implications, both in and outside the Northern Province. 
If routine life is threatened due to criminal acts by the Ava group and the LTTE raises its head, it will cost dearly to the government in political terms. In such an eventuality, it will offer enough and more political fodder for the opposition to cash in on their electoral campaigns.
So, the phenomenon of the Ava group and the purported attempts to revive the LTTE are hot topics in the political sense. 
Ava is a criminal gang that operates with a novel modus operandi to drive fear into the people and rob them of their valuables. In this instance, some youngsters, flaunting sword-like knives, ply on the roads in motorbikes and indulge in criminal acts such as house burglaries. Upon being commissioned to carry out criminal acts, they whisk away from the scene to avoid being apprehended or arrested by the law enforcement authorities. Helpless victims, terrified by the gangs, look on. 

Using the situation
Being aware of the political implications and that normalcy would be disturbed in the north, the Government politicians are trying to play down the situation while those in the opposition are trying to play it up for their gains. 
The Govt is trying to belittle the situation, but the opposition is attempting to play it up.
Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara, who visited the area once during the recent times, said that these were criminal acts perpetrated by some mischievous youngsters. This was after they were carried away witnessing violence in Tamil films.
In the north, people view TV channels of Tamil Nadu in India for entertainment. It is widely believed that these young people, indulging in violence, had been carried away by violent scenes in Tamil Silver Screen which featured motorbike gangs committing crimes in theatric fashion. 
All in all, there is no constant occurrence of crimes by the Ava group. It becomes prominent at certain times, and the incidents get reported in the press. Afterwards, these gangs lay in hibernation lulling people into sense of complacency that the situation is under control. It again surfaces with criminal acts.
Northern politicians seem to be at a loss in this regard without any clear-cut agenda to arrest the trend. They hurl allegations against each other and give various interpretations with regards to the circumstances that created this phenomenon. 

Wiggy bemoans lack of police power to curb crimes
Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran has made serious allegations in this regard. In fact, he says that there is a general perception among people that there is a nexus between the security forces and such criminal groups. 
There are also people involved in drug trafficking. They are supposed to be having the backing of the police or the forces. This is the general perception of people. Yet, I have no proof of that, he said. 
As if to give credence to this public perception, he said that these things persisted despite the presence of the military and the police in large numbers. Alongside, he bemoaned the lack of police powers vested with the provincial council to deal with the situation once and for all. 
Asked whether these young people had been provoked into violence by Tamil films, he came out with an interesting answer.
I do not think people are going to see films and do these things. I put it the other way round. These are happening in society. Films only portray what is happening, he said. 
According to DIG Northern Province Roshan Fernando, there is no surge in criminal activities. Instead, according to him, a few incidents had been propped up in the press giving the impression that the entire Northern Province was like a place without law and order.

Thavarajah calls for strong legal system
Opposition Leader of the Northern Provincial Council S. Thavarajah was also not serious about the Ava group as such. He also referred to it as a phenomenon created by some mischievous youths. 
Asserting that the crime rate in the north was negligible when compared with some other countries, he said that the law had to be implemented properly to arrest the trend. 
We must have a legal system that hands strict punishment. Either you must hand them punishment or send them for rehabilitation as they are young boys, he said. 
In his penetrative analysis, he says the flow of easy money from Tamils living abroad has led to this situation. 
These boys press their parents for money. After that, they purchase motorbikes. For living, they tend to commit crimes, he said.

University dons see unemployment as reason
Former Vice Chancellor of Jaffna University Prof. P. Balasundarampillay, in his academic perspective of life in the north, said that though people could enjoy improvements in goods and services and travel in the post war context, unemployment was a serious problem that needs to be addressed. 
There are 12,000 graduates unemployed in Jaffna alone. This is a major problem. The other one is the issues with law and order. There are crimes taking place. There are small or petty crimes. The Government has to ensure law and order. It is same in other parts of the country as well, he said. 
When asked how serious the problems created by the Ava group are, he said, I dont know about it. Yet, I read about crimes here and there in newspapers. Crime is taking place. That is why MP Wijeyakala Maheswaran said something and invited trouble. 
In his sociological analysis of the reasons for the crime wave, he cited unemployment as the main reason. During the period of the former Government, he said a lot of emphasis was placed on the development of infrastructure in the north. 
That Government reconstructed the A 9 road and restored the railway lines. They restored electricity, he said.
Be that as it may, he said human development did not take place. 
Even for posts of labourers, people are sent from areas like Kuliyapitiya to work in the north. Is it fair The deployment of top professionals such as engineers and doctors is alright. Let them come! he said.
Responding to a query on the performance of the present Government installed with the main support of Tamil people, he said it was poor in terms of development. 
The last Government did well in the development of basic amenities, but the present regime has failed to generate employment for the people.
That is my grievance, he said. 
When analysing their voting patterns, Tamil people are more concerned about their political rights compared to economic issues. Commenting on this, Prof.
Balasundarampillay said, What the Tamil people clearly said is a united Sri Lanka. What is the problem of devolving a little more power to the provincial councils.
Manifestation of violence in organised form in the north has to be looked into with a different perspective. 
In fact, crimes in the form of smuggling took place in the north with the advent of LTTE in early 1970s. Ava is still a criminally motivated group. There is no political motivation behind it at the moment according to police sources. 
It seems that the northern society, in general, is averse to the resurgence of the LTTE at any cost because they still have horrible wartime memories in their minds. According to police sources, one cannot totally rule out the attempts by some elements on the fringe to form politically motivated violent groups, though.
Northern Provincial Council member M.K. Sivajilingam, who is notorious for his inflammatory language, ruled out the possibility of the revival of the LTTE as a fully-fledged organisation. However, he said that a situation could develop where normalcy could be disturbed through sporadic incidents of violence in the future unless the Government addresses their grievances.

All in all, there is no constant occurrence of crimes by the Ava group
 
		
==============================
## Title: 38 Ava members arrested during last two months: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 12:02 am
38 Ava members arrested during last two months: Minister
	
Law and Order Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara told Parliament yesterday that during the past two months, 38 Ava group members had been arrested and four motorbikes, four swords and an axe taken into custody.
Responding to a statement by EPDP leader Douglas Devananda that the 'Ava' group had inconvenienced the people in Jaffna, the minister said some 100 police officers had been deployed in the North to control the situation.
Mr. Devananda said this armed group had engaged in assaulting and looting people and that he was wondering whether some unknown elements were backing this group.
"I wonder whether the criminals are operating with political influence because whoever is arrested is released soon after," he said.
The minister said the police had not received any complaints about political influence backing the 'Ava' group. (Ajith Siriwardana and Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Bopitiya Auto Enterprises wins Asia Pacific Entrepreneur Award 2018
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:53 am
Bopitiya Auto Enterprises wins Asia Pacific Entrepreneur Award 2018
	
The founder of Bopitiya Auto Enterprises, a leading pioneer in manufacturing, distributing and exporting motor spare parts proudly made in Sri Lanka, Jude Rodrigo was recently named the most outstanding business leader in the manufacturing industry at the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards (APEA) 2018.
Held in Colombo for the fourth time, APEAwas graced by Hon Minister of Industry and Commerce Rishad Bathiudeen. Hon Minister Tourism Development, Christian Religious Affairs and Land John Amaratunga, President of Enterprise Asia Dato William Ng, and Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Dinesh Weerakkody also joined the event. Organized by Enterprise Asia, the award recognizes entrepreneurial excellence, sustainability and innovation. The award series is also held in Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Singapore, Hong Kong, India and China.
An ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001: 2004 certified company with many accolades and recognition, Bopitiya Auto Enterprises(BAE) today manufactures over 500 auto component varieties for different vehicles especially automotive fastening, suspension components, automotive leaf springs and accessories, including hanger bolts for multi-storied buildings and custom-designed light engineering products. The company also has a green manufacturing plant which produces best quality leaf springs that are in line with international standards.
Entrepreneurship is a challenging journey. Its the persistency and creative thinking through innovations that immensely added value in my enterprising effort to be a prominent entrepreneur in motor spare parts manufacturing in Sri Lanka, said BAE Founder Jude Rodrigo.
We consistently strive to deliver authentic durable products that are well compatible with local road conditions and ensure that our strategies are prioritized around evolving customer satisfaction. We are confident to always explore new methods, expand onto many international markets, diversify the companys portfolio and establish it as a prime brand in the auto components market both locally and globally, Rodrigo further said.
The company is also nominated as a model factory in the country by Japan-based Asian Productivity Organization (APO) for its unique creative thinking pattern and the founders continuous commitment to practice concepts such as 5S, Kaizen, JIT, TPM and TQM when implementing business strategies.
With over 37 years of unparalleled service, BAE has also been named Most Outstanding Exporter by the National Chamber of Exporters with many prestigious awards such as National Gold for Business Excellence by National Chamber of Commerce (NCC), National Crystal for Industrial Excellence by CNCI, National Gold for Entrepreneur by FCCISL, National Gold for SME Brand of the Year by SLIM, National Productivity Award by National Productivity Secretariat, a triple-award namely Best Energy Efficient, Best Productivity Award and Best Enterprise Awardat the Entrepreneur Awards 2017 by the National Enterprise Development Authority (NEDA) and NCC; topping a total of over 60 awards both locally and internally.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Defiant Australia PM Turnbull refuses to give in to bullies
## Section: International
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:19 am
Defiant Australia PM Turnbull refuses to give in to bullies
	

SYDNEY AFP Aug 23, 2018- Defiant Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull vowed not to give in to bullies Thursday in the face of a new leadership challenge, but said he will quit politics if his party no longer supports him. 
Former home affairs minister Peter Dutton, an ex-police officer and right-wing conservative, said he was confident he now had the numbers to unseat Turnbull, considered a moderate. 
And with senior ministers defecting, Turnbulls near three-year grip on power is tenuous despite surviving a snap ballot on his leadership on Tuesday, winning the vote 48-35. 
He said Dutton had yet to prove he has majority backing from the Liberal Party -- a requirement for him to force another meeting to have a second crack at the top job ahead of national elections due by mid-2019. 
If a petition arrives showing that support --and reports late in the day said Dutton was closing in on his target-- the meeting will be held at midday on Friday (0200 GMT). 
Turnbull said that if that happens, he will not stand as a leadership candidate and will leave parliament, sparking a by-election which could be problematic for the government which has a wafer-thin one-seat parliamentary majority. 
DJulie Bishop set to runfor PM 
Sydney, (Daily Mail), Aug 23, 2018 - Popular Foreign Minister Julie Bishop is set to throw her hat into the ring for tomorrows looming leadership ballot, making it a three-way fight with Peter Dutton and Scott Morrison for the nations top job. 
Were Ms Bishop to prevail, she would become Australias second female prime minister and the first from Western Australia since 1945.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Delimitation Commission Report- I too have reservations: Faizer
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 05:47 pm
Delimitation Commission Report- I too have reservations: Faizer
	
Provincial Councils and Local Government Minister Faizer Musthapha today said that he too had reservations on the report of the provincial delimitation commission.
He said this delimitation commission report was debated in the House.
Do you mean to say that there are no issues with regard to the delimitation commission report the minister asked Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake. I also have issues with regard to the report, he said.
The minister pointed out that the committee which was appointed by Speaker Karu Jayasuriya would examine the report and rectify any anomalies within two months and submit recommendations to the President. He said the report could then be presented to Parliament again. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Delimitation report rejected in Parliament
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 06:30 pm
Delimitation report rejected in Parliament
	
The Parliament today rejected the Provincial Delimitation Commission report with all those present voting against it while 86 MPs including those of the JVP, who supported the report being absent at the time of voting.
Local Government and Provincial Councils Minister Faizer Musthapha voted against the report even though he was the one who presented it in the House and the one who moved the motion for the debate last morning.
The report was taken up for debate amid heated arguments. Chief Opposition Whip Anura Kumara Dissanayake stressed the importance of approving it saying the Elections Commission could have called for the provincial council elections the following day if the report was approved.
Joint opposition parliamentary group leader Dinsesh Gunawardene said it would be possible to hold the PC elections under the proportional representation system if the delimitation commission was rejected by the House. The government has assured us that the PC elections will be held in January next year and we are urging it to do so, he said.
Meanwhile, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe who addressed those gathered at the launch of the Construct 2018 exhibition at BMICH said the best option would be to hold the PC elections under the proportional representation system. He said rectifying the shortcomings of delimitation commission report was time consuming exercise.
House Leader Lakshman Kiriella said another amendment could be brought in to the Provincial Council Election Amendment Bill if the parties agree later while minority party members including Ministers Mano Ganesan and Rauff Hakeem said they would oppose the report because it violates the rights of minority communities.
Minister Faizer Musthapa said the Speaker-appointed committee headed by the Prime Minister could make recommendations on the delimitation commission report within two months so that the president could gazette it. It would be possible to hold the elections under the new mixed system in two months. We have to abolish the PRn system if we are to create a progressive political culture. Besides, the delimitation report was prepared by an independent commission and not something prepared by the government, he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Distinguished alumni felicitated by the Colombo Universitys Alumni Association
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:27 am
Distinguished alumni felicitated by the Colombo Universitys Alumni Association
	
The 36th Annual General Meeting of the Alumni Association of the Colombo University was held recently at the Senate Hall, College House, University of Colombo at which a charming felicitation ceremony was conducted to recognize and felicitate seven Senior Distinguished Alumni of the University of Sri Lanka, which was the predecessor of the University of Colombo, for the outstanding services they have rendered to the nation. 
They were former Director of the Medical Research Institute, Founder Professor of Medical Microbiology at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura and former Cabinet Minister, Vidya Jyothi Tissa Vitarana, educationist, promoter of womens rights, and Emeritus Professor of Education, University of Colombo, Desabandu Kala Keerthi Prof. Swarna Jayaweera, Co-Founder of the Marga Institute, Desamanya Dr. Godfrey Gunatilleke, Former Chairman and Managing Director of Aitken Spence and Company for almost twenty years, Founder Chairman of LOLC and several other organizations, Desamanya Charitha Prasanna De Silva, Former Archaeological Commissioner and author of several publications including Sigiriya and its Significance and Distortions in History, Vidya Jyothi Dr. Rajendra Hemapala De Silva, Founding Dean of the Faculty of Engineering & Architecture, University of Moratuwa, the first Professor of Electronic Engineering in Sri Lankas University system and the Chancellor of the University of Moratuwa Vidya Jyothi Professor K.K.Y.W. Perera and Senior Public Servant and Secretary to seven Prime Ministers, Desamanya Bradman Weerakoon. 

There is no dearth of talent in the University but to produce successful graduates it must ensure that the education it offers stays relevant

At the 36th AGM of the Association, Rajeev Amarasuriya was re-elected as the President and the office-bearers continued in office. 
The Chief Guest was former Vice Chancellor, Prof. G.L. Peiris. The AGM was attended by the Vice Chancellor, Senior Prof. Lakshman Dissanayake, Past Presidents of the Association, Academics and Members. 
In his address, Rajeev Amarasuriya apprised the membership of the activities undertaken by the Association and the achievements during the past year including positive changes seen in the mindset of most students. He also informed the Membership of Plans to commence an Annual felicitation to recognize Alumni who have significantly contributed in the various fields in society. He also briefed the membership of the project to construct a professional swimming pool for the University of Colombo, which is the biggest project undertaken by the Association. 
Speaking at the AGM, the Vice-Chancellor, Senior Professor Lakshman Dissanayake updated the Membership on the developments of the University of Colombo including the commencement of several new faculties and departments. He spoke of the qualitative and quantitative developments the University of Colombo has seen in the last couple of years, and the continued ranking as the top university in Sri Lanka, and the progress in the world ranking as well. 
The Chief Guest Prof. G.L. Peiris who delivered the Keynote Address on the topic National Priorities and role of the University System Today, spoke on the changes that have taken place in university education in Sri Lanka, and the diversification that had taken place through which a wider range of students have been reached. He also talked about how the evolution of the language policy has enabled greater access. He stated that when the Law Faculty proposed to teach in Swabasha, there had been a lot of opposition from the staff, who felt that it would not be successful. However he said that this move has enabled thousands of lesser privileged students to access legal education, which had hitherto been the preserve only of the rich and well-connected. He said that now students are agitating to be taught the law course only in English - and that this is another sign of the times. 
He noted that when the University began to open up and become accessible to a wider range of students, the University was not equipped to accommodate students who travelled from areas out of Colombo and said it was in this context that Mrs. Sujata Jayawardena, who was the President of the Alumni Association of the University at the time, took the initiative to build a hostel. 
He said there was no dearth of talent in the University but that in order to produce successful graduates it must ensure that the education it offers stays relevant. He appreciated the many steps that the present Vice Chancellor has taken in this respect and noted the importance of proficiency in English for graduates. 
The Alumni  University Corporate Partners including Nations Trust Bank PLC, LOLC Group, Deutsche Bank, 3Cs and Multiform Chemicals were also felicitated. 
The Executive Committee of the Alumni Association for the year 2018/2019 comprises:- President: Rajeev Amarasuriya; Vice Presidents Senior Prof. Lakshman Dissanayake, Vice Chancellor (Ex-Officio) and Suranjani Wickremeratne, Immediate Past President . Lakshman Keerthisinghe, Secretary Ruwandhi Thanthrige, Assistant Secretary Dr. Naazima Kamardeen, Treasurer Jithendra Gunatilake Assistant Treasurer Milad Mubarak, Editor Mahesha Amarasuriya, Assistant Editor M.K. Gnanasekera Past Presidents as Advisors Tissa Devendra, J. Charitha Ratwatte, Thilak Karunaratne, Ramanee Amarasuriya and P.W. Senaratne and the Executive Committee : J.M.S. Bandara, Milton Arandara, K.D.R Siriwardena, G. Wijemanne, Dr. Dayani Panagoda, Dinesha De Silva, Pradeep Uluwaduge, Asanka Ranhotty, S. R. Balachandran and Chathurika Akurugod.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Enough books of spot-fine sheets distributed: SP Hapugoda
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 07:21 am
Enough books of spot-fine sheets distributed: SP Hapugoda
	
Traffic police personnel can in no way refuse to issue spot-fines because sufficient books of spot-fine sheets have been distributed to all police stations in the country, Traffic Administration and Road Safety Director SP Indika Hapugoda said.
He said they had received several complaints about a video footage that had gone viral on social media, where a traffic police officer had refused to issue a spot fine to a motorist because the officer had run out of spot-fine sheets. He said immediate disciplinary action would be taken against the officer concerned.
Books containing spot-fine sheets have been distributed among 489 police stations in 42 police divisions in the country. If a police station has run out of these books, it can request for new books from the police headquarters or borrow them from the nearest police station. Despite having sufficient stocks, another 100,000 books of spot-fine sheets are being printed, he said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Excited to try out air logistics hub concept utilizing SLs strategic location: US
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 05:16 pm
Excited to try out air logistics hub concept utilizing SLs strategic location: US
	
The US is excited to try out the air logistics hub concept which utilizes Sri Lankas strategic location in the Indian Ocean to ensure the quick availability of relief supplies, equipment and other material when needed by the US and partner militaries and humanitarian organizations, an official of the US Embassy in Sri Lanka said today.
In a statement issued over the arrival of the USS Anchorage at Trincomalee Port, Robert Hilton, Charg d'affaires ad interim of the US Embassy said thearrival of the ship and scheduled training will build shared capacity to respond to humanitarian emergencies in the Indo-Pacific region.
Amphibious transport dock USS Anchorage (LPD 23), with the embarked 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) arrived in Trincomaleefor a scheduled port visit on Friday.
During the visit, Sailors and Marines will have opportunities to explore the local area and meet with their counterparts during exercises with the Sri Lankan Navy and Marines.
The US Embassy said the visit is also an opportunity for US Seventh Fleet to explore local logistics support services for visiting naval forces operating throughout the Indo-Pacific region.
Rear Adm. Brad Cooper, commander, Amphibious Force U.S. 7th Fleet said the US Navy and Marine Corps team is deeply committed to continuing to strengthen our partnership with the Sri Lankan armed forces.
"We are proud of the tremendous work that American Sailors and Marines are doing alongside their Sri Lankan teammates."
Captain Dennis Jacko, commanding officer of Anchorage, said the goal with Anchorage is to not only enhance security cooperation, but to build understanding of the HADR (humanitarian assistance, disaster relief) capability that contributes to disaster response, along with sharing of best practices and enabling more efficient joint relief efforts in the event of a future disaster.
Approximately 300 Sri Lankan naval academy midshipmen and 40 distinguished visitors, will tour Anchorage to learn about the ship's amphibious capabilities. Additionally, Sailors and Marines will conduct training in visit, board, search and seizure, security force reaction techniques with the Sri Lankan Navy and Marines.
Captain Jacko also emphasized the damage control training that will occur during the visit. "The US Navy damage control program is the world's most proficient, and I'm excited to be a part of sharing our best practices with the Sri Lankan Navy. I'm also very pleased to be able to return to Sri Lanka since visiting in 2010 on USS Pearl Harbor."
Cmdr. Deborah K. McIvy, assistant chief of staff, Expeditionary Strike Group 7 said the Sri Lankan navy, host nation support team and the US Embassy have provided tremendous assistance and cooperation in developing the first temporary air logistics hub concept in Sri Lanka.
"Successfully leveraging local logistics support services will help standardize the process for future operations, to include supplying mission-critical supplies for HADR efforts," she said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: For those whove just got pregnant
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 24 August 2018 11:27 am
For those whove just got pregnant
	
A close look at adopting the best lifestyle for you for the next ten months

Now that you are expecting your precious gift on the way, taking good care of yourself is more important than ever. Thats because making healthy lifestyle choices can directly impact the health of your growing baby. Unless you are exposed to pregnancy complication risks and your doctor tells you to, you dont have to completely overhaul your lifestyle. Instead, you only have to make simple adjustments to your physical and mental health. These changes can improve your chances of having a healthy little one. And first give yourself a little breakgrowing a baby is hard work! 

Recognise your motherhood 
The bond between a woman and her foetus is often identified by health professionals as maternal-foetal attachment. It refers to a process through which a pregnant woman experiences feelings and emotions for her foetus, and learns to interact with her foetus. This process helps to develop a maternal identity which carries many benefits in time to come. 
One such benefit is that it leads mothers to develop greater bonds with their babies during infancy. 
It also influences the babys future growth and development. A strong bond between mother and baby is associated with better development outcomes. 

The fatigue feeling one experiences during the first few months is due to the high levels of pregnancy hormones circulating within the body. Or it may be because youre getting up in the night to go to the loo or not being able to remain comfortably in bed.

Get sound sleep 
The fatigue feeling one experiences during the first few months is due to the high levels of pregnancy hormones circulating within the body. Or it may be because youre getting up in the night to go to the loo or not being able to remain comfortably in bed. 
If your sleep is disturbed at night, try to take a quick nap in the middle of the day or go to bed early to catch up on lost sleep. If thats impossible, at least put your feet up and try to relax for 30 minutes. 
If you are in difficulty of getting back to sleep 
Try, 

Deep breathing 
	Visualisation 
	Stretching 
	Massage 
By the third trimester, try to develop the habit of going to sleep on your side. Sleeping on your side reduces the risk of stillbirth compared to sleeping on your back. 
If backache is disturbing your sleep, try lying on your side with your knees bent. Placing a wedge-shaped pillow under your bump may help ease the strain on your back. 

Exercise often 
Exercising during pregnancy has several other benefits like more energy, improved sleep, less back pain, reduced risk of pregnancy and delivery complications and speedier postpartum recovery. 
Exercise may also give you some relief from backache. It can help with sleep problems, too, as long as you dont exercise too close to bedtime. 
Power walk around the neighbourhood or hike an easy trail. 
Moderate, daily exercise improves your mood and can enhance your stamina during labour and delivery. 

Exercising during pregnancy has several other benefits like more energy, improved sleep, less back pain, reduced risk of pregnancy and delivery complications and speedier postpartum recovery. Exercise may also give you some relief from backache
Eat and drink wisely 
Try to feed yourself with foods that are low in refined sugar and high in protein and complex carbohydrates; for healthy weight gain 
Your bodily activities are higher during pregnancy and therefore you need to drink more liquids to support that gain. Drinking water can also help prevent constipation, haemorrhoids, UTIs, fatigue
and headaches. 
Also avoid refrigerated, smoked and under-cooked meat, poultry and seafood. If you or someone in your family has had a history of allergies be careful when you are trying new meals. 
Avoid alcohol during pregnancy as the baby cannot process alcohol very well. So, any alcohol in your baby stays in its body much longer than in you. This is a risk and exposes you to serious problems. At the worst, babies can develop a syndrome of severe abnormalities, called foetal alcohol syndrome. In others, alcohol can cause problems for the baby such as poor growth, premature labour and physical and mental disability. 
Avoid smoking or being exposed to tobacco smoke which exposes you to the increased risk of pregnancy complications, resulting in an impaired infant. In such cases there is poor foetal weight gain and premature delivery. These situations can lead to childhood asthma. 

Sex is safe 
Sex is not unsafe for most couples during pregnancy. As the pregnancy progresses and the bump becomes bigger you may find some positions more difficult. You may need to tryout to find something that works for both of you. 
Later during pregnancy, sex and orgasms may provoke contractions known as Braxton-Hicks contractions. These make your bump feel hard. They can be uncomfortable, but are quite normal. They usually pass after a few minutes. 
Your doctor may advise you to avoid sex if you have had heavy bleeding in your pregnancy as it may provoke another attack. This may also be the case if your waters have broken. This is because the protective barrier has gone, so having sex then may increase the risk of infection and early labour. 

Travel when needed only 
As you know our road safety and transport systems are not the best that you can have. If you have met with an accident doctors find it more difficult to handle you when compared to a person who is non-pregnant. This is because your body mechanisms are different and they have to look after you and your baby. So always plan before you travel and it is advisable not to travel anywhere too remote, to places which are far from medical assistance. Follow this advice particularly during the early or later stages of pregnancy. 
When in a car, wear the seat belt so that the straps go above and below your bump, not across it.
Air travel should be preferably less than seven hours at a stretch. Try to fit in to the aisle seat so then you can easily walk around when it is safe. Move your lower legs regularly so that you can minimize a chance that you will be having a clot in your legs. Dont forget to drink enough water and keep you well hydrated. 
Finally you dont have to stress out or drive yourself crazy about being healthy, just because youre pregnant. If on a given day you eat one, too many or miss a workout just dont beat yourself up. Try again tomorrow to make healthy choices for you and your baby. 
(The writer possesses an MBBS MD (OBS&GYN) MRCOG (UK) MSLCOG, has a Fellowship in Gyne laporoscopy (Akola) and is a Consultant Obstetrician & Gynaecologist at the DGH in Nawalapitiya) 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Ford Donates US$10,000 to World Vision Lanka as Part of Conservation and Environmental Grants
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 24 August 2018 04:24 pm
Ford Donates US$10,000 to World Vision Lanka as Part of Conservation and Environmental Grants
	
Future Automobiles (Pvt) Limited. CEO Chamath Tennekoon (left) handing over the sponsorship to World Vision Lanka National Director Dhanan Senathirajah World Vision Lanka National Director Dhanan Senathirajah

 World Vision Lanka will use the grant to provide year round access to clean potable water for residents in underserved Uchchamunai islands, Kalpitiya

 Grants programme in Sri Lanka is part of Fords broader conservation and CSR programmes across Asia Pacific

Ford Motor Company and local distribution partner, Future Automobiles (Pvt) Limited, today announced aUS$ 10,000 grant to World Vision Lanka under the Ford Conservation and Environmental Grants initiative. This is the third project that Ford Motor Company and World Vision Lanka are collaborating on this year.

World Vision Lanka is a non-profit organization that dedicates to work with children, families and communities in Sri Lanka to overcome poverty and injustice, currently serving 16 Districts in the country.

The US$ 10,000 grant from Ford Motor Company Fund  the philanthropic arm of Ford Motor Company  will be used to provide sustainable safe water sources for local residents in Uchchamunai islands.

The facilities will help reduce the daily challenges that more than 40 families face in obtaining daily water supply as the available well water is not potable due to its high salinity.

Serving the communities where we live and work has always been important for Ford and we are proud of our ongoing efforts and contributions that help provide real and long-term benefits to the people of Sri Lanka, said Chamath Tennekoon, Chief Executive Officer, Future Automobiles (Pvt) Limited.

Our mission is to reach the most vulnerable communities and, this partnership with Ford Motor Company has given us the opportunity to do so. added Kushmin Perera, Corporate Engagement lead for World Vision Lanka. We are extremely grateful to Ford for their support and we will continue to build on this partnership.

The two organisations are also working together to implement a Rainwater Harvesting and Replenishment System in the Kalingavila village of the Magulpokuna Grama Niladhari Division, which is part of the Welikanda Divisional Secretariat. Additionally, in keeping with Ford Motors' annual "Global Caring Month" initiative, a staff volunteer program has been scheduled for September 2018 where volunteers from Future Automobiles (Pvt) Ltd will join the Board members of World Vision Lanka to benefit one of the most remotely-located primary schools in Jaffna.

Expressing his views on the latest project, Dhanan Senathirajah - National Director of World Vision Lanka stated, Fords commitment to creating sustainable impact in vulnerable and remote communities has made them an invaluable partner of World Vision Lanka. Building on our joint work last year to provide 220 families in Vaharai with access to water, and our current project with a community of 25 families in Welikanda, this Kalpitiya project will continue to change lives of people across Sri Lanka  making generational impact. 

Over the past few years, Ford and Future Automobiles (Pvt) Limited have contributed to several local water conservation and drought mitigation projects in Sri Lanka including raising communities awareness on sustainable farming and water saving method through an agricultural livelihood project in Kilinochchi and implementing a rainwater harvesting and replenishment system in Welikanda to increase access to clean water for over 100 residents.

Founded in 1983, the Ford Conservation and Environmental Grants programme was created to empower individuals and non-profit groups to conduct research and projects which help preserve the environmental well-being of their communities and provide solutions contributing to a sustainable planet.

In the Asia Pacific, Ford has played a pivotal role in advancing environmental initiatives for more than a decade across multiple markets, from protecting wildlife and preventing forest fires, to funding cultural heritage projects and replenishing resources in rural communities.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Gamini Senarath, three others granted bail
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:24 am
Gamini Senarath, three others granted bail
	
Former President Mahinda Rajapaksas Chief of Staff Gamini Senarath and three other suspects were granted bail by the Special High Court today over the case of misappropriating funds belonged to the Litro Gas Lanka limited.
The three Judges of the Special High Court released each suspect on a cash bail of Rs.100,000 and two sureties of Rs.1 million each.
The suspects were banned from leaving the country as well. The case was postponed to September 19. (Farook Thajudeen)

Video by Courts Prasanna
 
		
==============================
## Title: HC Trial-at-Bar: Indictments filed against Gota, 6 others
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 09:05 pm
HC Trial-at-Bar: Indictments filed against Gota, 6 others
	
Former defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa and six others charged with misappropriating more than Rs.48 million in public funds belonging to the Land Reclamation and Development Corporations (SLRDC) to build the D.A. Rajapaksa Memorial at Medamulana.
They were indicted on 49 charges under the Public Property Act and under the Penal Code.
The accused are former defence secretary Gotabaya Rajapaksa, SLRDCs former chairman L. A. Prasad Harshana de Silva, former manager Badra Udulawathi Kamaladasa, Susammika Kaminda Attygalla, Saman Kumara Gallapathy, M.D. Mahinda Saliya and D.M. Mallika. (T. Farook Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Judging character by the Sun Sign  Libra
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:36 am
Judging character by the Sun Sign  Libra
	
     Natal Solar month and the Sun Sign - Part 7      

Kind and compassionate
	nOutspoken and honest
	nImbued with an unwavering sense of justice
	nGifted with a keen aesthetic sense
Those born in the Solar month of Libra from October 17 to November 15 are considered Libra subjects.
Kind, gentle, soft-spoken, outspoken and honest
The persons born during this Solar month are generally kind and compassionate. They are gentle and soft-spoken.
Libra people are outspoken and honest. Being endowed with an unwavering sense of justice, Libra subjects make ideal judges. Their friends, associates and acquaintances highly value their judgment. They do not get embroiled in disputes and controversies because they use tact and diplomacy in their dealings with others.
Lovers of beauty and symmetry
Gifted with a keen aesthetic sense, they love beautyand symmetry.
Libra subjects are affectionate by nature. Their intimates of the opposite sex would often mistake their affection as love. They do not marry the first person they fall in love with.
The Libra subjects shine as good lawyers, artists, musicians, entrepreneurs and technicians.

Shine as lawyers, artists and musicians
They do well in life during the middle age. They get few children and the latter often become a source of anxiety to them.
Lack of will power, extravagant lifestyle, and the passion for pleasures are the weak points in their character. If they succeed in developing their will power, they would certainly achieve great heights in life.

Respect all religions
Libra subjects are not religious bigots. Therefore, they can appreciate the morals and tenets taught inany religion.
Libra people are prone to diseases of the bowels, the spine, and the lumber region.
An ideal partner from among Libra, Gemini orAquarius people.
Libra subjects are advised to marry a person born in the same Solar month or in the Gemini or the Aquarius Solar month.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kerala leaders urge Centre to accept UAE aid
## Section: International
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:23 am
Kerala leaders urge Centre to accept UAE aid
	

(Hindustan Times), Aug 22, 2018 - A Rs 700 crore offer by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to aid Kerala acquired political undertones on Wednesday as parties in the flood-ravaged state came together to urge the Centre to relax a current policy that bars bilateral financial assistance for rescue and relief operations.
Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he will talk to the Prime Minister on the issue. Our people contributed immensely in building that nation (UAE) so it cannot be considered as a different country. There is a strong emotional boding between two nations, he tweeted.
The Congress, too, urged the Centre to reconsider, saying rejecting the aid will send the wrong signal to the country where more than 600,000 Indians are employed.
The CPI(M) also asked the Union government not to cling on to technicalities. Rules are there to be changed. If somebody commits a mistake it doesnt mean others should also do it. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Mobitel Partners with Citibank for 4.5G/4G-LTE Network expansion
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 24 August 2018 02:28 pm
Mobitel Partners with Citibank for 4.5G/4G-LTE Network expansion
	
Exchanging of the partnership agreement between Sri Lanka Telecom and Mobitel Chairman with Mr. P. G. Kumarasinghe Sirisena and Citibank the Citi Country Officer Mr. Ravin Basnayake. Also present were (from left) Mobitel Senior General Manager Human Resources / Legal & Regulatory Affairs Mr. Namal Ratnayake, Mobitel Chief Financial Officer Mr. Sudharshana Geeganage, Mobitel Chief Executive Officer Mr. Nalin Perera, Citibank Director, Head - Corporate & Investment Bank Mr. Kavinda de Zoysa and Mobitel Senior General Manager Engineering & Operations Mr. Rasantha Hettithanthrige.
Mobitel, Sri Lankas National Mobile Service Provider has embarked on the biggest and most significant 4.5G/4G-LTE Network expansion in Sri Lanka. This is the largest investment in network infrastructure funded through financing facilities of Citibank.
Mobitel will increase the countrys 4.5G/4G-LTE coverage, thereby strengthening its No.1 status for High-Speed Mobile Broadband in Sri Lanka, having already received the Globally-acclaimed Ookla Speed Test Award for 2017 with similar investments. Mobitel was the first to commercially deploy 4.5G/4G+ in South Asia, and the network expansion will also include upgrades to keep Sri Lanka at the forefront of technology leadership by offering wider coverage of 4.5G/4G+, NB-IoT (Narrow Band Internet of Things) services to its customers, and modernizing its network with NFV/SDN technologies and host of other next generation platforms to make it more agile, thus paving the way for easy adoption of 5G in the near future.
The CEO of Mobitel, Nalin Perera says, Mobitel is committed to invest in network expansions, bringing the latest in mobile technology to Sri Lanka on par with global standards. 4.5G will act as a bridge for the eventual adoption of the 5G standard, while bringing significant improvements to Mobitels existing 4G network by allowing them to handle more data-intensive applications such as HD Voice with MP3 level quality, Ultra HD Entertainment, Ultra Dense Sensor Networks, AR/VR based Advanced Gaming LTE based broadband trunking systems (LiTRA) etc. Our expansion is ongoing and will further improve speeds and end user experience. We are maintaining our leadership by executing some of the fastest expansions and will continue to do so in order to maintain our market position.
Mobitels partnership with Citibank for network investments is pivotal in achieving its future plans. Commenting on the partnership, the Citi Country Officer Ravin Basnayake said, We are pleased to partner Mobitel on their rapid network expansion drive. We are honored to have had the opportunity to bring Citibanks financial expertise to support Mobitels aspirations of achieving regional technology leadership position. We look forward to working with Mobitel as they transform the industry.
Having launched the first Super-3.5G HSPA network in South Asia in December 2007, and subsequently trialed HSPA+, MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output) in 2009, another first in the region, Mobitel went on to demonstrate 4G-LTE technology also for the first time in South Asia in 2011. Accordingly, Mobitel launched its 4G-LTE Network in 2013 to provide unparalleled broadband experience to Sri Lankans. Keeping ahead with pioneering new technologies, Mobitel trialed 4.5G LTE-Advanced Pro Technology with CA (Carrier Aggregation) of three bands, again for the first time in South Asia in June 2016. In 2017, Mobitel was able to deploy the first Sub-1G Mobile Broadband Network in Sri Lanka based on 900MHz spectrum innovatively to provide superior coverage some rural areas of the country. On 1st February 2018 Mobitel launched the First Commercial 4.5G/4G+ Mobile Network in South Asia
 
		
==============================
## Title: More cuts on capitalism and liberalism
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:19 am
More cuts on capitalism and liberalism
	
In hindsight, it wasnt just the capitalists who got it wrong about capitalism. The Marxists got it wrong too. Being a product of Judeo-Christian values and of Western philosophy, it was fated to view the world in terms of inputs and returns. One can of course argue that it was because Marxism was implemented in countries which had not passed the feudal stage of their historical development that it failed as an ideology, but regardless of the imperatives of history, I can only quote Regi Siriwardena here: The alternative to [poverty] isnt unlimited plenty. Therein lies the tragedy of Adam Smith and Marx; they assumed a world that did not, and in reality, could not exist. Roughly the same argument can be made of that other ideology which, though born from the wellsprings of capitalism and industrialisation, in later years flamboyantly sought to combat the ills of the free market and profit motive -- namely, liberalism.
Fernand Braudel (in my opinion the greatest historian of the previous century, who surveyed the global economic landscape and its evolution) writes in his three-volume magnum opus, Civilization and Capitalism, that the 15th and 18th centuries, coming before the coming of the Industrial Revolution, saw the differentiation of Western Europe into three types of economy; the material life, which consisted of barter trade and self-sufficient agriculture (within a very small radius); the market economy, which consisted of transactions between producers and consumers; and the world of speculation, underhand transactions, manipulation, monopolies, and corporations. 

Direct observation of so-called economic realities, between the 15th and the 18th centuries... did not seem to fit or even flatly contradicted the classical and traditional theories of what was supposed to have happened

Direct observation of so-called economic realities, between the 15th and the 18th centuries... did not seem to fit or even flatly contradicted the classical and traditional theories of what was supposed to have happened, Braudel noted in the first volume. Capitalism, he surmised, had been touted by these theories as the product of free market exchanges, when in reality it was given life by the speculator: So in the end, people believed, rightly or wrongly, that exchanges play a decisive role as a balancing force, that through competition they smooth out uneven spots and adjust supply and demand, and that the market is a hidden and benevolent god, Adam Smiths invisible hand, the self-regulating market of the 19th century and the keystone of the economy, as long as one sticks to laissez fain, laissez passer. In other words, laissez-faire was a creature of dubious genesis; modern textbooks look towards the market exchange as the source and wellspring of it, when it was actually created and sustained by the profiteer who operated on an asymmetry between the producer and consumer.

The middle class in England rose after the Reformation and the Glorious Revolution which turned Britain into a constitutional monarchy
The irony was that this myth wasnt really propagated by the likes of Adam Smith (after all the term invisible hand, which we associate with him today, is mentioned only once in his Wealth of Nations), but rather by later intellectuals and economists who probably saw in that myth a rationale for their worldview. So when even a liberal economist like Paul Krugman argues that there is no alternative to child labour in developing countries, he is foregoing on the fact that such problems can be remedied by State-led initiatives to, for instance, set up a cohesive national industrial sector. This is the point that Avocado Collective makes in their second riposte to Advocata; that colonial societies like ours were blessed with an entrepreneurial class which just couldnt think beyond the easy money of the plantation sector.

The alternative to [poverty] isnt unlimited plenty. Therein lies the tragedy of Adam Smith and Marx; they assumed a world that did not, and in reality, could not exist

Affirmative action, on the part of the government, doesnt just make sense, it is also the only way through which centuries of economic imperialism can be done away with and cured. Economic myths, repeated over and over again, can only have the effect of keeping us in our proverbial place; the poor countries get poorer, the rich countries get richer. 
Moving on. It was the reality, and not the myth, of free markets (as per Braudel) which gave birth to liberalism. Marx got a lot of things wrong, but one area where he got it right was his contention that history was a series of class struggles. Viewed this way, the era immediately preceding the pre-capitalist phase of economic history, i.e. right until the 10th century, was one of ceaseless conflict between landowners and peasants, in turn exacerbated by the many plagues which wrought themselves on the continent. The concept of liberty, specifically liberties as Braudel put it, gained currency after the 12th century as and when powerful groups of vested interests waged war against other less powerful groups. The peasants, who have always been at the worse end of the deal, nevertheless prospered during times of economic booms, since capitalism did not yet differentiate at this (infertile) stage of historical development between those who toiled and those who profited from that toil. The evolution from liberties (encompassing many groups) to liberty (encompassing, ostensibly, the whole of humanity) was rooted in the evolution from cities to territorial states, from the Renaissance to the Reformation; viz., from labour to capital. The world, until then validated through divinity, was now rationalised through science and mathematics. 

Affirmative action, on the part of the government, doesnt just make sense, it is also the only way through which centuries of economic imperialism can be done away with and cured

Liberalism was the definitive synthesis of the theism of the centuries preceding industrialisation and the rationalism of the centuries following it. It was the rationale which brought the church, the state, and the industrialist together. In that sense, it denoted three different meanings: the political (limiting the power of the executive in favour of the legislature and judiciary), the economic (limiting the intervention of the state in relations between individuals, classes, and nations), and the philosophical (calling for freedom of thought and freedom from coercion). All three dimensions, at least initially, became a perfect cover for the rising bourgeoisie: the political because the legislature and judiciary were housed by the new bourgeoisie, the Whigs; the economic because it exculpated the pursuit of profit; and the philosophical because it provided a smokescreen for the emergence of a new bourgeois consciousness (in the first few decades, for instance, liberalism did not include the right to vote, since the propertied class which had birthed it opposed universal suffrage; the likes of Smith believed that if the suffrage be extended to the masses, they would elect opportunists and demagogues who would subsequently overthrow the institution of property). 
Property; this, more than anything else, was what defined the economic history of Western Europe, indeed of Europe in general. Liberalism flourished in the areas where property relations were sanctified with reference to rights and concomitant duties, to freedoms and concomitant obligations. In areas where feudalism did not give way to capitalism after the 16th century, such as much of Eastern Europe, liberalism did not emerge, which explains their economic backwardness even today. The 14th and 15th centuries, moreover, saw the overthrow of the absolutist theocratic state (theocracy, a term used to describe and disparage the Middle East today, was very much a reality in the West then), subsumed the fanatic fervour of the Papacy in the rationalism of Thomism and Hugo Grotius, the latter of whom famously quipped that natural law (the foundation of the modern state) would exist even if God didnt, and provided the perfect backdrop to the institution of private property. The bourgeoisie were here the first revolutionaries, long before the proletariat, since they were more successful than the proletariat at capturing political power under the guise of preserving natural law. 
The English middle class, Engels wrote in his introduction to Socialism: Utopian and Scientific, were wary of looking at the world through a materialistic lens, despite the fact that materialism was born in England. It was a defence mechanism at one level, used in order to compensate for their bourgeois guilt. Engels elaborates on this culture of guilt in an interesting way, depicting it as the result of the Lutheran-Calvinist Reformation in Europe. The middle class in England rose after the Reformation and the Glorious Revolution which turned Britain into a constitutional monarchy. They reacted against the secular revolutions which unfolded throughout the rest of the region, particularly France, and they were wary of pre-industrial philosophies which were used to rationalise the absolutist state (in particular, Hobbess Leviathan). This middle class thus sought a way to reconcile their materialist past with a more deist worldview. Deist, because theism assumed a creator who would intervene in material, secular affairs, while the new bourgeoisie needed a doctrine of a creator who did not. 
For obvious reasons, the philosophy which appealed to them the most here, shorn of the dualistic world (of evil and upheaval on the one hand and order and continuity on the other) envisioned by Thomas Hobbes, was the liberalism of John Locke. It was to Locke, the liberal owner of stocks in slave trading companies, that the industrialists of the new era turned to get away from their secular past. While Hobbes had framed the social contract between the ruler and the ruled as an antidote to a brutal state of nature which had existed before it, Locke conversely framed this state of nature as an Eden before its Fall: a golden age which could not survive the exigencies of the world without one vital element. Property. Liberalism, the darling of the industrial bourgeoisie, was the product of this line of thinking. It was a reaction against a largely materialist past, and a response to the need for a synthesis of divinity and rationality. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM, Sajith at Construct Exhibition 2018
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 August 2018 07:49 pm
PM, Sajith at Construct Exhibition 2018
	
Construct Exhibition 2018 ,organized by the National Construction Association of Sri Lanka (NCASL) in collaboration with a number of Ministries including the Housing and Construction Ministry, was launched at the BMICH today under the patronage of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. Ministers like Sajith Premadasa, Vajira Abeywardena and several others were present at the event. Pix by Pradeep Pathirana 









 
		
==============================
## Title: Preventing kidney function failures
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 24 August 2018 11:21 am
Preventing kidney function failures
	

Every single cell, tissue and organ leads to the organisation of various vital body systems that ensure proper functioning of the human body. A discrepancy in one organ could lead to the collapse of the body system thereby affecting the functioning of the human body as a whole. A dysfunctional organ brings about the domino effect, ultimately deteriorating the quality of health. One important organ that needs attention is the kidney. The bean shaped organ is mainly responsible for excretion of toxic waste substances from the body and regulating water levels in the blood. Kidney complications are not rare in the island with more kidney patients springing up every day. Dr. Nalaka Gunawansa, Consultant Vascular, Endovascular and transplant surgeon, National Institute of Nephrology Dialysis and Transplantation and National Hospital of Sri Lanka sheds light on kidney failures and the treatment used for these conditions in this weeks edition of Health Capsule.

Kidney damages and failure
Dr. Gunawansa mentioned that there are many ways through which the kidneys could get damaged. Conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure, which are long standing illnesses, infections such as repeated urinary infections in particular are some causes for kidney damage. Urinary stones (also known as calculi) is another factor that leads to damaged kidneys. Rare conditions such as autoimmune diseases, where the body itself produces antibodies that can harm the organs including kidneys as well as congenital illnesses, are some other reasons for this condition, he added.

The congenital kidney diseases often affect younger children. Infections can also affect the kidneys in younger children; especially in those who have a structural abnormality in the urinary tract

Are you at risk
Upon inquiry Dr. Gunawansa warned that kidney damage can occur at any age. However young children seem more susceptible to certain conditions compared to adults. The congenital kidney diseases often affect younger children. Infections can also affect the kidneys in younger children; especially in those who have a structural abnormality in the urinary tract, he explained. He further added that infections, stones and autoimmune disease affecting kidneys are commonly seen in young adults who are between the ages 20-40. Chronic illnesses such as diabetes and high blood pressure affecting kidneys is usually seen in adults above 40 years of age,he stated.
According to Dr. Gunawansa, damaged kidneys do not show partiality towards a specific gender. Therefore both males and females should equally take proper care of their kidneys. However, urine infections are generally more common among females due to the short urinary tract. Autoimmune diseases affecting kidneys are also slightly more common among females, the surgeon highlighted.

Consequences and complications
Needless to say, a damaged kidney will lead to adverse consequences and complications. Dr. Gunawansa explicated that this could happen in two ways. This can occur as an acute kidney injury or a chronic kidney injury. The kidney damage is of short duration and is often reversible in acute cases. Chronic kidney injuries are more serious where the injury is more long standing and gradually progresses to a state where it becomes irreversible, he explained.
Kidney failure leads to a multitude of symptoms including water retention, loss of appetite, loss of energy and anaemia which results in low haemoglobin levels in the blood,he continued.
Dr. Gunawansa further went on to say that later on they could become very sick due to accumulation of toxins in the body. These toxins could be substances like urea, potassium and acid.
Treatment and recovery
Surgery stands as a method of treatment for damaged kidneys. Dr. Gunawansa spoke about different types of surgery available for extreme
kidney damage.Calculi could lead to damaged kidneys and hence should be treated immediately. Urine stones can be treated in many ways including surgery, laser and other minimal invasive techniques, he mentioned.
The surgeon stated that in cases of infected kidneys initial treatment is performed by the prescription of antibiotics. If a patient does not respond positively to antibiotics, the condition is treated by nephrostomy. Here the infected urine can be drained out by a needle and catheter to allow the kidneys to heal, Dr. Gunawansa explained.
He continued that kidneys may be removed very rarely in cases like severe circumstances of cancer, large stones, extreme infections etc.
Kidney Transplant is the ultimate treatment for kidneys that fail completely and for patients who end up with end stage kidney failure. The doctor explained that a kidney from a donor (either living or dead) is transplanted after matching the blood group and tissue antigens.
Kidney transplant is the most successful treatment for end stage kidney failure anywhere in the world. Our own results are also in keeping with most advanced canters and we have patients who have now lived 15-20 years or more following transplants. They can return to their normal lives, occupation and studies successfully after a transplant, affirmed Dr. Gunawansa.

Post-surgery care
After a surgery following a kidney complication, patients need to exercise caution and alter habits which is necessary to maintain health. Controlling blood sugar, blood pressure, drinking plenty of water to minimize dehydration, treating infections early and maintaining close follow ups with your kidney doctor regularly are some factors that should be paid attention to, he pointed out.
Prevention is always the better option especially in the case of kidney complications. Similarly to the above mentioned precautions, a person should always check his or her blood sugar levels and blood pressure.
Drinking plenty of water helps avoid many health complications. If people suffer from diabetes and high blood pressure in particular, it is important to highlight that they are exposed to a higher risk of kidney failure. You need to control these illnesses well and have close follow-ups with your doctors, advised Dr. Gunawansa.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Price of 12.5 kg gas cylinder increased by Rs.158
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 07:58 am
Price of 12.5 kg gas cylinder increased by Rs.158
	
A decision was taken by the Cost of Living Committee to increase the price of a 12.5kg gas cylinder by Rs.158 with effect from tomorrow (25).
This brings the price of a 12.5 kg gas cylinder to Rs.1,696.
The move to allow the price increase follows requests made to the committee by the Litro and Laugfs gas companies on August 21 stating that a price increase was imperative as the price of a metric tonne of gas in the world market had reached USD 590.05 after being USD 469.50 per tonne in March this year.
This is the second occasion the price of gas had gone up this year after it was increased by Rs. 245 in April. However, it should also be noted that the price of a 12.5 kg gas cylinder came down by Rs.138 in June 2018. (Mahinda Nissanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Private bus drivers Ignored but important
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 24 August 2018 12:52 am
Private bus drivers Ignored but important
	

Why the despicable lot needs to be included in discussion
 His privatising of public transport had no clear vision


First ever strike called for August 15 last by private bus drivers union did not make much of an impact on daily commuters. 
They could not keep buses off the road as bus owners do, when on protest demanding an increase in bus fares. 
Yet, these bus drivers were condemned as Errant Drivers who should be severely punished and disciplined. 
The outburst against them made all other drivers, saintly users of public roads. There are nearly 5,000 private buses plying on the roads. The bus drivers union claim that there are 1.8 million vans () transporting office staff and another 4,300 plus vans operating as school service. 
If these numbers are right, the total employed as drivers in public commuter sector excluding the SLTB would count around one million.
Thats no small number in our economy to be blamed and ignored.
Both, office staff transport and school service vans are direct results of a very poor and badly managed or rather, never managed public commuter service. 
The major reason for 4,300 school service vans is the eroding education system that creates, vast disparities between much fancied and heavily patronised national schools in major cities like Colombo, with rampant corruption for Grade I admission and other less privileged provincial schools.
Public road transport was the total responsibility of the State-owned CTB until 1978. It was accepted as a service the State should bear responsibility.
The CTB at its peak with over 7,000 buses and around 50,000 or more employees, has its own repair and maintenance shops and fuel sheds, provided a regular bus service almost 24 hours a day, for a very minimal fare, though without much comfort. 
It was efficient to the extent; people could generally depend on their fixed timetables. This needed more State investment, restructuring of fares and better planning to provide an improved, efficient, comfortable and an affordable service. Instead, the then President J.R. Jayewardene opened up public commuter transport for private investment, making public transport a commodity in his fashionably Liberalised Market Economy.
His privatising of public transport had no clear vision. Left as an unorganised private sector, this unplanned privatisation allowed for large-scale self-employment opportunities creating an informal sector that should have been organised as a formal economic sector. 
With no planning to draw in large-scale private investment that could own and maintain large fleets of buses with modern management capability, private bus sector mushroomed with small time investment. 
It lacked investments that could afford to train and employ staff with decent wages, EPF and ETF contributions and overtime payment when necessary. 
It could not provide a better competitive service to what was offered by the CTB then.
What President Jayewardene allowed in privatising public commuter transport was for small-time local businessmen who could only manage to lease a vehicle, who would otherwise have gone into groceries, communication centres, local delivery services and the like. 
With heavy lease payments on their shoulders, these small-time bus owners, who came to make a profit, are compelled to have their buses on roads from early morning till late evening. They pull their buses off the roads when crowds deplete at late evenings and incomes deplete too, leaving late commuters stranded. 
Very much different to CTB employees who were on an eight-hour shift duty with overtime pay for extra hours, these private bus drivers and conductors had to start early morning and continue till whatever time in the night they could make money. 
Except for long distance buses, they are on roads for well over 14 hours a day at a stretch. They dont have an eight hour working day, no lunch hour break, no overtime payment and no public holidays too. 
In fact, they are not in wage employment. They have no job security and are not self-employed either.
Bus owners have over the years worked out a scheme of their own, where they give out buses to a driver or a conductor on a fixed daily rent without any contract or written agreement. 
The driver and the conductor are promised a share of what they earn during the 12 to 14 hours or more, they keep the bus running. 
On our heavily jammed roads, it is a ruthless competition for income that makes this a hard and a rough lifeto survive.

Increasing of fines will not discipline road users
	Private bus drivers issues should be taken seriously
	It is all about people wanting to get to their destinations

It is, therefore, no surprise that the service provided by these private bus employees is often rusty and crude. It is in such a sorry context that they are labelled as errant drivers and held responsible for road accidents. 
In Sri Lanka, road accidents account for around 3,000 deaths annually. During the first six months of 2017, on Police records, lorry drivers accounted for 182 fatal accidents, while private buses were responsible for 85 and the SLTB for 25 fatal accidents.
During the same period this year, lorries accounted for 155 fatal accidents while private buses for 103 and SLTB for 31 fatal accidents. 
These numbers dont pin a major blame on private bus drivers. Road rule violations including speeding are also not by private bus drivers alone. There are large unaccounted-for numbers of road rule violations committed daily by others who often get away with unofficial payments. 
It is all about people wanting to get to their destinations on time. 
It is about people compelled to have their own individual mode of transport to get from one place to another, where public commuter transport has failed with no Government giving itserious thought. 
This gives way to a very lucrative vehicle import industry that now dictates terms to every Government and no doubt finance political parties and their election campaigns.
With a mad scramble to have ones own vehicle, jam-packed roads in major cities, especially in Colombo and its peripherals, keep the traffic Police overburdened and stressed out in organising traffic to help vehicles move at a comfortable pace.
The morning drive and evening drive time on FM radio stations and the advertising companies promoting commercials and jingles for captive listeners in traffic jams, is more than enough proof of a miserably ignored public commuter service.
We, therefore, have to be reasonably honest and sincere in how we react and respond to this private bus drivers strike, though ineffective it was.
It is only the demand for reduced traffic fines that have been picked up for easy blame. They had many other demands that were reasonable and need public discussion. 
The private bus drivers union highlighted a total lack of restrooms and toilet facilities for them in at least the main bus stands and lack of shift duty, which certainly would add to a satisfactory service. The total absence of a proper regulatory mechanism for private bus operation highlighted, has led to a violation of Wages Board Rules and Regulations applicable for transport service and bus owners playing the role of absent employer avoid contributing to EPF, ETF and other benefits due to private sector employees. 
The National Transport Commission Act No.37 of 1991 amended thrice thereafter is one piece of law that is conveniently ignored by the State. The provincial Road Passenger Transport Authorities are dysfunctional for all necessary monitoring and regulation and is alleged to be corrupt as well.
On their demand for reduced fines, private bus drivers union has clearly said they were not against traffic fines for violation of road rules. They stress on the need to have improved roadways with pavements for pedestrians and efficient traffic management using CCTV cameras for charge-sheeting actual offenders. 
Lets not dispute the fact that charge-sheeting for road offences are not always right and are used as an alternate income source by law enforcers. It is with that and the fact that they have no employer responsibility for employment that makes them demand for lesser fines. 
It is a fact, that increasing of fines will not discipline road users, as long as heavy competition to get to ones destination without wasting time in roadblocks and stagnant traffic remains an unavoidable daily hassle on city roads.
Leaving aside their demand for lesser fines, other issues raised by these private bus drivers are all valid in organising a much needed, better commuter bus service. 
They would together make private bus service a more humane public service with drivers and conductors treated with decency in their work. It is absurd to demand a decent service from those who are not treated decently as employees. 
It is, therefore, time to take up these issues within a discourse on how an efficient, comfortable, affordable and a dependable public commuter service should be planned and organised. That remains the only answer to the ever-increasing unmoving traffic jams on our roads. Let us, therefore, begin this discourse with the private bus drivers strike, instead of having an easy way out blaming them and, in the process, refusing to find answers to all the chaos on roads.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:33 am
Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm
	
Human Hand  Trailblazer of Human Civilization  Part XX11

Ashbhavika Mritu (Maraka) Yoga: (Unnatural death combinations)

Definition: A person with marks of a cross on the Life line in both hands is considered as having this yoga.

Result: The subject is destined to come to an unnatural death.
Following formations are also considered as constituting Maraka Yogas.
1.Life line ends abruptly midway
2.There is a mark of a star at the beginning of the Life line
3. Life line is very thin and indistinct
4. Life line is yellowish in colour
5. There is a distinct spot on the Life line
6. There is a cluster of lines at the  beginning of the Life line
7. There are two lines at the beginning of the Life line
8. There is a mark of a triangle on the Life line
9. Life line terminates on the Mount of Venus
10.Life line is relatively short
11.Life line starting from the normal origin runs up to the wrist
12.Life line is very deep and wide on the palm
13.There is a triangle on the Mount of Moon
14.There are two or more spots on  the Mount of Moon
15.There is a triangle on the Mount of Moon
16.The Line of Moon runs up to the Mount of Venus cutting the Life line
17.There is a mark of a star on the third phalanx of the finger of Apollo
18.The Health line is broken at many places
19.There is a cross on the Mount of Mercury
20.The Life line and Health line are chained
21.There are two triangles on the  health line

The unnatural death as indicated by the above formations could occur under any one of the following circumstances.

From thirst and starvation after losing way inside a jungle
Being trampled in an animal stampede
	By drowning
	Due to long confinement in a prison or any other place
	Due to a communicable disease
	Being crushed under a collapsed structure like a house
	Being pinned under a fallen tree
	Due to a wound that has turned septic
	By strangulation
	From eating a poisonous fruit or some contaminated foodstuff
	By being attacked with weapons or under any other tragic circumstance
==============================
## Title: Rethink ban on ONUR radio dramas: Mangala
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 02:13 am
Rethink ban on ONUR radio dramas: Mangala
	
Media and Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera yesterday urged the Cultural Affairs Minister to reconsider the ban imposed on radio dramas produced by the Office of National Unity and Reconciliation (ONUR).
He told Parliament the notion that these dramas insulted Buddhism was incorrect.
I checked the titles of these radio dramas when I heard about the complaint and found that the aim is to influence the younger generation to embrace the culture of the country which is based on Buddhism. These dramas really attack the celebrity culture where people go after celebrities and emulate their lifestyles without focusing on their heritage. The radio drama titled Tharunwan Sarani highlights the celebrity culture instead of embracing 'Therunwan', which includes the Buddha, the Dhamma and the Sangha. A politically motivated Buddhist monk who was a one time MP has attempted to mislead the people by making false allegations, the minister said.
He said artists should be allowed to produce their work freely and that it would be a violation of their right to expression if there was no freedom.
JO MP Bandula Gunawardene said his move to produce a movie based on the life of journalist Richard de Soyza who was killed in the 1990s was stopped by this government.
Mr. Samaraweera responded by saying he never banned the production of any movie as the Media Minister.
You should also produce a movie on the killing of journalist Lasantha Wickramatunga, he said. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Scan Products recognizes Achievers of the year
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 24 August 2018 03:32 pm
Scan Products recognizes Achievers of the year
	
"Best Sales Representative Winner Roshan Rangama, Receiving the Gold Award from Mr. Mangala Perera Executive Director- Internal Trading of C.W.Mackie PLC at Scan Annual Sales Conference 2017/18 held at Hotel Club Palm Bay - Marawilla".
The FMCG arm of C. W. Mackie PLC, Scan Products Division successfully completed their Annual Sales Conference 2018, which was recently held at Club Palm Bay Hotel, Marawila. The residential sales conference was organized to achieve three main strategic objectives; to provide a training opportunity, award and recognize the achievers, and preview the objectives of the next financial year.
The most momentous and colourful item in the agenda of the entire event was the award ceremony where the Scan field sales force recognized sales professionals who delivered outstanding performances and awarded them with Star Awards. The high performing field sales force members who went beyond the boundaries of assigned targets during last financial year were awarded at that glamorous evening, encouraging others to endeavor to be proud recipients of the awards in years to come. The Gold Award was won by Mr. Roshan Rangama, while the Silver Award was received by Mr. Gihan Adikari and Mr. Krishan Nalinda was awarded the Bronze Award.
The training sessions were organized under two different scopes, namely technical sales training and motivational and leadership training, which were well conducted by two reputed corporate trainers. The whole objective of organizing these tailor-made training sessions was to uplift the skills and groom the sales team to take on challenges and future leadership opportunities.
The Annual Sales Conference was the platform to unveil the Business Plan for the new financial year 2018/19, preview next years objectives and set up the strategies to achieve the set targets. One Goal >> One Force was declared as the theme of this year.
Commenting on this occasion Mr. Mangala Perera, Executive Director of C.W. Mackie PLC, said, The Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector of the group has expanded their activities during the last 3 to 5 years, and is in the process of further expanding by way of adding new products and line extensions. Though 2017/18 was a challenging year mainly due to external macroeconomic influences, due to the commitment and dedication of front liners in the field, the Company was able to achieve its pre-set top line targets. Therefore, at this occasion, I recognize with much appreciation the contribution from our field sales force. This Sales Conference is where we recognize their accomplishments during the past Financial Year, review the progress and identify their draw backs and address them and finally plan how to succeed and achieve the common corporate goals.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Scott Morrison sworn in as Australia's new PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 02:39 pm
Scott Morrison sworn in as Australia's new PM
	
Treasurer Scott Morrison has been sworn in as Australia's Prime Minister to replace Malcolm Turnbull after a Liberal Party coup, Sky News reported a short while ago.
Mr Morrison, an ally of deposed leader Mr Turnbull, won a three-way battle for the leadership.
The other two contenders were former home affairs minister Peter Dutton and foreign minister Julie Bishop. Mr Turnbull opted not to contest the vote.
Liberal Party whip Nola Marino announced: "The successful candidate was Scott Morrison. He won this vote 45-40 against Peter Dutton.
"In relation to the deputy's position, this was won in a overwhelming sense, in a majority, an absolute majority, by Josh Frydenberg."
Speaking to the media in Canberra, Mr Turnbull said he will quit politics now his replacement has been chosen.
He said: "I want to thank the Australian people for everything they've done. It has been such a privilege to be the leader of this great nation.
"I love Australia. We have the most successful multi-cultural society in the world and I have always defended that.
"We must never allow the politics of race or division or of setting Australians against each other to become part of our political culture."
It is Australia's sixth change of prime minister in 11 years, prolonging an era of extraordinary political instability.
The leadership battle was sparked on Tuesday by an unsuccessful challenge by Mr Dutton, who narrowly lost a vote against Mr Turnbull.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Scott Morrison to become Australia's next PM
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 09:00 am
Scott Morrison to become Australia's next PM
	
Australia Treasurer Scott Morrison will be Australia's new prime minister after winning a three-way battle for the leadership of the Liberal party today, with incumbent Malcolm Turnbull not contesting the party ballot.
There were three contenders in the leadership vote: former home affairs minister Peter Dutton, who narrowly lost a leadership vote against Turnbull on Tuesday, Morrison and Foreign Minister Julie Bishop.
Morrison, an ally of deposed leader Turnbull, won a party-room ballot 45-40.
Bishop, another Turnbull backer, was eliminated in the first round of voting.
The Liberal party is the senior partner in the ruling conservative coalition that will face an election by May 2019.
The Liberal-National government has consistently trailed the opposition Labor party in opinion polls.
If Turnbull resigns from parliament, he would leave the new government facing a by-election for his Sydney seat that could see it lose its one-seat majority.
Turnbull said on Thursday he believed that former prime ministers are best out of the parliament.
Turnbull had faced two challenges to his leadership in the past week. (channelnewsasia)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sessy Paulis taught us lessons on love
## Section: News Features
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:07 am
Sessy Paulis taught us lessons on love
	
------ On the occasion of her 99th birth anniversary ------
When I met my adorable mother-in-law, Mrs Sessy Paulis, she was about 70 and I was 19, so actually more than anything else she was a grandma to me. This was great because till I met her I didnt have the company of a grandmother. She was graceful and elegant. She usually wore light blue sarees and also a string of pearls. What stood out in her during my first impression of her was that she was genuinely caring. As a very young daughter-in-law I learned many things from her. Im very sure that her lessons on kindness and tolerance will be etched in my mind. 
I was comparatively impressionable and vulnerable at that age, so I do believe she adopted me at once as another happy addition to her large family of 8 children; 6 in laws and what would added up to about three dozen grandchildren. My earliest memories are of me sitting in her front lawn after a bath and she gently trying to put my hair in order. 
She taught us many valuable lessons which included:

<U+25CF> Mettha - She had much love for her family. Now I look back at the wonderful relationship we had and though we experienced much changes and challenges in life, I cannot remember her having spoken one harsh word. Aunty was a true Buddhist in every sense of the word. Aunty would love to meet all her relations, who themselves were very loving and genuine. My own family was western-educated and a nuclear family. She always advised me that family is precious and her favourite motto ever was forgive and forget. 

<U+25CF> Karuna - She practised humility and told me not to call our workers servants, but to call them helpers. There is a lot of meaning in this. She has always spoken with kindness and shown respect to everyone.
<U+25CF> Muditha - Aunty was genuinely happy when others prospered. This was the same regardless whether those who were doing well were family, relatives, friends or neighbours. 
<U+25CF> Upeksha -Aunty exemplified non-attachment, balance and tolerance in all her relationships and dealings. I learned from her not to judge people when they went against social expectations. She told me not to make judgements based on class, rank or financial status. With regard to material things, she clung to nothing. 
<U+25CF> Love -Aunty had a love for babies and had quite a few of them herself. Great-grand-brood too! Aunty was a truly happy matriarch indeed! 
<U+25CF> Love for the planet - Aunty was one of the first environmentalists I knew even before this word became fashionable. She loved working in the garden for hours, and this is probably one of the secrets of her long life. She lived to be 97. All the coconuts we ever ate during the past 3 decades were from trees she had planted. She would not allow us to waste even a few grains of parrippu or rice, not because of the costs, but in appreciation of the labour that went into growing food. She always conserved water and made sure to recycle even old clothes to take the maximum use out of them. She made thrift and food management a virtue. She made this a habit when she was around 7 or 8 years old. This change in her was witnessed after she had listened to a sermon by Ven. Narada Thera. She avoided meat, fish, eggs and most dairy products. Unlike the proud and egotistical vegans of today she never imposed her diet on anyone else, or lectured or boasted about it, except for giving some gentle advice if she felt that someone would take it. 

She lived to be 97. All the coconuts we ever ate during the past 3 decades were from trees she had planted. She would not allow us to waste even a few grains of parrippu or rice
She was one of those dear old ladies who took a tiny bit of sugar onto the palm when having tea. She also stoutly defended her right to be allowed to cook with coconut oil and refused to have anything to do with palm oil. She used to say, We used to eat baskets full of kavum and kokis at weddings those days and all of us ate coconut oil and nothing bad happened!.
She woke up daily around five a.m and kept herself busy. She continued this practice till she was in her 90s. She fell one day and had a crack on her hip. She was around 94 then. She fully recovered from this injury and walked around fine for years afterwards.
Many years ago, when she was 73, there are lovely memories of her climbing Sigiriya. She took the lead and took my adventurous daughter by her hand. I like to think that my daughter has inherited from her, the love of adventure, travel and meeting people. 

<U+25CF> Love of life -There is no denying that there was family strife in her life in her latter years; as there will always be external factors attempting to break the peace at any home. But that never made her angry or downcast. I can only remember a quiet happy humming individual as she worked in the garden and greeted each new day with the same wonder and delight with which she danced on the beach, climbed mountains, or ran nimbly after toddling grandchildren. And yet, aunty was never afraid to leave this life either, and prepared serenely to let go of everything with the utmost grace. A few months before she died she had a rather uncomfortable bout of gastritis and was briefly hospitalised. (She was hospitalised only about twice or thrice in all the 26 years I knew her). The doctors conducted every known test on her and came up with about 100-page reports; all absolutely clear and with a completely clean bill regarding health. She didnt have diabetes and cholesterol and her heart performed perfectly.

Now I look back at the wonderful relationship we had and though we experienced much changes and challenges in life, I cannot remember her having spoken one harsh word

Following the bout of gastritis we all started visiting her because we instinctively felt worried that she was in pain and that she may depart this world soon. However, even then, she cracked the usual jokes and was very cheerful. Some months later, shortly before her 98th birthday she died unexpectedly, quietly and peacefully in her sleep. The last words she spoke to us were full of cheerful blessings.
We treasure these blessing always and in my heart I fervently hope that I will meet her again, in another incarnation and that she would guide me in the future too. The fragrance of her loving presence will always linger in our minds. She was a brave and beautiful person and we were blessed to have her. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Signing ETCA will be fatal to country's future: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 02:11 am
Signing ETCA will be fatal to country's future: JO
	
The Joint Opposition yesterday said Development Strategies and International Trade Ministry was in an attempt to proceed with the Economic and Technology Cooperation Agreement (ETCA) during the discussions that were scheduled to be held today with the related parties.
JO member MP Kanaka Herath told a news conference that Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama and the Ministrys Secretary was trying to sign the ETCA which was detrimental to the country.
The Ministry has signed the Sri Lanka-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (FTA) in the same manner concealing its true nature to the country as the ETCA. The discussions scheduled for today will prove fatal to the country, he said.
He said as per the experts' views, Sri Lanka-Singapore FTA had enabled the import of waste materials released by other countries to Sri Lanka and added that the country would face many issues if such predictions would turn to be real; We already have garbage disposal issues in Sri Lanka, especially in Colombo, he added.
He said the entire service sector and occupations of Sri Lanka would be at a risk if the government would proceed with the trade agreements such as ETCA and Sri Lanka-Singapore FTA.
Meanwhile, another JO member MP Kanchana Wijesekera said the Independent Experts Committee on Sri Lanka-Singapore FTA to conduct a special study was a mere eye-wash.
We have made an official request to the said committee in order to express our views on this FTA. The committee has not made any response so far, he said. (Kalathma Jayawardhane)

Video by Sanjeewa
 
		
==============================
## Title: Some 20,000 could be missing due to war since 83: OMP
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 06:37 am
Some 20,000 could be missing due to war since 83: OMP
	
The Office of Missing Persons (OMP) said yesterday they were yet to finalise a list of missing persons during the war in Sri Lanka since 1983 but it could be about 20,000.
However, OMP Chairman Saliya Pieris PC said they had several reports compiled by the commissions and institutions on the number of missing persons in the country.
We have data of previous reports released on missing persons. The International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) says it is about 16,000 people including 5,100 military and police personnel. The Paranagama Commission says 21,000 people have gone missing while the government had received 13,000 complaints through Grama Niladharis on missing persons. These numbers may overlap, he told a news briefing.
He said there was no need for those who have already complained about missing persons to make fresh complaints to the OMP. However, if there are any who have previously not complained to any entity about their missing family members can send complaints to us, Mr. Pieris said.
He said the first interim report complied by the OMP would be released next week with recommendations to the government on the safety of the family members of missing persons and finding out the truth about what had happened to them.
Mr. Pieris said the recommendations would also focus on how to deliver justice to the family members of the missing.
The interim report will be released on August 30, the International Day of the Disappeared, and will be handed over to the President and the Prime Minister, he said and added that the interim report would be based on views expressed by the missing persons family members during the OMPs outreach meetings as well as the findings of the previous commissions including the Paranagama Commission, the LLRC and the Manouri Muttetuwegama Commission.
Mr. Pieris said they would organise a meeting at the J.R. Jayewardene Centre in Colombo on August 30 at 3.00 p.m. to mark the International Day of the Disappeared.
We expect the family members of missing persons to attend this meeting and express their views. The keynote speech will be delivered by Human Rights Commission (HRC) Chairperson Dr. Deepika Udagama. The reason for holding this meeting is to make people aware about the issue of missing people and the disappeared and to acknowledge the sufferings of their families, he said.
Commenting on the Mannar mass grave site, Mr. Pieris said they intervened in the matter and that the excavation process had been delayed due to lack of funds.
Funds should be allocated to expedite the excavation being carried out by Judicial Medical Officers and archaeologists. First, the era to which these skeletal remains belong should be identified. Then, the identification of the skeletal remains can be done. If necessary we can also look into the mass grave site in Matale. We can obtain foreign expertise, especially in the field of forensics, he said.
Meanwhile, Commissioner Nimalka Fernando said they were optimistic about beginning the recruitment of employees to the OMP in January next year. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
 
		
==============================
## Title: South African government slaps down trump misinformation
## Section: International
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:21 am
South African government slaps down trump misinformation
	

South Africa, (Daily Mail), 23 August 2018 - South Africas official government Twitter account hit back within hoursof US president Trumps tweet calling on Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to monitor farm seizures and the killing of white farmers in South Africa.
Trump made his announcement in a tweet at 3.30am after apparently watching a Fox News report which described the policy as the definition of racism.
South Africas official twitter said: South Africa totally rejects this narrow perception which only seeks to divide our nation and reminds us of our colonial past.
South Africa will speed up the pace of land reform in a careful and inclusive manner that does not divide our nation, the government wrote in a second post.
President Cyril Ramaphosas spokesman added: The presidency has noted Trumps tweet, which is misinformed in our view.
We will take up the matter through diplomatic channels.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Strike depends on Salary Commissions response: Railway unions
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 04:06 pm
Strike depends on Salary Commissions response: Railway unions
	
The indefinite work stoppage by railway unions from Wednesday (29) midnight, would depend on the response of the National Salaries and Cadre Commission, Railway Technical Services Trade Union Committee (RTSTUC) said.
The union held discussions with the National Salaries and Cadre Commission this morning, where the commission assured it would resolve their salary anomalies.
Unions Secretary Saman Pieris told Daily Mirror that the commission agreed to place railway employees on salary scales under adjustment of grades. 

We were planning to launch the strike from last night, but we decided to launch strike from Wednesday midnight considering the rail commuters who are planning to visit Kandy to witness Dalada Easala Perahera and those students facing Advance level examination, he said. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three arrested with 1,300 Tramadol pills in Mannar
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 12:41 pm
Three arrested with 1,300 Tramadol pills in Mannar
	
Three men were arrested by police while attempting to sell 1,300 pills of Tramadol in Mannar town on Thursday.
The raid was carried under the instruction of the National Dangerous Drug Control Board (NDDCB).
They said the suspects aged between 22 and 56, are residents of Mannar.
Investigations revealed that the suspects had been selling these pills to fishermen.
The suspects will be produced before the Mannar Magistrate on today. (Romesh Madushanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three men acting as STF personnel rob Rs.1.2 mn
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 07:14 pm
Three men acting as STF personnel rob Rs.1.2 mn
	
Three unidentified men on motorbikes pretending to be Special Task Force (STF) personnel are reported to have robbed Rs.1.2 million from a businessman in Weligama yesterday, Police said. 
They said the 49-year-old businessman was robbed at a lonely spot while on his way home.
The fake STF personnel had told the businessman they had come to check him after receiving a tip-off that he possessed narcotics.
They had later fled the scene of the crime with the cash. (Krishan Jeewaka Jayaruk)
 


 
		
==============================
## Title: Treating  varicose veins with laser treatment
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 24 August 2018 11:01 am
Treating  varicose veins with laser treatment
	

Varicose veins is a common condition which mainly presents in middle aged females and if neglected may lead to complications. With the advancement of medical technology LASER treatment is successfully used to cure this condition. To shed light on the topic we spoke to Dr. Charith Weerasinghe Consultant Vascular and Transplant Surgeon attached to the Teaching Hospital, Kandy.
What are varicose veins 
Varicose veins are veins that have become enlarged and twisted. The term commonly refers to the veins on the leg, although varicose veins can occur elsewhere as well. Veins have pairs of leaflet valves to prevent blood from flowing backwards (retrograde flow or venous reflux). Malfunctioning of the valves leads to backflow of venous blood and this leads to various ailments in the leg.
What are the causes 
Causes of varicose veins can include:
1.Standing or sitting for long periods of time.
2. Family history. If other family members had varicose veins, theres a greater chance you will too.
3.Deep Vein Thrombosis- formation of clots in the large deep veins of the legs.
4. Pregnancy. Some pregnant women develop varicose veins. Varicose veins that develop during pregnancy generally improve without medical treatment 3 to 12 months after delivery. If they persist you need to be examined by a vascular surgeon.
5.Age. As you get older, your veins can lose elasticity, causing them to stretch.
6. Gender- Women are more likely to develop the condition. Hormonal changes during pregnancy, premenstruation or menopause may be a factor because female hormones tend to relax vein walls. Similarly taking hormone replacement therapy or birth control pills may increase your risk of varicose veins.
7.Obesity. Being overweight increases the risk

What are the symptoms of varicose veins
Varicose veins may not cause any pain or trouble in most instances. But in some instances you may have the following symptoms and signs.
1. Veins that are dark purple or blue in colour
2. Veins that appear twisted and bulging; often like cords on your legs
3. An achey or heavy feeling in your legs.
4. Burning, throbbing, muscle cramping and swelling in your lower legs.
5. Worsened pain after sitting or standing for a long time.
6. Itching around one or more of your veins.
7. Bleeding from varicose veins.
8. A painful cord in the vein with red discoloration of the skin (Thrombophlebitis).
9. Colour changes, hardening of the vein, inflammation of the skin or skin ulcers near your ankle, which can mean you have a serious form of vascular disease that requiresmedical attention.

Diagnosing varicose veins
Your doctor will likely examine your legs and visible veins while youre sitting or standing and then diagnose varicose veins. He / she may ask you about any pain or other symptoms you may have.Your doctor may also want to do an ultrasound scan to check your blood flow. This is a non invasive test that uses high-frequency sound waves. This involves application of gel and visualization of the veins using a probe placed over your leg. It allows your doctor to see how blood is flowing in your veins.

How are varicose veins treated
In general, initial stage of management is conservative when treating varicose veins. Youll probably be advised to make changes to your lifestyle, instead of trying more aggressive treatments.
Lifestyle changes- The following changes may help prevent varicose veins from becoming worse:
1. Avoid standing for extended periods of time.
2. Lose weight or maintain a healthy weight
3. Exercise to improve your circulation.
4. Use compression socks or stockings.
5. Elevation of your legs whenever youre resting or sleeping canalleviate symptoms

Your doctor may also want to do an ultrasound scan to check your blood flow. This is a non invasive test that uses high - frequency sound waves

What are the other treatments available 
If lifestyle changes arent working, or if your varicose veins are causing a lot of pain or damaging your overall health, your doctor might try aninvasive procedure.
There are six main grades of varicose veins. Generally the first two grades are conservatively managed and grade 3 onwards treated invasively. Treatment modality has to be ideally decided by a vascular surgeon. These are doctors who have specialised in blood vessel conditions. Treatment method recommended can depend on your symptoms, size, and location of the varicose vein.
There are 4 main treatment options available. These include:
1. Sclerotherapy- By injecting a sclerosant drug in the form of liquid or foam into the vein, the lumina of the veins will be closed (you may be asked to come for repeated sessions of treatment and the success rate is variable ).
2. Surgery - Vein ligation and stripping is a surgical treatment that requires anaesthesia and has a highersuccess rate.
3. Laser therapy
Laser procedure involves placing a laser fibre inside the affected vein under the guidance of ultrasound scan ( gel and probe). Here Heat energy is used to block off a vein which is varicosed. There will be no old fashioned larger cuts and patients have minimal pain which will respond to simple painkillers.This treatment can be even done with a locally numbing agent without general anaesthesia and has equal success rate as surgery.
  Major benefits of this kind of procedure are rapid recovery, minimal in hospital stay and lesser time to start routine activities. Patients are generally discharged on the same day after surgery.Nowadays patients prefer to have laser surgery and this is the most popular and one of the best forms of treatment currently available for varicose veins. It is now practiced as the first line treatment option in advanced vascular centers.
4. Other Endovenous ablation therapy - mechanical and radiofrequency waves are used to block off a vein. This modality is not widely used as laser.

What are the myths about varicose vein treatments 
There are myths associated with the treatment for this condition. A common one is that these superficial leg veins will be needed for future bypass surgery. However, these distorted veins are not suitable for Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. Another myth is some may think that after surgery a particular leg will be shortened. This type of complication is not at all possible with treatment.
One myth that haunts patients is whether laser therapy can lead to cancer later on in life. This has been clearly disproved and laser is used in multiple eye, brain, genito-urinary and skin therapies and there is no basis at all for such fear.
Another common myth is that whatever treatment is done for the varicose veins they will recur. But this is not so if done by a specially trained and experienced surgeon.
One thing we should keep in mind is identifying and treating varicose veins early will prevent many complications. Latest treatment modalities such as laser therapy will minimize surgical complications and leads to rapid recovery. However, these procedures should be done in technologically advanced hospital by an experienced team.
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNF, JO to oppose delimitation report
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 08:35 am
UNF, JO to oppose delimitation report
	
The Provincial Delimitation Commission Report is likely to be rejected by Parliament in the wake of the ruling UNF and the joint opposition deciding to vote against it, Parliament sources said.
UNF sources said its parliamentary group had decided to vote against the report.
Meanwhile, JO MP Udaya Gammanpila expressing similar views said the JO decided to vote against the report because the proposed mixed electoral system could result in a crisis, just like what happened to local government bodies earlier this year. He said the JO was of the view that its decision would not allow the government to postpone the elections any further by using the mixed electoral system as an excuse.
It now appears that the 16 SLFP dissidents, SLFPers in the government and the JVP will be the only ones likely to vote in favour of the delimitation report. In the event that the report is rejected in Parliament, the elections to PCs would have to be held under the proportional representation system.
The Delimitation Commission Report will be taken up for debate today with the voting at 6.00 p.m. (Yohan Perera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: UNP, PA tried to abolish the PMB: President
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 11:55 pm
UNP, PA tried to abolish the PMB: President
	
The Paddy Marketing Board (PMB) established in 1971 to save the paddy farmer from Mudalalies was later neglected by the UNP and the Peoples Alliance governments and the real culprits to create, promote the rice mafia were those who attempted to wind up the PMB, President Maithripala Sirisena said today.
He said the UNP regime closed down the PMB in 1993 and Peoples Alliance government led by President Chandrika Kumatratunga attempted to abolish the PMB Act in 2000.
The President said this at the inauguration ceremony held to mark the renovation of 2,400 rural tanks connected with Ellanga Gammana or Cascaded Tank-Village system in the Dry Zone (Wayamba) and the commencement of the Second Stage of the Wayamba Ela, Kubukulawa Tank at Polpithigama in Kurunegala District.
He said together with 17 other ministers in the PA government they defeated the proposal to abolish the PMB Act in 2000.
In 2006, as the Minister of Agriculture, I tried had to revive the PMB but there was leg pulling and acts of sabotage to my effort. Therefore, I can confidentially claim that the weakening of the PMB and raising a rice mafia was their scheme, the President said. "I have been associated with rivers, tanks, streams, paddy fields, ploughing and any other task related to agriculture and irrigation since my childhood. I am well aware of the difficulties and sufferings faced by farmers in Sathkorale. In 1994, as the Minister of Agriculture I launched a project to renovate and develop the entire tank network as almost all the small, medium and large tanks in Kurunegala and Puttalam had been dried to the bottom. The project launched today is aimed at nourishing the field of agriculture utilizing this agrarian system. Under this programme around 300 tanks will be renovated in the Kurunegala District. The Stage II of the Wayamba Ela Project where waters from the Mahaweli will be diverted from the Eastern Province to the Northern Province via Wayamba will cost Rs. 23,000 billion. In the time of kings, the Wayamba or Sathkorale was known as Bath-Korale as farmers in Sathkorale supplied rice to the entire country. In Sathkorale, you have more tanks and a bigger irrigation network than Rajarata Therefore; you have a historically significance and prestigious background and there are 10,000 tanks at your disposal. (Sandun A Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: US, China swap tariffs on billions in goods
## Section: International
## Date: 24 August 2018 10:22 am
US, China swap tariffs on billions in goods
	

BEIJING AFP, Aug 23 2018 - The United States slapped steep tariffs on another $16 billion in Chinese goods on Thursday, triggering a swift tit-for-tat retaliation from Beijing, even as negotiators from both sides seek to soothe trade tensions. 
The latest action completes the first round of $50 billion in Chinese products that President Donald Trump targeted with Beijing striking back at American products dollar-for-dollar at each step.

China firmly opposes the tariffs and has no choice but to continue to make the necessary counter-attacks, the commerce ministry said in a statement. 
Beijing hit back with tariffs on an equal amount of US goods, targeting iconic products such as Harley-Davidson motorcycles, dump trucks and asphalt, among hundreds of others. 
Chinas commerce ministry said the US tariffs were clearly suspected of violating WTO rules and noted it would file a lawsuit against them under the WTOs dispute resolution mechanism. The escalation came as the worlds two largest economies hold their first formal discussions since June on the spiralling trade war. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: USS Anchorage arrives in SL
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 24 August 2018 02:08 pm
USS Anchorage arrives in SL
	
USS Anchorage arrived in Trincomalee today as part of a scheduled port visit. The US Navy personnel and US Marines of the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit onboard the ship, will participate in partnership building exercises with the Sri Lanka Navy and the newly minted Sri Lankan Marines, with a major focus on increasing efficiency of joint relief efforts during Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief missions. USS Anchorage is part of the Essex ARG (Amphibious Ready Group) and is deployed in the 7th fleet area of operations. (Pix courtesy US Embassy)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Water pipe bursts at Castle Street
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 08:10 am
Water pipe bursts at Castle Street
	
Police advised motorists to use alternative routes due to a burst of an underground water pipe at Castle Street in Borella this morning.
Motorists who are travelling from Battaramulla towards Colombo are advised to use alternative routes.
Pix by Lahiru Pothmulla
 
		
==============================
## Title: When lawlessness chokes a nation
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 24 August 2018 01:49 am
When lawlessness chokes a nation
	
This nation has proved time and again that it needs stricter laws and also a strong president who can keep a check on activities which can get out of hand. These days, quite regularly, we get to read so much in newspapers about gang violence and people being arrested with narcotics in their possession. Some of them end up in jail and a few are sentenced to death, with the latter verdict still being converted into a life imprisonment. The bottom line to all this is that the environment prevailing in the country is leading to a certain lawlessness. 
We cant forget the fact that the security forces of this country successfully quelled a war against separatist Tiger rebels. During the three-decade war, specially during the latter stages of the conflict, the avenues open for illicit activities were efficiently sealed. That was the level of tight control the authorities had over the country. 
But today we see drug peddlers having their way and minting money. Cannabis and illicit cigarettes seem to circulated freely. Whats most frightening is that so much of it being made available to guests at beach parties and social gatherings. Very recently 28 people were arrested at a DJ Beach Party in Mount Lavinia when they were in possession of cannabis and illicit cigarettes. 
Drug trafficking is a serious offence and most countries have strict laws serving as deterrents. But in Sri Lanka we are still struggling to reintroduce the death penalty on those nabbed fordrug trafficking.
As of now, what we know is that President Maithripala Sirisena intends to reintroduce the death penalty on inmates who are on death-row and continue to engage in drug trafficking. Its known that the prison is a place where certain privileged inmates can obtain narcotics of their choice at the snap of a finger. This is why its essential to start clearing this rut at the place where such notorious activities happen freely. 
The Kandy Division Anti-corruption Unit has unearthed something interesting. There were reports of seven armed gangsters being arrested in Kandy. What was revealed from this operation was that these suspects were alleged to have been trafficking cannabis. 
Most gangs, which terrorise people, are also involved in drug trafficking. There was also a recent report of a hotel owner in Marawila being harassed and his property being damaged by a gang that was armed. There were also reports of a shooting incident inside a state owned bank in Matara.
Adding to this mayhem was a shooting incident at a hotel in Weligama and topping all this up was the riot incident at the Welikada Prison. These incidents give us the indication that we have a serious issue regarding the security of citizens in this country. 
If this Government is criticised for many things, what seems to be the mother of all sins is the authorities not implementing the law equally. The case against former Central Bank Governor Arjuna Mahendran, who is accused in the controversial Central Bank Bond Scam, is a classic example. Many believe that the Government allowing Mahendran to leave the country at will questions the Government authorities commitment towards building a corrupt-free and safe nation. Mahendrans exit from this country suggests that any criminal can leave this country without being detected by the Government radar. 
This Bond Scam and the Government struggling and failing to see this case conclude, gave the picture to the rest of the country that the authorities dont wish to have a no-nonsense tag pinned on it. 
After the ethnic conflict what we are seeing within a seemingly peaceful nation are cracks caused by incidents of lawlessness. 
Armed gangs and illicit narcotics have no place in a just society where the law is strict and above all. This country is screaming for a leader who will make it part of his mission to put an end to this gang culture and irradicate drug trafficking for good. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Wijaya Products shines at CNCI Achiever Awards 2018
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 24 August 2018 04:19 pm
Wijaya Products shines at CNCI Achiever Awards 2018
	
Managing Director of Wijaya Products, Aruna Kothalawala receiving the award from HE the Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe
Wijaya Products collected yet another laurel at the recently concluded CNCI Achiever Awards 2018 winning Gold in the Extra Large scale Manufacturing sector and was recognised among the Top 10 Achievers for the 5th consecutive year.
The 17th Annual CNCI Achiever Awards was organized by the Ceylon National Chamber of Industries, the premier industrial chamber in Sri Lanka. The Awards aim to promote the industrial growth in the country by recognizing and rewarding industrialists who have excelled in their business processes. The areas focus on quality standards, productivity, employee benefits, labour relations, environmental and social obligations among others. The 2018 award ceremony was graced by the Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe as the chief guest along with many other dignitaries.
Being amongst the Top 10 Achievers at the CNCI awards for 5 years running is a truly remarkable achievement of which we as a team take pride of. Our focus has always been in building a business that surpasses normal standards and provide the best quality products to our consumers. The recognitions and accolades we receive only stand proof to the fact that we are on the right path, commented Mr. Aruna Kothalawala, Managing Director of Wijaya Products.
The company secured the CNCI Top 10 Award from 2014 to 2017 whilst Mr. Aruna Kothalawala was the Gold award winner at the Provincial and National levels in the Extra Large category at the Sri Lankan Entrepreneur of the Year 2017. The brands popularity amongst the people was attested by it winning the Food Brand of the Year in 2016, 2017 and 2018 as well as the Youth Choice Food Brand of the Year 2018 at the SLIM Neilsen Peoples Awards.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Will make Colombo ECT the largest in South Asia: Minister
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 24 August 2018 04:28 am
Will make Colombo ECT the largest in South Asia: Minister
	
The government will develop the Colombo Port's East Container Terminal (ECT) to be the largest and deepest container terminal in South Asia without any foreign funding, Ports and Shipping Minister Mahinda Samarasinghe said yesterday.
He said he would submit the proposal and blueprint of the development plan to the Cabinet shortly.
The Hambantota Port is being operated and managed by two Sri Lankan and Chinese companies -- Hambantota International Port Group (HIPG) owned by the CMPort of China and the Hambantota International Port Services (HIPS) owned by the SLPA on a 90-year lease agreement. The majority shares are held by the Chinese company. The biggest container terminal at the Colombo Port, the South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT), is also operated and managed by a conglomerate that includes Maersk Group and John Keells on a 30-year lease agreement signed during the Chandrika Kumaratunga government. Funding for the development of ECT will be provided by the SLPA and the Treasury, he said.
When asked about the cost of the development project, the minister said it would be known only after the tender was offered to produce machinery and a minimum of 15 months was needed to produce and deliver the machinery.
After obtaining Cabinet approval, I will call worldwide tenders for machinery to be set up at the ECT. It will take a minimum of 15 months to manufacture, deliver and fix the machinery. But we cannot wait for that long to begin the development and expansion programme. I hope to obtain machinery on lease after calling tenders only for the interim period, he said.
The minister said the three terminals at the Port of Colombo, the Jeya Container Terminal, SAGT and ECT cannot take massive ships and tankers because they are fully-occupied round the clock.
Besides, the depth of three terminals does not permit access to big vessels. Once the ECTs development project is concluded, the ECT will provide berthing facilities to some of the biggest ships and tankers in the world. The development project of the ECT will be launched in three months, he said. (Sandun A. Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================