## Title: Another 7 SriLankan flights delayed due to dust storm in India
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 11:32 am
Another 7 SriLankan flights delayed due to dust storm in India
	
SriLankan Airlines today announced that seven flights have been delayed due to the dust storm in India.
Media Spokesperson for the airline, Deepal Perera, said that seven flights scheduled to depart to Bangkok, Hong Kong, Beijing, Madras, Kochi and Guangzhou had been delayed last morning.
Accordingly, flights UL406 from Colombo (CMB) to Bangkok (BKK) was delayed until 03.20p.m, UL896 Colombo (CMB) to Hong Kong (HKG) was delayed until 15.20 p.m, UL868 from Colombo (CMB) to Beijing (PEK) was delayed until 1520 hours,
UL129 from Colombo (CMB) to Madras (MAA) was delayed until 1010 hour, UL165 from Colombo (CMB) to Kochi (COK) was delayed until 1200 hours, UL880 from Colombo (CMB) to Guangzhou (CAN) was delayed until 1640 hours and UL125 from Colombo (CMB) to Madras (MAA) was delayed until 0230 hours yesterday.

Five SriLankan Airline flights were delayed on Thursday (3) due to a dust storm.
UL 884 Colombo to Canton, UL 281 Colombo to Jeddah, UL 214 Colombo to Kuala Lumpur, UL 406 Colombo to Bangkok and UL 604 Melbourne to Colombo were delayed.(Chaturanga Samarawickrama)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Are you addicted to alcohol 
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 4 May 2018 11:56 am
Are you addicted to alcohol 
	



Alcohol, most of the time referred to as the Heavenly beverage of pleasure, has become a popular subject for discussion due to good and bad aspects associated with it. Ethanol, which is derived from grapes, and grains as well as rice are the main components of this popular beverage. However there can be hundred and more additives used in alcohol which help give or make different flavors, concentrations and up-shots.

There is no doubt about your knowledge of alcohol that it effects ones health. So keeping a step-ahead, we thought of discussing about alcohol addiction with the sole intention of making our readers be aware of how these people would present, what ill-effects they would own over time and more importantly how this habit could be dropped with prompt and proper interventions. 

If you have a look at a crowd, you would see different types of people who would explain their opinions about alcohol in different ways. Some people would just sip a glass of alcohol occasionally; once or twice a month during a social gathering. Some would get drowned in alcohol making it a part of their daily routine. Some would just forget and move on after a single drink while some would find it extremely difficult to get over the drinking session. The later category get addicted big time and are affected by a range of negative consequences. They also develop poor health and their lives are dotted with domestic violence, vandalism, fights, quarrels etc.

So, today we decided to talk about alcohol addiction, with Dr. Dulmini Jayasundara, Specialist Registrar in Psychiatry in order to look more into it using expert knowledge. This article will help many people who have become addicted. These alcohol addicts fail to shelf the drinking habit and need help. 

Alcohol is more or less the same as a chemical you get to see in the chemistry lab, but since it is legally and socially accepted in our society and has a long history it is viewed differently compared to other drugs or chemicals. Most people tend to use alcohol as a relaxant which helps them to relax and calm themselves. Some would also think it as an anxiolytic, which helps in diluting your agitation or anxiety, while in a crowd. However, even if one can argue on the beneficial effects of alcohol, the long-term downside is that it can make you unfit; to drive, operate machinery and affects your ability to make decisions. It also dulls your perception to a greater or less extent, depending on the amount of alcohol consumed. If you go on drinking, your speech starts to slur, you become unsteady on your feet. You may start to say things you may regret the next day. If you drink even more, most people start to feel sleepy, sick or dizzy. You may pass out. The next day you may be unable to remember what happened while you were drinking says Dr. Jayasundara.


Are you addicted
Alcohol can be a very effective way of feeling better for a few hours. If you are depressed and lack energy, it can be tempting to use alcohol to keep going and cope with life. The problem is that it is easy to slip into drinking regularly, using it like a medication. The benefits soon wear off and drinking becomes part of a routine. Following are the features of an alcohol addict; ones that you can check for yourself.

Instead of choosing to have a drink, you feel you have to have it
	You wake up with shaky hands and a feeling of nervousness
	You start to drink earlier and earlier
	Your work starts to suffer
	Your drinking starts to affect your relationships
	You carry on drinking in spite of the problems it causes
	You find you have to drink more and more to get the same effect (tolerance)
	You start to binge drink regularly
	Other things have less importance than alcohol.


Time to ask for help!
Answering the following 4 questions can help to find out whether drinking has become a problem for the particular individual.

Have you ever felt that you should cut down on your drinking 
Have people annoyed you by criticizing your drinking 
Have you ever felt bad or guilty about your drinking 
Have you ever had a drink first thing in the morning to steady your nerves or to get rid of a hangover 
One yes answer suggests a possible alcohol problem. More than one yes answer means it is highly likely that a problem exists. If you think that you or someone you know of might have an alcohol problem, it is important to see a doctor or other health care provider right away says Dr. Jayasundara.


Psychiatric disorders
Mental illnesses like depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and psychosis are common among alcoholics. Often, people drink to try and reduce the symptoms (sometimes known as self-medicating), but in the long-term alcohol makes these disorders worse because it interferes with the chemical balance in our brains.


Treatment options
Alcohol dependence can be properly treated with timely interventions before the habit develops. But like other chronic illnesses, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and asthma, there are varying levels of success with regard to treatment. Some people quit drinking and remain abstinent. Others have long periods of abstinence with relapses. And still others cannot stop drinking for any length of time. With treatment, one thing is clear, however: the longer a person abstains from alcohol, the less likely he or she will be to have related health problems.

Time and training are the most important aspects of treating alcoholism.  

While youll never get rid of the cravings completely, you can diminish them and train yourself how to avoid situations involving alcohol.


Medication
Three oral medications are currently used to treat alcohol dependence. 

These medications have been shown to help people with alcohol dependence reduce their drinking, avoid relapses to heavy drinking, and achieve and maintain abstinence.

Naltrexone acts in the brain to reduce craving for alcohol after someone has stopped drinking.
	Acamprosate is thought to work by reducing symptoms that follow lengthy abstinence, such as anxiety and insomnia.

Disulfiram discourages drinking by making the person taking it feel sick after consuming alcohol.
Other types of drugs are available to help manage symptoms of withdrawal (such as shakiness, nausea, and sweating) if they occur after someone with alcohol dependence stops drinking.

Although medications are available to help treat alcoholism, there is no magic bullet. In other words, no single medication is available that works in every case and/or in every person. Developing new and more effective medications to treat alcoholism remains a high priority for researchers.

Can someone who is not willing to receiving treatment be treated, with the request of family, using medication hidden in food and drinks If so is it effective

This can be a challenge. An alcohol dependent person cant be forced to receive help. But you dont have to wait for someone to hit rock bottom to act. Many alcohol dependence treatment specialists suggest the following steps to help someone in need of treatment: 

Stop all cover ups. Family members often make excuses to others or try to protect the alcohol dependent person from the results of his or her drinking. It is important to stop covering for the alcohol dependent person so that he or she experiences the full consequences of drinking. 
Time your intervention. The best time to talk to the drinker is shortly after an alcohol-related problem has occurred  like a serious family argument or an accident. Choose a time when he or she is sober, both of you are fairly calm, and you have a chance to talk in private. 
Be specific. Tell the family member that you are worried about his or her drinking. Use examples of the ways in which the drinking has caused problems, including the most recent incident. 
Get help. Gather information in advance about treatment options in your community. If the person is willing to receive help, call immediately for an appointment with a counsellor. Offer to go with the family member during the first visit to a treatment program and/or an AlcoholicsAnonymous meeting. 
A friend who is a recovering alcoholic may be particularly persuasive, but any person who is caring and nonjudgmental may help. The intervention of more than one person, more than one time, is often necessary to coax an alcohol dependent person to seek help. 
Find strength in numbers. With the help of a health care professional, some families join in with other relatives and friends to confront an alcohol dependent person as a group. This approach should only be tried under the guidance of a health care professional who is experienced in this kind ofgroup intervention. 
Treatment of alcohol dependence is unlikely to be beneficial without the corporation of the person hence medication given in food is not recommended at all says Dr. Jayasundara.
==============================
## Title: At The Two Year Mark Towards A Toxin-Free Nation
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
At The Two Year Mark Towards A Toxin-Free Nation
	
Discussion on achievements and challenges in implementing the Governments ambitious three-year strategy
Cost, labour and input for biological farming are lower compared to chemical farming
	Yield from biological farming was higher in 76 plots amounting to 50% in comparative studies
	Risk of yield reduction from biological farming only 31% equivalent to risk of chemical farming
	Real challenge faced by the plantation sector is not Glyphosate but negligence
	No opportunity granted to discuss way forward on Glyphosate ban

Hailing the completion of four cultivating seasons, the Government recently held a felicitation ceremony to acknowledge and celebrate the success of its toxin-free agriculture programme at the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall. Dubbed the Vasa Visa Nethi Ratak or a Toxin Free Nation, the three year programme was launched in 2016 in accordance with President Maithripala Sirisenas manifesto. 
Two years on, officials spearheading the programme have never been more confident of their victories. Several officials representing a host of Government authorities including the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Irrigation and religious leaders were present at the occasion. Three factors were highlighted as the foundation on which the programme was built on.
The requirement to create an environment for all living creatures to exist by banning the use of selected universal herbicides and weedicides being the first of these factors. Their priorities also included providing farmers with a farmer subsidy instead of the fertiliser subsidy which was exclusively provided to companies which supplied agrochemicals. The research and development of biological farming with the vision of empowering a toxin-free nation was also among the priorities. 
Explaining the value of biological farming in his speech Asoka Ranwala, an activist at the forefront of the campaign against the use of chemical agriculture in Sri Lanka, questioned if biological farming was merely an oral tradition limited to folklore. He said at the inception of the toxin free agriculture programme, scientific minds were forced to question the practices of traditional farmers. There is evidence to establish that Sri Lanka has a history spanning over 3000 years where biological farming was in practice, Ranwala said. 
Optimising the yield 
Biological farming is a method that improves the live top soil layer that contains the microbial-sphere or rhizosphere in order to optimise yield. With this method the conditions are created to enable all life forms both visible and invisible that live within the rhizosphere to help crops flourish. It is a natural process which had been in practice in traditional agriculture, long before agrochemicals were introduced to our farmers. It was the reason why our farmers preferred cow dung and the waste soil of Mattakuliya over chemicals to fertilise their plots of land,Ranwala said. 
Biological farming regenerates and rejuvenates soil which has been destroyed through years of agrochemical use. According to experts this takes place within the span of just one planting season. The root cap and microbial action surrounding the plant is of utmost importance in this type of farming. Microbes in the rhizosphere prepare nutrients for absorption by the plant, while the root hairs do the needful. Biological farming strengthens and support this process. While chemical fertiliser provides the plant with saline, biological farming provides the plant with food. 
According to Ranwala biological farming is most suited to tropical areas with high biodiversity. Unfortunately, despite Sri Lanka being a country rich in biodiversity, little or no research had been conducted on this method of farming during the past two decades. Neither agricultural experts nor extension officers possess the knowledge of biological farming techniques, leading to the promotion of outdated agricultural practices, he lamented. Ranwala noted that practices adopted under the toxin-free programme is a mix of traditional conservation farming and biological farming, developed through biotechnology research adopted in Japan. 
Biological farming in the lead
Strategic Enterprise Management Agency Chairman Asoka Abeygunawardena believes that biological farming has successfully responded to questions posed by those engaged in commercial chemical agriculture. Even though there was no substantial evidence it was common belief that organic agriculture was expensive,Abeygunawardena said. However according to him research has proven that biological farming is now in the lead. He made this statement citing a comparative study conducted by the Department of Agriculture on biological farming and chemical farming. The study ensured that no unfair advantage was leveraged by biological farming efforts. 
In 151 plots established on farmer plots in 9 districts- established by the Department of Agriculture- the yield from biological farming was higher in 76 plots amounting to 50%. The risk of yield reduction from biological farming meanwhile was noted at only 31% which is equal to the risk of chemical farming. The cost, labour and input for biological farming are lower than chemical farming and it has been proven in our research, Abeygunawardena said dispelling many arguments against biological farming efforts. 
Speaking on the ban of the weedicide Glyphosate and its effects on the plantation sector, Abeygunawardena said the myth that the herbicide was essential for plantations had been busted. The real challenge faced by the plantation sector is not the ban of the chemical, but the utter negligence which result in the plantations being gradually destroyed, he alleged. Only glyphosate and the likes of it were banned, as they completely destroy the rhizosphere. Large plantation companies charge that tea yield fell by 11% in 2016 due to the ban, but this is a fallacy. In 2017 while the ban was in place, the yield increased by 5%. Therefore there is no co-relation between the ban and the yield, he said attributing the losses faced in plantations and agriculture in 2016 to the extended drought Sri Lanka suffered at the time. 
Glyphosate Ban
Echoing his sentiments, Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera, who was a key instigator in banning Glyphosate, said that achieving safe and secure food consumption is the key to solving a number of burdensome issues in Sri Lanka. We are a debt ridden, developing nation. We brought forth a change of Government to change this situation, Ven. Rathana Thera said. 
The cost, labour and input for biological farming are lower than chemical farming and it has been proven in our research
No opportunity was granted for us to discuss the way forward with regard to the Glyphosate ban, the monk alleged. We understand that the reversal to biological farming takes time and planning. It is the very reason we requested for a systematic provision of fertiliser in order to avoid direct provisions of chemical fertiliser. But let us have an opportunity to discuss the issues and find out remedies together, he said. 
Hunger and malnutrition are maladies which we need to get rid of. Our health and well-being depend on the food we consume and it is simply commonsense to rid ourselves of toxic foods. Over $300 are spent on food related costs each year, according to Central Bank reports. If we as a country are able to spend less on importing food and cultivate our own, it is my belief that many of the problems we are suffering from would be solved, the thera opined.

Until the next election takes place, Sri Lanka needs a movement by the farmers to change attitudes towards biological farming,Rathana thera said while challenging any one of the 2020 presidential candidates to attempt lifting the ban on glyphosate. Through our efforts we are attempting to not only save the millions of forex usually spent on the import of agrochemicals, but also make toxin-free foods abundantly available,he said. 
With the experience of four cultivating seasons, these experts are now in the belief that higher yields can be achieved during the next cultivating seasons, with lesser cost, input and labour. Accordingly the sole need at present is to facilitate the Rs. 20 billion investment needed to launch this programme island-wide. Their ambitious belief is that the capital costs can be recovered within two months. 
Biological farming regenerates and rejuvenates soil which has been destroyed through years of agrochemical use. According to experts this takes place within the span of just one planting season
The discussion was followed by a felicitation ceremony to honour those who tirelessly campaigned to make toxin-free agriculture in Sri Lanka a reality. Ven. Athuraliye Rathana Thera, Prof. Channa Jayasumana and Dr. Damayanthi Perera were accorded in recognition of their services in laying the foundations for a toxin-free nation.

Several media organisations and journalists including Indika Hewawitharana of the Ada newspaper were honoured for their valuable contributions. Representatives of farming organisations across the country who contributed to the development of toxin-free agriculture by cultivating their own plots of land under the guidance of the Agriculture Ministry were also felicitated at the event. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: BIA employee nabbed with 7kgs of gold
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 08:30 pm
BIA employee nabbed with 7kgs of gold
	
An employee attached to an airport duty free shop at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA), Katunayake, was arrested a short while ago with 7kgs of gold worth over Rs 40 million, Customs said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Cabinet Reshuffles
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Cabinet Reshuffles
	
And party reorganisations would not muster peoples support
The UNP and the SLFP are also struggling with their internal problems compelling the leaders of the two parties to dedicate most of their time to sort out those issues
It is not clear whether the Cabinet reshuffle and the UNP reorganisation would serve the purpose of the leaders of the government andthe UNP
This week saw another Cabinet reshuffle which was the fourth of the sort for the past three years after the present so-called Yahapalana government assumed office and the third this year. Government ministers told the media before the new ministers were sworn in that this would be a scientific Cabinet and President Maithripala Sirisena also claimed on Monday that what he has appointed was a scientific Cabinet.
However, this is not a scientific Cabinet as many subjects that should have come under one ministry have been assigned to various ministries. Besides, there cannot be a scientific Cabinet under a so-called National Government as subjects that should be under one ministry gets scattered under several ministries when the number of ministries are increased in order to form the National Government.
National governments are meant to face national crises or to implement special programmes under special circumstances and political parties are expected to sacrifice towards this end. Yet under the 19th Amendment to the Constitution political parties can be bribed with portfolios in order to form National Governments, since the expected national governments are not only ones instituted to implement such national programmes or to face such national crises, rather they are also formed just because no party has the absolute majority power in the Parliament to form the government alone.

The Cabinet was not rearranged this time because of the need to institute it on a scientific basis. It was carried out purely as an attempt to continue the so-called unity government which was on the brink of collapse after the no-confidence motion presented by the Joint Opposition last month against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe.
Nevertheless, it is not clear that this would be the last Cabinet reshuffle in this year as there seem to be members of the ruling coalition, especially in the United National Party (UNP) who are not satisfied with the current allocation of portfolios. It is also a well-known fact that the UNP wants former minister Ravi Karunanayake to be absorbed into the Cabinet, despite the Presidential Commission on the Central Bank bond scam having recommended to take legal action against him. It is said that it was President Maithripala Sirisena who dismissed the UNPs overture.
This is not a scientific Cabinet as many subjects that should have come under one ministry have been assigned to various ministries
Meanwhile, the two main political parties of the government, the UNP and the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) are also struggling with their internal problems compelling the leaders of the two parties to dedicate most of their time to sort out those issues. The UNP is now fresh from a party reorganization process where number of top posts except for the posts of Leader, Deputy Leader and Assistant Leader of the party have been changed. However, it is not clear whether there is a change in the decision making powers of the new office bearers.
The decision for the reorganisaton of the UNP was also not taken collectively by the party hierarchy to face the current political challenges, rather it was a direct upshot of the outcry by some leading members of the party against the leadership following the partys humiliating defeat at the February 10 local government elections. State Minister Palitha Range Bandara was one openly challenging the party leader and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe claiming that he would bring in a no-confidence motion against the latter. Deputy Minister Ranjan Ramanayake had stated several times that he wished to see a change in the party leadership. Deputy Minister Eran Wickramarathna opines that all office bearers including the party leader be appointed by vote.
In the wake of the defeat of the two ruling parties at the local council elections Mr. Wickremesinghe responding to the journalists who questioned him about the agitations within the party at a media briefing told that a collective leadership would be formed in the near future. Accordingly, a politburo was appointed apparently to bring in changes in the top posts in the party. However, the politburo was not the top most body of the party as the ones in the leftist parties or not empowered to take final decisions on the party reorganisation.
The politburo had recommended some changes in the top positions of the party and they were ratified by the partys Working Committee before being implemented. Thus, former General Secretary Kabir Hashim was appointed new Chairman while Education Minister Akila Viraj Kariyawasam being appointed in his former place and Sajith Premadasa and Ravi Karunanayake were reappointed as Deputy Leader and Assistant Leader respectively. 
Leaders of the government and the UNP do not have the most important tool, a coherent economic programme to muster the support of the masses
This was not the first time Mr. Wickremesinghe had to come upon rebellions from within his party. Since 2001 several times his leadership was challenged and every time partys election defeats were cited as reasons behind the agitations. There were two such major revolts in 2001 and 2014 and interestingly the party in both times succeeded in major elections instituting its rule over the country and putting an end to the revolts within months. 
In 2001, it was party General Secretary Gamini Athukorale and former Speaker W.J.M. Lokubandara were in the forefront against Mr. Wickremesinghe. There was a failed attempt to oust him while he was in Norway in July 2001. The rebels then wanted to appoint Karu Jayasuriya as the leader. Then in 2010 Sajith Premadasa challenged Wickremsnghes leadership and the row lasted till 2014 when Mr. Wickremesinghe appointed a leadership council in order to pacify his adversaries within the party. Though it was not up to the satisfaction of the rebels, the premature Presidential election announced by former President Mahinda Rajapaksa saved the day for Wickremesinghe.

In fact, after the defeat of the UNP at the Presidential as well as the General Election in 1994 following its 17 year rule, the party failed to install a stable government, despite it being voted into power twice. And except for the 2001 Parliamentary election the party had been repeatedly unsuccessful in all national, provincial and local elections.
In spite of the UNP having won the 2001 December General Election its administration came to an abrupt end just in two years and two months when President Chandrika Kumaratunga dissolved the Parliament on February 7, 2004 at the instance of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna over differences on the peace talks between the government and the LTTE. And this time within three years into its administration the party as well as its government have run into storms threatening the survival of its leadership and the government. 
It is not clear whether the Cabinet reshuffle and the UNP reorganisation would serve the purpose of the leaders of the government and the UNP. The professed purpose of them are to win over the people before the next Presidential and General Election. However, leaders of the government and the UNP lack the most important tool, a coherent economic programme to muster the support of the masses. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Community Relations event by 'Pacific Partnership 2018'
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 4 May 2018 08:35 pm
Community Relations event by 'Pacific Partnership 2018'
	
US Pacific Fleet Band which is in Trincomalee as a part of the Pacific Partnership 2018 held a Community Relations (COMREL) event at the Methodist Girl's College in Trincomalee today. Pics by Pradeep Pathirana





 
		
==============================
## Title: Coping with stress
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:27 pm
Coping with stress
	

Regardless of whether an individual is sitting for an exam, dealing with work pressure or burdened with family problems, stress could often present itself as an inevitable and unpleasant factor that one may have to cope with, at some point in life. In an interview with Health Capsule, Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital Galle, Dr. Udena Attygalle, explained what leads to the condition called stress and how it could adversely affect ones mental, physical and social well-being.


Understanding the condition
Explicating the condition, Dr. Attygalle said that Stress is commonly described as a condition that changes the physiology of the body. Accordingly, there may be bodily processes that may occur such as the increase in adrenaline and heart rate along with the development of stress. While in earlier times, stress reactions were mostly the reaction to acute situations like being confronted by a dangerous animal, currently stress is more of a low level, but is a chronic issue. The daily stresses at work and at school are good examples for this, Dr. Attytgalle said. 
While the stress reaction is initially adaptive, in the long-term this leads to physiological changes like elevation of cortisol that are detrimental to physical health, especially the cardiovascular system. Chronic stress is also known to make our bodies more susceptible to illness and even infections by effecting our immune system. In terms of the brain, there are changes in the circuity of the brain that make it respond differently to stress; thus altering the way we respond to situations. This in turn can also effect our attention and other cognitive abilities as well. The preoccupations and anxieties will naturally effect how we interact with others he explained. 
Elucidating how stress and depression differentiate from each other, Dr. Attygalle stated that stress and depression are two different entities. However stress can lead to depression. He said that depression in a clinical sense, is a persistence of feeling unhappy, being less energetic, feeling worthless and even thinking about suicide.

Peeking into the causes and symptoms of Stress
Stress per say is not a disorder. From a psychological point of view, situations that are perceived to be threatening to our well-being, be it exams, being with a person we dislike or constantly being under pressure at work can lead to stress, Dr. Attygalle explained. 
According to the doctor, extreme stress can lead to a condition described as acute stress disorder in the short term or can have long-term effects such as in Post traumatic stress disorder. The symptoms of these conditions are extreme and include flash back of the incident, always being on edge, emotional numbing, and dissociation, he said. 
Furthermore, explaining how parents can help their children when dealing with exam stress, Dr. Attygalle informed that its crucial for parents to be away from their long-term hopes in relation to children. While stressing on the fact that they have to pass one exam may seem rational, thinking long-term about all exams might create a situation that would impair the character development of the child. Thus the goal should not be to create unbearable stress that makes the child under-perform at the exam; by making the child anxious about other exams. Instead parents can try to create an environment which helps the child perform well while creating a learning opportunity for the children. Children should be given an opportunity to learn about themselves and how they should cope with stressful situations. This learning comes in handy for them when they are faced with adversity in the future he added. 
Explaining how stress can lead to both weight loss and weight gain, he elucidated how the physiological aspects of chronic stress could negatively impact ones weight. While the physiological effects of chronic stress itself can cause weight loss, stress leading to depression and the resultant loss of appetite is another way of weight loss. If stress contributes to physical illness or alters dietary habits (i.e skipping meals), this too can cause weight loss. Stress can also lead to overeating as a way of coping (i.e. eating the whole cooking jar of snacks while watching T.V after work). If there is a lot of stress, a preference for a sedentary lifestyle after work can also lead to weight gain Dr. Attygalle added. When inquired into whether changes in dietary patterns could influence stress, Dr. Attygalle answered in the affirmative. A healthy diet as well as our habits around mealtime help reduce stress. One doesnt have to be an expert on nutrition, to know that a balanced diet including fresh fruits and vegetables that contain antioxidants ( protects against the physiological effects of stress) helps he stated. 

Treatment/ Stress Management
Stating that treatment would be needed if the person finds it difficult to cope with stress, he further explained that in most cases, a change of environment ( e.g taking a holiday) or lifestyle (e.g. incorporating exercise to your daily routine or spending more time with friends) would help in coping with stress. When this is not possible, helping them think differently about the situation they perceive as stressful and having devising a way of responding differently to these situations would help. If stress has led to another psychological issue such as depression or anxiety disorder, this will need to be treated he added. 
In terms of support and understanding, he explained how an individual suffering due to stress should be approached and how help could be extended to overcome such situations in future. Talking to the person under stress and making that person feel connected and engaging in little acts of helping would make a huge difference. With regard to children, it is important that parents are accessible, so that they can bring forward problems that they themselves cannot solve. If it is suspected that stress has contributed to the development of another condition such as depression it is best to seek professional help he said. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Costly bash that raised eyebrows
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:06 am
Costly bash that raised eyebrows
	

A prominent opposition politico who started his career as a revolutionary Marxist recently is said to have thrown a grand party at a high-end hotel to celebrate his daughters high performance at a national level examination for students.

This politico known to have come up from a humble beginning had become a billionaire during his brief stay in high political office, they say. The politicos onetime colleagues say that with the big money he spent on the bash at this hotel where even a plain hopper costs Rs. 200, he could have built several modest houses for his poor constituents.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Dealing with newborns who cry incessantly
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 4 May 2018 11:42 am
Dealing with newborns who cry incessantly
	

Crying is one of the key ways a newborn baby communicates with the outside world. A baby cries; to gain the attention of the caregiver when it is hungry and when uncomfortable or when in pain. Interpreting their language can be a frustrating task for new parents. When the crying becomes incessant, the condition can quickly transcend the frustration of an adult to worry, all out of concern for the baby.

It is approximated that excessive crying is responsible for around 20% of the Paediatric consultations. Is excessive crying something that demands parents to start worrying If so, why We consulted Dr. Deepal Perera, Consultant Paediatrician, Apeksha Hospital Maharagama, to discuss in detail about some of the commoner causes for excessive crying by newborns, in this weeks Health Capsule.


Common causes
In my experience, most of the newborns brought to the clinic due to excessive crying, cry because of hunger, says Dr. Perera. According to him, the newborn may not be fed adequately because new parents sometimes fail to recognize when the baby is hungry. But, there are also times that the baby is fed frequently enough, but the mothers milk production is not adequate for the babys needs, he further states.
Another common problem is the reflux or regurgitation of milk from the babys stomach, making him uncomfortable. A babys stomach is not well developed, so milk easily comes back into the upper gastrointestinal tract and then to the mouth and sometimes even through the nose, making the baby cry.
Sometimes, foreign bodies or an upper respiratory tract infection may cause blocking of the nasal passage and make it difficult for them to breath, again causing incessant crying in an infant. 
Gastroenteritis or stomach flu, which is one of the commonest infections during infancy, can also cause persistent crying in infants, explains Dr. Perera. 
Ear infections are another common ailment among infants and can be the cause for excessive crying. Even when there is no visible signs of an ear infection, like a discharge of pus from the ears, we may find that the ear is infected, when examining the baby, states the doctor. 
Urine infections can also be suspected, especially when the baby cries while urinating. This can be confirmed through a Urine Full Report and a Urine Culture. Phimosis, or the closure of the urethral opening from birth, can be another cause for persistent crying while urinating, in newborn male infants.
Peri-anal excoriation or irritation around the anal region can also be a cause for excessive crying in a baby, according to Dr. Perera. This condition is usually associated with diarrhea or lactose intolerance, he states. 
Persistent crying, when coupled with fever, can be caused by infections. Most of the time the cause will lie in a common and an uncomplicated infection like an infection of the upper respiratory tract, but more rarely, can be due to a more serious cause such as pneumonia or meningitis, explains Dr. Perera.
Newborn babies with birth defects and problems with cognitive development like Cerebral Palsy tend to cry more when compared to other infants, states Dr. Perera. At the same time, he reassures the parents, stressing that these are rarely found cases.

Examining a crying baby
An infant, who cries excessively, when brought to the doctor, will be examined thoroughly after taking into account the babys history from the caregiver. All the systems including the babys ears, throat, lungs and abdomen are examined. Investigations are recommended if the doctor deemes it necessary. A Full blood count (FBC), Urine Full Report (UFR) and C- Reactive Proteins (CRP) are some of the tests that may be done. 
Diagnosis is based on the age of the baby as well as the other signs and symptoms. While the complaints are more common among 0 to 3 months olds, older infants and toddlers can also present with excessive crying. For an example, teething can be a cause for crying in 4-6 month olds.

Managing the condition
Management of the condition depends on the final diagnosis, explains Dr. Perera. In the case of a bacterial infection like a Urinary or a Respiratory tract infection, the baby may be treated with the appropriate antibiotic. A blocked nasal package may require saline nasal drops or an anti-histamine.
If the baby is deemed underfed, and if the mother does not have adequate breast milk, mother may be given medicine to increase the flow of breast milk. 

Advice to parents
According to Dr. Perera, formula feeding is found to be associated with higher risk of excessive crying in infants. Therefore he recommends exclusive breastfeeding until the baby is 6 months old, whenever possible. He also advises parents that the best thing to do if the baby is crying incessantly and is suspected to be ill, is to seek medical advice without delay. But, its also important to remember that sometimes, babies cry without any apparent cause, when it is completely healthy and comfortable, in which case, we, as doctors or parents can do nothing but wait for the bad mood to beat itself, concludes Dr. Perera.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Delhi worlds most polluted city, Mumbai worse than Beijing: WHO
## Section: International
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:28 am
Delhi worlds most polluted city, Mumbai worse than Beijing: WHO
	

New Delhi, (Hindustan Times), May 02, 2018 - The Indian capital has once again been found to be the worlds most polluted city and Mumbai is fourth, according to air quality data compiled by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for megacities with a population of 14 million or more. Greater Cairo in Egypt is the second most polluted city, followed by the Bangladesh capital, Dhaka. Beijing ranks fifth. 
An analysis of particulate matter in the air showed about 90% of people across the world are exposed to bad air, which was linked to 7 million deaths in 2016, WHO found. Globally, ambient air pollution  caused by industries, cars and trucks, among others, caused 4.2 million deaths and indoor pollution caused 3.8 million deaths in 2016. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: DFCC Bank Spreads the Joy of Light during the Vesak festival
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 4 May 2018 04:18 pm
DFCC Bank Spreads the Joy of Light during the Vesak festival
	
DFCC Bank decorated the Galle-face Roundabout to embody the sentiments of Vesak
DFCC Bank, spread joy and happiness during Vesak by lighting up and decorating the Galle Face roundabout and its environs, for the second consecutive year. Galle-face Roundabout was decorated to embody the sentiments of Vesak. In addition to this the road leading to the DFCC Bank Head-office and all the DFCC branches were also decorated with Vesak lanterns this year to share the spirit of Vesak with one and all.
Vesak is the season the young and old alike come together to make offering of light to the Lord Buddha bringing about feelings of piety and sharing and caring amongst people. DFCC partakes of this connection with people and the lighting signifies an offering to the memory of the Buddha who delivered the message of Dhamma. DFCC Bank engages closely with its customers and the larger community during key festivals and is pleased to be able to light up the path towards observing piety.
Highlighting the greatness of Lord Buddha and expressing gratitude for the blessings bestowed on mankind, DFCC also organised VesakBathi Geewhich was held at the DFCC Ramanayake Mawatha office with the participation of staff members, senior management and families.The general publicmaking the rounds for Vesak around the city also had the opportunity of joining in this celebration.
Commenting on DFCC Vesak decorations, Lakshman Silva, CEO - DFCC Bank said, Vesak has become synonymous with a festival of lights to mirror the enlightenment of Lord Buddha and DFCC is delighted to take on the mantle of spreading the spirit of Vesak by decorating and lighting up areas in the city. The Bank participates wholeheartedly in all religious celebrations through the year and this is our way of celebrating the Vesak season. DFCC Bank has woven its supportive presence into the fabric of peoples lives and we were indeed humbled to bring joy and light to peoples hearts during this period.
DFCCVesakBathi Gee at the DFCC Ramanayake Mawatha branch
 
		
==============================
## Title: Don't abolish executive presidency: Maha Sangha
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 04:34 pm
Don't abolish executive presidency: Maha Sangha
	
The Jathika Vidwath Sangha Sabh said the proposed 20th Amendment to the Constitution on abolishing the executive presidency was a move to divide the country and urged the President and the Prime Minister not to go ahead with this amendment.
They said this at the National Conference of the Maha Sangha held yesterday at the Sri Sambuddhathwa Jayanthi Mandiraya in Colombo.
Prof. Induragare Dhammarathana Thera, the Ven. Medagama Dhammananda Thera, the Ven. Medagoda Abayathissa Thera, the Ven. Kongasdeniye Ananda Thera, Dr. Akuratiye Nanda Thera and several others who attended the conference are opposed to the abolishing of the executive presidency.
The Ven. Induragare Dhammarathana Thera said some separatists in Sri Lanka were hoping to divide the country and would make use 20-A to fulfil their aspirations. The Ven. Medagama Dhammananda Thera claimed that this was one of the 10 pledges given by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe to the Tamil National Alliance (TNA).
The monks said it was too dangerous to abolish the executive presidency when the 13th amendment to the constitution remained. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Former President Ranasinghe Premadasa He promoted the can do attitude
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Former President Ranasinghe Premadasa He promoted the can do attitude
	
As the first Chairman of the renamed Board of Investment of Sri Lanka from 91 to 93 it will be appropriate for me to write about the economic developments undertaken during this period especially connected to poverty alleviation and the 200 Garment Factory Programme on the 25th death anniversary of former President Ranasinghe Premadasa.. 
The death anniversary of Premadasa falls on May 1. It is sad that the country lost a dynamic leader who was action and result oriented and had the vision to develop the economy throughout the country. This he did by taking the industries to the villages and providing jobs to rural youth, which resulted in the alleviating of poverty in the rural sector. 
I was closely associated with the implementation of pro-poor programmes such as direct lending to self-employed and small scale projects through the Peoples Bank and its network of branches spread islandwide. The new concept of Premadasa for the banks was to set up Praja Naya Niyamakas (PNN) who were given a loan of Rs 100,000 by the bank on provision of security to grant small loans ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 10,000 per person for micro projects. Further the rates of interest charged by the PNN and the lending rate was recommended by the bank to enable the people to obtain loans at a very much reduced rates compared to the money lenders 
Ranasinghe Premadasa
Two of the major programmes launched in which I was able to make a contribution were Janasaviya and the opening of 200 garment factories. Both programmes had a direct impact on the strengthening the rural economy. Both these programmes made a significant contribution to the economic emancipation of the rural people which comprised 70% of the population. 
Janasaviya
President Premadasa was one who had a soft corner for the common man. This is why he initiated the housing development projects, supplies drinking water and electricity and had the annual Gam Udawa celebrations.

Although giving free handouts were the order of the day, Premadasa was able to change this concept by promoting economic development in the provinces. This he did by inviting the private sector businessmen to set up garment factories in rural areas. 
Preference was given to Janasaviya certificate holders in the granting of jobs in the 200 Garment Factories programme. This enabled the people to earn a wage rather than depend on free handouts. He was also able to activate the state banking sector to play a lead role in the Janasaviya poverty alleviation programme. 
This meant that villagers would not have to visit banks and could use the agency banks to obtain their loans. These agency banks were named Praja Naya Niyamaka (PNN). 
They had to provide security for the money advanced by the banks at normal interest rates. They were to lend money at rates of 3 to 4% per month which rate was very much lower than the rates charged by money lenders who charged something like 5 to 6% per month. The maximum money advanced to the PNN was between Rs. 50,000 to 100,000. The Peoples Bank appointed 4000 PNNs and the Bank of Ceylon also a similar number. This programme also created competition between the two banks.
 Monitoring projects
The policies of Premadasa resulted in a change of attitudes in the staff of banks. Bank officials went to the small man, a section of the society which was earlier neglected. 
Premadasa made it a point to monitor and evaluate performances of banks, ministries, departments and officials not only by verifying statistics, but by sending his staff to visit the sites. These staffers provided him with a report after a round of inspection. 
200 Garment Factory Programme
One evening I had a call from Secretary Paskaralingam who told me that the President wanted me to take over the GCEC now BOI. This was quite a surprise and a challenge for me as I knew that the GCEC was quite different from Peoples Bank having over 350 branches and over 10,000 employees.
However I had always accepted challenges and entered another new organisation which played a major role in attracting foreign direct investment and increasing exports.
The term bureaucracy was nowhere to be seen or heard during this period. Premadasa had the habit of waking up early in the morning and awakening others as early as 4.00 am if there were any adverse stories in the newspapers
There were many new changes taking place at the GCEC at this time. Some of the major challenges were the setting up of the Koggala Export processing Zone and the 200 Garment factories programme. The 200 garment factories programme could be considered as one of the main achievements and contributions made by Premadasa to uplift the rural economy of Sri Lanka. 
The US garment quotas were utilised by President Premadasa as a strategic tool for developing the rural economy and to help alleviate poverty in Sri Lanka. This programme was more effective than the billions of rupees spent by the international lending agencies to implement their trickle down approach through massive projects. Credit should be given to USA for this gift of the garment quotas which enabled Sri Lanka to be one of the top exporters of garments.
The private sector was drawn into the 200 garment factories programme and its players were given tax incentives, infrastructure such as land, electricity, telephone, water, roadways and other benefits such as quotas depending on the area selected. This was to enable them to undertake expansions or new projects without much hassle and to be free of bureaucracy. This was the era where the One Stop Shop concept for the approval and implementation of projects was carried out by the BOI.

To undertake this project the president selected the then Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) and converted it to the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (BOI). 
BOI
The BOI was used as the vehicle to achieve this massive task of setting up 200 garment factories. 
Since the BOI was directly under the president our work was not subject to political interference. We were able to achieve our targets in keeping with the existing rules and regulations. In 1977 President J.R Jayewardene, who heralded the Open Economic Policy, set up the Greater Colombo Economic Commission to attract foreign direct investment, set up Free Trade Zones and promote export oriented projects. The first Chairman of GCEC Upali Wijewardena was selected by President Jayawardena as its head. 
The numerous meetings that we had with investors, Government ministries, banks chaired by the late president himself and others chaired by the finance secretary were action oriented to solve problems of investors and not talk shops.

This was the new approach of President Premadasa and his secretary Paskaralingam and other staff who were men of action and result oriented. The private sector and foreign investors really appreciated such speedy action. President Premadasa wanted men who could perform and those with the Can Do attitude.
I remember the frequent meetings we had at Sucharitha where Premadasa invited investors, who were due to open their factories, and solved their problems. The Chairman of CEB, Roadways and Water Board were always present at these meetings. 
The weekly meetings with the cabinet sub committee was another vehicle which sorted out matters especially relating to the transfer of land for BOI projects. 
There had to be a minimum of 500 employees. All factories had to give the breakfast to the workers. 
The target was for the 200 factories to employ 100,000 youth and invest in the economy between Rs. 500 million to Rs. 1 billion per month. The youth, especially the girls in the villages, were for the first time producing export quality garments. Exports were reaching markets in USA and UK. 
An increase in quotas was also obtained to sustain this expansion which had taken place. Factories were set up in villages like Vavuniya and Batticaloa but this was not possible in areas affected by the war. 
The then USA ambassador visited the opening of a garment factory in Puttalam with an OPIC investment delegation. Thereafter, she also visited many other openings of such establishments where USA investors had made investments. 
We also had investors from UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Germany investing in factories. In the 200 garment factory programme President Premadasa was present during all their openings. 
Industrialists were queuing up looking for sites to open factories. The idea came from the late Kumar Dewapura who was the Chairman of the Tri Star Group. He was given a land in the Kurunegala District by the then Chief Minister Jayawickrema Perera, now a minister in the Government, to set up a garment factory. President Premadasa saw it and developed the idea of the 200 garment factories programme. Dewapura was instrumental in setting up of the first few factories and giving the lead to others to join in the programme. 
At the time of President Premamdasas untimely death, 160 areas had been allocated to construct garment factories. 
Punctuality and clock towers
Another special feature was that each town or village got a clock tower. This construction indicated that a garment factory had been opened in the area. 
Punctuality at these openings might have been due to the clock towers that were constructed. On many occasions President Premadasa was ahead of time to open the clock towers, avoiding the Rahu Kalaya (Inauspicious time) in the process. 
Since the BOI was directly under the president our work was not subject to political interference. We were able to achieve our targets in keeping with the existing rules and regulations
There were many teams working to successfully carry out this gigantic task of setting up 200 garment factories. Many teams from the BOI, UDA, Housing Ministry, CEB, RDA and Telecom were involved. They were tasked with work like identifying investors and land and to deal with the granting of quota, incentives, infrastructure, electricity, telephones, water and making of roads. 
In addition, President Premadasa also spoke to investors and we had to meet almost daily in the evening at Sucharitha to review the progress in the presence of investors. 
All these showed the excellent managerial skills, commitment and efficiency with which all departments worked to carry out this gigantic task under the leadership of President Premadasa. 

Investors were able to upgrade their import and export facilities by the setting up of the separate BOI customs clearing centres. This largely assisted the 200 garment factories set up outside the zones and immensely benefited investors because bottlenecks were removed as a result. Therefore, it was sheer hard work,planning, implementing, monitoring and working round the clock that enabled these results to be achieved.
Infrastructure Projects
It was during the period of President Premadasa that for the first time incentives were given for infrastructure projects. The World Trade Centre (WTC) was one of the significant investments that took place during this time. Another such investment was the Exhibition and Convention Center in Fort.
World Trade Centre
This was the first major infrastructure project undertaken by a Singaporean Investor S.P Tao that was commenced and approved under the BOI incentive scheme. This was going to be a 39-storey twin tower. This was the biggest project undertaken at that time. The ceremonial construction commenced with the presence of S P Tao, myself as Chairman of BOI and with Ven Podi Hamuduruwo chanting seth pirith .
Kandalama Hotel project
This hotel project was approved by the BOI and when construction was to begin, there were lot of protests from politicians and villagers. The protests were mainly due to environmental hazards and pollution that would result from running a hotel in this area. 
President Premadasa obtained expert opinion and found that there was no danger to the environment from this project. He carried out a campaign to inform the public of the benefits and advantages of this project. 
Other infrastructure projects
Some of the leading companies today in the mobile phone industry sector such as Dialog and Singapore Telecom were approved under the new infrastructure incentives granted.
In the Television industry some of the main channels such as MTV/Sirasa, Swarnavahini, TNL, which were approved under different names, were licensed during President Premadasas period.
Breaking the Bureaucracy
President Premadasa for the first time was able to motivate Government servants who willingly and readily served the people, a move which helped avoid public criticism. The term bureaucracy was nowhere to be seen or heard during this period. Premadasa had the habit of waking up early in the morning and awakening others as early as 4.00 am if there were any adverse stories in the newspapers. He had the habit of checking on the progress of work he had tasked people with. This habit also kept the Government servants on their toes and the Government machinery moving. 
President Premadasa who never took no for an answer expected the Government servants as well as the private sector to have a can do attitude. He was a person who firmly practiced the idiom Walk the Talk. Lessons for the future
Today with people in the north and the south harbouring much expectations with regard to the peace process, it is essential to implement development programmes to accelerate economic development and alleviate poverty and usher in prosperity. 
Many state that if Sri Lanka had continued with the policies which President Premadasa had introduced this island would have become another Singapore. 
(The writer is a Chartered and Management Accountant who served as Chairman of three state institutions including the Peoples Bank during the tenure of President J.R Jayawerdene and continued as Chairman of Peoples Bank during the period of President Ranasinghe Premadasa and was later appointed as the Chairman and Director General of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission which was later converted to Board of Investment of Sri Lanka)
 
		
==============================
## Title: FUN HOME: The search for self and one another
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
FUN HOME: The search for self and one another
	
They are such a perfect couple! This is an expression weve all heard at some point in our lives. Less heard is the sober observation, things look perfect, but who can tell whats really going on People look good in photographs. In fact they stress and strain to look good for photographs. Off-camera, things are different.

And its not just about seemingly perfect relationships. Families, especially those other than ones own, look good on film and less so for those in those same families. 
It doesnt necessarily try to be a musical. It is a play about a family that happens to like music, rather than a flashy musical number
According to Sashane the only place to watch Fun Home outside the USA on these particular days would be Sri Lanka. Of course it is not the same production
Of course there may be perfect couples and wonderful families. There could even be rare cases where theres never been a harsh word uttered, theres been no sorrow on account of things said and done or not said and not done. By and large, however, we are not only imperfect but are part of imperfect and even dysfunctional families. Some might say that dysfunctional is the new functional, considering how normal is that which we are trained to be shocked at. 
Fun Home. a play by Alison Bechdel, Jeanine Tesori and Lisa Kron, speaks to this dysfunctional nature of family. Well, on paper it is about the life of a lesbian cartoonist, Alison Bechdel and takes us through her childhood, her years as an undergraduate and to her present where she is writing her own graphic memoir at the age of 43, but not in a linear manner. It is billed as a memory play where Alison is the catalyst for the memories, observes and even participates in them. 
In these reflections presented in circuitous form, Alison takes on her relationship with her father Bruce, a closeted, volatile and yet brilliant man, whose temperament and secrets define her family and her life. It is also about realization of her own sexuality. It is not only about the discovery of sexuality however; it is about identity and identification, about acceptance of self and others, the power of recall in the shaping of identity. 
Fun Home is based on Bechdels graphic memoir which was adapted into a musical with Lisa Kron writing the lyrics and Jeanine Tesori composing the music. It is the first musical where a lesbian protagonist was featured. It premiered off Broadway in October 2013 directed by Sam Gold and two years later was produced at Broadways Circle in the Square Theatre. The original Broadway production was nominated for 12 Tony Awards and won five. 
This highly acclaimed classic will be open to Sri Lankan audiences at the Lionel Wendt from the 3rd to the 7th of May with an all-Sri Lankan cast directed by Sashane Perera with music direction by Johann Peiris. It is presented by Stagelight & Magic Inc through a special arrangement with Samuel French Inc, with Mercedes-Benz from Dimo as the Principal Sponsor and Unilever Foods as the co-sponsor.
Sashane says that it is his baby and that hes held it for two years. It had begun with a dinner conversation with a colleague in New York who which had prompted him to research about the musical. 
It is about identity and identification. I was drawn to it because of its progressive content. It is a new musical. It took a lot of work, from securing the rights to produce it here to the usual and arduous things that go with any theatre production.
Sashane observes that all families are essentially dysfunctional and that its all about accepting oneself and one another.

Thats it. Childhood ends, they say, the moment you realize your parents are not perfect. True adulthood begins when you reconcile to their flaws, forgive them, recognize you are not perfect either and resolve to treat other imperfections with equanimity. So in a sense our engagements with one another and indeed ourselves is trying to understand relationships we thought we knew. Fun Home, then, is a specific story but through which we are exposed to certain universal truths. 
Johann found the lyrics soaked in superficial simplicity but with ironic and even sinister juxtapositions which help us cut through the bullshit. He, like Sashane, is proud to be working with some of the most talented actors in their particular age groups. 
The talented lot also had things to say. Nimali Premawardhana who plays Alison said that since she had always had a singing role in previous productions and had always been the joker, this was a very different challenge. It was tough because Alison is almost like a pothe gura, talking more to herself than to anyone else.
Ayushka Nugaliyadda, who also plays Alison said it was the first time she is playing a lead role in a musical. I have always played either dance-heavy or supporting/ensemble roles. So I was completely out of my comfort zone. The character is very unlike me, so it was interesting and it was a challenge.
Interestingly, she first got to know about Alison through the famous Bechdel Test for Gender Bias. I never thought I would end up having to play her character, which is amazing!
For all the younger players, it was a fun thing. Niven Nanayakkara, 13, who plays Christian Bechdel says acting is fun and it was great working with Sashane and making new friend. At first I thought this was all bad, I didnt know about the play, But Sashane Aiya explained and I realized this is what life is like. Im having a lot of fun.
He believes, however, that his family is perfect! 
Caelan Gunatilaka said that apart from all the fun, the entire process had helped him open out a bit. I used to be a bit shy. I like playing the younger brother. I am required to be funny, quirky and silly. I am quite confident playing the part. My sister of course says I am made for the role because I am always acting hyper!
Celina Randeniya finds it a more wholesome experience than any shes so far had in theatre. Ive taken part in productions where the focus was on the main characters. The others had to wait for hours doing very little. Here, Sashane works with everyone, treating each as though he or she is playing a main role. Its like a huge weight being lifted off of me. I feel important and grown up, I feel special, somehow. Theres a tweak of specialness coming in.
The older players delved deeper into the text and the overall production. According to Nimaya Harris who plays the Medium Alison, whats different about Fun Home is that it is very, very contemporary in terms of the issues and the nature of the music. 
It doesnt necessarily try to be a musical. It is a play about a family that happens to like music, rather than a flashy musical number. Its a real life story about people and experiences. And the fact that we are portraying a real, live persons experience is crazy. Not many frills, not many effects. Raw. Emotional. Stripped down. Its not something I am used to but I am loving this, which is a very different kind of experience.
Mario De Soyza, who plays Bruce Bechdel, broke the entire thing down to three key factors. First, the content of the story, in the context of musicals. Musicals tend to have a larger-than-life presentation of essentially someones imagination, but this doesnt feel like that. Its more like a street play. The songs complement the story.
As an actor, this doubles up the challenge.
Secondly, the style of music is very current. Its not a 15-20 member orchestra. We have just a few people doing the music. This had been the first time that Jeanine Tesore had composed for a musical. Its nothing like weve heard before (in a musical). Like a pop concert. Theres something beautiful about the music, which is what first got to me.
And finally, its a novel story thats being told. Its relevant, it speaks of and to identity issues, everyone trying to find their place, doing stuff to fit in, and they hurt people along the way. It mirrors everyday life. Its very raw in this sense, there are no frills.
In other words, it is not just about a woman exploring a relationship she thought she knew. Its like a extrapolation of the Senaka Batagodas popular song, Api Kavruda (who are we), where the text and the characters are constantly searching for who they (and each other) really are, just like in the song, hoyanava, hoyanava, hoyanava meapi kavruda
According to Sashane the only place to watch Fun Home outside the USA on these particular days would be Sri Lanka. Of course it is not the same production. He pointed out that they had to improvise and find ways of doing without the kind of infrastructure that is normal for Broadway productions. It is a unique production, then, with probably a lot of quintessentially Sri Lankan touches. 
Ayushka has picked a quote from the character to post on social media: I want to know whats true, dig deep into who, and what, and why, and when. Until now gives way to then... We all want to know, but that digging business is not easy. We get our hands, minds and hearts soiled in the process, but perhaps the truth or its approximation is reward enough. 
And of the production itself It is a beautiful, beautiful musical. That would be enough, I believe. 
CAST: Ayushka Nugaliyadda and Namali Premawardhana (Alison), Mario De Soyza and Vishan Gunawardena (Bruce Bechdel), Nimaya Harris and Vinuri Weerawardena (Medium Alison), Celina Randeniya and Kumaya Gunatilaka (Small Alison), Amandhi Caldera and Yanitra Kumaraguru (Helen Bechdel), Rashmi de S Wijeyeratne (Joan), Niven Nanayakkara (Christian Bechdel), Caelan Gunatilaka and Venuka Rison Joseph (John Bechdel), and Ruvin de Silva (Roy/Pete/Mark/Bobby Jeremy).
ORCHESTRA: Charith Fernando (drums), Pathum Fernando (guitar), Isaac Smith (bass), Tehani Tissera (violin), Rochana Ramanayake (cello), Shashini Pandithasundera (keybaoards), Johann Peiris (keyboard/conductor).
 
		
==============================
## Title: Golden Peacock Award went missing 25 years ago
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 06:45 pm
Golden Peacock Award went missing 25 years ago
	
Amidst widespread claims and media reports that the Golden Peacock Award of Dr. Lester James Peries had been stolen from his residence a few days ago, a senior member of his film team said the award that went missing was a Lifetime Achievement Award presented to Dr. Peries from India.
There is a misconception that the prestigious Golden Peacock award that Dr. Peries received for his celebrated film Gamperaliya had been stolen. In fact, this Golden Peacock Award went missing 25 years ago after the demise of the films producer Anton Wickremasinghe. The Golden Peacock award for Gamperaliya was in the custody of the late Wickremasinghe who also lived down Dickmans Road. But since his demise in 1993, the award went missing mysteriously, said Mr. Upali Perera who was a close confidante of Dr. Peiris was also his assistant director in almost all his films.
To the best of my knowledge I can say that this Golden Peacock Award was never in Dr. Peries home, he said. (RU)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Heavy rains likely in several places: Met. Dept.
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 01:45 pm
Heavy rains likely in several places: Met. Dept.
	
Heavy showers exceeding 100mm is likely in the Southern, Central, Sabaragamuwa, Uva and North-central province and in Kalutara district as a result of low level atmospheric disturbances in the vicinity of Sri Lanka, the Meteorology Department said today.
It said there could be temporary localized strong winds during the thundershowers and the people were requested to take adequate precautions to minimize damage caused by lightning.
Met Departments Duty Forecaster said the disturbance which was off the South West of the island could persist during next two days.
Showers will occur during the next two days and continue even after the disturbanceshad reduced, she added.
Meanwhile, the Meteorology Department had issued a hot weather warning for Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Trincomalee districts valid for tomorrow. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)


 
		
==============================
## Title: Illegal structures along Mirissa beach: Prez orders immediate removal
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:21 pm
Illegal structures along Mirissa beach: Prez orders immediate removal
	
President Maithripala Sirisena today ordered the Coast Conservation Department (CCD) to remove 18 unauthorized structures along the Mirissa beach.
CCD Director General B.K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi told the Daily Mirror that the illegal constructions would be removed immediately.
In the wake of some Dutch tourists including women being harassed and assaulted on April 8, the CCD identified 18 unauthorized constructions along the Mirissa beach, and they were scheduled to be removed by May 1.
However, the CCD had backtracked the removal of these illegal constructions apparently due to the influence of two powerful ministers.
However, Mr. Chandrakeerthi had met the President who is also the the Minister of Mahaweli Development & Environment and explained the wrongdoings in these illegal constructions and requested the President to intervene in the matter.
Mr. Chandrakeerthi had allegedly received threats from Wasantha Perera, commonly known as Karaoke Wasantha, when demolishing an illegal hotel owned by him in the Unawatuna Beach recently.
Meanwhile, law enforcement authorities are to deploy special units before demolishing the illegal constructions, to prevent any sabotage or protests by the Mirissa hoteliers. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Kim Jong-un: Will  denuke Korean peninsula
## Section: International
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:25 am
Kim Jong-un: Will  denuke Korean peninsula
	

Korea, (rt.com), 3 May 2018
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said he strongly supports denuclearization during a rare meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. The diplomat is visiting Pyongyang after a landmark agreement between the two Koreas.
The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is the firm position of the North Korean side, Kim Jong-un told Wang Yion Thursday. 
During the talks Kim also emphasized peaceful changes and further promotion of peace in the region that came after he traveled to the South and met his counterpart Moon Jae-in. The declaration, signed by the duo at the historic meeting on April 27, marked the beginning of new age of peace and sought complete denuclearization.
Beijing hailed the agreement that ends the state of war and said it fully supports North Koreas commitment.
On Wednesday, Wang Yi started a two-day visit to the neighbouring communist state and met his North Korean counterpart Ri Yong-Ho. Wang became the highest-ranking Chinese official to travel to North Korea in 11 years.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Media, Social Justice and Rule of Law
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:51 am
Media, Social Justice and Rule of Law
	
Yesterday was World Press Freedom Day and the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) which coordinates the event said every year May 3 is the date on which we celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom. The aim is to evaluate press freedom around the world, to defend the media from attacks on their independence and to pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession. 
According to UNESCO, World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 1993 following a recommendation adopted at the twenty-sixth session of UNESCOs General Conference in 1991. This in turn was a response to a call by African journalists who in 1991 produced the landmark Windhoek Declaration on media pluralism and independence. Last week in one of the worst attacks on journalists, a suicide bomber, posing as a journalist killed nine journalists in Afghanistan. Among them was a well known photojournalist who works for the French news agency AFP and had risked his life for more than a decade to show the world what was happening to innocent, voiceless people in that war-ravaged country.

UNESCO says it is a day to encourage and develop initiatives in favour of press freedom, and to assess the state of press freedom worldwide. May 3 serves as a reminder to governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom and is also a day of reflection among media professionals about issues of press freedom and professional ethics. Just as importantly, World Press Freedom Day is a day of support for media which are targets in the restraint, or abolition, of press freedom. It is also a day of remembrance for those journalists who lost their lives in the pursuit of a story.

In a message to mark the event, UNESCO Director General Audrey Azoulay says our liberty depends on the freedom of the press, and that cannot be limited without being lost. These words written by Thomas Jefferson in 1786, when he was fighting for the independence of his country, have a universal scope that transcends the historical moment of the foundation of the United States of America. 
Any State under the rule of law and respects individual freedoms, particularly the freedoms of opinion, conscience and expression, relies on a free, independent press that is safe from censorship or coercion, she says. 
The ideal of a State under the rule of law calls for well-informed citizens, transparent political decisions, public debates on topics of common interest and a plurality of viewpoints that shapes opinions and undermines official truths and dogmatism. This shaping and informative power mainly falls to the press and the media in general, under all their guises and through various mediums. 
UNESCO says it is actively involved in defending the freedom of expression, which is at the core of its mandate, and today marks the 25th World Press Freedom Day. The theme chosen this year is an open invitation to think of the relations between the media, justice and the rule of law. It is also an opportunity to examine the new challenges regarding the freedom of online press, the Director General adds. 
In Sri Lanka print media journalists held several events to mark the day. These included a prayer service at the Cinnamon Gardens Baptist Church. It was organized by the National Christian Council of Sri Lanka (NCCSL) in co-operation with the Movement of Journalists for Media Ethics and Social Justice. 
Among key issues, journalists need to deeply reflect today on what their essential role is, their goals and vision. Essentially a journalist needs to be the voice of the voiceless people spotlighting the crisis facing millions of people who are caught up in a poverty trap set up by a selfish and wicked world. Journalists need to be their voice, spotlighting their plight in a manner that compels the authorities to meet the needs of these poverty-trapped people, restore their dignity as human beings and give them a voice in the decision-making processes. The commitment to a peaceful, just and all inclusive society needs to be one of the principles of journalism. On a day such as this, journalists also need to commit themselves to the principle of free, accurate and balanced reporting or investigative feature writing without allowing themselves to be used as tools of political parties or to achieve the vested interests of media group investors. 



 
		
==============================
## Title: Met Dept warns of atmospheric disturbance over SL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 08:05 pm
Met Dept warns of atmospheric disturbance over SL
	
An atmospheric disturbance that has developed over Sri Lanka is set to bring heavy rains exceeding 100mm in the coming days, the Department of Meteorology said today.
Meanwhile, the Department warned of hot weather in the North and East causing the complicated weather conditions in the country.
The Department said showers exceeding 100mm are expected in the Southern, Central, Sabaragamuwa, Uva, North Central and in the Kalutara District in the coming days.
Gusty winds were also expected along with heavy showers. Rainfall exceeded 50mm in some places including Colombo today. (Yohan Perera and Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Milk powder prices up by Rs.20
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 09:46 am
Milk powder prices up by Rs.20
	
The price of 400 gram packet of full cream milk powder has been increased by Rs.20 with effect from midnight today, the Industry and Commerce Ministry said.
It said the decision was taken after the Cost of Living Committee recommended to the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) the price increase on a 400 gram packet of full cream milk powder by Rs.20 and a kilo by Rs.50.
The price increase will apply to full cream milk powder manufactured locally and internationally.
Milk powder importers had recently requested for an increase of Rs.100 on a kilo of imported milk powder to off set importer costs.
However, the proposal was rejected by the CAA and the Cost of Living Committee on the basis that the move was badly timed.
Importers had then requested a price increase of Rs.75 but that was turned down.
Milk powder importers claimed that the cost of one metric ton of milk powder in the world market was between US$3,250 and US$3,350 and could fluctuate between US$3,400 and US$3,500 by June.
It was against this backdrop, that the importers had requested for a price increase from the Consumer Affairs Authority (CAA) and the Cost of Living Committee. Importers have informed the Prime Minister on the possibility milk powder imports coming to a standstill.
The importers said milk powder stocks in the local market were sufficient only for the next two or three weeks. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

Video by Susantha
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nanotech Based
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Nanotech Based
	
Water-free cleaning liquid invented !
Robotic Engineer Rakitha Brito has created a water-free nanotech liquid to protect vehicle paint. This liquid can be applied on cars, vans, buses, three wheelers and motorcycles. 
Usually people clean their vehicles weekly. Due to mud and dust vehicles get dirty. After a heavy shower the dust trapped in water bubbles is often visible. These vehicles get dirty and unpleasant because of bird droppings and air pollution. 
Usually it takes more than one and a half hours to do a thorough cleaning of vehicles like cars and vans. Engaging in this cleaning process would be an issue for most people who are employed. The amount of water consumed during the washing process is also a major issue. The usage of a pressure gun during this cleaning process is popular, hence the consumption of electricity is also high. Too much of chemicals also also used during the cleaning process. The mixture of chemicals and water causes many effects. Most of the time during this cleaning process micro scratches do take place due to the use of certain tools. Even after washing the vehicle one should engage in a wiping process because there is potential for dust to stick on the vehicle. This is due to the presence of water bubbles. People have got used to waxing vehicles following a wash. 
The effect of micro scratches in the long run is that it would reduce the mirror effect of the paint in a vehicle. This would appear very ugly. Thereafter to regain the mirror effect in a vehicle it should be buffed by a buffing machine and during this process energy is consumed. 
Considering all these issues and drawbacks I have invented a liquid using Nano technology. This new product, which would solve all these issues, would also help save water in gallons.
By adopting this new way of cleaning the user could feel that his job is finished easily. By using this liquid, vehicles could be washed or cleaned inside 25 minutes. Whats needed for this cleaning process are Nano technology liquid, a piece of sponge and a piece of micro fibre thread. 
Since this cleaning process is water-free, environmental pollution would be prevented. Apart form saving water, electricity would be reduced. All this would be a huge saving for the consumer. The occurrence of micro scratches would be reduced and there is no need for waxing. Since the Nano liquid stays upon the paint as a layer it would be an additional shield for the paint in the vehicle. The Nano liquid would help create a smooth and shiny surface which is better than waxing because it gives an oily effect to the vehicle surface. 

Vehicles can be cleaned at any place in minimum time without the use of water and electricity. To use this liquid, we do not need water, a water pump, a water tube, water basins, chemical and electricity. During this cleaning process most of the items are reduced and the effectiveness is increased. 
The dust particles are in the micro layer. The liquid is made of Nano particles. Once it is sprayed the Nano particles would sneak through the dust particles. As a result dust would float on top of the Nano particles. The dust then can be wiped away using a sponge.
Most importantly this is an Environment friendly product and users could use it without any side effects. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Nuke-liar Netanyahu setting stage for a war party
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:39 am
Nuke-liar Netanyahu setting stage for a war party
	
Israels hardline Prime Minister, known for his theatrical stunts that have now become a kind of clich, was at it again on Monday. Showing slide after slide and removing black cloths covering a cabinet of files and a panel of CDs, Netanyahu walked the stage, like a wannabe David Copperfield, to accuse Iran of misleading the international community and secretly developing nuclear weapons.
With many experts not convinced about the media stunts at the Defence Ministry in Tel Aviv, the Israeli Prime Minister stands exposed as a nuke-liar. Apart from United States President Donald Trump, there was little international support for his claim made through a giant slideshow titled Atomic Archive: Irans Secret Nuclear Files. To give his exercise some special effects, on one slide, Netanyahu had just two words -- Iran lied  in huge lettering. It reminded one of Netnayahus 2012 United Nations address during which he, in yet another attention-grabbing exercise, displayed a diagram claiming to be Irans nuclear bomb. Some 15 years ago, US President George W. Bush also misled the international community and the American people into believing that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction  a lie which the Bush administration kept saying to justify its invasion of Iraq.
Experts say that Netanyahus so-called revelation was a load of old bollocks. They say the Israeli Prime Minister had provided no evidence that Iran contravened the terms of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)  the agreement Iran signed in 2015 with the US, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany.
Nonproliferation expert Mark Fitzpatrick, executive director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, told CNN, Theres nothing new in the material that Netanyahu revealed. All of it was information that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) already had and has already commented on.
Another nonproliferation expert Jeffrey Lewis from the Middlebury Institute of International Studies said everything Netanyahu presented from the name of Irans secret programme  Project Amad -- down to the fine details was found in the IAEAs final report.
Rob Malley, senior foreign policy advisor to President Barack Obama, said that for those who followed the Iran nuclear file, there was nothing new in Netanyahus presentation.
Also not convinced was the IAEA which has released eight statements since Iran signed the JCPOA in 2015, confirming that Tehran has been meeting its nuclear commitments fully.
In terms of the agreement, Iran has restricted the enrichment of uranium to less than 20 percent, transferred the uranium that had been enriched beyond 20 percent to Russia, reduced the number of centrifuges in its reactors, slashed its uranium stockpiles and allows regular visits by IAEA inspectors. Iran described Netanyahus presentation as a childish and ridiculous show and warned of dire consequences if the JCPOA was allowedto collapse.

Everything Netanyahu presented from the name of Irans secret programme  Project Amad -- down to the fine details was found in the IAEAs final report

While Irans compliance with the JCPOA has been endorsed by the IAEA and other signatories to the agreement, the Trump administration has been critical of the deal. Trump has threatened to pull out of the JCPOA which he has called the worst deal ever. When Obama okayed the deal in 2015, the Congress gave its approval, subject to a yearly endorsement by the President. Last year Trump reluctantly gave his approval. Indications are that on May 12, when the agreement comes up for his signature, he will not sign it. This will signal the United States formal withdrawal from the JCPOA. Yet, the agreement will survive. Both Russia and China  Irans two biggest trading partners  are standing by Iran and would not let the agreement collapse. Germany and the European Union have said that the deal stands. France, though President Emmanuel Macron during his US visit appeared to share some of Trumps concerns over Iran, will also not withdraw from the agreement. Neither will Britain.
With the rest of the big powers backing the deal, the US has been isolated. The underlying message that world affairs can move on without US involvement is, indeed, a slap in the face for the Trump administration.
Netanyahus stage show and Trumps anti-Iran outbursts have not taken place in a vacuum. They are inter-related and were well timed to set in motion an agenda authored by the anti-Iran axis that brings together the US, Israel, Saudi Arabia and a couple of Arab nations. They want Iran brought to its knees. The 2015 nuclear deal has provided sanctions-crippled Iran a way out of its economic crisis. Iran is on a major drive to rebuild the economy. It has signed multibillion dollar deals with China to build new railroads, highways and oil and gas fields. With Russia, Iran has signed an oil-for-goods deal  a move that enables both Russia and Iran to bypass the petrodollar.
Of course, Iran also signed a US$ 16.6 billion deal with US aircraft maker Boeing for the supply of new aircraft. If the US withdrawal from the JPOC takes place on May 12, Trump, in a bid to cripple Irans economic revival and appease Saudi Arabia and Israel, may impose fresh sanctions on Teheran. That will be the end of the Boeing deal. But this is no major loss for the US, because Irans US$ 16.6 billion is just a fraction of the mega deals Trump signed with Saudi Arabia during his May 2017 visit to the kingdom, his first overseas visit as President. Of the Saudi deals worth US$ 450 billion, US$ 110 billion are for arms purchases. But these deals come with a Saudi request to crush Iran.
Judging by the statements and the actions of the US, Israel and Saudi Arabia after President Trumps Middle East visit, it appears that Saudi Arabias request has been met by a US request for the kingdom to normalise relations with Israel and give approval for Israels annexation of Jerusalem. This week al-Jazeera published remarks said to be made by Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad Bin Salman during his US visit in March. He is reported to have told heads of US-based Jewish groups that the Palestinian leadership must accept conditions for peace put forward by the Trump administration, agree to come to the negotiation table or shut up and stop complaining. Of course, Trumps peace plan does not recognise the Palestinians aspirations of making East Jerusalem the capital of their future state.
Saudi Arabia is yet to deny the report, which is yet another indication that Saudi Arabia is working in tandem with Israel and the Trump administration to destabilise Iran even if it means abandoning the Palestinian cause the kingdom was, in the past, known to have championed.
Iran and Saudi Arabia are at loggerheads in Syria where Israel, acting like the air force of ISIS, regularly attacks military bases from where Syrian and Iranian soldiers operate. The Saudis are seething with anger and jealousy that the Syrian regime, with help from Russia and Iran, is nearing victory. In the Yemen conflict, too, Saudi Arabia and Iran are onopposing sides.
The American people need to be aware of moves by Israel and Saudi Arabia to drag their country into a war with Iran. Given the domestic political exigencies linked to the Russian probe and other issues, Trump, who is now being advised by neocons such as John Bolton, may go along with the war party.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Over 100 killed as powerful dust storm hits north India
## Section: International
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:32 am
Over 100 killed as powerful dust storm hits north India
	

A strong dust storm swept across several parts of western and northern India on Wednesday, killing more than 100 people and injuring hundreds more in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, leaving a trail of destruction, uprooting trees and disrupting power supply in Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.
At least 64 people were killed in four districts of western Uttar Pradesh with maximum deaths reported in Agra.
Thirty-five people were killed in Rajasthan with Bharatpur suffering the maximum damage. The district reported 17 deaths. Nine people died in neighbouring Dholpur in the high-speed dust storm that started around 7pm and wreaked havoc for two hours. Nine deaths were reported from Alwar.
Most deaths occurred in house collapse due to the storm, officials in
Rajasthan said.
A squall and dust storm followed by heavy rain also lashed New Delhi on Wednesday evening and caused traffic snarls in some parts of the national capital.
The storm also caused major destruction in Alwar where more than 100 trees were uprooted, many of which fell on stationary vehicles and snapped electricity cables. The power distribution company switched off electricity to prevent further damage.
Weather department officials said the downpour and thunderstorm are expected to continue for another 48 hours especially in the hilly regions like Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts.
The Meteorological Centre, Uttarakhand warned a fresh downpour was approaching and likely to affect the western Himalayan region from May 5.
Lucknow/Jaipur/New Delhi, Hindustan Times, May 03, 2018
 
		
==============================
## Title: PM to meet Prez about objections against reshuffle
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 09:12 am
PM to meet Prez about objections against reshuffle
	
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe is to meet and discuss with President Maithripala Sirisena certain objections that have been raised by UNP backbenchers on the recent reshuffle, with emphasis on the appointment of new deputy and state ministers, UNP sources said yesterday.
The sources said the UNP backbenchers had been especially critical of Syed Ali Zahir Moulana's appointment as the Deputy Minister of National Integration Reconciliation and Official Languages.
The backbenchers have expressed their dissatisfaction when they met with the Prime Minister on Wednesday (2) these sources revealed.
The meeting between the two leaders is expected to take place next week.
Another suggestion made by these UNP backbenchers was to have a successor in mind for the posts filled recently as a result of the reshuffle as recommended by the Ruwan Wijewardene committee report. This committee was appointed to look into the UNP reforms. (Yohan Perera)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Pragna Pradeepa celebrates 31st anniversary in Kataragama
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Pragna Pradeepa celebrates 31st anniversary in Kataragama
	
Gel Saviya in Anuradhapura around 20 years ago
Gautama Buddha enunciated Parathittha Patiwajjatha which means that one must look into the welfare of others. What he practised as an aspirant of Buddhahood (Bodhisatwa) was self sacrifice. He was also concerned about the welfare of others. The main object of attaining Buddhahood is to show others the path so that they can relieve themselves from suffering. The didactic poem Loweda Sangarawa, which we often read as schoolchildren, laid down the axiom in brief that one must consider his own interests and those of others equally well. (Athweda Paraweda Samawa sithanne). 
The Pragna Pradeepa Movement, founded 31 years ago by Member of the Western Provincial Council Jayantha De Silva, is based on this noble concept enunciated by Gautama Buddha. It is a benevolent and peoples friendly movement dedicated to find solutions to misery and ignorance. It soon turned into a gigantic welfare progamme spread all over the Western Province and beyond. Pragna Pradeepa spread its branches like a huge tree and with its light glorified the life of tens of thousands of young men and women. The founder of the movement Jayantha De Silva was just a Municipal Councilor when he launched it with his meager salary. 
The Pragna Pradeepa movement has continued to grow and has guided the people along the path to a happier, fuller and a pleasanter life. Since its inception it has launched many a social welfare programme to help the carters. Helping the Dhamma schools with cash and kind, implementing projects to uplift artistes, helping temples, providing monetary assistance to women belonging to low income families and make them depend on self employment, housing aid for low income families, implementing infrastructure projects in urban areas, and donating books and school requisites to children are among them. Pragna Pradeepa is today a household word and a towering figure in the field of social service that supersedes any other social welfare organization in the country. It is really distinct in that it never resorted to propaganda and seeking cheap popularity at a colossal expenditure. Organizations launched for the sake of popularity were short-lived. However the Pragna Pradeepa movement, is deep rooted in the hearts of the people. 
The Pragna Pradeepa movement has continued to grow and has guided the people along the path to a happier, fuller and a pleasanter life
Welfare of the people 
The Pragna Pradeepa concept was the brainchild of Provincial Council Member Jayantha De Silva. However, several of his friends extended their wholehearted cooperation as the movement progressed. Yet the success of the Pragna Pradeepa movement depended entirely on the unstinted courage and determination of its founder who was motivated by one thing. That one thing is the welfare of the people. His dedication and self sacrifice contributed to the success of the Pragna Pradeepa movement. 
Jayantha De Silvas Pragna Pradeepa has been functioning for 31 years as a beacon light guiding thousands of people to better their lives regardless of communal, religious, or political differences. He is an unparalleled social worker. He continues to fulfill his responsibilities for the welfare of others. 
The flames of Pragna Pradeep would brighten the society as an unparalleled social welfare movement, not only in Sri Lanka, but also in the whole of Asia. 
The wholehearted cooperation of a group of individuals, who have joined hands with the founder, has strengthened the Pragna Pradeepa concept.
The Pragna Pradeepa movement, engaging in well organised and transparent social welfare activities, celebrates its 31st anniversary on May 13, 2018 in Kataragama. The programme includes a series of religious activities, donation of books and school requisites to children of low income families in the area. 
All members of the Pragna Pradeepa movement and others who take an interest in this worthy cause are cordially invited to attend the occasion. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: President's Chief of Staff, STC Chairman remanded
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 09:32 am
President's Chief of Staff, STC Chairman remanded
	
The senior official attached to the Presidential Secretariat and the Chairman of State Timber Corporation (STC), who were arrested for allegedly receiving a bribe, were remanded till next Thursday (9) by the Colombo Chief Magistrate last night.
The two suspects, Presidents Chief of Staff I. H. K. Mahanama and State Timber Corporation (STC) Chairman P. Dissanayaka were arrested by the Bribery Commission last evening in the act of accepting a bribe of Rs.20 million from an Indian businessman.
The suspects had allegedly solicited a bribe of Rs.540 million from the businessman promising that they would provide him with the approval needed to obtain machinery and building space for business purposes. However, after negotiations were held between the two parties, it was decided to reduce the asking price to Rs.100 million, it was alleged.

Video by Buddhi
 
		
==============================
## Title: Read your fortune from yogas formed on your palm  Part VI
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 4 May 2018 11:17 am
Read your fortune from yogas formed on your palm  Part VI
	
Human hand  Trailblazer of human civilization

Clues to find whether you will:
enjoy health and longevity
	gain fame for discoveries and inventions
	lead a happy and contented life
	go abroad for pleasure or on duty
	rise to a high position and will become world-famous for great achievements

We wish to familiarize you with the following favourable yogas as well which also occur in Astrology resulting from certain specific planetary combinations.

Bheri Yoga:
This yoga is formed when there is a developed Mount of Jupiter in the right hand with a combination of small lines making up the Mercury line.
Result:
The subject is healthy and strong and is endowed with longevity. He is wealthy, virtuous and persevering. He has many friends and he can turn his enemies into his friends.

Mridanga Yoga:
A well-developed Mount of Saturn and a line of Saturn made up of small lines together form this yoga.
Result:
The subject is innovative. He gains fame through his discoveries and inventions. He has the ability to influence people and win friends.

Srinatha Yoga:
A developed mount of Moon and a Moon line made up of small lines preceding towards the mount of Mercury without a break from this yoga.
Result:
A person possessing this yoga is wealthy and prosperous. His family life is a great success. He leads a happy and contented life. He is so fortunate that all his endeavours bear fruit.

Videsha-yatra Yoga:
This yoga is formed when a straight vertical line originating from a well-developed Mount of Moon proceeds towards the Mount of Mercury.
Result:
A beneficiary of this yoga is sure to go abroad for pleasure or on duty.
If any line branching out from this line goes towards the mount of Sun, the subject goes abroad due to his preeminence in an academic or other field. If a line branching out from the main line goes towards the Mount of Mercury, the subject goes abroad on a business matter. If a branch line goes towards the Mount of Jupiter, the subject goes abroad for education or on a government assignment. A branch line from the main line proceeding towards the Mount of Venus signifies journeying abroad for pleasure. A branch line proceeding towards the Lower mount of Mars indicates a trip abroad on a military matter or an affair connected with subjects high office in the army. Following formations also signify travel abroad:
1. A branch line from the Moon line proceeding towards the Mount of Venus and when both Mounts of Moon and Venus are developed.
2. There is a mark of a whirl pool on the Mount of Moon.
3. There is a ring of Mercury on the mount of Mercury and a line originating from it going to the Mount of Moon.

Pushkala Yoga:
A person becomes a beneficiary of this Yoga if his mounts of Saturn and Venus are well developed and the Fate line originating from the Mount of Venus reaches the centre of mount of Saturn.
Result:
The subject is handsome and has a magnetic personality. He makes friends easily because of winning manners. He leads a happy and comfortable life. He would rise to a high position because of hard work and good qualities.
Following formations also signify the Pushkala Yoga:
There is a straight thin and clear Fate line originating from the Mount of Moon.
	The Fate line originating from the Mount of Mercury reaches the Mount of Saturn without a break.
	The Fate and the Moon line jointly reach the Mount of Saturn.
	A branch of a Fate line originating from the bracelets reaches the Mount of Sun.

Chamara Yoga:
This yoga is formed when fingers are long, nails are reddish and both Fate line and Sun line join at their origin from the bracelets.
Result:
A beneficiary of this yoga is learned and highly respected by people. He becomes famous in his country and abroad because of his outstanding achievements.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sancharaka Udawa 2018
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:08 am
Sancharaka Udawa 2018
	




















The Sri Lanka's largest tourism and travel fair organized by the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) was launched today under the patronage of Minister of Tourism Development, John Amaratunga at the Sirimavo Bandaranaike Memorial Exhibition Centre. Pix by Kithsiri de Mel





















 
		
==============================
## Title: Significations of planets and the Houses they rule as Karakas
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 4 May 2018 11:23 am
Significations of planets and the Houses they rule as Karakas
	
An imperative in Predictive Astrology


The twelve Bhavas or Houses represent the entire history of the individual. By a scrutiny of the planetary combinations and aspects of the twelve Houses, the whole life of a person can be predicted, says Indian Jyotish Gurudev
Dr. B.V. Raman.

Importance of Karakatva of Bhavas and planets
A thorough understanding of the Karakatva or signification of each Bhava and that of each planet is a prerequisite for deciphering the destiny of a person from his Natal Chart.
Prasna Marga, a treatise on Horary Astrology provides us with details pertaining to significations of the planets.

Planets representing Mother and father
According to great Indian sage Varahamihiras Brihat Jataka for a person born during the daytime, Sun represents father and Venus mother. For a person born in the night, Saturn denotes father, Moon the mother
For those born during the day Saturn represents paternal uncles, Moon maternal uncles.
Again, Saturn in an odd sign represents for those born during the daytime, father, those born in the night time paternal uncles.
Moon in an even sign represents in the daytime births mother, night time births
maternal uncles.

Maternal aunts and uncles
Sun in odd signs represents in daytime births paternal uncle, in night time births father.
Moon in even signs represents in the daytime births maternal aunt and in night time births mother.
From above it is seen paternal uncles and maternal uncles are to be determined in the reverse order depending on the odd or the even sign Sun and Moon occupy.
Therefore, we cannot always refer to Sun as Pitrukaraka or Significator for father.
Planets while functioning as Karakas for certain persons related to the native, signify certain qualities and things and become Karakas for Bhavas as well.

Conjunction of Bhava lord and Karaka planet
According to principles enunciated in the classical Astrological work Bhavarta Ratnakara, a Bhava becomes strong when the Bhava lord and the Karaka planet are in conjunction.
Let us take the case of a person born in Taurus Lagna. The lord of his 7th House is Mars. The Karaka for wife is Venus. If Mars and Venus are in conjunction, the native would have a happy married life.


 
		
==============================
## Title: SL housemaids in Lebanon sent back for overstaying
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 02:58 pm
SL housemaids in Lebanon sent back for overstaying
	
A total of 58 Lankan housemaids who overstayed in Lebanon were returned to the country today.
They were returned by the Sri Lankan Embassy in Beirut on a Kuwait Airways flight that touched down at the BIA at around 9.30 am.
Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment (SLBFE) officials, who received the group on their arrival, took measures to send them to their residences.
A spokesperson for the SLBFE told the Daily Mirror that the group was returned during an amnesty period declared by the Lebanese Government. (T. K. G. Kapila)

Video by Prasad Muthukuda
 
		
==============================
## Title: SP, 17 ASPs transferred
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 05:40 pm
SP, 17 ASPs transferred
	
One SP and 17 ASPs had been transferred with immediate effect by the National Police Commission (NPC), under the recommendation of IGP Pujith Jayasundara.
Police Media said they were transferred due to service requirements.
Accordingly, SP K.B. Keerthiratne has been transferred from the Batticaloa Division to the Kandy Division.
ASP H.D.N. Abeywardhane of the Presidents Security Division (PSD) has been transferred to the Colombo North Division.
Meanwhile, ASP W.J.H. Fonseka has been transferred from the Terrorism Investigation Division (TID) to the Vavuniya Division and will be replaced by ASP A.W.S.P. Perera from the Hatton Division. (TK)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thajudeen case: CID seeks details of Navy personnel
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 05:18 am
Thajudeen case: CID seeks details of Navy personnel
	
The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) filing a report before the Colombo Magistrates Court yesterday sought details from the Navy personnel who had provided security to the members of former Presidents family during the period of ruggerite Wasim Thajudeens murder.
They sought details of the Presidents Internal Affairs Secretary, the telephone messages carried out from the Presidents House, the Temple Trees and the Telecommunication Department.
The CID had also sought details of the persons to whom the vehicles bearing registration numbers PD 1387, LD 8180, KA9816, 64 -1476, KD 0124.KA 9268, LW 0573 and PA 7281 were entrusted and the drivers of those vehicles during the month of May 2012.
The CID said that they were further probing on the suspicious messages sent to 14 persons from the mobile phone of Mariana Rashvi De Silva, a participant to the party hosted by Waseem Thajudeen on the night of his death.
The CID also asserted that they did not able to identify from the CCTV footage the two persons, who were in the suspicious vehicle that chased Thajudeen's vehicle on the day he was found dead,
In this case former Senior DIG Anura Senanayake and former Narahenpita Crimes OIC Sumith Perera and retired Colombo Chief JMO Ananda Ssamarasekera were charged under the Penal Code for disappearance of evidence and for fabricating false evidence in order to shield the offenders Further inquiry postponed for June 29.Bodymatter (T. Farook Thajudeen)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Thats the beauty of the man, Lester
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:33 am
Thats the beauty of the man, Lester
	

Lester James Peries was that day, honoured as the longest living reputed film director in the world
It was only after Rekawa was acclaimed as the path breaking Sinhala film that Lester came to be spoken of as the Sri Lankan version of Sathyajith Ray
Lester also picked on two naturally Sinhala voices for vocals, in Sisira Senaratne and Indrani Wijebandara
A birthday cake was cut on his 99th birthday that fittingly celebrated with wife Sumithras film Vaishnavi premired at the Regal Cinema Colombo on 05 April (2018), attended by the most elite and the celebrated audience one could ever expect in Colombo.
He, Lester James Peries was that day, honoured as the longest living reputed film director in the world.The oldest active film director on record is the famous Portuguese Director Manoel de Oliveira, who in 2014 at the grand old age of 104 years, directed the film, The Old Man of Belem.

Lesters last feature film was Ammawaruney (Mothers) directed in 2006 when he was 87 years in age. With Ammawaruney he completed 20 feature films, beginning with Rekawa (Line of destiny), the path breaking Sinhala film released in December 1956. 
The year 1956 is a very significant year in our post independent history, both politically and culturally. Politically, it brought to culmination the ride of Sinhala Buddhist politics to dominance with Bandaranaike voted PM and Sinhala made the only official language. It was a coincidence for Sinhala Buddhists to have the opportunity to celebrate Vesak as Buddha Jayanthi the 2,500 year anniversary of the Final passing away of Lord Buddha. In arts and culture, Ediriweera Sarachchandras epic stylised drama Maname was staged in Colombo heralding a new beginning in Sinhala stage drama, followed by Lester James Pereiss film Rekawa.
At the 1957 Cannes international film festival, Rekawa was well received although it forced Lesters film production company Chitra Lanka Limited to put up shutters. Lesters daring to leave studios and sets to shoot outdoor did not lift it commercially high. But that radical decision to go on location was path breaking. Ignoring the then formula of a 02 hour 30 minute film with a hero, villain, romance, fighting, comedy and a long list of songs with Dravidian melodies in a family setting and to go to a rural Sinhala Buddhist village to narrate a simple story woven around a young village boy was also high risk and path breaking too. No fighting, no romance, no hero or villain as such, but some wit and real life humanity, left Rekawa meek in the box office.
From his second film Sandeshaya (1960) through Gamperaliya (1963) to Ransalu (1967), Goluhadawatha (1968), Nidhanaya (1972) to Madolduwa (1976), he borrowed most such stories from reputed Sinhala novelists

It is interesting to place Lester alongside his own film Rekawa that was wholly rural in context and in a way was alien life for Lester. He was born to a very conservative, elite and an affluent Roman Catholic family in Dehiwala. Was schooled at St. Peters College Bambalapitiya and began his young life as a junior journalist with the English newspaper Daily News first and then Times of Ceylon. He tried his hand at fiction with 02 short stories, The Teacher and Saree. None about rural life he wasnt ever familiar with. After about 10 years of journalism, he left to London in 1947. There he was drawn into films in a completely different cultural milieu, with amateur film clubs growing fast in developing cinema with experimenting. 
His first attempt in directing was in 1949 with Farewell to Childhood based on his own short story Saree. Completing it in 1950 he was recognised for its creativity and was awarded the Amateur Cine World Silver Plaque judged as one among the 10 best amateur films that year. In 1951 he teamed up with Hereword Jansz another Sri Lankan of Dutch Burgher origin who was the cameraman in the short 20 minute film Soliloquy. This was awarded The Mini Cinema Cup for Short Films for its technical proficiency in 1951 by the Institute of Amateur and Experimental Film Makers Festival-Great Britain.
In late 1952 he returned and in just 03 plus years, scripted and directed Rekawa a film set in a rural Sinhala Buddhist village that with superstitions, myths, rituals and beliefs, was completely different to his upbringing and grooming both in Colombo and in London. He had not seen or been influenced by the Bengali film director, the Indian Great Sathyajith Ray when he laid his hands on Rekawa. It was only after Rekawa was acclaimed as the path breaking Sinhala film that Lester came to be spoken of as the Sri Lankan version of Ray. Sathyajith Ray was internationally recognised with his film Patharpanchali (1955) and then Aparajitho (1956) that came before Rekawa. They were two South Asian film directors who broke into stardom and recognition, each on his own. 
It is interesting to place Lester alongside his own film Rekawa that was wholly rural in context and in a way was alien life for Lester
Lester and village life in Rekawa is attributed to his close working relationship with Ralph Keene a Britisher who was invited in 1952 to head the Government Film Unit (GFU). Keene knew Ceylon well having made a documentary String of Beads in 1947, for tea propaganda. In 1952 his script directed by George Wickramasinghe documented the lives of Negombo fishermen. The second was The Heritage of Lanka that covered Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Mihintale and Sri Pada. Keene was giving his documentaries a very local touch with musical scores that used folk rhythms and melodies. For the musical score in The Heritage of Lanka he had renowned Singer/musician Deva Surya Sena. Lester was Keenes Assistant Director. That gave Lester good insight into Lankas heritage but it was Keenes next documentary in 1953, that documented the rural village life, titled Nelungama that actually led Lester to Rekawa.
After Keene left Ceylon, George Wickramasinghe was head, GFU. That led to more documentaries on local issues and Conquest of the Dry Zone produced in 1954 is one masterpiece among them. It was on the Ceylonese health service that successfully controlled the raging Malaria epidemic, the best success story on public health in Asia. This earned Lester much applause for his direction and it had special mention at the Venice Film Festival. Conquest of the Dry Zone captured the hard lif eand exposed Lester to myths and rituals in the ordinary rural life, Lester dwells on in Rekawa. 
Like Keene, Lester too brought together two out of the ordinary personalities to write songs and create melodies for Rekawa. Both from the Hela school of Sinhala. One was Rev. Fr. Mercelline Jayakody the reputed lyricist and the other, also a Catholic, B. Don Joseph John, much respected for his pioneering work in Sinhala music and song, the stubborn experimentalist Sunil Santha. Lester also picked on two naturally Sinhala voices for vocals, in Sisira Senaratne and Indrani Wijebandara. He thus created a marvel in Sinhala film, from where the Sinhala films began a new journey.
Lesters film life marks two phases that overlap each other. The first phase up to the beginning of the free market economy in 1978 marks a period he was accepted and honoured as the undisputed doyen of Sinhala film that reached the rural and urban middle class. Although he gradually settled within his comfortable urban life, it was a slow moving city life.There was time and space for leisure. His films in general revolved around human life that was in no hurry to leave today to catch tomorrowas soon as possible. From his second film Sandeshaya (1960) through Gamperaliya (1963) to Ransalu (1967), Goluhadawatha (1968), Nidhanaya (1972) to Madolduwa (1976), he borrowed most such stories from reputed Sinhala novelists Martin Wickramasinghe, Karunasena Jayalath and G.B. Senanayake. He was thus the icon of the pre free market middle class film world.
His second phase overlapping the previous in terms of his focus on human life, was nevertheless in a different socio economic and political context. Free market economy was pushing society into faster and new consumerised relationships quite different to the slow and peaceful life before that Lester was comfortable with. The free market consumer life was also dragged into an ethnic conflict turning it into a brutal and a savage war that was concluded 03 years after his last film Ammawarune (2006). Yet Lester was in no mind to cinematically de-construct those new human relationships in his creations. He stood aloof from all the turmoil around him, with old stories like Baddegama (1980), Kaliyugaya (1982), Yuganthaya (1983) picked from novels written by Leonard Wolfe and Martin Wickramasinghe. His one before the final contribution to Sri Lankan cinema, Wekande Walauwa (2002) was a Sinhala adaptation of Anton Chekovs play Cherry Orchard.

For the new generations in fast moving free market economy there was a mismatch between their turgid and taut lives and Lesters passive and a-political creations.That distance was nevertheless narrowed with Lesters mastery in storytelling in visual form, his cinematic language and his towering reputation as the pioneering architect of Sinhala cinema. In his second phase he therefore remained, not as the radical film director who broke with tradition in directing Rekawa but as the matured craftsman of cinematic creation who directed Nidhanaya, from one of G.B. Senanayakes short stories. Lesters selection of Tissa Abeysekera as script and dialogue writer who gelled with his art of storytelling, was lifted to international heights with Kemadasa Masters rich and haunting music. Gamini and Malini Fonseka giving off their best,Nidhanaya lies among the best 100 films made during 100 years of global cinema, as compiled by the French organisation Cinematheque Institute.
Once over his usual scotch on rocks at his private residence, I had a casual chat with Gamini Fonseka the Lord of Sri Lankan Cinemas one time in 1990, when I asked him how he fared with Lester James Peries as a director, turning out two superb roles in Gamperaliya and Nidhanaya. Silent for a few seconds, he sipped on his scotch before saying, Never drove me to deliver what he wanted. Just told me what he wants and sometimes left me to play what I understood. Thats the beauty of the man as a director.

In appreciation of LesterJames Peries who passed awayon 29 April, 2018 at the age of99 years.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Theresa May faces  near wipe out in the capital at local polls
## Section: International
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:31 am
Theresa May faces  near wipe out in the capital at local polls
	

UK, Daily Mail), 3 May 2018
Voters are heading to the polls in what could be a difficult day for Theresa May as the Conservatives face losing ground to Labour in London in what could be a political wipeout.
Experts believe the Tories could be left with just two councils in the capital, although pollsters say the party will present much stiffer competition elsewhere across the UK.The election in Southwarks newly formed London Bridge and West Bermondsey ward has been halted following the death of Conservative candidate Toby Eckersley aged 76. 
London is the major battleground after recent polls pointed towards a substantial swing to Labour.Upsets are also possible around the country, with Labour also hopeful of taking power in town halls from Kirklees and Calderdale in Yorkshire and Trafford in Greater Manchester to Plymouth and Swindon in the south.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Three Sri Lankans produce gold medals
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Three Sri Lankans produce gold medals
	
International youth scientists conference 2018
By Gayan Suriaratchchi
At the 25th International Youth Scientists conference 2018 held in Belgrade Serbia recently, Rakindu Randiv Wickramarathne of Nalanda College, Samashi Vihanga Muniweera of Colombo Sirimavo Bandaranaike Girls College and Savandi Senanayake of Kandy Girls High school won Gold Medals.
Rakindu Randiv won the award for finding the medicinal value in the Bakini fruit used in combating the Cancerous cells. Samashi Vihanga was awarded for identifying the medicinal value in the Dragon Fruit which is used in combating visible Cancerous cells. Savindi Senanayake was awarded for finding the Antibiotic value in a local plant.
These award winners initially won the all-island preliminary competitions to qualify for the Conference in Serbia
These award winners initially won the all-island preliminary competitions to qualify themselves for the Youth Scientists Conference in Serbia. The Ministry of Education selected these students and also provided them with the necessary funds.
What was significant about the achievements of these students was that they all managed to win gold medals. The research work of Gold Medallists Rakindu and Samashi were supervised by Bio Science unit Biologist of the Colombo University Sameera R. Samarakoon who is also a holder of a Doctorate at the Bio Technical institute. He was aided by his team of research assistants.
The event attracted more than 100 participants from 32 countries. Some of these competitors were from countries like France, Serbia, Germany, India, Thailand, Malaysia, Brazil, Georgia, Singapore, Poland, and Ukraine. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Towards a fair critique of the Jathika Chinthanaya
## Section: News Features
## Date: 4 May 2018 12:00 am
Towards a fair critique of the Jathika Chinthanaya
	
It is fashionable now and then to associate a particular movement with a particular ideology. What is forgotten there, sadly, is that movements and ideologies are hardly monolithic and are almost always the products of collective imaginations, obsessions and beliefs, which are as subject to change as the personalities of those who breed and perpetuate them. Human beings are rarely if at all flat; they are as idealistic as the people they combat against, which is to say that they are susceptible to change and expedience as and when the moment demands it. To lambaste a movement on the terms it purported to stand for years ago, hence, is not only meaningless, but also futile: it helps no one, and far from bringing up a space for constructive dialogue, it precludes such a thing. 
Over the years and decades, two important strands of thought have manifested themselves through the politics and representations of the Jathika Chinthanaya school of thought: Identity (Sinhala and Buddhist) and knowledge (or the pursuit thereof beyond the paradigm of explicitly Western knowledge systems). It has earned both praise and censure (obviously) and as things stand, those who praised it have turned over to censure it and those who censured it have turned over to (begrudgingly) side with it. Whats important when critiquing, or praising, such a movement, however (and both must be done, it must be said, with a pinch of salt), is the fact that these two strands of thought, which like a motif in a symphony have been forever associated with it, have complemented the dualistic, contradictory political strands it has got itself entangled with. 
The Jathika Chinthanaya traces its intellectual origins to the post-1956 cultural sphere of this country. What happened in 1956 was the displacement of the cultural by the political. When the politically cultural (since the movies of Lester James Peries, the novels of Wickramasinghe, and the plays of Sarachchandra were as political, inadvertently, as they were cultural) found its pivot in the political plane with the election of Bandaranaike, it was continuing or rather purporting to continue a tradition that had begun years if not decades before with Anagarika Dharmapala: The formation of a deshiya intellectual climate that no longer could be waived off by the ghosts and shackles of colonialism. 
But the election of Bandaranaike heralded in a politics of expedience, and while its not fair or just to level the indictment on just the politicians involved, it seems to me that they were to blame one way or another. This piece, however, is not about those who were involved and to blame. Rather, its about the confusions that have been sustained with respect to the social milieu which made 1956 possible, and which also made the cultural and political revolution after 1956 possible. If I may lay down this confusion in clear-cut terms: the fact is that 1956 could not have been possible without the same intellectual elite who were bandied about and vilified by its own members, and the fact is that the biggest purveyors and supporters of that aforementioned revolution were not, as was once supposed, the rural peasantry, but the rural and urban bourgeoisie: the same milieu which empowered the Hela Urumaya from such suburbs as Borella, Nugegoda, Maharagama, and Kesbewa. Any discussion of the politics of the Jathika Chinthanaya must be traced to this milieu, and for a very good reason. 
The Jathika Chinthanaya traces its intellectual origins to the post-1956 cultural sphere of this country
What binds the two strands  identity and knowledge  which in turn bind the JC and that milieu together is their commitment, on the political and economic front, to create an alternative system to the Western paradigms of modernity we are assailed with day after day. Those paradigms are seen, rightly, by the JC and those who bat for it and those who do not, as extensions of colonialism: from fast food to smartphones, from English Our Way to Facebook and Twitter. In this they are correct, and correct all the way, but this has often been undone by the lives of the people who have offered to lead the movement: more often than not, the personal has not succumbed to the social, and in the end, the rift between the two has been sufficient, in a (sad) way, for the detractors of JC to claim that they are really hypocrites, if not intellectual protectionists, (Dayan Jayatilleka). 
But it is this contradiction that has coloured the JC throughout its rather eventful history. Now if we are to critique this contradiction  which, by the way, is the same contradiction that has beset all other movements supportive of and opposed to the JCs tenets  we will have to forego on the golden rule Ive laid above: that no movement can be exculpated of a tendency to contradict its own stances. Instead, any fair criticism of the JC must start from the premise that it has been housed by individuals who have laid down principles which are at odds with those of other individuals who also come from that outfit. They have their preferences  and the JC, with its appeal to a broad, but segmented, Sinhala Buddhist urban and rural petty bourgeoisie, pick on these preferences as their desired outcomes  and they have their favourite political horses (like Gotabaya Rajapaska) over those they dislike and censure (like his brother, Basil). 
In the eighties, when political swords were crossed and people actually believed in the tenets and truisms (they said) they stood for, ideological skirmishes of this sort were easier to take seriously. Today, with television and social media and the tendency of politicians and ideologues to jump from one stance to another without betraying the fact that they have, indeed, made such a jump, its difficult to ascertain just how sincere a movement is or its representatives are. This is why the Jathika Chinthanaya remains such a potent force, because the stance has appealed most, against manifestations of colonialism in modernity and post-modernity, has been enough for it to win over followers regardless of the fact that some of its other stances, particularly on the economic front, have been contradicted by the lifestyles and other positions indulged by its spokespersons. 
For a fair critique of the Jathika Chinthanaya, therefore, we must concede that this remains their biggest and most enduring strength. That a rift exists between their stated aims and their chosen political backers, and sometimes between those aims and their very own other lives, and that their base is basically racist, chauvinist, whatnot, are criticisms which, if we are to take them seriously, can be applied in other ways to those making them. Political ideologues in Sri Lanka still confuse the personal for the social, and in sustaining such a confusion, they tend to miss the bigger picture: simply, that for any real constructive political skirmish to occur (like the skirmishes between Newton Gunasinghe and Dayan Jayatilleka on the one hand and Amarasekara and de Silva on the other, in the eighties), we must concede that an outfit houses individuals  frail, susceptible to change, and flawed  and that these individuals are not by any stretch of the imagination monoliths. There are no monoliths. Never were, never will be. 
So what is that fair critique we can make That, ladies and gentlemen, deserves careful scrutiny. I hence leave it for a later essay. For now, though, I am done. 
UDAKDEV1@GMAIL.COM 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trump confirms he repaid lawyer for hush money paid to Stormy Daniels
## Section: International
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:27 am
Trump confirms he repaid lawyer for hush money paid to Stormy Daniels
	
By John Wagner US, The Washington Post, May 3 2018 - President Trump said Thursday that his longtime lawyer Michael Cohen was reimbursed through a monthly retainer for a $130,000 payment made to porn actress Stormy Daniels in 2016 to stop what Trump called false and extortionist accusations about a decade-old affair.
In morning tweets, the president confirmed that Cohen entered into a nondisclosure agreement with Daniels, something Trump called very common among celebrities and people
of wealth.
Trump stressed that no campaign money was used to reimburse Cohen, calling it a private agreement.
Money from the campaign, or campaign contributions, played no roll [sic] in this transaction, he wrote.
Trumps explanation on Twitter came the morning after former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a recent addition to Trumps legal team, acknowledged for the first time that Trump had repaid Cohen  despite Trumps assertion last month that he was unaware of the payment. Giuliani made the comments Wednesday night to Sean Hannity on the Fox News Channel.
Trump didnt know about the specifics of it, as far as I know, Giuliani told Hannity.
Later, Giuliani said in an interview with The Washington Post that when Cohen paid the settlement to Daniels, he knew that Trump eventually would pay him back, as he was reimbursed for other expenses.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Twitter urges all users to change passwords after glitch
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 07:07 am
Twitter urges all users to change passwords after glitch
	
Twitter Inc urged its more than 330 million users to change their passwords after a glitch caused some to be stored in readable text on its internal computer system rather than disguised by a process known as hashing.
The social network disclosed the issue in a blog post and series of Tweets on Thursday afternoon, saying it had resolved the problem and an internal investigation had found no indication passwords were stolen or misused by insiders. Still, it urged all users to consider changing their passwords.
We fixed the bug and have no indication of a breach or misuse by anyone, Chief Executive Jack Dorsey said in a Tweet. As a precaution, consider changing your password on all services where youve used this password. The blog did not say how many passwords were affected. A person familiar with the company's response said the number was substantial and that they were exposed for several months. The disclosure comes as lawmakers and regulators around the world scrutinize the way that companies store and secure consumer data, after a string of security incidents at Equifax Inc, Facebook Inc and Uber Technologies Inc.
The European Union is due later this month to start enforcing a strict new privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulation, that includes steep fees for violators.
Twitter discovered the bug a few weeks ago and has reported it to some regulators, said the person, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which investigates companies accused of deceptive practices related to data security, declined comment on the password glitch.
The agency settled with Twitter in 2010 over accusations the site had serious lapses in data security that let hackers access private user data on two occasions. The settlement called for audits of Twitter's data security program every other year for 10 years.
The glitch was related to Twitter's use of hashing and caused passwords to be written on an internal computer log before the scrambling process was completed, the blog said.
We are very sorry this happened, the Twitter blog said.
Twitter's share price was down 1 percent in extended trade at $30.35, after gaining 0.4 percent during the session.
The company advised users to take precautions to ensure that their accounts are safe, including changing passwords and enabling Twitter's two-factor authentication service to help prevent accounts from being hijacked. (REUTERS)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Venison served at NSC meetings during previous regime: SF
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 4 May 2018 08:14 am
Venison served at NSC meetings during previous regime: SF
	
During the Rajapaksa administration venison was usually included on the menu for members attending National Security Council (NSC) meetings as a delicacy, Minister of Sustainable Development,Wildlife and Regional Development Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka disclosed.
Speaking to the journalists after assuming duties on Wednesday (2) he said a variety of venison including deer, sambhur, wild boar and quail meat were usually on the lunch menu during these meetings. "I will deliver justice to wild animals, he said.
He pointed out that National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader MP Wimal Weerawansa should have been offered a dog ministry during the previous regime as he showed their genetics now.
Minister Fonseka added that resolving the human-elephant conflict and taking measures to reduce the number of elephants being killed were his top priorities. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Why he turned hostile no more a puzzle
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 4 May 2018 10:19 am
Why he turned hostile no more a puzzle
	

This pro-left university academic with close ties to Pohottuwa has suddenly become a virulent critic of the 16-member group which crossed over to the opposition to the puzzlement of his political associates, they say.

By the way, sources close to this academic who is known to be a strong advocate of nationalist causes say that he has already indicated his wish to be the chief organizer of a certain electorate as a prelude to winning a seat in the Diyawanna council at the next general polls.
Meanwhile, some inquisitive ones who have made discreet inquiries say that they have stumbled on the real reason why the academic has suddenly developed an unaccountable malice towards the 16  member group. It is nothing but his fear that if this group joins forces with the JO, he would lose the chance of getting the chief organizer post he has been eyeing for some time, they claim.
 
		
==============================