## Title: A book on analytical thinking How to think like Sherlock Holmes now available
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:28 pm
A book on analytical thinking How to think like Sherlock Holmes now available
	
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle brought to life the character of Sherlock Holmes almost a century ago. Known as the Great Detective, his analytical thinking and deductive abilities are admired universally. How to think like Sherlock Holmes is a unique book on personality development which shows you six ways to inculcate the analytical thinking patterns of the great detective into your life. Kelum Weligama, (www.kelumweligama.lk), the author of Jeevithaya Wenas Karanna Katha 1, 2 and 3 (Stories that change your life), Tharangaye Weeraya (Man of the Match), Mahamolakaraya (Mastermind) and Persona, all bestsellers, is the author of How to think like Sherlock Holmes
This can be considered the first Sinhala language personality development, inspirational and motivational book written based on the character of Sherlock Holmes and will help anyone interested in analytical thinking to change their lives for the better. The book, written in simple language, takes case studies of famous persons and companies that use the analytical thinking patterns employed by Holmes to demonstrate how to use this system of thinking in our own lives.
The book is priced at Rs 450 and is published by Vishishta Publishers. The book is available at leading book shops including; Sarasavi, MD Gunasena, Samudra, Sadeepa, Minsara, Vijitha Yapa, Godage, Rathna - Maradana, Surasa - Maradana, Sooriya Publishers, Vicks- Maradana, Expographic, Multi Book Shop - Kadawatha, Samanala Book Shop - Minuwangoda and Negombo, Pethum Book Shop - Matale, Shan Book Shop - Matale, Anura Book Shop - Mahiyanganaya, Ganga Book Shop - Nittambuwa and Warakapola, Samayawardane, Dayawansha Jayakody, Thusitha Book Shop - Ratmalana, Ranathisara Book Shop - Kuliyaitiya, Dawasa Book Shop - Gampola, Puwasi Book Shop - Polonnaruwa, Sri Lankan Book Shop - Kegalle, Gunasekara Book Shop - Anuradhapura, Luminex Book Shop, and Ran W Book Shop - Embiliitiya. You can also order the book online at www.grantha.lk, www.kbooks.com and www.reading.lk and get it delivered home.


 
		
==============================
## Title: A duet Kathak recital by ICCR scholars
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
A duet Kathak recital by ICCR scholars
	
Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre (Indian Cultural Centre) and High Commission of India Colombo will present Jugalbandi-a duet Kathak recital featuring ICCR scholars Vihanga Rukshan and Ama Nethmi and young promising Sri Lankan dancers at Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre (Indian Cultural Centre) auditorium, 16/2 Gregorys Road, Colombo 7 on June 6 at 6.00 p.m.
Rukshan started learning traditional Sri Lankan dance at the age of 7 from Soma Gamage. Rukshan received rigorous training in Kathak from Nrithya Nipun Sangeet Visharad Moksha Samarasooriya. Rukshan is currently pursuing intense training in Kathakat Rhythmosaic Dance School, Kolkata under the guidance of eminent Guru Dr. Mitul Sengupta thanks to a scholarship presented by the Indian council for Cultural Relations, Govt.of India. Apart from Kathak, Rukshan has also received training in Classical jazz, classical ballet, contemporary dance and tap dance under Dr.Mitul Sengupta, Ronnie Shambik Ghose and Prasanna Saikia. Rukshan is a repertory member in Rhythmosaic Dance Company and also represents Moksha Art of Dance, Sri Lanka.
Nethmi is also an ICCR scholar in Kathak and received training under Dr.Mitul Sengupta at Rhythmosaic Dance Institute and company, Kolkata.
While studying at Rhythmosaic under ICCR scholarship, both Rukshan and Nethmi participated in different international and national festivals and had the opportunity to receive training under famous International Jazz Master Jianin Loringett of Jazz Academy, France and Mohomed Dirissi of Hong Kong Performing Academy. All are cordially invited. Entrance free. 
(Further details about the event can be obtained by calling the Indian Cultural Centre on 2684698 or by sending an email to iccrcolombo2@gmail.com




 
		
==============================
## Title: A shocking case of extravagance
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:58 am
A shocking case of extravagance
	

Plans are underway, they say, to shift a certain government establishment essential for the functioning of the present system of governance to a 15-storey building complex located in a watta close to the countrys new administrative capital leaving behind all its furniture worth several billions of rupees.

This set of furniture consisting of items carved with antique designs considered specimens of exquisite workmanship was reportedly purchased only three years ago while the construction work on the multi-storey building complex was underway. Now that the building complex is ready for occupation, the authorities had decided to move into it with an entirely new set of furniture purchased from a private furniture shop.
Employees of the establishment who were already amazed at the decision to purchase new furniture using public funds when billions-worth of furniture was already available, they heard another news that shocked them; that the authorities had decided not to move to the new building complex with the newly purchased furniture.
Their latest decision is shocking because it means that they propose to waste public funds on another set of furniture, an employee explained.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Abolish PTA without compromising national security: HRCSL
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 04:13 am
Abolish PTA without compromising national security: HRCSL
	
The Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) should be abolished in order to prevent violations of citizens human rights without posing any threat to national security, Chairperson of Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka (HRCSL) Dr. Deepika Udugama said yesterday.
She said that it was the Commissions preliminary recommendation to the government to abolish the PTA Act, since it was observed that the human rights were heavily violated via the Act throughout the past decades.
It does not mean that we should not take adequate laws and regulations for the sake of the national security. But such rules should be drafted in accordance with to protect the human rights. Soon after the new office bearers were appointed, we made recommendations for the subjects including PTA, death penalty, hate speech and establishing of the Office on Missing Persons. she said.
Dr. Udugama said instead of the Commissions duties to inquire into the complaints which had been received, it is also the Commissions duty to advise the government on how to draft rules and regulations on protecting human rights.
She further said that National Security Act is being drafted and it is very important that HRCSL must study it before it was passed in Parliament.
The biggest challenge we face is that we do not receive the Draft Bills to study whether those rules and regulations were drafted properly. These are essential to peoples lives. We have requested the President, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministries to handover the Draft Bills before passing it.
"There is no judicial review of legislation in Sri Lanka unlike in our neighbouring countries like India. So this is why it is absolutely important that the HRCSL gets to study the Draft Bill so that we can abide the Government in compliance with human rights, she added. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Be aware of Influenza!
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:20 pm
Be aware of Influenza!
	

Seasonal Influenza, more commonly known as the flu, has become a hot topic for discussion during the recent months. What exactly is influenza Is it serious as its reputation claims If so, what can we do to prevent the spreading of this illness and avoid the complications associated with the disease Health Capsule consulted Dr. Ganganath Gunathilake, Consultant in Paediatric Respiratory Medicine, to obtain more information on Influenza. The exact strain of the virus is yet to be established, but according to the symptoms and the global spread of the disease, we suspect this strain to be H3N2, the doctor said. 

Transmission
Influenza is a virus known to cause various respiratory infections. Its usually transmitted through droplets and sometimes directly from the secretions from the respiratory tract. The viruses contained within these secretions lodge in our respiratory tract and attacks our body tissues. 
But do all those who get in contact with the virus get the disease Its not so, according to Dr. Gunathilake. He said that in fact, the majority of people who come in contact with the virus dont have symptoms of the disease at all because the body successfully fights the disease. Most of the patients who show symptoms of the disease only have mild upper respiratory tract symptoms which are similar to a common cold. 
A number of these patients develops influenza or an influenza like illness. For the disease status to be named influenza, the patient should have coryzal symptoms associated with high fever. Coryzal symptoms are symptoms like congestion of the nasal package, sneezing and red eyes. Again, a small number of these patients develop lower respiratory tract symptoms which mainly affect the lungs, usually leading to pneumonia. Pneumonia can be complicated and those who are ill may complain of having difficulties in breathing and other associated problems. 

Treatment
Influenza is a disease caused by a virus and is usually cured by the body itself (self limiting). Therefore most of the time treatment involves treating the symptoms and making the patient comfortable until the illness is cured, explained the doctor. This includes giving paracetamol for fever, drugs to control the secretions and other supportive treatment including hydration, he elaborated. For patients with severe progressive disease and patients who possess a high risk, antiviral drugs like Oseltamvir are prescribed. These drugs do not kill the virus, but control their numbers by hindering their cell division, the doctor added. 
Sometimes patients with severe disease will have severe respiratory difficulties requiring respiratory support like ventillators and ICU care. 
The other part of the management of influenza is the prevention and management of secondary respiratory tract infections. 

Secondary infections
What are secondary infections When we talk about influenza it damages the respiratory epithelium. Imagine a coral reef, with finger-like protrusions. Our respiratory epithelium is similar. The protrusions cause the excess secretions to be removed and also play a role in keeping out other pathogens causing disease. When a patient is still recovering from influenza, the respiratory tract hasnt regained its full capacity to function and other pathogens can enter the respiratory tract and cause illnesses easily. Common pathogens causing secondary pneumonia are Staphylococcus aureus and pneumcoccus, according to Dr. Gunathilake. 
A secondary infection should be suspected especially when the fever reappears with a cough after the symptoms have subsided for a few days. 

Prevention
How do we prevent the spread of Influenza Education of the general public regarding prevention is the most important factor when it comes to prevention, stressed the doctor. Being aware and maintaining a good respiratory hygiene can go a long way towards controlling the spread of the disease. 
Influenza is highly infectious within the first 7 days after developing the symptoms. When preventing the spread of droplets, its important to remember that a cough can carry droplets to a distance of roughly three feet. Therefore, wearing a face mask and avoiding public places are important.
Especially small children, having symptoms, should be kept at home until they (symptoms) subside. 
Viruses, which live in body secretions, can survive outside the body for around 48 hours, like in furniture etc. Therefore always use a piece of tissue or a handkerchief and dispose them properly, so that others dont come into contact with these items. Frequent and correct hand - washing techniques should be followed, especially if you come in contact with a patient. Touching the face after touching solid objects like furniture, especially in public places, should be avoided to minimize the risk of contracting the disease. 

Vaccination
Influenza vaccination is currently available only in the private sector. Influenza is an RNA virus with an outer covering of proteins which acts as messengers. These proteins change frequently giving rise to newer virus strains rendering the old vaccines out of date. In developed countries, vaccines are produced annually, according to the prevailing strains, but we have no evidence to suggest that they are the same viruses that cause disease in our country, he explained. He also said that those who want to receive the flu vaccine from the private sector can do so, but with medical advice. 

High risk groups
While anyone has a chance of contracting influenza, there are certain groups of people who are more susceptible and can develop a severe disease, stressed the doctor. 
Those belonging to the extremes of age-children below 2 years and adults above 65 years of age- can contract the disease more easily. Children suffering from long standing illnesses and the failure of other organs like the kidney or the heart are prone to develop a severe disease. Among the adults, those who are suffering from chronic disease and conditions which cause immune suppression like HIV or patients who are taking anti cancer treatment can develop the disease easily. Pregnant women are also more susceptible to severe disease. 

Medical advice
Patients presenting with the symptoms of a common cold usually dont need medical care, explained the doctor. Good hydration with warm fluid, nutrition and rest can be sufficient for most of these patients to get better. 
Dr. Gunathilake advises the public to seek medical help if high fever is present with coryzal symptoms, fever lasts for several days and there is respiratory difficulty at any stage of the illness.
Patients who are in high risk groups should obtain medical help as soon as symptoms appear. Those who are recovering from influenza or influenza like illness should be on alert for secondary infections in the respiratory tract, a persistent cough, a cough with yellow sputum and fever returning after a few days, because as we discussed earlier the secondary infection can cause more harm than influenza itself. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: China rejects US accusations it seeks hegemony in Asia
## Section: International
## Date: 1 June 2018 10:20 am
China rejects US accusations it seeks hegemony in Asia
	
AFP May31, 2018-China on Thursday rejected accusations from top US officials that it seeks hegemony in Asia and is pushing militarisation in the South China Sea. Outgoing US Navy Admiral Harry Harris, set to become Washingtons ambassador in South Korea, had said Wednesday that while North Korea posed the most imminent threat to the United States, Chinas dream of hegemony in Asia was his countrys biggest long-term challenge. 
The comments were not surprising, Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular press briefing on Thursday, given that those who seek and indulge in hegemony will always think that others are coveting their own hegemony. 
But no matter how developed China may become, it will never seek hegemony or engage in expansion, she added. 
Defence Secretary Jim Mattis had vowed Tuesday that the US would keep confronting China over its territorial claims in the South China Sea -- where Beijing has established a significant military presence on contested islands. 
US diplomats and foreign nations alike were very concerned about this continued militarisation in the region, he told reporters. 
But Hua termed Mattis comments rather ridiculous.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Congratulations to AIA Insurances IQA winners
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:24 am
Congratulations to AIA Insurances IQA winners
	
AIA is proud to be the first and only company in Sri Lanka to be recognized as one of LIMRAs 2018 Top 5 Companies for the Advisor International Quality Award (IQA)- growth in the world. This award recognizes companies who have experienced the highest year- on- year growth percentage of over 20% of IQA qualifiers for the last two years and is testament to the outstanding performance of agents who promote quality business on a consistent basis, while providing superior customer service. Congratulations to AIAs IQA winners who made this award possible.
Front row: ( L-R)- K Rupika Priyadarshani, H. Lilani Deepika, A. G. P. Kumari, Malathi Herath, D. Ruklanthi Jayaratne, H. Rangika Laganthi.
Middle row: (L-R)  S. Miyuranga Kulasooriya, K. H. Manjula Kumara, Gayan Danthanarayana (Provincial Head Agency), Primrose Samidon (Deputy Zonal Manager) , Sarath Chandrasiri (Provincial Head Agency) M. I. L. Perera.
Back row (L-R)- A. D. T. Chameera Wijesekara, Roshan Samantha, S. M. U. Indika Samaranayaka, A. S. J. De Silva, W. A. K. Roshan Weerakoon, M. D. Gnanamuthu, K. Wasantha Dassanayaka, W. P. R. A. Kumara Premarathne.
Absent: A.H.O.D Jayaweera, P.H Rasika Sandakelum, N Madusha Lokuliyana.

 
		
==============================
## Title: Dealing with Spondyloarthritis or swelling of the spine
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:05 pm
Dealing with Spondyloarthritis or swelling of the spine
	

Spondy is spine and arthritis is swelling or inflammation of joints. In this article I will explain a group of joint ailments that cause immense pain and suffering. Out of a variety of joint diseases affecting the bones of the spine, spondyloarthritis affects younger patients. It is different from the usual mechanical backache. The harmful nature of this condition becomes evident after a few years when the bones of the spine-termed vertebrae- show irreversible damage. If this disease is detected and treated early, significant disability can be avoided.
There are many segments of bone called the vertebrae that get together to form the spine. These vertebrae should have the ability to move between one another for us to bend and twist properly. Especially the neck bones (cervical spine) and the bones in the lower back (lumbar spine) move at remarkable degrees for us to perform certain tasks. Imagine a gymnast who should bend at extreme angles to perform her routine or a professional diver plunging into a pool while rotating at great speed. 
Why do these vertebrae not dislodge from one another when we bend Thanks to very strong bands of elastic named ligaments none of the spinal bones will separate. Ligaments are the cello tapes of the human body. With their rubbery nature, ligaments allow some degree of movement for the spine to bend and rotate while preventing us from overdoing certain movements.
What happens if the ligaments become bony like Then the stretching ability of these bands will be lost and the spine wont move at all. Simply this is what happens in spondyloarthritis.

Types
These are ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, reactive arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease associated spondyloarthritis and enthesitis related arthritis. Ankylosing spondylitis affects the spine, especially the lower part, and results in a bamboo spine. This is the term given to a spine that has fused bones with appearance in X ray resembling a bamboo. Psoriatic arthritis is seen in patients who already have psoriasis or develop psoriasis later on. Reactive arthritis is where the joint disease develops after an infection, as a reaction. Patients who have inflammatory bowel diseases, like ulcerative colitis and crohns disease, can develop spondyloarthritis as well. When areas such as the back of the ankle ( Achilles tendon) or bottom of the heel ( plantar fascia ) are swollen, it is termed enthesitis. This can occur with spondyloarthritis as well.

Symptoms
Both pain and stiffness of the spine which worsen in the morning and get better as the day progresses is typical of spondyloarthritis. Some patients experience deep pain within the buttocks. This happens when sacro-iliac joints are swollen. Sacro-iliac joints are found within the muscles in the buttock and when inflamed/swollen cause early morning pain in the buttocks. This pain can be experienced on one side of the buttocks as well.
The neck, which is the upper part of the spine, can get affected during spondyloarthritis. Early morning stiffness of the neck, which reduces the ability to look up and down and turn the head to the side, is also a common feature.
Together with the spine involvement most patients recall joint swelling in other regions as well. Swelling in the knees, ankles or even joints of your hand might be symptoms relating to spondyloarthritis. Sometimes an entire toe or finger can get swollen resembling a sausage. This is called dactylitis or a sausage digit.
Most patients who develop psoriatic spondyloarthritis have very mild or absent skin psoriasis initially. Psoriasis might not be noted especially when the rash is found behind the ears, around the belly button, beneath the breasts and over the back of the neck. Pain and swelling behind the ankle or at the bottom of the heel (enthesitis) is an associated symptom of spondyloarthritis. Rarely are red painful eyes and blurred vision (uveitis ) features of this ailment.
The patients might have a relation who has been affected by similar symptoms (A positive family history).

Confirmation
The detailed history of the symptoms is of paramount importance. Then the joint disease consultant will do an examination of the affected regions. The range of movement of the spine in bending forward, backwards, sideways will be assessed. Any other swollen/inflamed joints will be checked as well. 
Certain blood tests like ESR, full blood count, kidney and liver functions are important for us to initiate medicine. X rays are very useful to identify any damage to the spine or joints. Sometimes we order MRI scans of the spine or sacroiliac joints. These scans are very useful to detect early changes that are not mature enough to be detected by the X rays.
A genetic test called HLA-B27 is done in certain instances. This test is positive in a few normal healthy individuals as well. But positive detection of HLA-B27 supports spondyloarthritis in people who have symptoms of the condition. 


What are the available modes of treatment for spondyloarthritis
I would like to divide the treatment into two categories. We could use medication to control the disease or else we recommend using remedies like physiotherapy to keep the joints healthy. In most instances both these categories of treatment are required. 
Medication is centred around NSAIDS ( Non steroid anti-inflammatory drugs) and disease modifying drugs. Some of the common NSAIDS used are naproxen and cox 2 inhibitors. Out of the disease modifying drugs, Methotrexate and Sulfasalazine are frequently used. The doses and the frequency of these medications are decided by the consultant depending on the findings of the investigation. What the medication does is control the disease, so that permanent spine/ joint damage does not occur. This is because changes in the bones are usually irreversible. 
If the spondyloarthritis is severe we tend to use drugs called biologics. These comprise a group of highly sophisticated medications which targets certain molecules within the body. Biologics block inflammation/ swelling of joints and therefore control the disease. The emerging problem with biologics is their cost.
Together with medicine the mobility of the spine / joint is encouraged. This is achieved through physiotherapy and occupational therapy. Stretching out the already immobile spine through therapy will aid the recovery process.
Western medicine treatment for spondyloarthritis is growing by leaps and bounds. The traditional era of using oils and applicants is now historical. Early and correct treatment will help the patients to lead a near normal lifestyle.
(The writer holds an MBBS (Colombo) and is the MD Consultant in Joint Disease and Rehabilitation)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Do you run short of breath often
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 1 June 2018 01:01 pm
Do you run short of breath often
	


Feeling a sudden discomfort as if sufficient air is not around you to breathe can be really frightening especially if it is a first - time experience. I personally have experienced this when being admitted for Pneumonia about an year back. It gave me a near-death feeling at times and trust me it was so scary and frustrating. So, today on Health Capsule, lets discuss this popular topic with Dr. Solith Senanayake, Lecturer, Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Sri Jayewardenepura. 

Shortness of breath can occur due to various reasons in medically ill people as well as in healthy individuals, so it is certainly a crucial complaint which should be tackled carefully by health care professionals, says Dr. Senanayake. 
Shortness of breath, medically referred to as dyspnea, is defined as an intense tightening sensation in the chest, air hunger or a feeling of suffocation which can occur long - term or as a sudden reaction. Most of the time, shortness of breath occurs as result of an underlying medical condition, but rarely takes place in a healthy individual. This happens due to strenuous exercises, extreme temperatures, massive obesity and the exposure to high altitudes. However, major diseases which can give rise to this symptom include ones involving the cardiovascular system, respiratory system, infections, allergies and certain nutritional deficiencies like iron,says the doctor.


Causes for the condition
Acute shortness of breath, which may occur from minutes to hours, is quite different from the chronic condition which usually develops over a period of time (weeks to months). So when a patient visits us, the first thing we would try to identify is the time duration along with the type of presentation and the onset explains Dr. Senanayake. 


Reasons
Shortness of breath presenting with an acute onset can be due to various reasons as follows. 
Respiratory tract infections (Pneumonia) - Usually accompanied by symptoms like fever and productive cough; which gives out sputum or mucus. 

Anaphylaxis (severe allergic reactions)- Associated with a rash followed by itching and swelling along with an exposure to a possible unusual substance or occasion which can arouse an allergic reaction in the body. 

Asthma- A sudden onset of shortness of breath associated with wheezing. 

An obstruction in the respiratory tract followed by an ingestion or inhalation of a foreign object (peanut, toys) 

Thrombus- A blood clot causing an obstruction in an artery supplying the lungs. 

Pneumothorax or a collapse of the lung followed by a trauma, stabbing, road traffic accident etc. 
	Heart attack or Myocardial Infarction due to the death of cardiac muscles as a result of poor perfusion-cutting down the oxygen-rich blood supply. This can often be associated with a tightening type of a chest pain radiating to the neck, jaw, shoulders, abdomen etc. 

Pregnancy- This fascinating physiological phenomenon can cause changes in the circulatory and respiratory systems of women resulting in an acute onset of shortness of breath which can last throughout the pregnancy. 


Chronic shortness of breath
According to Dr. Senanayake, shortness of breath persisting for more than 3 months duration is usually referred to as chronic; which may sometimes initiate as an acute symptom and last longer, or appear from time to time like symptoms of heart failure and Acute Asthma Exacerbations respectively. He further mentioned that even though the majority of patients would have a more benign cause for shortness of breath, it is highly advisable to keep an eye on some of the more sinister conditions like lung cancer, heart failure of which the only initial sign might be just shortness of breath. 

So, the important thing to take note of is, not to wait until the last moment to seek medical advice, but look for early medical advice if you feel like your breath is quite out of your controlsaid Dr. Senanayake.

Causes for chronic shortness of breath are as follows. 


Asthma 
	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) - A lung condition seen in chronic smokers which is characterized by the features of Emphysema and Chronic bronchitis. 

Interstitial lung disease  A collection of lung diseases which consists of damages and scarring of the lung tissue. 

Cardiomyopathy  A heart condition which leads to an enlargement of the organ, compromising the effective functioning (pumping) of the heart. 

Deconditioning  A collective term used to describe obesity and overweight which occurs due to lack of or inadequate physical exercise. 

Iron deficiency anemia- A poor intake of dietary iron, malabsorbtion and chronic blood loss due to various pathological conditions can lead to a reduction of oxygen carrying capacity in blood, giving rise to shortness of breath over exertion. 

Obesity hypoventilation syndrome  Severely obese people will develop shortness of breath chronically due to difficulty in chest expansion because of severe obesity. 

When asked how one manages shortness of breath, the doctor said, As I mentioned before, it is highly recommended to seek medical advice if you come across any of the symptoms mentioned above. This is because the timely intervention can correct most of the underlying health conditions which are known to give rise to shortness of breath Dr. Senanayake said. 

The diagnosis will be made with the help of a detailed history, physical examination and investigation. The physician will take a complete history from you about the nature and duration of signs and symptoms along with a thorough physical examination which will help to get an idea about the possible reason.

Furthermore, several investigations such as blood analysis, Chest X ray, Ultra sounding scanning and echocardiography will be important to establish the correct diagnosis. 

Hematocrit and hemoglobin- A complete blood count can be used to identify changes in blood, possibly resulting in Iron deficiency anaemia 

BNP levels- Changes in the respiratory system can be identified. 
Chest X ray- Exclude pneumonia, scarring and lung inflammation 

Oxymetry and lung function test 
	ECG to identify signs of a heart attack 
	Echocardiography 

However, we cant specifically pinpoint a list of investigations to proceed with and it all depends on how you present with and what your history is suggestive of. According to the initial assessment we would proceed with suitable bio-chemical and imaging investigations to arrive at a clear-cut diagnosis. 


Treatment
The treatment modalities for shortness of breath mainly depend on the etiology. Therefore, it is highly important to establish the most accurate diagnosis in order to proceed with treatments accordingly said Dr. Senanayake. 

However, representing the general community your part of the story is to be vigilant of probable features related to shortness of breath as we discussed and to be aware that this is merely a sign not a disease. If you look carefully you will always be associated with other symptoms which will easily offer a clue to the diagnosis he added. 

Therefore, the take - home message is that it is best that you or your loved ones consult a medical professional early, so that they will get you evaluated properly and find a cause for your trouble without you having to pant and end up in misery. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Fight Cancer Initiatives Team Leader Mohammed awarded at Temple Trees
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
Fight Cancer Initiatives Team Leader Mohammed awarded at Temple Trees
	
The long awaited PET CT scanner being handed over to Maharagama Apeksha Hospital by Dr. M S H Mohamed on April 01, 2018
M.S.H. Mohammed, Team Leader of the Fight Cancer Initiative, was felicitated at the 13th Annual Conference of Lions Clubs International District 306 C2, at the Temple Trees recently. The event was graced by eminent personalities and dignitaries who represented various Lions Clubs acrossthe world. 
Mohammed received the award in appreciation of his efforts by former Governor of District 306 C2 Lion Mahendra Amarasuriya. Mohammed spearheaded a national movement to secure a Positron-emission tomography (PET) scanner for the National Cancer Institute; also known as Apeksha Hospital in Maharagama. The PET scanner, which Maharagama Apeksha hospital lacked for many years, has immense value and helps in the early detection of cancers.
Mohammed ( Third from Right) receives the award in appreciation of his efforts by former Governor of District 306 C2 Lion Mahendra Amarasuriya (Second from left)

After years of tireless campaigning the Fight Cancer teams raised over Rs. 250 million to purchase the scanner for the hospital. The long awaited PET scanner arrived in the island in January this year. As Apeksha Cancer Hospital is the only centralised institution for the treatment of cancer patients in Sri Lanka, patients visit the hospital in their hundreds each day. The hospital is still in need of several other pieces of equipment, as even the existing ones are rusted or not up to date. The CT scanner at Apeksha Cancer Hospital is now over 15 years old . The hospital is also very much in need of MRI scanners, ultrasound machines, bronchoscopes and genetic laboratory equipment. 
Mohammed says that the Fight Cancer team aims to make Apeksha Hospital the best such facility for the treatment of cancer in South Asia in years to come through their generous contributions and campaigns. 
The PET CT scanner
Fight Cancer Team Vice President Rukman Weeraratne, Treasurer Thariq Jamaldeen and Lions Club President Lion Asela Karunawardene were present when Mohammed received the award. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Flight diverted to MRIA due to bad weather
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:21 am
Flight diverted to MRIA due to bad weather
	
The SriLankan Air UL 206 flight which was scheduled to land at the Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA), Katunayake was diverted to Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport (MRIA) this morning due to adverse weather, the BIA Duty Manager said.
He said the flight arrived from Muscat International Airport, Oman and it was scheduled to land at BIA at 4.45a.m but due to bad weather it was diverted and landed at MRIA at 5.22a.m.
There was no clear view of the runway to land aircraft at BIA, the Duty manager said.
"At the time of diverting, 130 passengers were onboard. However, no one was allowed to disembark the flight. It returned to BIA at 6.47a.m. It left from MRIA at 6.20 a.m" the duty manager said. (Chaturanga Samarawickrama and T.K.G. Kapila)
 
		
==============================
## Title: French Spring is coming! Multidisciplinary Festival from June 14th to July 14th 2018
## Section: Press Releases
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:37 pm
French Spring is coming! Multidisciplinary Festival from June 14th to July 14th 2018
	
Chandra Wickramasinghe - Chairman/Managing Director, Connaissance de Ceylan/Themes Resorts and Spas, John Victor - Country Manager, Jet Airways Sri Lanka, H.E. Mr. Jean Marin Schuh - French Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives, Manesh Fernando - General Manager, Hilton Hotel, Francis CAPPE - Director, Alliance Franaise de Kotte.
The French Spring Festival will shine in Sri Lanka between June 14th and July 14th for its 7th edition. Organized jointly by the Embassy of France in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, and the Alliance Franaise de Kotte in Colombo, the festival will showcase the excellence of French culture and its modern aspects during events organized both in Colombo and Kandy.
During one month, different shows and events, most of them open to all, will be proposed: For the Fte de la Musique on June 21st, the Alliance Franaise de Kotte in Colombo will offer an Open Mic from 5 pm. The party will continue at the Caf Franais (Park Street) with the famous DJ Joachim Labrande invited from Paris. He will also perform his live on June 23rd, at the Amaya Hills in Kandy.
On the 11th  of July, the choreographer Thomas Lebrun from the French National Choreographic Center of Tours (CCNT) and the Sri Lankan choreographer Kapila Palihawandana (nATANDA), will pool their experience during a free workshop. On July 12th at the Defense School Theater, they will share the stage to offer a new show of contemporary dance combining two ballets: "Vannam" by naATANDA followed by "Another Look at Memory" by the CCNT.
Between the 4th and the 9th of July, the audience will discover the painting of DACO. He will travel from Colombo to Kandy in order to transmit his passion for graffiti through performances (wall paintings) and workshops for the young audience.
The French Spring Festival, it is also photography and sculpture with Marie-Caroline Senlis (June 7th to 14th), cinema with the screening of the movie Django on July 4th and 11th at Majestic City, fashion with the show proposed by LIFT on July 10th at the Hilton Hotel, and finally, French comics and literature with Ashok Ferrey on June 16th and 19th.
For more information, please visit the French Spring Festival Facebook page, Twitter 
FrenchspringFestival -, Instgram, or check the websites:https://lk.ambafrance.org  or www.alliancefranaise.lk.
The Embassy of France and the network of Alliance Franaise in Sri Lanka thank all the partners who made this event possible.
 
		
==============================
## Title: From Anuras to Mahindas 20 21 A
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
From Anuras to Mahindas 20 21 A
	
Mahinda Rajapaksa, therefore, cannot afford to play between Parliamentary and the Presidential Elections
Political fact that abolition would make them nonentities in a Parliamentary Election
The 20th Amendment to the Constitution is basically a correction to the 19A
for Mahinda to gamble with an undecided Parliamentary Election does pose the already fixed 2020 Presidential Election as a hassle
They should all fall in line in voting for the 20A
Posters adorned city walls last week, saying the 20th Amendment to the Constitution would, Divide the Country.


The JVP-initiated the 20th Amendment to the Constitution is basically a correction to the 19A this hybrid Yahapalana Government adopted with JVP also voting for it.
A correction in terms of the main and the major pledge made during the 2015 January Presidential Election campaign.
Abolishing of the Executive Presidency was the social pledge on which Maduluwave Sobitha Theras Movement for Social Justice originated.
It became the rallying point for the vocal activists in Colombo, who wanted a single-issue Common Candidate.
Thus the 19A became the consensus on which Maithripala Sirisena was ushered in as the Common Candidate to defeat President Rajapaksa, the UNP hierarchy and the Colombo middle-class believed, was not possible, otherwise.
It was evident from day one that the Yahapalana leadership was in no mood to abolish the Executive Presidency as promised, even though President Sirisena, yet again told the nation a few days after his swearing in, that the Presidential Election he contested would be the first and the last Presidential Election he would contest.
The 19A made certain the Executive Presidency remained with a few trappings, while Wickremesinghe as the Prime Minister wrote clauses into it, to allow him control over the Government. This has proved a complete flop, with President Sirisena encroaching into everything he believed would make him a full-time President.
Yet today, those same urban groups and political leaders seem reluctant to abolish the Executive Presidency. All of them have instead taken over the burden of naming their own choice as the next President in 2020.
It is within this mad rush in naming and grooming Presidential Candidates for 2020 that the JVP leadership brought the 20A, expecting all, who backed the Yahapalana Rule to stand by their three and a half-year-old promise.
Theoretically yes, they should all fall in line with the JVP in voting for the 20A. In practical Sri Lankan politics, no they will not stand by an old promise, they believe would spoil their scheming to gain power the next time.
The new unofficial and undeclared alliance that has therefore emerged in opposing the 20A is more vocal and conspicuous than that which would back it.
The curry leaf groups in the Joint Opposition like Wimal Weerawansas and Gammanpilas were initial voices that opposed the 20A when the JVP first announced it would move the 20A to abolish the Executive Presidency.
These two claim the abolition of the Executive Presidency would lead to division of the country.
It is too old a canard to gulp whole. Starting from Ceylon, Sri Lanka lived without an Executive Presidency for 30 years after Independence but never had this issue of separation due to the absence of an Executive Presidency.
It is not the Executive Presidency that would divide Sri Lanka. It is the refusal to respect Tamils and Muslims as equal in citizenry to Sinhala Buddhists and continued denial of their right to equal opportunities within a secular State that would lead to division.
These political flunkies have other reasons to oppose the abolition of the Executive Presidency not openly and directly articulated. It is the political fact that abolition of the Presidency would make them nonentities in a Parliamentary Election.
In a parliamentary election that comes without an executive presidency, they will not be considered of any worth, in any alliance.
Gotabhaya was the Glyphosate that wiped out all minority votes from Mahinda. Can Mahinda, therefore, allow Gotabhaya to supersede his political career as the all-powerful president
In the absence of a Presidency, the Parliamentary Election in the Sinhala South would be dominated by Mahinda Rajapaksa, the UNP and if the SLFP does not get morphed into Mahindas SLPP, then a fractured and limping SLFP led by President Sirisena, with the JVP tagging behind.
Unprincipled political loners like Champika Ranawaka would decide at the last minute where they should land themselves, depending on who is likely to form the next Government.
In such political context, Mahinda Rajapaksa has now proved he can spearhead a campaign on his own and is confident his SLPP on its own would romp home victorious in the next Parliamentary Election.
His show of peoples faith in him at the Galle Face May Day rally and again at the launch of the SLPP in Anuradhapura last year, made him go it alone at the LG elections in February.
That LG election campaign had no actual role for these curry leaf politicians. Not even for the JO, which is basically a Parliamentary voice and not one that commands votes outside Parliament
Therefore, for Gammanpila, who now stands accused as a financial rogue in a court case that is being heard and for Weerawansa to be politically valid, they need another Sinhala Buddhist Common Candidate they could campaign for.
Gotabhaya Rajapaksa, therefore, becomes their choice for the 2020 Presidential Election. It is thus obvious, they have to oppose the 20A. If the 20A goes through Parliament with the necessary 2/3 majority, they would not have a Presidential candidate to keep them politically alive.

So will it be for the likes of Champika and even for Gotabhaya and his filthy rich Sinhala Buddhist professionals and businessmen.
All these individuals who have no proven vote base, need the Presidency to rake in curry leaves and onions around them and therefore have to oppose the 20A.
For the UNP and its leadership, having the Executive Presidency is necessary, but is saddled with the never answered question, can we face it
Present UNP leadership avoided two consecutive Presidential Elections, opting to support Common candidates, purely because they were afraid to contest on their own.
It is not the Executive Presidency that would divide Sri Lanka. It is the refusal to respect Tamils and Muslims as equal in citizenry to Sinhala Buddhists and continued denial of their right to equal opportunities within a secular State that would lead to division
The National list UNP Samasamajist MP Wickramaratnes argument that the 20A is nothing to be afraid of and that it poses no separatist threat is yet to be officially accepted by the UNP.
So, is the dilemma within the Maithripala Sirisena camp. It is for this reason the JVP keeps demanding the President and the PM to publicly say where they stand on the 20A and abolition of the Presidency.
For Mahinda too, it is too early to say where he actually stands on the 20A. A month ago, he told media he would consider the 20A if Parliament elections are also tied to the 20A.
This meant, if abolishing of the Presidency provides for an early Parliament Election, he could consider supporting it.
What makes him hesitant is the fact, he and his family have tasted the power of the Executive Presidency and knows what a delicacy it is, to let go.
For Mahinda, therefore, to be PM that would make him sit in Parliament answering questions raised by the Opposition is too much of a responsibility.
For that reason, he was pushing for a Parliamentary Election, in a scenario that did not question the role of Presidency.
He perhaps was calculating a Parliamentary Election victory with a two-thirds majority could provide him with the opportunity to elevate himself to Presidency with a simple amendment to the Constitution, if the Presidency remains unchallenged.
Yet, for Mahinda to gamble with an undecided Parliamentary Election does pose the already fixed 2020 Presidential Election as a hassle.
There can be men around him, who would want to know, if they should endorse Gotabhaya for 2020 Presidency, now that Mangala Samaraweera too had conceded Gotabhaya to be a Presidential candidate. For Mahinda during his tenure as all-powerful President, Gotabhaya as Secretary Ministry of Defence was a fatal toxic pollutant, which ran out of his controland authority.
Gotabhaya was the Glyphosate that wiped out all minority votes from Mahinda. Can Mahinda, therefore, allow Gotabhaya to supersede his political career as the all-powerful president
As one who for nine years sat as almighty President, Mahinda for sure knows none can be trusted to play proxy for him. Even President Sirisena proves this Executive Presidency does pollute any character once he or she sits onthat chair.
Except for J.R. Jayewardene and Ranasinghe Premadasa, all others had their closest family members playing with the Presidency, with heavy corruption seeping into the political and State establishments.
That makes Vasudevas choice of Chamal Rajapaksa, his classmate at Richmond as the SLPP Presidential Candidate an invalid alternative.
Mahinda Rajapaksa, therefore, cannot afford to play between the Parliamentary and the Presidential Elections.
He would have to charter his path in forcing a Parliamentary election well ahead of the Presidential Election and before other Presidential candidates overtake him in establishing their candidacies.
That also would compel Mahinda Rajapaksa to plan for a two-thirds majority in Parliament if he could win the election to be the next PM. And he would not come empty-handed to just sit as PM for sure.
He would come like PM J.R. Jayewardene who came prepared to sit as the all-powerful President, with a quick amendment to the Constitution.
Therefore whatever fate befalls Anuras 20A in Parliament, one would have to expect Mahinda Rajapaksa to press his demand for a Parliamentary Election, with the 21A up his sleeves.
That would fit in well with the Rajapaksa family too, for no Presidential candidate of whatever the colour, is about the country.

 
		
==============================
## Title: 1,600 Grama Niladharis appointed
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:20 pm
1,600 Grama Niladharis appointed
	
About1,600 Grama Niladharisreceived letters of appointment at a ceremony held at Temple Treestoday. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was the Chief Guestof the event. MinistersWajira Abeywardene, RishadBathiudeen and Deputy Minister J.C.Alawathuwalawere also present. Pix Pradeep Pathirana
 
		
==============================
## Title: Grant Hyatt Hotel Project Govt. suffers mammoth loss  due to termination of contract
## Section: Expose
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
Grant Hyatt Hotel Project Govt. suffers mammoth loss  due to termination of contract
	


The much debated Grand Hyatt Hotel Project in Colombo, which allegedly involved financial frauds amounting to billions of tax payers money during the previous regime, is now facing yet another hurdle following an order delivered against it at an arbitration tribunal in Singapore. 
Italian contractor Interna Contract Spa, who was awarded the interior package 2 of the Grand Hyatt Project by the previous management, filed an arbitration in Singapore against Sino Lanka Hotels and Spa which is a subsidiary of Canwill Holdings (Pvt) Ltd for unlawfully terminating the contract they had entered into on January 7, 2015- the day before the change of Government. The formal award was delivered by the arbitration tribunal on October 6, 2017 against Sino Lanka Hotels and Spa. The order was to pay a staggering 7,432,062.72 Euros to Interna for the unlawful termination of the contract.
17 contractors had been initially selected and seven parties were shortlisted
the manner in which the contractor in question was selected by Sino Lanka raises many questions

Although the lawyers representing the respondent (Sino Lanka) argued that the arbitration venue should be Colombo as per the tender specification and the contract document, at the final award the arbitration tribunal didnt consider the matter. 
Hence, Sino Lanka, filed an appeal in November 2017 against the arbitration award at High Court of Singapore. Meanwhile, Interna filed an application in the High Court Colombo requesting to enforce the arbitral award in their favour.
The The respondent company meanwhile asked Colombo High Court to allow them time to make submissions till the appeal verdict is delivered, for which the date scheduled was May 30. 
However, in order to scrutinize the petition more carefully, when the case was taken up on May 30, the High Court of Singapore has informed that the verdict will be delivered on a later date and the next hearing date will be notified to the parties in due course. 
Although the tender and contract documents show that the place of arbitration shall be in Colombo, the reason for the contractor to file arbitration in Singapore was based on the Letter of Acceptance issued on December 22, 2014. According to clause 9 of the Letter of Acceptance (LoA), all disputes arising out of or in connection with the contract shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by one or more arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said rules and the arbitration venue shall be in Singapore and arbitration proceedings shall be in English. 
Place of arbitration
But sub- clause 20.6 of the tender document dated January 7, 2015, says, a dispute shall be finally settled as per the Arbitration Act No: 11 of 1995 of Sri Lanka and the place of Arbitration shall be in Colombo. Even the tender specification too states that the place of arbitration shall be in Colombo. When the previous management issued the LoA on December 22, 2014, the venue had been changed from Colombo to Singapore san Board approval. However, the contract document dated January 7, 2015-which was the final- declares that the place of arbitration shall be in Colombo. This is the legally binding document according to CEO Sino Lanka Hotels and Spa.
When the former Project Consultant Hiran de Silva was asked as to why such changes were made to benefit the contractor, he said that these decisions had been taken by Piyadasa Kudabalage, but he (De Silva) was not responsible for the changes

CEO, Sino Lanka Hotels and Spa, D.R.P. Abeysinghe told theDailymirror , that when the lawyers objected to the jurisdiction of the venue, the arbitration tribunal had given an assurance to look into that matter when they deliver their judgment. However, foregoing the requests made by Sri Lankan lawyers and despite the assurance given by the arbitration tribunal on the jurisdiction issue, the order was delivered against Sino Lanka for terminating the interior decoration contract unlawfully. 
Not only was the adjustment of the arbitration venue changed by Kudabalage without Board approval, but changes had been made to a few more tender clauses in the LoA (dated December 22, 2014) and in the Memorandum of Understanding dated January 7, 2015. Its learnt that Kudabalage and Project Consultant Hiran de Silva had changed these clauses not to benefit the company they were representing as its MD/CEO and Project Consultant respectively and the Government of Sri Lanka, also the owner of the project, but allegedly instead in the best interest of the Italian contractor, due to personal reasons. 
Meanwhile how Kudabalage brought down the performance guarantee and the delay damages to suit the contractors requirements without Board approval has raised eyebrows. According to the LoA and the MoU, the performance guarantee shall be equivalent to 5% of the accepted contract amount, whereas, sub-clause 4.2 of the tender document to which the contractor initially agreed was 10% of the accepted contract amount. 
It was the same with the delay damages as well. Although sub-clauses 8.7, 14 and 15(b) of the tender document state that the delay damages for the work was US $ 50, 000 per day,
which was accepted by the contractor at the time he submitted the bid, Kudabalage reduced the amount to US $ 25, 000 for each delayed day. 
When the former Project Consultant Hiran de Silva was asked as to why such changes were made to benefit the contractor, he said that these decisions had been taken by Piyadasa Kudabalage, but he (De Silva) was not responsible for the changes. It was Kudabalage that took all these decisions as the MD/ CEO, De Silva said. 
Meanwhile its learned how the former Board of Directors of Sino Lanka Hotels and Spa- Gamini Senarath (Chairman), Piyadasa Kudabalage (Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer), N. Hapuhinna (Director), R. Semasinghe (Director representing Ministry of Finance) and Ms C.M.D.N.K. Seneviratne (Director representing EPF) selected prospective contractors based on the evaluations carried out by the Quantity Supervisors without following Government procurement guidelines.
 According to Abeysinghe, had the Government tender procedure been followed and if the tenders were published in local and foreign newspapers, reputed contractors would have had the opportunity to forward bids. As no structured pre-qualification process was followed important factors-which would have unearthed their financial strengths and the projects they were previously involved in-were unavailable, hence there being an inability to carry out an evaluation. The receiving of the companys credentials from the prospective contractors are also questionable due to the absence of a proper invitation, details about the closing of invitation and submission records, it is learned. 
Not only was the adjustment of the arbitration venue changed by Kudabalage without Board approval, but changes had been made to a few more tender clauses in the LoA and in the Memorandum of Understanding dated January 7, 2015
According to the available documents, 17 contractors had been initially selected and seven parties were shortlisted. Although these documents dont highlight the process Sino Lanka followed to select the prospective contractors, the former Project Consultant told the that the list of international contractors was given to them by the top management of Hyatt International. 
Although Hiran de Silva states so, the manner in which the contractor in question was selected by Sino Lanka raises many questions, also bringing under the spotlight the way tender specifications were changed to benefit the contractor-Interna. 
Extending closing dates 
De Silva said that the selected three contractors from Dubai, Singapore and Italy were given to complete mockup rooms as per the specifications of the Interior Designer from Hong Kong. Based on the evaluation of the quality and the performance criteria, tenders were called from these three parties for the hotel rooms and service apartments interior dcor, De Silva said. 
Kudabalage and the Board had extended the closing dates to submit bids on two occasions from August 22, 2014 to September 8, 2014 and then again to September 15, 2014 by bringing five addendums to the tender specification. 
It was found that in addendum no: 3 of August 28, 2014 the type of marble in the bathrooms had been changed to Italian Bianco Venezia from the original marble type Botticino (Turkey) which is technically of higher standard compared to the former which is of poor standard. Since Botticino (Turkey) was the type specified in the original tender and marble represents considerable amount of the interior design cost, it is questionable as to who gave orders to change the marble types when all mockup rooms were done using the higher standard marble and that there was no reason to make any changes. 
According to Hiran de Silva, the change of marble type had been done by the Interior Designer, but De Silva could not specify as to why a marble of a lower cost was allowed to be fixed without obtaining the bidding prices. It is said that this was done to the benefit of the contractor. 
When the bidders were requested to submit their discounted bids by October 13, 2014, Kudabalage, who is accused of being involved in many frauds associated with the project, and is now on bail, had accepted the bids that had been submitted after the deadline.
The Dubai contractor submitted bids the day after the tender was closed while Interna submitted its bids two days after the closing date, CEO Abeysinghe said. 
Allegations have been levelled against Kudabalage for passing Singapore and Dubai bidding prices to the Italian contractor, who bade the lowest. The prospective contractors were requested to send their bids via electronic mail to which Kudabalage had access. 
Meanwhile, an e-mail dated January 7, 2015 at 9.40 am the Company Secretary M/S Jacey and Company had forwarded the draft minutes of the board meeting, held on December 16, 2014, to Lasantha Bandara the Chief Financial Officer for the Chairman and Managing Directors approval had been amended without the Board consent and had been re-sent on January 12, 2015 to benefit the contractor. 
This draft letter had then been forwarded to Hiran de Silva by Bandara on January 7, 2015 at 5.05pm. De Silva had sent the amended minutes to Bandara on January 12, 2015 at 11.41am. As a result a board decision had been amended and stated, The Board advised the MD/ CEO to proceed with the award of the contract to Interna Spa as per the tender conditions and incorporate any deviations or additional conditions arising from the procurement committee negotiations into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which should form part of the contract documents. 
These drafted board minutes by De Silva and sent by Bandara to the Company Secretary show how this group was manipulating the board minutes to the benefit the contractor. Its also interesting to find out how the EPF and Treasury representatives in the Board too have agreed to the changes of terms/ conditions of this contract.
When the present CEO Abeysinghe inquired into these mails from the company Secretaries it was confirmed how the initial draft had been sent back with amendments.
The reply states as, We note that the draft minutes of the Board meeting held on December 16, 2014 had been prepared and forwarded to Mr. Lasantha Bandara on January 7, 2015 by Achini Atukorala, our representative who was present at the Board Meeting for approval of the Chairman and the MD and was acknowledge by Lasantha Bandara. 
On perusal of the said minutes we observe that the main item of business taken up for the discussion had been to award of Contract for Construction, Supplying, installation and remedying defects of interior work of guest rooms, service apartments and selected public areas, which had been recorded as item 3 of the minutes. We note that Option 2 contained in Board paper No: 8/ 2014 dated December 15, 2014 pertaining to the foregoing, considered by the Board has been recorded in the minute forwarded to the company by Ms. Athukorala, as the option chosen by the Board in deciding on the proposed award of interior works. 
Minutes returned to Ms. Athukorala from Bandara on January 12, 2015, with certain amendments to the said minute No: 3 had been effected including the substitution of Option 1 indicated in the said Board paper to Option 2 recorded by Ms. Athukorala. 
Although, the original instructions to tenderers said that the contractor should submit personal guarantee (PG) within 14 days after accepting the LoA, Kudabalage had given eighteen more days to submit the PG. Meanwhile, on contractors written request dated January 3, 2015, Kudabalage had allowed Interna to submit the PG upon establishing Letter of Credit (LC) violating the terms of contract.
PG is the first document the contractor submits which proves that the contractor is able to meet the financial liability and committed to honour the provisions of the contract. The contractor cannot demand the employer (Sino Lanka) to open the LC before he submits the PG. The reason for demanding to open LC before submitting PG may be that the contractor has no financial capacity to request a guarantee from a bank without a counter guarantee from the employer. The day the PG was to be submitted on February 6, 2015, Interna has sent a letter to Hiran de Silva informing that arrangements have been made to submit the PG but waiting till Sino Lanka opens LC. This proves that Interna did not have the ability to get a PG if the employer does not open an LC, Abeysinghe said. 
Having reviewed the entire procurement process, the new Board of Directors had got a forensic audit conducted. The audit revealed that there had been irregularities during the entire process and the legal opinion was to terminate the interior dcor contract. 
Meanwhile, Kudabalage and Hiran de Silva are further accused of increasing the compensation Trans Gulf Electro -Mechanical LLC has sought from Sino Lanka for failing to handover the building to finish the mechanical engineering and plumbing work of the project. 
As a result of this, Trans Gulf Electro-Mechanical LLC by letter dated November 20, 2014, the Project Engineer claimed Rs. 188.168 million as compensation for late issuance of construction drawings as they could not finish the mechanical, engineering and plumbing work by November 23, 2014. The Employer had to extend the contract period by 402 days (from November 23, 2014 to December 31, 2015). Later, after a discussion with the Employer on December 4, 2014, Thomas Abraham of Trans Gulf wrote to Hiran de Silva to inform the revised prices which was Rs. 179.179 million. 
Kudabalage, who is accused of being involved in many frauds associated with the project, and is now on bail, had accepted the bids that had been submitted after the deadline
Despite of the said e-mail, Kudabalage by letter dated December 5, 2014 wrote to Trans Gulf promising to pay Rs.195.709 million which is Rs.16.53 million more than the revised price. 
When all the e-mail correspondences Hiran de Silva, the project Engineer, and Kudabalage had exchanged with Trans Gulf were retrieved after the fall of the previous regime, it came to be known as to how De Silva had got the compensation amount increased to Rs.195.709 million. All these e-mail correspondence are now with us and can be used to show how these officers manipulated prices to their own whims and fancies without considering that this project is fully owned by the State and is a loss to the country, Abeysinghe said. 
According to the legal opinion taken by the project, the employer therefore is well within its rights to re-negotiate the amounts payable as the claim for prolongation and also it is known that Kudabalage had not obtained Board approval before he issued the Letter of Award on December 5, 2014.
When contacted the former Managing Director/ CEO P. Kudabalage for a comment on the findings of the malpractices followed by the Board of Directors during the previous regime, Kudabalage declined to make any statement but added that the allegations are baseless. I have worked 15 hours a day in this project to the best of my ability. I have followed all the government procurement guidelines and the allegations are levelled against us to discredit our good names, Kudabalage claimed. 
Meanwhile, the former Project Consultant who too is accused of allowing Trans Gulf to manipulate the compensation prices said that he cannot remember as to why the prices were changed by the contractor within few hours and why Sino Lanka did not take any action against the contractor. As I do not have these documents with me to explain why the contractor reduced the compensation amount and then increased within few hours, there should be a reason for it. If not the former management of Sino Lanka should have not given the approval to the final amount they demanded, De Silva said.

 
		
==============================
## Title: He can make a complainant an accused or vice versa
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:54 am
He can make a complainant an accused or vice versa
	

This single-star khakied one handling minor complaints at a lakeside cop shop can make a complainant an accused or an accused the complainant in a jiffy thanks to his close connection to a powerful politico in the area, they say.

It is well known in the area that a certain meat-stall owner is a close buddy of this khakied one and any complainant offering a santhosham to the meat stall owner on his way to the cop shop would surely get a warm reception from the khakied one, they say.
Many complaints against the khakied one made to those sporting more stars have so far fallen on deaf ears because the latter fear to antagonize the man because of the political clout he wields, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: I was still President when I went to Tangalle in helicopter: MR
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 08:48 am
I was still President when I went to Tangalle in helicopter: MR
	
Responding to President Maithripala Sirisenas remarks that a certain individual has provided helicopters to former president MahindaRajapaksa to fly to Tangalle as soon as the presidential election results were announced, Mr. Rajapaksa said he was still the President of the country when he left Colombo.
As far as I am aware, I was still the President of the country when I left. I left Colombo even before the final election results were announced. The President of the country still functions, until a new President is sworn in. Thats the true story. The Head of my security division was from Polonnaruwa. He also went there, he told journalists at an Iftar ceremony held at his residence last evening. (Lahiru Pothmulla)
Pix by Shantha Rathnayake
 
		
==============================
## Title: International Childrens Day (June 1) Sri Lanka rated second best South Asian country for kids
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
International Childrens Day (June 1) Sri Lanka rated second best South Asian country for kids
	
Sri Lanka has improved one place to 60 in the reports End of Childhood index, which ranks countries according to where childhood is most and least threatened
Sri Lanka has been ranked as the second best country in South Asia for children to grow up in for the second successive year, and the 60th best across the globe, despite ongoing concerns over the impacts of parental migration, according to a new report. 
Children, whose parents have migrated abroad, are among the most marginalized groups inSri Lanka
More than half of all children globally  over 1.2 billion  are threatened by conflict, widespread poverty or discrimination against girls
Launched in the lead up to International Childrens Day on June 1st, The Many Faces of Exclusion examines countries on a range of indicators related to childhood like child marriage, teenage pregnancy andchild mortality.

Sri Lanka showed promise across the board, avoiding any moderate, high or very high scores. However, still more than 17 percent of Sri Lankan children below age 5 suffer from stunting, according to the report, while almost one percent of babies die before their fifth birthday.
 
Sri Lanka improved one place to 60 in the reports End of Childhood index, which ranks countries according to where childhood is most and least threatened. It outperformed most regional neighbours, with India ranking 113th, Bangladesh at 130th, Pakistan 149th and Myanmar 107th. 
Despite the promising showing, Save the Children Sri Lanka said that children, whose parents have migrated abroad seeking employment, are among the most marginalized groups of children in Sri Lanka. 
Evidence reveals that around 1.7 million Sri Lankans migrate annually in search of work. Foreign remittances are a crucial part of the Sri Lankan economy, contributing 7 percent to the GDP. This increases the vulnerability of the children of migrating parents, as carers or other relatives may not provide adequate parental care.
Parents expecting to migrate
This can have a detrimental impact on a childs well-being, facing major issues in terms of protection, health and nutrition, as well as missing out on that physically nurturing relationship, Save the Children Country Director in Sri Lanka, Chris McIvor said. 
Its really important for parents who consider migrating to work with the relevant Government authorities to ensure there is a safe child care plan in place for their children. 
Save the Children is calling for strong coordination among all stakeholders working for and with children to recognize potential risks and vulnerabilities created by parental migration and ensuring children from identified vulnerable families get the mosteffective services. 
In its second year, The Many Faces of Exclusion includes a ranking of 175 countries, with Singapore and Slovenia sharing first place, while Norway, Sweden and Finland rounded out the top five. Eight of the bottom 10 countries are in West and Central Africa, with Niger ranked last for the second year running. 
The report also revealed that: 

More than half of all children globally  over 1.2 billion  are threatened by conflict, widespread poverty or discriminationagainst girls. 
	More than one billion children live in countries plagued by poverty; 240 million in countries affected by conflict and fragility; and more than 575 million girls live in countries where gender bias is a serious issue. 
	Almost 153 million children are living in 20 countries affected by all three threatsincluding South Sudan, Somalia, Yemenand Afghanistan. 
	The incidence of child labour in countries affected by armed conflict is 77% higher than the global average. Conflict also makes girls more vulnerable to child marriage. 
	Only three of 34 fragile or conflict-affected states with available data have achieved, or nearly achieved, universal primary education. 
Save the Children is calling on Governments around the world to ensure that no child dies from preventable or treatable causes or is subjected to extreme violence, robbed of a future as a result of malnutrition, enters into early or forced marriages, experiences early pregnancy, or engages in forced labour and on the other hand has access to aquality education. 
Sri Lanka improved one place to 60 in the reports End of Childhood index, which ranks countries according to where childhood is most and least threatened
 
		
==============================
## Title: Italian populists launch bid to resurrect government coalition
## Section: International
## Date: 1 June 2018 10:27 am
Italian populists launch bid to resurrect government coalition
	

AFP May31, 2018 Italys populist parties launched a last-ditch bid Thursday to resurrect a coalition government that collapsed as the president vetoed their controversial pick for economy minister. 
Luigi Di Maio, head of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, said Wednesday he was prepared to offer a compromise candidate in place of economist Paolo Savona, who has called for Italy to drop the euro. 
It would be an olive branch to President Sergio Mattarella, who at the weekend ruled out approving the coalitions cabinet lineup if it included Savona -- prompting Di Maio to demand the presidents impeachment. 
Mattarella has asked pro-austerity economist Carlo Cottarelli to form a caretaker government, but now says he is assessing Di Maios offer of a compromise with great interest. Cottarelli meanwhile has a caretaker team ready to step in should the Five Star-League negotiations fail -- but the lineup is doomed to lose a confidence vote in the populist-dominated parliament, meaning that elections would likely be held after August.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Lester's stolen Ranamayura award handed back to wife
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 10:44 am
Lester's stolen Ranamayura award handed back to wife
	
Police today handed over veteran filmmaker, late Dr. Lester James Peries lifetime award, which was found in a private bus recently, to his wife Sumitra Peries at her residence.
The award, which was stolen from Lesters residence while his funeral service was in progress on May 2, was later found in the overhead rack of a private bus operating on the 177 route.
 
		
==============================
## Title: LTTE bogey  to scuttle Constitution making
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
LTTE bogey  to scuttle Constitution making
	
LTTE bogey came to a head when the Rajapaksa loyalists accused Sarath Fonseka, being an LTTE agent when challenged Rajapaksa
Sri Lankan politicians have a habit to look for a nexus between the ethnic issue and anything under the sun, in order to convince their community
The constitutional issues such as the mode of governance are the ones having far-reaching effects on the future of the country as well as its people

It is interesting and in a way puzzling to note that the political parties and leaders who agitated to scrap the Executive Presidential system of Governance during the height of the separatist war, are now expressing fear to do so, on the grounds that the country would be divided.
The Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) group functioning under former President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Mahajana Eksath Peramuna (MEP) led by Dinesh Gunawardane, Wimal Weerawansa and his party men, who were then members of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP), the group of 16 of the SLFP and many others who are now aligned with the former President were agitating to abolish the Executive Presidency some time back.
At the 2005 Presidential Election, these groups supported the candidacy of Mahinda Rajapaksa, whose main pledge was to do away with the Executive Presidential form of governance.
It was a time when the entire Vanni, a part of the Jaffna Peninsula and many parts of the Eastern Province were under the control of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the United National Front (UNF) Government of Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was begging the Tamil rebel group to return to the negotiating table.
Even Rajapaksa, who went back on his words to abrogate the previous UNP Governments Ceasefire Agreement (CFA) and the peace process resumed talks with the LTTE, despite the organisation having attempted on the life of his Army Commander the then Lieutenant General Sarath Fonseka.
Yet, his Government stood for the scrapping of the Executive Presidency, without seeing any danger in doing so. For them, the ethnic issue had then nothing to do with the form of Governance. Soon after Rajapaksa assumed power for the second time in 2010, when there was no longer a separatist war nor a separatist armed group, they tied up the two issues and even now, they remain the same.
Most Sri Lankan politicians have made it a habit to look for a nexus between the ethnic issue and anything under the sun, in order to convince especially their community whatever the point they make and to justify any crime they have committed or alleged to have committed.
Thus, those soldiers who are accused of harming leading journalists such as Lasantha Wickramatunga, Keith Noyahr and Upali Tennakoon, are war heroes as they had fought against the LTTE, whereas the Army Commander who spearheaded a successful war against the separatists is not.
The northern politicians usually do not touch upon an issue that has nothing to do with the ethnic problem. Thus they see everything through the ethnic prism. They criticize their rivals in the region largely for betraying the Tamil and their interests to the Sinhalese and rarely for corruption or something unrelated to ethnicity.
Their southern counterparts too, especially those in the Opposition, despite they taking up national issues, always attempt to tie them up with the ethnic issue and accuse their rivals of betraying the Sinhalese and their interests to the Tamils and to the LTTE.
Thus, the constitution-making process of the Chandrika Kumaratunga Government between 1994 and 2000 was seen by the United National Party (UNP) as a sellout of the country to the LTTE and the UNP members burnt copies of a draft Constitution within the chamber of the Parliament in 2000.
And the same people who were the members of Kumaratungas party then and under Mahinda Rajapaksa now, want to scuttle the Constitution making process of the incumbent UNP-led Government, ridiculously on the same grounds.
Their contention is further preposterous in the light of them having participated in the various committees appointed to look into various aspects of the proposed new constitution.
This LTTE bogey came to a head when the Rajapaksa loyalists accused Sarath Fonseka, the war-winning Army Commander, who was acclaimed by leaders of the very Rajapaksa regime as the Best Army Commander of the world for being an LTTE agent, when he unsuccessfully challenged Rajapaksa at the 2010 Presidential Election.
Soon after Rajapaksa assumed power for the second time in 2010, when there was no longer a separatist war nor a separatist armed group, they tied up the two issues and even now, they remain the same
They also branded Maithripala Sirisena as an LTTE agent, when he announced on November 21, 2014, his decision to contest the Presidential Election in 2015 as the Common Candidate of the Opposition parties.
The then General Secretary of the United Peoples Freedom Alliance (UPFA) Susil Premajayantha in a hurriedly convened media briefing the following day said that the candidacy of Maithripala Sirisena was a result of a conspiracy by foreign powers and separatist forces. One has to understand the stand taken by the Joint Opposition and the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) on the 20th Amendment to the Constitution that has been handed over to the Secretary-General of the Parliament by the JVP last week for the abolition of Executive Presidency, against this backdrop.
Their argument is that so long as the 13th Amendment to the Constitution that provided for the devolution of power and the institution of Provincial Councils is in force, the scrapping of the Executive Presidency would lead to the division of the country.
Apart from their above-mentioned history, where they had taken a diametrically different position, the experience of several other countries stands against their current view.
India has successfully crushed secessionist insurgencies in several of her ethnically created States such as Kashmir, Punjab, Assam, Tripura and Mizoram while having a Westminster Style Government in the Centre.
The argument can be applied to the United Kingdom as well, where the Government had defeated a long drawn separatist rebellion in Northern Ireland.
Malaysia and Australia are two more countries that have had devolved power to the periphery, while not having a Presidential rule in the Centre.
Some of those countries have effectively waged wars as well against other countries. (India against Pakistan and Britain against Argentina).
On the other hand, it must be recalled that the Opposition parties during the first Executive President J.R. Jayewardenes tenure - the SLFP, LSSP, Communist Party, MEP and JVP - accused him for muddling the ethnic rebellion by way of sending his nephew Brigadier Tissa Weeratunga to the north, mishandling the first major attack by the LTTE at Thirunelveli in Jaffna in July 23, 1983, which triggered countrywide anti-Tamil riots, passage of the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution and mishandling theThimpu talks.
The constitutional issues such as the mode of governance, are the ones having far-reaching effects on the future of the country as well as its people.
In some countries, the Governments conduct their affairs on a Constitution brought in hundreds of years ago. But in Sri Lanka, these issues are viewed as tools to grab power or to sustain the already grabbed power.
If the Rajapaksa loyalists are to argue that their stance in 2005 or in 2010 on Executive Presidency was taken in the light of the political situation prevailed then, they had then been able to see only about few years into the future.
One cannot assure that complete democracy would be heralded once the executive presidency is done away with. But the experience has it that it is not an indispensable tool to handle separatist forces.
 
		
==============================
## Title: More prehistoric artifacts found at Rajagalatenna
## Section: Caption Story
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:46 pm
More prehistoric artifacts found at Rajagalatenna
	
Many facts about the pre-historic era of the sacred place of Rajagalatenna in Ampara could be found in the middle-stone-age stone inscriptions found during the excavations Rajagalatenna archaeological site done recently, Professor of History and Archaeological Alexander Kapukotuva of the Sri Jayewardenepura University said.
This is the second stage of the excavations at the site.
Professor Alexander stated that parts of snails brought for meals, charcoal, ash, skeletal remains of a serpent, parts of bones of the animals, human teeth, Kekuna seeds and micro stone equipment were recovered in second excavations.
History and Archaeological Professor Pathmasiri Kannangara of Sri Jayewardenepura University also confirmed the claims. Pix by Wasantha Chanadrapala-Ampara
 
		
==============================
## Title: No JO member in 118 list who obtained money from PTL: JO
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:05 am
No JO member in 118 list who obtained money from PTL: JO
	
None of the members of the Joint Opposition had taken cash from the Perpetual Treasuries Limited [PTL], Joint Opposition member and MP Shehan Semasinghe said.
Addressing a news conference, he said although several MPs were accused of obtaining from PTL money, no JO member was involved in it.
Those who appear to be silent these days are the ones who had obtained money from PTL. We can guarantee that none of the JO members are involved in it. We have no reason to get money from a person who is alleged with series a of allegations Semasinghe said.
When the government is not being able to apprehend the mastermind of the bond scam, how they become so brave to reveal the names of those 118 individuals, among whom there are some powerful ministers, Semasinghe added.
Meanwhile, MP Indika Anurudda said the country is heading towards anarchy, the government should call for a General Elections immediately.
President Maithripala Sirisena himself admitted that he is not satisfied with the government's way forward. He was criticising his own government at the commemoration of Ven. Maduluwawe Sobitha Thera's 76th birth anniversary.
The government cannot go on in this manner. Therefore, it should call for General Election and hand over the country to a better group of administrators, MP Anurudda said.(Sheain Fernandopulle)

 
		
==============================
## Title: North Korea to hold second day of nuclear talks
## Section: International
## Date: 1 June 2018 10:30 am
North Korea to hold second day of nuclear talks
	

U .S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and high-ranking North Korean official Kim Yong Chol enter a second day of meetings in New York on Thursday as they try to settle nuclear weapons disagreements and set the stage for an historic summit between their leaders. 
The two men left a 90-minute private dinner at a New York apartment on Wednesday night without providing details about their conversation. Another round of talks is due on Thursday. 
The United States has been demanding that North Korea abandon its nuclear weapons programme amid reports that it is close to being able to launch a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the United States. 
Pyongyang has long argued that it needed nuclear weapons for its security. 
There were reports earlier on Wednesday that South Korean officials were noting quite significant differences between the United States and North Korea over denuclearization. 
The New York meetings follow high-level conversations Pompeo held in North Korea in April and earlier in May and are intended to get negotiations between the two long-time adversaries back on track.

U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jung Un had been scheduled to hold an unprecedented summit in Singapore on June 12. Disputes between Washington and Pyongyang led Trump to cancel the meeting, only to see a renewal of diplomatic efforts in recent days. 
NEW YORK
REUTERS May 31
 
		
==============================
## Title: One lane of E01 closed from today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 05:31 pm
One lane of E01 closed from today
	
One side of the Southern Expressway (E01) on the Interchange between Kokmaduwa and Godagama had been closed from today, Southern Expressway Deputy Director R.A.D. Kahatapitiya said.
Explaining the reason for closure he said it was as a result of ongoing construction work to connect the Matara-Hambantota extension to the E01.
Accordingly, two of the four lanes of the expressway would be closed during this time. Since one side of the expressway would be closed, the remaining two lanes will be used by vehicles travelling in both directions, he said.
Motorists are advised to reduce their vehicle speed to 40 kmph, he said. Speed limit signs will be displayed on the roadside. The two lanes will remain closed for at least six months, Mr. Kahatapitiya said.(Chaturanga Samarawickrama)

 
		
==============================
## Title: Pakistan, India vow to stop ceasefire violations in Kashmir
## Section: International
## Date: 1 June 2018 10:21 am
Pakistan, India vow to stop ceasefire violations in Kashmir
	
ISLAMABAD AFP May30, 2018-Pakistan and India have promised to end ceasefire violations in disputed Kashmir, their militaries said, following the highest levels of violence between the nuclear-armed rivals in the restive region in 15 years. 
Dozens have been killed in border clashes in recent months along the Line of Control, the heavily militarised de facto border dividing the Himalayan territory, leaving residents terrified.

This month, shelling and gunfire along the frontier dividing Indian-held Kashmir from Pakistans Punjab province --known as the working boundary-- killed at least 16 people, while 80,000 people on the Indian side fled their homes to escape the violence. 
But the Pakistani military said late Tuesday that the two sides had pledged to respect the conditions laid out in a 2003 ceasefire inked by the rivals, following a call on the hotline between the militaries. 
Both militaries agreed to fully implement the ceasefire understanding of 2003 in letter and spirit forthwith and to ensure that henceforth the ceasefire will not be violated by both sides, the Pakistani side said in a statement. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: President firmly instructs IGP to curb underworld activities
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 06:13 am
President firmly instructs IGP to curb underworld activities
	
President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday admitted that therewas truth in the allegations that the government had let underworld operations to rise, and said that he had given explicit instructions to Police Chief to take immediate action to give priority to control the underworld activities.
He said the Law and Order Ministry and the Police Department must take the full responsibility for this lapse and added that he should be informed if there was political pressure against taking action to control the underworld crimes.
"I have told IGP Pujith Jayasundara recently in firm words and instructed him to take swift action to curb these underworld activities. Those law enforcement authorities must act promptly to put an end to crimes and the underworld thuggery without any concern on the time taken to do that. If the government realizes that those establishments are weak and incompetent to take action against the underworld operatives, I have no option but to appoint someone else to do the job properly, he stressed.
President Sirisena added that it was incomprehensible and surprising as to how the underworld thugs flee the country after committing serious crimes despite the fact that all boarder points, the police, the CID and BIA had been fed with comprehensive information on underworld criminals and of their families.
I admit that there has been a steep rise of crimes committed involving the underworld criminals. Particulars of each and every criminal, his/her families, Passports numbers and other travel documents details and all other information have been fed in to computer network of law enforcement authorities and the airport.
What I cannot understand is that how these criminals manage to flee the country after committing a crime. Dont these establishments have a list of criminals in their computer system After they had left the country, the media raise cries that criminals or the underworld operatives had fled, President Sirisena lamented. (Sandun A. Jayasekara)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez Sec attempts to cover up 118: Keerthi
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 06:45 pm
Prez Sec attempts to cover up 118: Keerthi
	
The move of President Secretary Austin Fernando to seek the Attorney General's opinion on releasing the full report of the Central Bank Bond Commission was to defend the 118, who had obtained funds from the Perpetual Treasuries Limited, Centre for Human Rights and Research (CHR) alleged today.
The Presidents Secretary had misled us for more than four months when some groups including the CHR were requesting him to release the full report of the bond scam, CHR Executive Director Keerthi Tennakoon said.
On one occasion, President Maithripala Sirisena has pronounced that people can have the access to a part of the bond report under the Right to Information Act (RTI). Presidents Secretary said on Thursday (31) said that people could get access to the bond report from the Department of National Archives.
However, when we approached the Archives Department, it stated that it would take 30 years for the Archives Department to release the full Presidential Report, Tennakoon said.
This whole story is to put the records of bond scam under the carpet and prevent the names of 118 from being disclosed to the public domain. The hierarchy knows that if the entire report is out, the general public would get the real picture of everything and what has really transpired following the bond scam, Tennakoon added. (Sheain Fernandopulle)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Prez Sec seeks AGs opinion on releasing full Bond report
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:57 pm
Prez Sec seeks AGs opinion on releasing full Bond report
	
Following the request made by MP Dayasiri Jayasekara to release the entire Bond Report and related documents, Presidents Secretary Austin Fernando today said he had requested the Attorney General for his opinion in this regard.
Mr Fernando said MP Jayasekara had asked him under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the parts of the Bond Commission Report which were not presented to Parliament, CID investigation reports and all other related documents.
If the Attorney General instructs me to give it all, I will give the entire set of documents. Even I don't have some of the documents. If both the Attorney General and the Bribery Commissions Director General said there is no issue, then I will give everything and wont hide anything, he said.
He said the 30-year closure law was applicable only for the annexures and not for the bond report.This is not a decision of mine but a decision of the Bond Commission, he said.
Meanwhile, Mr Fernando said he was not aware whether there is a list of 118 names as nowhere in the bond report it has been mentioned about a list of politicians, who received funds from the Perpetual Treasuries Limited (PTL).
Without a list, I have to go through many troubles to find names. I know investigations are ongoing by the Attorney Generals Department and the CID. The AGs Department, CID and the Bribery Commission have to do investigations. However, I'm not familiar with the sensitive nature of these documents because Im not a lawyer, a Judge nor a Commissioner. Therefore, I asked the AG, and Director General of the Bribery Commission, since they are taking future actions, whether there is no issue in releasing documents if someone requested. I wrote to them on January 18 first and I got mails from both officials on January 22 saying certain facts could be sub-judice and investigations are ongoing and therefore, I should act carefully with regard to these matters. Therefore, I have acted based on their instructions in this regard because I dont understand what is sensitive and what is not, he said.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rains to enhance slightly from today
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:01 pm
Rains to enhance slightly from today
	
The showery condition in the South-Western parts of the country is expected to enhance slightly from today, the Meteorology Department said.
It said showers will occur at times in Western, Southern, Sabaragamuwa, Central and North-Western provinces.
Showers or thunder showers may occur at few places in the Uva Province and in the Batticaloa and Ampara Districts after 2.00 p.m.
Meanwhile, fairly heavy rains about 50 mm could be expected at some places in the Western, Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces. (TK)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm  Part X
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 1 June 2018 11:15 am
Read your fortune from the yogas formed on your palm  Part X
	
Vidyata Yoga: A black mark above the bracelets indicates the presence of this Yoga.
Result: Beneficiary of this yoga lives like a monarch, enjoying the all the comforts and luxuries in life. He is a happy person.

Shiva Yoga: A wavy line at the centre of the palm signifies this yoga.
Result: A person endowed with this Yoga is either a successful businessman or a high-ranking army or Police officer. He leads a happy and contented life.

Vishnu Yoga: A lotus-like sign somewhere on the palm signifies the presence of
this yoga.
Result: The subject possessing this yoga is wealthy, prosperous, and fortunate and he leads a happy life.

Brahma Yoga: Sign of a flag on the palm indicates the presence of this yoga.
Result: The subject is devoted to religion. He is a person of integrity. He leads a comfortable life. He is selfless and he works with commitment for the wellbeing of the community.

Chandra Yoga: The sign of a crescent Moon on the palm signifies this yoga.
Result: The subject is wealthy, clever and courageous. Because of his outstanding qualities he becomes a leader in his community or others would look up to his leadership. He leads a happy life.

Chakra Yoga: The sign of a circle on the Mount of Saturn signifies this Yoga.
Result: A person possessing this yoga upholds fair play and justice. He makes objective judgments. He holds high office in the state.

Chaturmukha Yoga: A fish-like formation above the bracelets signifiesthis yoga.
Result: Beneficiary of this yoga is wise, learned, and clever. He is far-sighted. He is generous, virtuous and compassionate. He gains a high position in the state or the private sector.

Sarvabhaum Yoga: If there is a formation like an arrow on the palm, the subject has this yoga.
Result: The subject may suffer from want during childhood. But he becomes wealthy as he grows up into a youth. He succeeds in fulfilling all his desires and aspirations in life during his life time.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Reflections on history What inflames bigotry
## Section: News Features
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
Reflections on history What inflames bigotry
	
A careful perusal of history indicates that racism begins with the economic as opposed to the religious or communal.
A careful perusal of history indicates that racism begins with the economic as opposed to the religious or communal. When food prices are rising, when its difficult to earn a proper income, especially under a barrage of taxes, and when living through today is the credo you wake up to every day, its difficult and painfully so to affirm unity and harmony with other communities, particularly if the chauvinists draw a rather negative picture of those other communities. Thats why the Jewish population of Russia inspired so much derision from the elite and the masses before AND after the Revolution: because the economy, in both cases, was so stifling, so unbearably down, that a scapegoat had to be found. One can make the case that wars begin in the minds of human beings, and they do, but before they do, they are fermented by the shifts of economic imperatives. Simply put, if you cant live properly, you turn to hatred. 
The riots in Digana, and elsewhere in Kandy, a little over two months ago were, I feel, the inevitable consequence of the communal riots which erupted during Mahinda Rajapaksas presidency in Aluthgama. I was privy to various comments interjected by members of both communities, with respect how they saw the riots and how they rationalised them. The main issue for the Sinhalese Buddhists, that is, minus the Islamophobic rhetoric about Muslims outstripping Buddhists in terms of population growth, was the inclusion of the Halal certificate in food packaging everywhere. It was just that; a harmless certification. But it was rooted in the economic, as opposed to the religious and the communal, and as with all other racial conflicts, it found its way to riots that it compelled. Unfortunate though they were, those riots were a direct consequence of the Governments ability to address an issue that had been growing rampantly over the years. The Sinhalese Buddhists, rather the extremists among them, wanted a scapegoat. They found one, conveniently, with that certification. It could have been anything. That anything was a piece of paper. Four years later, here we are. 
Whats news and whats not

The riots in Kandy District werent rooted in anything abstract. It was rooted in an actuality: a man who happened to be brutally killed by a gang (having accidentally damaged a vehicle belonging to one of its members). That man happened to be Sinhalese and Buddhist, and the gang members (who were jailed) happened to be Muslims. A friend of mine told me that around the same time, a Sinhalese teenager was hacked to death just as brutally by a Sinhalese elder. Obviously, some things make it to the news, others are not deemed newsworthy enough to make it there. The first incident was bad enough; the fact that the man succumbed made things worse. Aluthgama came back. It wanted something substantive, rooted in the communal as opposed to the economic. A certification wasnt going to cause riots. A murder was. So Aluthgama begot Digana. In this sense, its interesting to compare the timelines at these two sites with the timeline that transpired in 1915 during the much written about Sinhala-Muslim riots. 
Obviously, contexts matter. 1915 was not 2014 and neither was it 1815. But the centenary of the capitulation to the British in 1915, and the tercentenary thereof, along with the centenary of the riots, in 2014 and 2015, helped accentuate the rifts and the violence rather considerably. Unlike what transpired in Digana and Aluthgama, though, the 1915 kolahalaya (commotion) was instigated, not by an economic issue, but by a communal malaise; specifically, the issue of allowing a Buddhist procession to pass through the vicinity of a mosque in Gampola. The Kandy District Court had given a judgment in favour of the Buddhists; the Supreme Courts, where the judgment was challenged, reversed the decision in favour of the Muslims. Thus came about the first onslaught of racial attacks. For the time being, while the British didnt do much to contain the violence, they were aware that it could take on a nationalistic character. Ironically, that nationalistic character emerged, not from the bhikkus (monks) and the clergymen from both communities, but from a secular source: trade unions.
The divide between Sinhalese and Muslims
More than 115 deaths later, the divide between the Sinhalese and the Muslims had been buttressed by a more powerful divide between the Sinhalese and the British. With the conservative Sinhalese elite decidedly on the side of the latter, by their denunciations of the rioters as deviants who were a miniscule minority among those loyal to the Crown and Empire, the moderates, the Senanayakes and the Jayatilakes, were imprisoned. They were the nobodies of Kumari Jayawardanas narrative, the upstarts who found the first anti-imperialist movement sustained by the bourgeoisie, the Temperance Council. But here too, the economic took precedence over the racial: 
What explains the precedence of the economic over the racial in Aluthgama, and the precedence of the racial over the economic in Digana In 1915, the trade unions took to the streets and instigated an entire collective against another after, and not before, the issue over the procession near the Mosque in Gampola. At the same time, lets not forget that while the halal issue proved to be the crux of the riots, it was preceded by a communal clash revolving around a similar assault on the Sinhalese: this time, by Muslims from Dharga Town, and on a Buddhist monk and his driver. (However, this remains a rumour, so it cant be compared with protests against Muslims stopping Buddhists from conducting their pageant.) Even when we discount this incident, which remains unverified, it must be said that even the leading representative, from the clergy, of the Sinhala Buddhists at the forefront of the riots, the infamous Ven. Gnanasara Thera himself, turned the ruckus over the halal certification into the ultimate symbol of discord between the two communities. 
Perhaps what transformed the economic to the communal, more than anything or anyone else, was Gnanasara Thera himself. No other monk before him, from recent memory, has been capable of inciting so much revulsion. The leader of a breakaway faction from the already ethnicised and reviled Hela Urumaya (reviled particularly owing to the comments of its leader, Champika Ranawaka, to the effect that Muslims were outsiders), Gnanasara was the spark that turned Aluthgama from a rumoured assault and paper certificate to attacks on businesses owned by Muslims in even the multicultural metropolis, Colombo.The 1915 riots were informed by the centenary of the biggest humiliation those Sinhalese Buddhists had faced in their troubled history, the surrender of Kandy. As such, for a riot to run riot (proverbially speaking), what was needed was an actual communal rift springing from the actions or the omissions of the Other, in this case, Muslims. 100 years later, with the centenary of the riots themselves, what was needed for history to repeat itself was the smallest rumour, the most mundane issue. Be it the economic or the communal, that carnage thus continues on. History is rather cruel. 

 
		
==============================
## Title: Release the swindlers' list: Karu asks Austin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 11:12 pm
Release the swindlers' list: Karu asks Austin
	
Speaker Karu Jayasuriya has written to the Secretary to President Austin Fernando to send him the list of names mentioned in the Presidential Commission of Inquiry (PCoI) Report as those who had allegedly received financial gratuities from Perpetual Treasuries Ltd. boss Arjun Aloysius.
Mr Jayasuriya has made the request several times to Mr Fernando but there has been no positive response up to now.
An official of the Speakers Office told the Daily Mirror that a third request had been made to the Presidential Secretariat a few days ago by Speaker Jayasuriya under the Parliamentary Privilege as the issue involved Parliamentarians.
Speaker Jayasuriya expects a positive response by next week from Mr Fernando as the disclosure of those names is of national interest, the official added.
Meanwhile, Director General of National Archives Department Dr Nadeera Rupesinghe said she could release any document connected to a Presidential Commission Report only if and when the Secretary to President made a formal request.
Normally, all confidential documents or reports sent to the National Archives can be released to the public domain only after 30 years, Dr Rupesinghe added.
Meanwhile, former Minister Susil Premajayantha said the Presidential Secretariat must publish the list of names of those who got money from Mr Aloysius sooner than later because it had caused a huge controversy among the public, the media and in the political field.
The delay in releasing the names of those mentioned during the CoI proceedings as beneficiaries of companies connected to Central Bank bond scandal creates an unnecessary and negative dialogue in the country, he said.
We are aware that Dayasiri Jayasekara has been given only Rs. one million. But we have information that there are many others, who have received fat financial gratuities and assets from Mr Aloysius, he stressed.
Mr Premajayantha who is also a former COPE member told the Daily Mirror that the main concern of politicians like him was to clear their own name from this allegations because he had not received a cent from Mr Aloysius.
Media reports indicated that there are 118 names in the list as those who got these unethical gratuities from Mr Aloysius, who is the second suspect in the bond scam case.
We want to know whether all of them are politicians and if not who. We want a clear picture of this sordid affair and know who did what to save suspects involved in the bond scam, Premajayantha added.(Sandun A Jayasekera and Ajith Siriwardana)
 
		
==============================
## Title: Reveal the list of names, if any: Malik writes to Austin
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 04:18 pm
Reveal the list of names, if any: Malik writes to Austin
	
Development Strategies and International Trade Minister Malik Samarawickrama today requested Secretary to President Austin Fernando to disclose any list attached with the Bond Commission Report implicating the names of MPs alleged to have accepted funds from Perpetual Treasuries.
He, in his letter, wrote that certain sections of Social Media were naming MPs.
I am informed that my name is also mentioned, he said.
I wish to categorically state that I have not received any funds from the above mentioned company or person, as stated by me, under oath, while giving evidence before the Bond Commission, he said.
In view of the above, I kindly request you to publish the names of all those who had received funds, if such a list in the Bond Commission Report or available with the Attorney Generals Department or the Law Enforcement Authorities, he wrote.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Rohitha Bogollagamas wife and daughter ordered to be arrested
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 11:11 am
Rohitha Bogollagamas wife and daughter ordered to be arrested
	
Colombo Chief Magistrate today ordered to arrest the wife and daughter of Eastern Province Governor Rohitha Bogollagama and produce them in courts for failing to appear before the court over an attempted assault case.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Set for the somersault
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:57 am
Set for the somersault
	

There is a radical Diyawanna politico who is highly disillusioned with his leader. The man had wanted a place in the top team itself, but he had to settle for a State level position.

The other day this politico was walking out after attending an environment-related seminar when he chanced on a leader of a political Front. After a swift exchange of greetings, the politico put his arm round the Front leaders shoulder and told him in a low tone:
Machang, I hope you dont mind giving me nomination from your party come next polls!
O! Yes, replied the Front leader. We, in fact, were waiting for you to join us!
The radical politico is expected to do the somersault at the most opportune time, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Sign where Venus is placed provides Clue to life partner and marital life
## Section: Jyotisha News
## Date: 1 June 2018 11:17 am
Sign where Venus is placed provides Clue to life partner and marital life
	

In the lead story carried last week, we discussed the characteristics of Astrological Venus and the results it produces in certain signs, particularly when it is conjunct with Mars or under its strong influence.

Results Venus produces in signs
Venus posited in the Scorpio Ascendant (Lagna) without malefic aspects bestows on the native a very faithful, devoted and a charming partner. However, the few years of the married life can become stormy. But the bond between the couple would become eventually strong.
Native would get a timid and emotionally unstable partner if Venus is placed in the 4th House of Aquarius. If Venus is in Capricorn, the partner would become a travel companion. If Venus comes under the influence of Mars by aspect or conjunction, the couple would be constantly on the move together.

A strong love affair which will not culminate in marriage
If Venus is in the 5th House of Pisces in exaltation, there could be a strong love affair which may not culminate in marriage. However, if Venus comes under the influence of Mars, marriage may take place after a stormy emotional relationship possibly after the birth of a child to them.
A strong Venus in Aries gives a happy and successful married life. While the native is proficient in fine arts like Music, he would fall in love with a person endowed with similar talents.

Partner would predecease
If Venus is Swakshetra in Taurus, the partner would predecease the native. But the native would not think of a second wife.
Venus in Gemini often causes several love affairs. His partner would be a person hailing from a distant place. The partner would be an educated person.
If Venus is in Cancer, native would not be a faithful lover. He would have several love affairs even after marriage. His marriage would receive much publicity. Partner may die when she is at a distant place.
Native with Venus in Leo is an ardent lover. He is passionate and conceited. He would become a good partner after several years of a stormy union.
Venus in Virgo makes the native a sincere and faithful lover. But he may face an embarrassing situation due to a love affair that has gone wrong.
Venus in Libra gives an intelligent and virtuous partner. Marriage would become a great success if Venus is free from the influence of Mars.

An ideal partner from Venus in Scorpio
Venus in Scorpio is the ideal planetary position for a female who looks forward to a happy successful married life. She would love her husband with all heart and soul even if the man does not deserve such devotion. She would even lay down her life for the sake of husband.
Venus in Sagittarius gives a virtuous and loving partner. However, the partner may predecease him while still young.
Marriage is seldom a success if Venus is posited in Capricorn.
Venus in Aquarius gives a virtuous and wealthy partner. Native would marry for love and love alone.

A kind and virtuous partner
If Venus is posited in Pisces, the native would get a kind and virtuous partner. Native is likely to suffer from ill health after marriage.
These predictions based on general rules are subject to modification depending on astrological factors like aspects, conjunctions, Avasthas, etc. specific to theindividual cases.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Trump-Kim summit:  Rollercoaster diplomacy vs. inclusive diplomacy
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
Trump-Kim summit:  Rollercoaster diplomacy vs. inclusive diplomacy
	
Till it happens, it is a tough call. Given the unpredictability that has now come to characterise the policies of the United States President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, the much-hyped summit is mired in uncertainty till the two leaders meet in Singapore on June 12.
First there was rhetoric or name calling. Trump threatened to unleash fire and fury on North Korea after the reclusive regime in August last year successfully tested Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles capable of hitting the US territory of Alaska. North Korea hit back, calling Trump mentally deranged. A month later, Trump ridiculed Kim as Little Rocket Man and threatened to totally destroy North Korea if it attacked the US or any of its allies. An angry North Korea responded with a bigger ICBM test, bringing the whole of the US under its range.
In the face of North Koreas nuclear missile muscle flexing, the Trump administration pushed for tougher United Nations sanctions on North Korea, with even China, North Koreas closest ally, being forced to endorse them. As the hostilities were seen to be on the rise, the then US secretary of state Rex Tillerson announced the Trump administration was in direct contact with North Korea. In the meantime, South Koreas behind-the-scenes peace offensive led by President Moon Jae-in began to work, with North agreeing to send athletes and a high-level delegation led by Kims sister, Kim Yo-jong, to the Winter Olympics in February this year.
Then, in April this year, what President Moon described as a miracle happened, when the leaders of the two Koreas met on the South Korean side of the truce village of Panmunjom, with the North Korean leader favouring the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula. Against the backdrop of this historic summit, President Trump announced a possible meeting between him and the North Korean leader in what was seen as one of the biggest diplomatic shocks in the post-World War II history. The announcement came against the backdrop of a secret meeting between Mike Pompeo, the then CIA director and now the Secretary of State, and Kim Jong-un.
But after fixing June 12 as the date for the Kim-Trump summit and Singapore as the venue, the Trump administration on May 24, in a show of crude diplomacy, announced the cancellation of the meeting after North Korea reacted angrily to remarks made by Vice President Mike Pence and Trumps hawkish National Security Advisor John Bolton. They had given the impression to North Korea that the fate that befell Libya and its leader Muammar Gaddafi would befall North Korea and
Kim Jong-un.
Taking the moral high ground, North Korea held a public ceremony to destroy its controversial nuclear site the same day Trump announced the cancellation of the summit.
On Friday, Trump made a dramatic about-face, announcing that the US-North Korea summit would go ahead as scheduled. Re-enter President Moon. Amidst such chaotic public utterings of Trump, in a refined act of delicate diplomacy, the South Korean leader met his North Korean counterpart on May 26 on the North Korean side of the truce village of Panmunjom in an effort to salvage the Korean peninsulas historic opportunity for peace, reunification of the two Koreas and to end the Cold War era tensions.
As the roller coaster diplomacy, symbolising the capricious nature of the policies of Trump and Kim, kept the world guessing, heightened activity in Washington, Beijing and the capitals of the two Koreas point at a greater possibility of the Singapore summit taking place. Yesterday, US Secretary of State Pompeo met Kim Yong Chol, considered the right hand man of Kim Jong-un, in Washington, to discuss summit-related matters, while Russia dispatched its foreign minister Sergei Lavrov to Pyongyang for talks.
One cannot downplay the role of China in the turn of events. Kim Jong-un has in recent months visited China twice for crucial talks with President Xi Jinping, Chinas virtual lifetime leader. It is expected that Kim Jong-un may visit China again ahead of the June 12 summit with Trump, and these meetings indicate that the Kim-Trump summit outcome will not undermine Chinas national interest. US media have accused Beijing of coaching North Korea and blamed Beijing for giving Kim Jong-un the courage to take Trump head on. True, in terms of power, the US is much bigger than North Korea. In the event of a war, notwithstanding Kim Jong-uns nuclear weapons and ICBMs, the United States could wipe out North Korea in a matter of days or weeks, if we were to assume that China would not intervene and South Korea, fearing a million deaths in the first hour itself of such a conflict, would not dissuade the US against such a war. Thus, for Kim Jong-un, ties with Beijing give him the necessary boost to meet Trump on an equal footing.
US media reports say there is as yet no agreement between the two sides on the terms of the summit. At the core of the summit is, however, the issue of the denuclearisation of North Korea. But the US side still does not know whether Kim Jong-un has made a decision to denuclearise.
If North Korea were to wind up its nuclear weapons programme, what will North Korea gain in return from the US This could be the key question at the summit. Lifting the economic sanctions and promises of economic aid alone may not be enough. North Korea, probably goaded by China, may insist on the withdrawal of the US military from South Korea and other bases in Asia. Not only North Korea, but China and Russia also see the US deployment of Thaad missiles in South Korea as a major military threat and a hostile act.
If there is to be a positive outcome, ironically, it lies in a tested model -- the Iran nuclear agreement which Trump has discarded. Under this agreement signed by Iran and six world powers, including the US, Irans enriched uranium stockpiles were transferred to Russia. In North Koreas case, China could be the guarantor of North Korean nuclear assets.
The meeting, if it takes place, therefore, will take place in an atmosphere of mutual distrust. If the Singapore dialogue were to bring results, it is imperative that China, Russia and Japan also come to the negotiating table.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Tuk-tuk fare tickets are in high demand
## Section: Political Gossip
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:56 am
Tuk-tuk fare tickets are in high demand
	

Some fair members of a mini-council in an area named after a mountain range east of the upcountrys main city are said to be running after tuk-tuk drivers in the area asking for printed fare bills.

These members are entitled to a monthly transport allowance of Rs.1,500 and are required to submit bills in support of their claim for this allowance. So, they are resorting to the easiest way of obtaining the fare bills.
Most of the fair members do not own even a push bicycles, they say.
 
		
==============================
## Title: Turn to Ayurveda to strengthen your immune system
## Section: Opinion
## Date: 1 June 2018 12:00 am
Turn to Ayurveda to strengthen your immune system
	
With heavy rains, landslides and strong winds continuing in most parts of the country, another problem is the influenza epidemic largely in the South and it could become serious if urgent and effective measures are not taken. On May 28, the Daily Mirror in a front page news report spotlighted the lack of facilities like Intensive Care Units (ICUs) but we need to focus more on measures to prevent the epidemic. 
The usual method is by having mass vaccination campaigns. But flu vaccines have not had a good track record and usually the vaccines have to be made with elements of the target virus and other substances. This takes time. But perhaps there is an even better option - prevention.
 
Dr. Joseph Mercola who publishes popular newsletters worldwide on health and well-being refers to the power to prevent viral illnesses by using the famous Ayurvedic herb  holy basil or thulasi in Tamil and maduruthala in Sinhala, that is also revered by Hindus. 
It is a common herb that grows all over Sri Lanka and therefore is readily available and easily administered  just by eating the raw leaves in a salad or sambol. About five leaves by adults and three by children under 12
It is a common herb that grows all over Sri Lanka and therefore is readily available and easily administered  just by eating the raw leaves in a salad or sambol. About five leaves by adults and three by children under 12. Many who know the value of it say it works because they eat these leaves often and have not had a serious viral flu attack forseveral years. 
This herbs stimulating powers have been recognized by ancient healers and sages. In India people venerate thulasi or holy basil as a sacred plant. It is a part of Indian households, typically grown in earthen pots in the family home or garden.
 
One of the most important reasons why it is so famous, aside from the fragrant flavour as a basil type cooking herb, is that it is one of the most effective adaptogens--an agent that helps our bodies adapt more effectively to stress caused by diseases. 
But thulasi also has another beneficial side effect, and that is helping to prevent and treat viral diseases such as Influenza, Dengue, Chikengunya, Swine Flu and Bird Flu. 
According to Dr. Mercolas article thulasi or holy basil may improve your bodys overall defence mechanisms, including its ability to fight viral diseases. It helps speed up your recovery process if you suffer from illnesses such as swine flu or Dengue. It also strengthens your immune system. 
These benefits may stem from thulasis highly complex chemistry. It contains beneficial compounds called phyto-chemicals -- naturally occurring compounds that plants produce to protect themselves against bacteria, viruses and fungi -- that interact and have strong antioxidant, anti-viral, anti-bacterial and immune-enhancing properties. They promote general health and maintain your bodys natural defence against viruses, stress and disease.

If you are concerned about the Influenza, Dengue or any other viral disease Dr. Mercola highly recommends trying thulasi instead of the flu drugsor vaccines. 
Many broad-minded medical analysts have recommended that Sri Lanka instead of depending so much on western medicine and medications should also give a place to time-tested medical systems such as Ayurveda, Homoeopathy and Acupuncture. Unfortunately western medicine, with the marvels of modern technology has today become a big business with many investors throwing their investments into private hospitals.  
 
		
==============================
## Title: Two-day postal strike from midnight Sunday
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 09:06 pm
Two-day postal strike from midnight Sunday
	
The Union of Post and Telecommunication Officers today said it would launch a two-day token strike from midnight on Sunday, June 3 demanding the Government to resolve the issues stemming from the 06/2006 government administration circular.
Union General Secretary H.K.Kariyawasam alleged the said circular which was issued without the consent of the postal employees had oppressed over 26,000 employees in the service.
He said that 1,600 employees had been recruited for grade two positions after 2006 however they were given the salary of grade three and were not made permanent even after years of service.
Mr. Kariyawasam said the union attempted to resort to stern trade union action over the matter on January 10 but later abandoned as Minister Sarath Amunugama appointed a sub-committee to look into the matter following the discussions held with the union members.
Although five months since the committee was appointed elapsed, he said the committee and the minister had failed to submit the Cabinet paper correcting the shortcomings in the circular.
Therefore, Mr. Kariyawasam said that it would resort to a two-day token strike from midnight on June 3 until the midnight of June 4.
He said the Union had noticed its action two weeks prior to the authorities however no response had been received.
Mr. Kariyawasam warned the authorities that they would resort to island wide indefinite strike action if the Government failed to resolve the matter after the token strike. (Thilanka Kanakarathna)
 
		
==============================
## Title: When Vitamin D deficiency strikes
## Section: Medicine
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:17 pm
When Vitamin D deficiency strikes
	
Vitamins are part and parcel of our daily nutrient requirement. Though they are needed in small quantities, if they arent supplied through the daily diet in required amounts, vitamin deficiencies can affect the bodys processes drastically. One such important vitamin is Vitamin D. 
Prof. Arjuna De Silva, Professor in Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ragama, speaks to the Health Capsule this week on vitamin D deficiency. 
Vitamin D is a moderately common problem in the country. It is synthesized in two ways. Vitamin D is produced by the body when exposed to sunlight. The kidney also activates vitamin D within the body. Vitamin D helps absorb calcium in the body and strengthens bones and muscles of the body. Vitamin D deficiency is now becoming an issue with more people facing this nutrient deficit. This is a vitamin that is synthesized on exposure to sunlight by the body, stated Prof. De Silva. 

Fairer vs. healthier
Nowadays people are more concerned about their complexions and about getting darker under the sun. The use of sun block has increased causing the vitamin D levels synthesized within the body to drop. Sun block does just that as its name implies by covering up the skin and preventing the formation of vitamin D. Sri Lankans need not fear skin cancers due to sun exposure. This is not common and something that does not occur generally in Sri Lanka, he continued. 
Being cautious about harmful UV rays is important, but it is equally important to understand that people require a daily dose of sunlight exposure too in order for vitamin D synthesis to occur. It is prevalent within Sri Lankan genetics to produce melanin on exposure to the sun. They do not have to worry about skin cancers. The reason why skin cancers are quite common among Australians is because of the fact that this continent is located in some place on the globe that it was never supposed to be in the first place. So Australians are unadapted and do not have much melanin pigment in their bodies and are unable to produce it within their bodies on exposure to the sun, explained the professor. 

Ranges of deficiency
The state of the deficiency can go from from mild to severe extremes . The kind of vitamin D deficiency that Sri Lanka experiences commonly is milder. Extreme cases of low vitamin D levels cause conditions such as osteomalacia in adults as well as rickets in children. However these maladies can only be seen in extreme cases of vitamin D deficiency which is not observed prominently in the island, explicated Prof. De Silva. 
Vitamin D deficiency is caused by a combination of factors such as lack of exposure to sunlight and low levels of the vitamin in the diet. 
Vitamin D enhances calcium absorption as previously stated, opting for stronger muscular and skeletal systems. Therefore symptoms such as aches, pains and weakness are the common tell-tale signs that warn a patient of this vitamin deficiency. According to Prof. De Silva, the deficiency is treated through the prescription of vitamin supplements. This deficiency is diagnosed by is simple a blood test. 

Prevention
The prevention of this deficiency includes consuming a more adequate diet. Foods rich in vitamin D include carrots, peas, meat, fish oil- which are normally low in Sri Lankan diets- because these diets are mainly carbohydrate based. The normal diet of a person should contain half a plate of green leafy vegetables, a quarters of protein rich food, a quarter of rice or some variety of a carbohydrate rich source. However the Sri Lankan system sees that three quarter of the plate is filled with rice and this food is accompanied by dhal, a classic favourite. Dhal is sometimes mistaken to be a vegetable by many, he added. 
 
		
==============================
## Title: Will ban social media if they dont self-regulate: MS
## Section: Breaking News
## Date: 1 June 2018 02:32 am
Will ban social media if they dont self-regulate: MS
	
President Maithripala Sirisena said yesterday he had discussed with a US based global institution regarding the issues that had arisen in the country due to social media and that if they were unable to control such issues, he would have to ban social media websites altogether like some other countries had done.
I summoned a team of experts who work in a global institution in the US that attend to issues pertaining to social media. I discussed with them the influence of the social media has on social and national security, ethnic harmony, integrity of a family and so on because social media has influenced them badly. I also told the US experts that if they could not control what was going on in Sri Lanka, I would take steps to control misusing of social media notwithstanding whoever opposed, he said.
He added that many other countries had prohibited social media that had resorted to illegal and anti-national acts in this manner.
We have no issue with web sites as to who does the correct thing and provides good entertainment to the people and useful education to children, he said.
Addressing a ceremony held yesterday to mark the opening of the new Courts Complex at Welisara, President Sirisena went on to say that the acts of crimes had increased with the advent of modern technology. The crimes which are being committed using computer, smartphones and social media network are on the rise.
There were protests when I took measures to block social media websites during the recent ethnic unrest took place in Kandy. But subsequently, there were accolades and gratitude for actions taken to curb social media platforms.
The IGP gave me a report upon my request on crimes induced by on line websites or social media. When I went through the report, I had goosebumps. Police officers told me that only 10% of crimes committed using modern technology is reported.
There were instances in the recent past where social media was used to influence Judges before the verdicts were delivered. Various fabricated allegations were levelled against Judges. These kinds of malicious campaigns had made the Judges distressed and perturbed. As politicians, we are used to mudslinging but not are the Judges.
A President is a politician. It is extremely inappropriate if a Magistrate or Chief Justice going behind politicians. I make nominations to the Constitutional Council (CC) only the list of names is sent to me by the Chief Justice. He sends me the names after consulting the Judicial Service Commission. There are instances where I consult the Attorney General when there were issues pertaining to nomination of judicial officers to the CC. Sometimes, High Court Judges complain to me on transfers and promotions given to junior ranked Judges over more experienced ones. They also say at times that it was difficult for them to go to the CJ or the JSC to air their grievances. That is why I ask the CJ and AG to create a system to address the grievances of judicial officers.
I was not elected as the Executive President after serving as Prime Minister like all the other Presidents in the past. The people in this country did not give me a mandate on January 8, 2015 not to get jobs but to restore law and order, democracy and independence of judiciary and press. I believe I have fulfilled two out of the three pledges. I have restored the rule of law, strengthened democratic institutions and created a free judiciary and media in the last three years.
President Sirisena said he was one of the most affected victims of social media mudslinging campaigns and said had these kinds of acts been committed during the previous regime, he or she would not have survived much longer.
There are incidences of character assassinations, mudslinging and tarnishing people's image using social media. I am one of the most affected victims of social media mudslinging campaigns. If this kind of acts committed during the previous regime, he or she would not have survived much longer. Within days they would have been wiped out. But we dont do this kind of acts and the social or main stream media enjoy the freedom enjoyed by them under this government to the fullest and sling as much mud at us maliciously and in most cruelest ways dishing out fabrications, misinterpretations, character assassinations, half-baked truths and absolute lies, he emphasized.(Sandun A. Jayasekera)
 
		
==============================